
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 162-ENGINEERING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 162.060-Ballast Water Management Systems
###### § 162.060-42 Responsibilities for Independent Laboratories (ILs).
####### msc@uscg.mil".

(3) Upon determination that the BWMS is ready for testing, the independent laboratory will notify the Commanding Officer (MSC), Attn: Marine Safety Center, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7430, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7430, or by email to, and provide the estimated date for commencement of type-approval testing.

(b) The independent laboratory must prepare a written Test Plan for each approval test to be completed, in accordance with § 162.060-24 of this subpart.

(c) Prior to land-based testing, the independent laboratory must ensure that the BWMS supplied by the manufacturer is set up in accordance with the BWMS' Operation, Maintenance, and Safety Manual (OMSM).

(d) Prior to shipboard testing, the independent laboratory must ensure that the BWMS supplied by the manufacturer is installed in a vessel in accordance with the OMSM and the vessel's administration's requirements and can be tested in accordance with § 162.060-28 of this subpart.

(e) Prior to commencing land-based or shipboard testing required under this subpart, the independent laboratory must require the BWMS manufacturer to sign a written statement to attest that the system was properly assembled and installed at the test facility or onboard the test vessel.

(f) The independent laboratory or its subcontractor(s) must conduct all approval testing and evaluations in accordance with testing requirements of this subpart and within the range or rated capacity of the BWMS.
