
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 164-MATERIALS
##### Subpart 164.006-Deck Coverings for Merchant Vessels
###### § 164.006-5 Procedure for approval.

(a) If a manufacturer desires to have a deck covering approved, a request shall be presented to the Commandant of the Coast Guard, together with the following information:

(1) The trade name and designation of the deck covering.

(2) The range of thicknesses in which it is proposed to lay the deck covering together with any information the manufacturer may have as to maximum or minimum thicknesses.

(3) Description of method of attachment to or protection of the steel deck together with the trade name and designation of adhesive or protective coating if used.

(4) A sample of the molded deck covering at least 6 inches square andinch thick. This may or may not be attached to a backing material at the manufacturer's option.

(b) The material submitted will be examined and the manufacturer advised as to the number and thicknesses of samples to be submitted together with the estimated cost of the tests.

(c) If the deck covering is indicated as being suitable, the manufacturer shall then submit the following:

(1) Two samples of each thickness to be tested laid in the manner designated on a&#x2033; x 12&#x2033; x 27&#x2033; steel plate for the purpose of the smoke test and fire resistance and integrity test noted in § 164.006-4 (b) and (c).

(2) Sufficient bulk material (unmixed) to lay a sample one inch thick on an area of 12&#x2033; x 27&#x2033;. If an adhesive or protective coating is used, a liberal sample shall be supplied.

(3) If the manufacturer desires to witness the tests, he should so indicate at this time.

(4) A commitment that he will reimburse the National Bureau of Standards for the cost of the tests when billed by them.

(d) The above material will be submitted to the National Bureau of Standards by the Coast Guard for testing. The tests noted in § 164.006-4 will be conducted and a report submitted to the Coast Guard.

(e) A copy of the test report will be forwarded to the manufacturer and he will be advised if his material is approved under this specification, and if approved, in what thicknesses it may be laid, and in what thicknesses it must be laid to meet the requirements for Class A-60 decks without the use of any other insulating material. If approved, this information will be published in the
