
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 164-MATERIALS
##### Subpart 164.006-Deck Coverings for Merchant Vessels
###### § 164.006-4 Inspection and testing.
####### Smoke tests.

(b)(1) A sample of each thickness submitted shall be tested for smoke emission. Each sample shall be laid on a&#x2033; x 12&#x2033; x 27&#x2033; steel plate. Normal protective coatings and deck attachments shall be incorporated in the samples. Each sample shall be heated in a furnace whose temperature is limited to the standard decking curve reaching 1,325 degrees F. at the end of one hour. Smoke observations shall be made at intervals not greater than five minutes during the one-hour period of test.

(2) Instantaneous values of the percent of light transmission shall be calculated from the observations noted in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. A plot of light transmission values shall be made using straight lines between instantaneous values.

(3) Any instantaneous value of 10 percent light transmission or less shall be considered sufficient cause for rejection of a deck covering.

(4) Average values of light transmission shall be calculated for 15, 30, and 60 minutes. Averages shall be an arithmetic mean with values taken at one minute intervals from the plotted curve noted in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. If any of the three average values of light transmission is less than the values set forth below, it will be considered sufficient cause for rejection of a deck covering:
