
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 164-MATERIALS
##### Subpart 164.007-Structural Insulations
###### § 164.007-4 Testing procedure.
####### Preparation of fire test specimens.

(c)(1) The fire test specimens shall be conditioned to approximately constant weight with air being maintained at a relative humidity of 40 to 70 percent and a temperature of 15&#xB0; to 25 &#xB0;C. (50&#xB0; to 77 &#xB0;F.). After conditioning, but before testing, the temperature of the specimens shall not exceed 40 &#xB0;C. (104 &#xB0;F.).

(2) Representative samples of the structural insulation, of a thickness or thicknesses and density as specified in § 164.007-9(a)(5), shall be tested as part of an assembly which forms a portion of a vertical wall of a furnace. The assembly shall be at least 100 cm. x 150 cm. (40&#x2033; x 60&#x2033;) in size. More than one sample may be tested, see § 164.007-7.

(3) The specimens shall be attached to a 5 +/-0.3 mm. (&#x2033;) thick steel plate and mounted in the furnace with the steel plate forming the exterior wall of the furnace. Any stiffening members on the steel plate shall be installed on the face not adjacent to the insulation. Spacer strips of asbestos cement board or similar material, up to 5 cm. (2&#x2033;) in width, shall be installed around the periphery of the panel. For fibrous insulations, the attachment to the steel plate shall be made by means of 5 mm. (0.19&#x2033;) diameter steel pins on 30 cm. (12&#x2033;) centers covered by 18-gage, 4 cm. (1&#x2033;) mesh expanded metal. Alternate methods will be given consideration. For other materials, typical installation practice shall be used.
