
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 164-MATERIALS
##### Subpart 164.007-Structural Insulations
###### § 164.007-4 Testing procedure.
####### Test of physical properties.

(b)(1) Density measurement: The smallest sample for density measurements of solid materials shall be 30 cm x 30 cm (12&#x2033; x 12&#x2033;) by the submitted thickness. Length and width measurements shall be made to the nearest 1 mm. (&#x2033;), thickness to the nearest 0.25 mm. (0.01&#x2033;), allowance being made of any nonflatness of the major surfaces of the specimen. Measurements of dimensions of fibrous insulations shall be made to the nearest 1.5 mm. (&#x2033;) on a nominal 30 cm. (12&#x2033;) cube assembled from sheets of thickness as received. The average of at least four measurements of each dimension shall be reported. The weight shall be determined with a scale or balance sensitive and accurate to 0.5 percent or less of the total weight. The dimensional and weight measurements shall not be made until the sample has been conditioned 1 week, or longer if required to reach constant weight, in an atmosphere at 23&#xB0; +/-1 &#xB0;C. (73 &#xB0;F. +/-2&#xB0;) and 50 percent relative humidity.

(2) Transfer to a previously dried and weighed wide-mouth weighing bottle provided with a glass stopper. Remove the stopper and heat the bottle and sample at 105&#xB0; +/-5 &#xB0;C. (221&#xB0; +/-9 &#xB0;F.) for 4 hours, insert the stopper, cool and weigh. Calculate the content of moisture and other volatiles as percent of the final dry weight of the sample.
