
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 164-MATERIALS
##### Subpart 164.007-Structural Insulations
###### § 164.007-9 Procedure for approval.
####### Test request information.

(a)If a manufacturer desires to have a structural insulation approved, a written request shall be submitted to the Commandant of the Coast Guard together with the following:

(1) If the material has already been approved as an incombustible material under subpart 164.009 of this part, the approval number of the material shall be indicated. If not, the procedure set forth in subpart 164.009 of this part shall be followed; and such approval shall be obtained prior to submittal under this specification.

(2) A description and trade name of the structural insulation.

(3) A statement of the composition of the material and the percentage of each component.

(4) A sample of the material at least 1 foot square in the thickness and density proposed by the manufacturer to be tested. When more than one thickness of a material of the same density is to be tested, only a sample of a single thickness need be submitted.

(5) The range of thicknesses and densities in which it is proposed to manufacture or use the material together with any information or recommendations that the manufacturer may have as to maximum or minimum thickness or density.

(6) The location of the place or places where the material will be manufactured.

(7) Description of attachment to or protection of the bulkhead or deck. If an adhesive is used, a liberal sample shall be supplied.

(8) A sketch showing typical installation methods and indicating limitations if any.

(9) A general statement describing manufacturing procedures indicating the degree of quality control exercised and the degree of inspection performed by outside organizations.

(10) A statement indicating proposed methods for field identification of the products as being approved. Identification shall include the Coast Guard approval numbers.
