
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 164-MATERIALS
##### Subpart 164.008-Bulkhead Panels
###### § 164.008-3 Testing procedure.
####### Flame penetration.

(e)(1) Where cracks or openings are formed during the test, an ignition test as prescribed in § 164.008-4(b) shall take place immediately after the appearance of cracks or damage, followed by similar tests at frequent intervals. The purpose of the test is to indicate whether cracks and openings formed during the test are such that they would lead to passage of flame.

(2) The cotton wool used for the tests prescribed in § 164.008-4(b) shall consist of new undyed soft fibers without any admixture of artificial fibers, and shall be free from thread, leaf, and shell fiber dust. A suitable material for this purpose is sold in the form of rolls for surgical use. A pad shall be cut measuring 10 cm. x 10 cm. approximately 2 cm. thick and weighing between 3 and 4 grams. It shall be oven-dried prior to the test. The pad shall be attached by means of wire clips to a 10 cm. x 10 cm. frame of 1 mm. diameter. A wire handle approximately 75 cm. long attached to the frame would facilitate its use on the specimen.

(3) When testing for cracks or openings during the test, the pad shall be held in a vertical position facing the crack or opening with the aperture located in a central part of the cotton wool. The pad may be reused if it has not absorbed any moisture or become charred during the previous application.
