
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 164-MATERIALS
##### Subpart 164.008-Bulkhead Panels
###### § 164.008-3 Testing procedure.
####### Furnace control.

(c)(1) The furnace temperature shall be determined by at least four mineral insulated thermocouples having rapid response and distributed so as to represent fairly the furnace temperature and to insure as uniform heating as possible. The thermocouples shall be arranged so that the hot junction is approximately 10 cm. (4&#x2033;) from the nearest point of the specimen.

(2) The furnace temperature shall be continuously controlled so as to follow the standard time-temperature curve within the accuracy specified in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.

(3) The standard time-temperature curve is defined by a smooth curve drawn through the following points:

(4) The accuracy of the furnace control shall be such that the area under the mean time-temperature curve is within 15 percent of the area under the standard curve during the first 10 minutes of the test, within 10 percent during the first one-half hour, and within 5 percent for any period after the first one-half hour. At any time after the first 10 minutes of the test the mean furnace temperature shall not differ from the standard curve by more than 100 &#xB0;C. (180 &#xB0;F.). Consideration will be given to adjusting the results for variation of the furnace exposure from that prescribed. If corrections are made, they shall be in accordance with the procedures set forth in ASTM E-119.

(5) The pressure in the furnace shall be equal to that in the laboratory at about one-third of the height of the specimen.
