
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 164-MATERIALS
##### Subpart 164.008-Bulkhead Panels
###### § 164.008-7 Procedure for approval.
####### Test request information.

(a)If a manufacturer desires to have a bulkhead panel approved, a written request shall be submitted to the Commandant of the Coast Guard, together with the following:

(1) If the material has already been approved as an "Incombustible Material" under subpart 164.009 of this part, the approval number of the material shall be indicated. If not, the procedure set forth in subpart 164.009 of this part shall be followed; and such approval shall be obtained prior to submittal under this specification.

(2) The description and trade name of the bulkhead panel.

(3) A statement of the composition of the material and the percentage of each component.

(4) A sample of the material at least 1 foot square in each thickness and density of the material as manufactured.

(5) The range of thicknesses and/or densities in which it is proposed to manufacture or use the material, together with any information or recommendations the manufacturer may have as maximum or minimum thickness or density.

(6) The location of the place or places where the material will be manufactured.

(7) A sketch showing typical installation methods and indicating limitations, if any.

(8) A general statement describing manufacturing procedures indicating the degree of quality control exercised and the degree of inspection performed by outside organizations.

(9) A statement indicating proposed methods for field identification of the products as being approved. Identification shall include the Coast Guard approval number.
