
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 164-MATERIALS
##### Subpart 164.012-Interior Finishes for Merchant Vessels
###### § 164.012-1 Applicable specifications.

(a) The following specifications, of the issue in effect on the contract date for the particular installation on any vessel, form a part of this subpart:

(1) American Society for Testing Materials' standard: E 84-98, Standard Test Method for Surface Burning Characteristics of Building Materials.

(2) National Fire Protection Association's standard: NFPA No. 255-Method of Test of Surface Burning Characteristics of Building Materials.

(3) Coast Guard specifications: 164.008-Bulkhead Panels for Merchant Vessels. 164.009-Incombustible Materials for Merchant Vessels.

(b) A copy of this subpart, together with copies of the specifications referred to in this section, shall be kept on file by the manufacturer of any Interior Finish except those qualifying under § 164.012-5(c). It should be noted that the standards listed in paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section are identical and, therefore, only one need to be kept on file. The Coast Guard specifications may be obtained upon request from the Coast Guard Headquarters. Contact Commandant (CG-ENG), Attn: Office of Design and Engineering Systems, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7509, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7509. ASTM International's standards may be purchased from that organization at 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959. The National Fire Protection Association Standard may be purchased from that association at 1 Batterymarch Park, Quincy, MA 02269.
