
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 164-MATERIALS
##### Subpart 164.018-Retroreflective Material for Lifesaving Equipment
###### § 164.018-11 Approval tests.

(a) Retroreflective material submitted for Coast Guard approval must be tested in accordance with the following test methods described in Federal Specification L-S-300:

(1) Test conditions.

(2) Test panels.

(3) Adhesion test method using a 0.79 kg (1.75 lb.) test weight, except that one test panel must be immersed in distilled water in a covered container for 16 hours before the weight is applied and the other test panel must be immersed in salt water (4% NaCl by weight) in a covered container for 16 hours before the weight is applied. (This test method is required only for retroreflective material that is designed for use with an adhesive. If a particular test panel used in testing results in a test failure, the retroreflective material will not be approved for attachment to material of the type used as the test panel. The retroreflective material may nevertheless be approved for use with other types of material depending on the results of testing with the other panels. See paragraph (d) of this section for a listing of tests panels used.)

(4) Flexibility at standard conditions test method, except that when testing Type I material-

(i) The material must be unmounted;

(ii) A 1.5 mm (-inch) mandrel must be used in place of the mandrel described in the test method; and

(iii) After testing at standard conditions, the material must be placed in a chamber at a temperature of -18 &#xB0;C. (0 &#xB0;F.) for at least 1 hour and then retested in the chamber at that temperature.

(5) Reflective intensity.

(6) Resistance to accelerated weathering test method and subtest methods "reflective intensity after accelerated weathering," "reflective intensity during rainfall," and "adhesion after accelerated weathering." (The "adhesion after accelerated weathering" test method is required only for materials designed for use with an adhesive. The "resistance to accelerated weathering" test method must be performed for 250 hours, if testing Type I material, and for 1,000 hours if testing Type II material.)

(7) Resistance to heat, cold, and humidity.

(8) Fungus resistance.

(b) Retroreflective material submitted for approval must also be tested as follows:
