
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 164-MATERIALS
##### Subpart 164.018-Retroreflective Material for Lifesaving Equipment
###### § 164.018-11 Approval tests.
####### Soil resistance and cleanability.

(3)One panel is used. The test panel and test conditions must meet paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section. A soiling medium is applied to the material as described in Federal Test Method Standard 141, Method 6141. The soiled area is then covered with a laboratory watch glass or similar device. After 24 hours, the material is uncovered and the soil medium wiped off with a clean, dry, soft cloth. The material is then wetted with mineral spirits and wiped with a cloth soaked in mineral spirits. Thereafter, it is washed with a 1 percent (by weight) solution of detergent in warm water and rinsed and dried with a clean, dry, soft cloth.

(c) Each measurement of reflective intensity required in paragraphs (a), (b)(1), and (b)(2) of this section must be made using either-

(1) The L-S-300 procedure for measuring reflective intensity; or

(2) The procedure for measuring specific intensity per unit area in Federal Test Method Standard 370, except that the test apparatus arrangement required in L-S-300 must be used.

(d) If material is designed for use with an adhesive, the "adhesion" test method required by paragraph (a)(3) of this section must be repeated using a 0.79 kg. (1.75 lb.) test weight and using each of the following materials as test panels in place of the aluminum test panels required by this test method:

(1) Smooth panel of cured polyester laminating resin meeting MIL-R-21607 (Types I and II material).

(2) Cotton drill (Type I material only) meeting CCC-C-426, or cotton duck meeting CCC-C-443 (Type I material only).

(3) Vinyl-nylon laminated cloth meeting MIL-C-43006 (Type I material only).

(4) Vinyl film meeting L-P-375 (Type I material only).

(5) Rubber coated cloth meeting MIL-C-17415 (Type I material only).

(e) Each flexible material listed in paragraph (d) of this section when used as a test panel must be bonded to a rigid backing.

(f) Test panel material listed in paragraph (d) of this section must-

(1) Be taken from an item of Coast Guard approved lifesaving equipment; or

(2) Be certified by the manufacturer of the material that it meets the applicable specification in paragraph (d) of this section.
