
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 164-MATERIALS
##### Subpart 164.019-Personal Flotation Device Components
###### § 164.019-11 Certification (affidavits).
####### General.

Affidavits required by § 164.019-5(c) must be notarized, and certify that a component complies in all respects with the material and construction requirements of a subpart of this part or part 160 of this chapter. Each affidavit must contain the following information:

(a) Name and address of company.

(b) Name and title of signing company official.

(c) Description of the component by use of the unique style, part, or model number and other applicable distinctive characteristics such as weight, size, denier, treatments or coatings, etc.

(d) Production data (to include lot, batch number, and quantity shipped) in sufficient detail to enable the manufacturer or purchaser to trace a shipment of components back to the lots of raw materials used in its manufacture.

(e) The intended use of the component, from the list in § 164.019-7(c)(1).

(f) The PFD Type(s) for which the component is a standard component, as determined by-

(1) The standard material component requirements of part 160 of this chapter with which the component complies; or

(2) The Use Code(s) of the component.

(g) A statement indicating the specific provision(s) of this subchapter with which the component complies.

(h) A copy of the records of all required production tests performed on the component lots that are covered by the affidavit.
