
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 164-MATERIALS
##### Subpart 164.019-Personal Flotation Device Components
###### § 164.019-7 Non-standard components; acceptance criteria and procedures.
####### Request for acceptance.

(c)The component manufacturer or the recognized laboratory that performs the acceptance testing required by the applicable subpart of this part or part 160 of this chapter must submit, in writing, to the Commandant, a request for acceptance of any non-standard component. The request must include the information, supporting documentation, and samples required by this section.

(1) The request must include a statement of the intended use of the component by the PFD manufacturer, and the Use Code(s) for which acceptance is requested. Intended uses must be for one or more of the following-

(i) Outer Envelope Fabric (exterior fabrics on wearable PFDs);

(ii) Cover Fabric (for throwable PFDs);

(iii) Inner Envelope Fabric;

(iv) Closure (including zippers) or Adjustment Hardware;

(v) Body Strap;

(vi) Grab Strap (applies to buoyant cushions only);

(vii) Tie Tape;

(viii) Reinforcing Tape;

(ix) Thread:

(x) Flotation Foam; or

(xi) Other (specify).

(2) The request must include a statement identifying the component in detail and including the unique style, part, or model number, the identification data required by the applicable subpart of this part, and any other manufacturer's identifying data. No two components which differ in any way, e.g., size, material composition, construction, may utilize the same identification number.

(3) The report of a recognized laboratory's test data in accordance with the "acceptance tests" required by the applicable subpart of this part or part 160 must be submitted with the request. Each report must include the name of the laboratory and a description of the test equipment and test methods used, and must be signed and dated by an authorized laboratory official.

(4) A sample of each component that is being considered must be submitted with the request. Where the lightest and darkest colors are being tested, samples of both colors must be submitted. A one linear yard sample is required in the case of textiles.

(5) The request must include a list of all materials used in the construction of the particular component. The list must contain specific identification and quantity of all materials used.

(6) For hardware and other mechanical components, the request must include scaled drawings showing details and dimensions of the mechanism.

(7) A statement of dimensional and performance tolerances, as appropriate, that will be maintained in production must be submitted with request.

(8) The request must include a description of the quality control procedures that will be in effect during production.

(9) The request must include a detailed description of the recognized laboratory's procedures for oversight of the manufacturer's program of production quality control, including a description of the laboratory's certification marking(s).

(10) The request must include any appropriate installation or use guidelines for the component.
