
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 164-MATERIALS
##### Subpart 164.019-Personal Flotation Device Components
###### § 164.019-13 Production quality control requirements.
####### Accept/reject criteria.

(j)(1) A component lot passes production testing and is therefore accepted if each sample tested passes each test.

(2) A lot having a production test failure may be accepted if it meets the following additional test requirements.

(i) When the basis of acceptability is an average result, a second sampling with an identical number of samples is taken. The results of this second sampling must be averaged with the initial results. If the average result passes the test, then the lot may be accepted.

(ii) When the basis of acceptability is individual sample results, a second sampling is taken. The size of the second sampling must be as specified in the subpart of this part which covers the component. If each sample in this sampling passes the test, the lot may be accepted.

(3) A rejected lot of components may be resubmitted for testing, examination, or inspection if-

(i) The manufacturer first removes each component having the same type of defect or;

(ii) After obtaining authorization from the Commandant or the recognized laboratory, the manufacturer reworks the lot to correct the defect.

(4) A rejected lot or rejected component may not be sold or offered for sale with the representation that it meets the requirements of this subpart or is accepted by the Coast Guard, and may not be used in the construction of Coast Guard-approved PFDs.
