
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 164-MATERIALS
##### Subpart 164.019-Personal Flotation Device Components
###### § 164.019-15 Component manufacturer records.

(a) Each component manufacturer shall retain records as required by § 159.007-13 of this chapter.

(b) The records required by paragraph (a) of this section must include the following information:

(1) For each test, the serial number of the test instrument used if there is more than one available.

(2) For each test and inspection, the identification of the samples used, the lot number, the unique component identification, and the quantity of the component in the lot.

(3) The cause for rejection, any corrective action taken, and the final disposition of each lot rejected.

(c) Manufacturers utilizing procedures and apparatus meeting the requirements of the applicable subpart of this part or the independent laboratory's accepted follow-up inspection procedures are not required to include the description of procedures or photographs or apparatus required by § 159.007-13 of this chapter in the manufacturers' records.

(d) In addition to the records required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, each component manufacturer shall retain the following:

(1) Records for all materials used in production, including name and address of the supplier, date of purchase and receipt, and lot number.

(2) A copy of this subpart, and other subparts applicable to the component manufactured.

(3) Each document incorporated by reference in the applicable subpart(s) of this part.

(4) A copy of the accepted component specifications and identifying data.

(5) Records of calibration of all test equipment, including the identity of the agency performing the calibration, date of calibration, and results.

(e) Manufacturers shall retain the records required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section for at least 60 months.

(f) Upon request, manufacturers shall make available to the inspector or to the Commandant records of tests conducted by the manufacturer and records of materials entering into construction, including affidavits by suppliers certifying that applicable requirements are met.
