
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 164-MATERIALS
##### Subpart 164.141-Plastic Pipes
###### § 164.141-3 Testing, marking, and inspection requirements.

(a) All plastic piping submitted for approval must meet the flame spread requirements of IMO Resolution A.653(16) as modified for pipes by IMO Resolution A.753(18) and IMO Resolution MSC.313(88) (all incorporated by reference, see § 164.141-2) except that:

(1) The test specimens need not be wrapped in aluminum foil; and

(2) Testing need not be conducted on every pipe size. Testing may be conducted on piping sizes with the maximum and minimum wall thickness intended to be approved. This will qualify all piping sizes within the tested range.

(b) In order to receive approval for fire endurance, pipe must be tested as indicated in IMO Resolution A.753(18) and IMO Resolution MSC.313(88). When satisfying the requirements for L1 or L2 service, the pipe will be approved for use in lesser service grades. The approval of piping systems of sizes different than those tested will be allowed as provided for in Table 164.141(a) of this subpart.

(c) To be approved for smoke and toxicity requirements, piping systems must meet the requirements of Annex 1, Part 2 of the FTP Code (incorporated by reference, see § 164.141-2) with the following modifications:

(1) Plastic piping meeting paragraph 2.2 of Annex 2 of the FTP Code as having very low flame spread when tested to Part 5 are deemed to meet the smoke and toxicity requirements without testing to Part 2.

(2) Testing need only be conducted on piping sizes with the maximum and minimum wall thicknesses intended to be approved.

(3) The test sample should be fabricated by cutting pipes lengthwise into individual sections and then assembling the sections into a test sample as representative as possible of a flat surface. All cuts should be made normal to the pipe wall.

(4) The number of sections that must be assembled together to form a square test sample with sides measuring 3 inches, should be that which corresponds to the nearest integral number of sections which will result in a test sample with an equivalent linearized surface width between 3 and 3inches. The surface width is defined as the measured sum of the outer circumference of the assembled pipe sections normal to the lengthwise sections.

(5) The test samples should be mounted on calcium silicate board and held in place by the edges of the test frame and, if necessary, by wire. There should be no gaps between individual sections and the samples should be constructed so that the edges of two adjacent sections coincide with the centerline of the test holder.

(6) The space between the concave unexposed surface of the test sample and the surface of the calcium silicate backing should be left void.

(7) The void space between the top of the exposed test surface and the bottom edge of the sample holder frame should be filled with a high temperature insulating wool where the pipe extends under the frame.

(8) When the pipes are to include fireproofing or coatings, the composite structure consisting of the segmented pipe wall and fireproofing shall be tested and the thickness of the fireproofing should be the minimum thickness specified for the intended usage.

(9) Test samples should be oriented in the apparatus such that the pilot burner flame will be normal to the lengthwise piping sections.

(d) Where required to be approved, piping systems must comply with the non-metallic materials requirements in 46 CFR 56.60-25(a)(1).
