
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 15 - MANNING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart H - Computations
###### ยง 15.860 Tankerman.

(a) The OCMI enters on the COI issued to each manned tank vessel subject to the regulations in this chapter the number of crewmembers required to hold valid MMDs or MMCs with the proper tankerman endorsement. Table 1 to ยง 15.860(a) of this section provides the minimum requirements for tankermen aboard manned tank vessels; Table 2 to ยง 15.860(a) of this section provides the tankerman endorsements required for personnel aboard tankships.

(b) For each tankship of more than 5,000 GRT certified for voyages beyond the boundary line as described in part 7 of this chapter-

(1) At least two tankerman-PICs or restricted tankerman-PICs must be carried;

(2) At least three tankerman-assistants must be carried; and

(3) At least two tankerman-engineers must be carried.

(c) For each tankship of 5,000 GRT or less certified for voyages beyond the boundary line, as described in part 7 of this chapter-

(1) At least two tankerman-PICs or restricted tankerman-PICs must be carried; and

(2) At least two tankerman-engineers must be carried, unless only one engineer is required, in which case at least one tankerman-engineer must be carried.

(d) For each tankship not certified for voyages beyond the boundary line, as described in part 7 of this chapter, if the total crew complement is-

(1) One or two, at least one tankerman-PIC or restricted tankerman-PIC must be carried; or

(2) More than two, at least two tankerman-PICs or restricted tankerman-PICs must be carried.

(e) For each tank barge manned under ยง 31.15-5 of this chapter, if the total crew complement is-

(1) One or two, at least one tankerman-PIC, restricted tankerman-PIC, tankerman-PIC (barge), or restricted tankerman-PIC (barge) must be carried; or

(2) More than two, at least two tankerman-PICs, restricted tankerman-PICs, tankerman-PICs (barge), or restricted tankerman-PICs (barge) must be carried.

(f) The following personnel aboard each tankship certified for voyages beyond the boundary line, as described in part 7 of this chapter, must hold valid MMDs or MMCs, endorsed as follows:

(1) The master and chief mate must each hold a tankerman-PIC or restricted tankerman-PIC endorsement.

(2) The chief, first assistant, and cargo engineers must each hold a tankerman-engineer or tankerman-PIC endorsement.

(3) Each credentialed officer acting as the PIC of a transfer of liquid cargo in bulk must hold a tankerman-PIC or restricted tankerman-PIC endorsement.

(4) Each officer or crewmember who is assigned by the PIC duties and responsibilities related to the cargo or cargo-handling equipment during a transfer of liquid cargo in bulk, but is not directly supervised by the PIC, must hold a tankerman-assistant endorsement.

(g) The endorsements required by this section must be for the classification of the liquid cargo in bulk or of the cargo residue being carried.

(h) All individuals serving on tankships certified for voyages beyond the boundary line, as described in part 7 of this chapter, must hold an appropriate STCW endorsement, as follows:

(1) For tankerman-PIC, an STCW endorsement as Advanced Oil Tanker Cargo Operations, Advanced Chemical Tanker Cargo Operations, or Advanced Liquefied Gas Tanker Cargo Operations, as appropriate.

(2) For tankerman-Assistant, an STCW endorsement as Basic Oil and Chemical Tanker Cargo Operations, or Basic Liquefied Gas Tanker Cargo Operations, as appropriate.

(3) For a tankerman-PIC (barge), an STCW endorsement as Advanced Oil Tanker Cargo Operations, Advanced Chemical Tanker Cargo Operations, or Advanced Liquefied Gas Tanker Cargo Operations, as appropriate, including endorsements with a limitation for non-self-propelled vessels.

(4) For a tankerman-engineer, an STCW endorsement as Advanced Oil Tanker Cargo Operations, or Advanced Chemical Tanker Cargo Operations, as appropriate, including endorsements with a limitation to maintenance and repair of cargo equipment.
