
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter R—Nautical Schools
#### PART 167-PUBLIC NAUTICAL SCHOOL SHIPS
##### Subpart 167.45-Special Firefighting and Fire Prevention Requirements
###### § 167.45-1 Steam, carbon dioxide, Halon 1301, and clean agent fire extinguishing systems.
####### Inert-gas systems.

(c)(1) When a carbon dioxide (CO) smothering system is fitted in the cargo hold, cargo 'tween-decks, or other closed cargo compartments, or cargo-oil deep tanks, the quantity of carbon dioxide shall be sufficient to give a gas saturation of 30 percent of the gross volume of the largest cargo hold. The quantity in pounds of carbon dioxide required may be determined approximately by the following formula:

(2) When a carbon dioxide (CO) smothering system is fitted in the lamp locker, oil room, or like compartments, the quantity in pounds of carbon dioxide required may be determined by dividing the gross volume of the space by a factor of 22. Lamp lockers, oil rooms, and like compartments, in all classes of vessels, shall be wholly and tightly lined with metal. The whole charge of gas shall be capable of being released simultaneously by operating one valve and control, and all cylinders shall be completely discharged in not more than two minutes.

(3) Pipes used for supplying carbon dioxide to the cargo holds, cargo 'tween-decks, other closed cargo compartments, and cargo-oil deep tanks shall be not less than three-fourths inch inside diameter. Pipes used for supplying carbon dioxide to lamp lockers, oil rooms, and like compartments shall not be less than one-half inch inside diameter.

(4) The control(s) releasing the inert gas shall be located in a position(s) outside the space(s) protected and shall be readily accessible when the vessel is being navigated. All valves shall be permanently marked to indicate into which compartment they discharge. A space which is protected by a carbon dioxide extinguishing system, and is normally accessible to crew while the nautical school ship is being navigated shall be fitted with an approved audible alarm in such space, which will be automatically sounded when the carbon dioxide is admitted to the space.

(5) Provisions shall be made to prevent the admission of air into the lower parts of cargo holds, cargo 'tween-decks, and other closed cargo compartments while the inert-gas system is in operation.

(6) Cylinders, piping, and controls for the inert-gas system shall be protected from damage and shall be securely fastened and supported.
