
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter R—Nautical Schools
#### PART 167-PUBLIC NAUTICAL SCHOOL SHIPS
##### Subpart 167.45-Special Firefighting and Fire Prevention Requirements
###### § 167.45-1 Steam, carbon dioxide, Halon 1301, and clean agent fire extinguishing systems.
####### Steam systems.

(b)(1) As noted in subparagraph (a)(2) of this section, steam smothering systems are not permitted on nautical school ships contracted for on or after January 1, 1962, nor for new installations on vessels contracted for prior to that date. Where steam smothering systems are installed, the provisions of this paragraph shall be met.

(2) Steam for fire-extinguishing systems shall be available at a suitable pressure from the main boilers or a donkey or auxiliary boiler.

(3) The pipe lines shall be led from not more than three stations in easily accessible locations on the weather deck to each cargo hold, cargo 'tween-decks, or other closed cargo compartments, and to each cargo-oil deep tank, lamp locker, oil room, and like compartments, which lamp locker, oil room, and like compartments, shall be wholly and tightly lined with metal. The steam connections to the lamp lockers, oil rooms, and like compartments may be taken from the nearest steam supply line, independent of the extinguishing manifolds. In lamp lockers, oil rooms, and like compartments, adequate means may be provided for ventilation if suitable dampers capable of being operated from outside the spaces are fitted in each vent duct.

(4) Each pipe in the extinguishing manifolds shall be fitted with a shut-off valve plainly and permanently marked to indicate into which compartment it discharges. This requirement also applies to independent extinguishing lines.

(5) Manifold steam supply pipes shall be fitted with master valves at the manifolds, and provision shall be made for draining the manifold and individual lines to protect them against freezing. If the manifolds are located on an open deck, they shall be enclosed in a metal box.

(6) The minimum diameter of any steam fire-extinguishing pipe to a cargo hold, cargo 'tween-decks, other closed cargo compartments, or cargo-oil deep tank shall be one inch, the size and number of pipes to be governed by the size of the compartment. The minimum diameter of any steam fire-extinguishing pipe to a lamp locker, oil room, or like compartments, shall be three-fourths of an inch.
