
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter R—Nautical Schools
#### PART 167-PUBLIC NAUTICAL SCHOOL SHIPS
##### Subpart 167.45-Special Firefighting and Fire Prevention Requirements
###### § 167.45-5 Steam fire pumps or their equivalent.

(a) All nautical school ships shall be equipped with fire pumps.

(b) Nautical school ships of 100 gross tons and under shall be equipped with one hand fire pump with a pump-cylinder capacity not less than 100 cubic inches, or a power-driven pump of equivalent discharge capacity.

(c) Nautical school ships over 100 gross tons shall be equipped with fire pumps and piping as follows:

(1) All nautical school ships shall be provided with powerful pumps available for use as fire pumps. When of less than 1,000 gross tons it shall have 1, and when larger it shall have at least 2 independently driven pumps connected to the fire main. Each pump shall be capable of delivering two powerful jets of water simultaneously from the highest outlets on the fire main at a Pitot tube pressure of approximately 50 pounds per square inch.

(2) On oil-burning nautical school ships, where two pumps are required, they may be located in the same compartment, if the compartment is equipped with an approved fixed carbon dioxide extinguishing system.

(d) Outlets from the fire mains shall be of a sufficient number and so arranged that any part of the living quarters, weather decks and any part of cargo decks, accessible to crew, while the nautical school ship is being navigated, may be reached with a single 50-foot length of hose. Outlets within accommodations and service spaces adjacent thereto shall comply with the above or they may be so arranged that any part may be reached with a single 75-foot length of hose provided a siamese connection is fitted at each outlet. Where the fire main is located on an exposed deck, branches shall be provided so that the hose connections necessary to comply with the foregoing be distributed on both sides of the nautical school ship. The fire hose shall be connected to the outlet at all times, except on open decks where the location of the fire hydrants is such that no protection is afforded for the hose in heavy weather. The fire hose may be temporarily removed from the hydrant when it will interfere with the handling of cargo.

(e) Outlet openings shall have a diameter of not less than 1inches and shall be fitted with suitable hose connections and spanners. The arrangement of the fire hydrant shall be limited to any position from the horizontal to the vertical pointing downward, so that the hose will lead downward or horizontally, in order to minimize the possibility of kinking. In no case will a hydrant arranged in a vertical position with the outlet pointing upward be accepted.

(f) Fire pumps shall be fitted on the discharge side with relief valves set to relieve at 25 pounds higher than the pressure necessary to maintain the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section and a pressure gage to indicate the pressure on the fire main. If the fire pumps operating under shut-off conditions are not capable of producing a pressure exceeding 125 pounds per square inch, the relief valve may be omitted.

(g) Each section of fire hose used after January 1, 1980 must be lined commercial fire hose that conforms to Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc. Standard 19 or Federal Specification ZZ-H-451E. Hose that bears the label of Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc. as lined fire hose is accepted as conforming to this requirement. Each section of replacement fire hose or any section of new fire hose placed aboard a vessel after January 1, 1977 must also conform to the specification required by this paragraph.

(h) Each fire hydrant must have at least one length of firehose. Each firehose on the hydrant must have a combination solid stream and water spray firehose nozzle that is approved under subpart 162.027 of this chapter.
