
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter R—Nautical Schools
#### PART 167-PUBLIC NAUTICAL SCHOOL SHIPS
##### Subpart 167.45-Special Firefighting and Fire Prevention Requirements
###### § 167.45-1 Steam, carbon dioxide, Halon 1301, and clean agent fire extinguishing systems.
####### General requirements.

(a)(1) Nautical school ships shall be provided with an inert-gas fire-extinguishing system when required.

(2) All nautical school ships carrying combustible cargo in the holds, between decks, or other closed cargo compartments shall be equipped with means for extinguishing fire in such compartments by the use of any inert-gas fire-extinguishing system approved by the Coast Guard or Navy. However, in specific cases where by reason of the design, such compartments are normally accessible and considered to be part of the working or living quarters, a water sprinkling system may be installed in lieu of an inert-gas fire-extinguishing system. On such vessels contracted for prior to January 1, 1962, a steam smothering system may be accepted in lieu of the inert gas system for the protection of cargo holds, paint lockers, and similar spaces. However, although existing steam smothering systems may be repaired, replaced, or extended, no new systems contracted for on or after January 1, 1962, will be permitted.

(3) Cabinets, boxes, or casings enclosing manifolds or valves must be marked in conspicuous red letters at least 2 inches high: "[STEAM/CARBON DIOXIDE/HALON/CLEAN AGENT-as appropriate] FIRE APPARATUS.".

(4) Steam or gas piping fitted for extinguishing fire shall not be used for any other purpose except that it may be used for fire-detecting purposes.

(5) Pipes for conveying steam from the boilers for the purpose of extinguishing fire shall not be led into the cabins, other living spaces, or working spaces. Pipes for conveying carbon dioxide or other extinguishing vapors for the purpose of extinguishing fire shall not be led into the cabins or other living spaces.

(6) Steam smothering lines shall be tested with at least 50 pounds air pressure with ends of the smothering lines capped, or by blowing steam through the lines, and a survey made for detecting corrosion and defects, using the hammer test or such other means as may be necessary.

(7) At annual inspections, each carbon dioxide cylinder, whether fixed or portable, each Halon 1301 cylinder, and each clean agent cylinder must be examined externally and replaced if excessive corrosion is found; and:

(i) Each carbon dioxide cylinder must be weighed and recharged if its weight loss exceeds 10 percent of the charge;

(ii) Each Halon 1301 and halocarbon cylinder must be weighed and checked, and recharged or replaced if weight loss exceeds 5 percent of required weight of charge or if cylinder pressure loss exceeds 10 percent of specified gauge pressure, adjusted for temperature; and

(iii) Each inert gas cylinder must be checked and recharged or replaced if cylinder pressure loss exceeds 5 percent of specified gauge pressure adjusted for temperature.

(8) Carbon dioxide, Halon 1301, and clean agent cylinders carried on board nautical school ships must be tested and marked in accordance with the requirements of 46 CFR 147.60, 147.65, 147.66, and 147.67.

(9) On all systems test time delays, alarms, and ventilation shutdowns with carbon dioxide, nitrogen, or other nonflammable gas as stated in the system manufacturer's instruction manual. Inspect hoses for damage or decay. Ensure that nozzles are unobstructed.
