
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter R—Nautical Schools
#### PART 167-PUBLIC NAUTICAL SCHOOL SHIPS
##### Subpart 167.55-Special Markings Required
###### § 167.55-5 Marking of fire and emergency equipment.
####### Steam, foam, carbon dioxide, Halon, or clean agent fire smothering apparatus.

(1)Steam, foam, carbon dioxide, Halon, or clean agent fire smothering apparatus must be marked "[STEAM/FOAM/CARBON DIOXIDE/HALON/CLEAN AGENT-as appropriate] FIRE APPARATUS," in red letters at least 2 inches high, and the valves of all branch piping leading to the several compartments must be distinctly marked to indicate the compartments or parts of the nautical school ship to which they lead.

(2) Each entrance to a space storing carbon dioxide cylinders, a space protected by carbon dioxide systems, or any space into which carbon dioxide might migrate must be conspicuously marked as follows:

(i) Spaces storing carbon dioxide-"CARBON DIOXIDE GAS CAN CAUSE INJURY OR DEATH. VENTILATE THE AREA BEFORE ENTERING. A HIGH CONCENTRATION CAN OCCUR IN THIS AREA AND CAN CAUSE SUFFOCATION.".

(ii) Spaces protected by carbon dioxide-"CARBON DIOXIDE GAS CAN CAUSE INJURY OR DEATH. WHEN ALARM OPERATES OR WINTERGREEN SCENT IS DETECTED, DO NOT ENTER UNTIL VENTILATED. LOCK OUT SYSTEM WHEN SERVICING." The reference to wintergreen scent may be omitted for carbon dioxide systems not required to have odorizing units and not equipped with such units.

(iii) Spaces into which carbon dioxide might migrate-"CARBON DIOXIDE GAS CAN CAUSE INJURY OR DEATH. DISCHARGE INTO NEARBY SPACE CAN COLLECT HERE. WHEN ALARM OPERATES OR WINTERGREEN SCENT IS DETECTED VACATE IMMEDIATELY." The reference to wintergreen scent may be omitted for carbon dioxide systems not required to have odorizing units and not equipped with such units.
