
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter R—Nautical Schools
#### PART 169-SAILING SCHOOL VESSELS
##### Subpart 169.200-Inspection and Certification
###### Certificate of Inspection
####### § 169.205 Obtaining or renewing a Certificate of Inspection.

(a) A qualified organization attempting to obtain or renew a certificate of inspection for a vessel must submit to the Coast Guard Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection located in or nearest the port at which the inspection is to be made, the following-

(1) An application for inspection on Form CG-3752; and

(2) Evidence that the vessel has been designated as a sailing school vessel or an application for designation, as set forth in § 169.218; and

(3) Information concerning the program's age and physical qualifications for students and instructors and the ratio of students to instructors.

(b) The application for initial inspection of a vessel being newly constructed or converted must be submitted prior to the start of such construction or conversion.

(c) The construction, arrangement and equipment of all vessels must be acceptable to the cognizant Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, as a prerequisite of the issuance of the initial certificate of inspection. Acceptance will be based on the information, specifications, drawings and calculations available to the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, and on the successful completion of an initial inspection for certification.

(d) You must submit a written application for an inspection for certification to the cognizant Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection. To renew a Certificate of Inspection, you must submit an application at least 30 days before the expiration of the vessel's current certificate. Applications are available at any U.S. Coast Guard Sector Office or Marine Inspection Office. When renewing a Certificate of Inspection, you must schedule an inspection for certification within the 3 months before the expiration date of the current Certificate of Inspection.

(e) The condition of the vessel and its equipment must be acceptable to the cognizant Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, as a prerequisite of the certificate of inspection renewal. Acceptance will be based on the condition of the vessel as found at the inspection for certification.
