
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter R—Nautical Schools
#### PART 169-SAILING SCHOOL VESSELS
##### Subpart 169.200-Inspection and Certification
###### Certificate of Inspection
####### § 169.213 Permit to carry excursion party.

(a) A vessel may be permitted to engage in a temporary excursion operation with a greater number of persons and/or on a more extended route than permitted by its certificate of inspection when in the opinion of the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, the operation can be undertaken with safety. A "Permit To Carry Excursion Party" Form CG-949, is a prerequisite of such an operation.

(b) Any Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, having jurisdiction may issue a permit to carry an excursion party upon the written application of the operator, owner or agent of the vessel.

(c) The OCMI will reevaluate the vessel's sailing instruction program to ensure that the permit fits within the scope of the training program and that the vessel continues to meet the definition of a sailing school vessel.

(d) The OCMI may require an inspection prior to the issuance of a permit to carry an excursion party.

(e) The permit states upon its face the conditions under which it is issued, a reminder about the prohibition against carrying passengers, the number of persons the vessel may carry, the crew required, and additional lifesaving or safety equipment required, the route for which the permit is granted, and the dates on which the permit is valid.

(f) The permit must be carried with the certificate of inspection. Any vessel operating under a permit to carry an excursion party must be in full compliance with the terms of its certificate of inspection as supplemented by the permit.
