
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter R—Nautical Schools
#### PART 169-SAILING SCHOOL VESSELS
##### Subpart 169.200-Inspection and Certification
###### Inspections
####### § 169.245 Lifesaving equipment.

At each inspection for certification and periodic inspection the following tests and inspections of lifesaving equipment will be conducted:

(a) All air tank buoyant units of all lifesaving appliances are tested for airtightness.

(b) Each lifeboat is lowered to near the water and loaded with its allowed capacity, evenly distributed throughout the length. The total weight used is at least equal to the allowed capacity of the lifeboat considering persons to weigh 75 kg (165 pounds) each. The lifeboat is then lowered into the water until it is afloat and released from the falls.

(c) Each personal flotation device is examined to determine its serviceability. If found to be satisfactory, it is stamped "Passed," together with the date and the port. If found to be unsatisfactory, the personal flotation device must be removed from the vessel's equipment and repaired. If it is beyond repair it must be destroyed in the presence of the Coast Guard inspector.

(d) Each lifeboat winch electrical control apparatus is opened and inspected.

(e) Where gravity davits are installed, it must be demonstrated that the lifeboat can be swung out and lowered from any stopped position by merely releasing the brake on the lifeboat winch. The use of force to start the davits or the lifeboat winch is not permitted.

(f) Inflatable liferaft containers are examined for defects and the inspector verifies that the inflatable liferafts and hydraulic releases, if installed, have been serviced at an approved facility in accordance with the provisions of subparts 160.051 and 160.062, respectively, of this chapter.

(g) All other items of lifesaving equipment are examined to determine that they are in suitable condition.
