
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter R—Nautical Schools
#### PART 169-SAILING SCHOOL VESSELS
##### Subpart 169.200-Inspection and Certification
###### Inspections
####### § 169.247 Fire fighting equipment.

(a) At each inspection for certification and periodic inspection and at such other times as considered necessary, all fire extinguishing equipment must be inspected to ensure it is in suitable condition. Tests may be necessary to determine the condition of the equipment. The inspector must verify that the following tests and inspections have been conducted by a qualified servicing facility at least once every 12 months:

(1) Portable fire extinguishers and semi-portable fire extinguishing systems must be inspected and maintained in accordance with NFPA 10 (incorporated by reference, see § 169.115) as amended here:

(i) Certification or licensing as fire extinguisher servicing agency by a state or local authority having jurisdiction will be accepted by the Coast Guard as meeting the personnel certification requirements of NFPA 10 for annual maintenance and recharging of extinguishers.

(ii) Monthly inspections required by NFPA 10 may be conducted by the owner, operator, person-in-charge, or a designated member of the crew.

(iii) Non-rechargeable or non-refillable extinguishers must be inspected and maintained in accordance with NFPA 10; however, the annual maintenance need not be conducted by a certified person and can be conducted by the owner, operator, person-in-charge, or a designated member of the crew.

(iv) The owner or managing operator must provide satisfactory evidence of the required servicing to the marine inspector. If any of the equipment or records have not been properly maintained, a qualified servicing facility must perform the required inspections, maintenance procedures, and hydrostatic pressure tests. A tag issued by a qualified servicing organization, and attached to each extinguisher, may be accepted as evidence that the necessary maintenance procedures have been conducted.

(2) All parts of the fixed fire extinguishing systems must be examined for excessive corrosion and general condition. Table 169.247(a)(1) of this section provides detailed inspection and test requirements of fixed systems.

(3) Piping, controls, valves, and alarms on all fire extinguishing systems must be checked to be certain the system is in operating condition.

(4) The fire main system is operated and the pressure checked at the most remote and highest outlets.

(5) Each firehose is subjected to a test pressure equivalent to its maximum service pressure.

(b) [Reserved]
