
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter R—Nautical Schools
#### PART 169-SAILING SCHOOL VESSELS
##### Subpart 169.300-Construction and Arrangement
###### Plans
####### § 169.305 Plans required.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section the owner or builder shall, before the start of construction or before the initial inspection of the vessel, submit to the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection of the inspection zone where the vessel is to be inspected, at least one copy of each of the following plans:

(1) Midship section.

(2) Outboard profile.

(3) Inboard profile.

(4) Arrangement of decks.

(5) Lifesaving equipment installation and arrangement.

(6) Machinery installation.

(7) Electrical installation.

(8) Fire control plan.

(9) Fuel tanks.

(10) Piping systems.

(11) Hull penetrations and shell connections.

(12) Lines and offsets, curves of form, and capacities of the tanks including size and location on vessel.

(13) Masts, including integration into the ship's structure.

(14) Rigging plan showing sail areas and centers of effort as well as the arrangement, dimensions, and connections of the standing rigging.

(b) For vessels less than 65 feet in length, the owner may submit specifications, sketches, photographs, line drawings or written descriptions in lieu of any of the required drawings provided the required information is adequately detailed and acceptable to the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection.

(c) The Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, may waive submission of some or all of the structural plans called for by paragraph (a) of this section for an existing vessel with a history of at least 5 years of safe operation, or if the design and construction of the vessel are essentially similar to a vessel which has a proven record of safe operation in similar service upon similar waters.
