
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter R—Nautical Schools
#### PART 169-SAILING SCHOOL VESSELS
##### Subpart 169.300-Construction and Arrangement
###### Hull Structure
####### § 169.309 Structural standards.

(a) Compliance with the standards established by a recognized classification society will, in general, be considered satisfactory evidence of the structural adequacy of a vessel.

(b) Masts, posts and other supporting structures are to have adequate strength to withstand the highest loadings imposed by the sail systems during all normal and emergency conditions. Particular attention must be given to the integration of the masts and rigging into the hull structure. The hull structure must be adequately reinforced and stiffened locally to ensure sufficient strength and resistance to plate buckling.

(c) The design, materials, and construction of masts, yards, booms, bowsprits, and standing rigging must be suitable for the intended service. Detailed calculations with respect to the strength of the sail system may be required. Approval by a recognized classification society may be considered satisfactory evidence of the adequacy of the sail system.

(d) When scantlings differ from established standards and it can be demonstrated that a craft approximating the same size, power and displacement has been built to the proposed scantlings and has been in satisfactory service, insofar as structural adequacy is concerned, for a period of a least 5 years, the proposed scantling may be approved. A detailed structural analysis may be required.

(e) Special consideration will be given to the structural requirements of vessels not contemplated by the standards of a recognized classification society and to the use of materials not specially included in these standards.
