
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter R—Nautical Schools
#### PART 169-SAILING SCHOOL VESSELS
##### Subpart 169.300-Construction and Arrangement
###### Living Spaces
####### § 169.317 Accommodations.

(a) Quarters must have sufficient fresh air, light and heat. Quarters must not be located forward of the collision bulkhead or farther forward in the vessel than a vertical plane located at 5 percent of the vessel's loadline length abaft the forward side of the stem. The space must not be located totally below the deepest load waterline.

(b) Bulkheads separating accommodations from machinery spaces, paint lockers, storerooms, washrooms, and toilet facilities are to be odorproof.

(c) All quarters are to be properly drained, odorproof and protected from heat and noise.

(d) Each person on board must have a separate berth which is of sufficient size and generally clear of all pipes, ventilation ducts and other installations.

(e) Each bunk must be constructed of wood, fiberglass or metal. If fitted with a mattress, the mattress must be covered with material which has been treated to give it fire resistant properties and which will provide the mattress with a reasonably smooth surface. There must be a minimum vertical distance between bunks of 24 inches.

(f) A means of access must be provided for each berthing arrangement where the upper berth is more than 60 inches above the deck.

(g) The construction and arrangement must allow free and unobstructed access to each berth. Each berth must be immediately adjacent to an aisle leading to a means of escape from the living area.

(h) A properly arranged hammock may be used as a berth.
