
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 15 - MANNING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart K - Vessels Subject to Requirements of STCW
###### ยง 15.1101 General.

(a) Except as noted in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, the regulations in this subpart apply to seagoing vessels as defined in ยง 10.107 of this subchapter.

(1) The following vessels are exempt from application of the STCW Convention:

(i) Fishing vessels as defined in 46 U.S.C. 2101(11)(a).

(ii) Fishing vessels used as fish-tender vessels as defined in 46 U.S.C. 2101(11)(c).

(iii) Barges as defined in 46 U.S.C. 102, including non-self-propelled MODUs.

(iv) Vessels operating exclusively on the Great Lakes or on the inland waters of the U.S., in the Straits of Juan de Fuca, or on the Inside Passage between Puget Sound and Cape Spencer.

(v) Pilot vessels engaged on pilotage duty.

(2) The following small vessels engaged exclusively on domestic, near coastal voyages are not subject to any obligation for the purposes of the STCW Convention:

(i) Small passenger vessels subject to subchapter T or K of 46 CFR chapter I.

(ii) Vessels of less than 200 GRT (other than passenger vessels subject to subchapter H of 46 CFR chapter I).

(iii) Uninspected passenger vessels as defined in 46 U.S.C. 2101(42)(B).

(b) Masters, mates, and engineers serving on vessels identified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (a)(2)(ii) of this section may be issued, without additional proof of qualification, an appropriate STCW endorsement when the Coast Guard determines that such a document is necessary to enable the vessel to engage on a single international voyage of a non-routine nature. The STCW endorsement will be expressly limited to service on the vessel or the class of vessels and will not establish qualification for any other purpose.
