
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter R—Nautical Schools
#### PART 169-SAILING SCHOOL VESSELS
##### Subpart 169.500-Lifesaving and Firefighting Equipment
###### Primary Lifesaving Equipment
####### § 169.521 Stowage.
######## Life float stowage.

(d)Each life float must be stowed to meet the requirements of this paragraph.

(1) Each life float must be secured to the vessel by a painter and a float-free link that is-

(i) Certified to meet subpart 160.073 of this chapter;

(ii) Of proper strength for the size of the life float as indicated on its identification tag; and

(iii) Secured to the painter at one end and secured to the vessel on the other end.

(2) The means by which the float-free link is attached to the vessel must-

(i) Have a breaking strength of at least the breaking strength of the painter.

(ii) If synthetic, be of a dark color or of a material certified to be resistant to deterioration from ultraviolet light; and

(iii) If metal, be corrosion resistant.

(3) If the life float does not have a painter attachment fitting, a means for attaching the painter must be provided by a wire or line that-

(i) Encircles the body of the device;

(ii) Will not slip off;

(iii) Has a breaking strength that is at least the breaking strength of the painter; and

(iv) If synthetic, is of a dark color or is of a material certified to be resistant to deterioration from ultraviolet light.

(4) The float-free link described in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section is not required if the vessel operates solely in waters that have a depth less than the length of the painter.

(5) If the vessel carries more than one life float, the life floats may be grouped and each group secured by a single painter, provided that-

(i) The combined weight of each group of life floats does not exceed 400 pounds;

(ii) Each life float is individually attached to the painter by a line that meets paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section and which is long enough so that each can float without contacting any other life float in the group; and

(iii) The strength of the float-free link and the strength of the painter under paragraphs (d)(1)(ii) and (d)(2) of this section is determined by the combined capacity of the group of life floats.

(6) Each life float, as stowed, must be capable of easy launching. Life floats weighing over 400 pounds must not require lifting before launching.

(7) Life floats must be secured to the vessel only by a painter and lashings that can be easily released or by hydraulic releases. They must not be stowed in more than four tiers. When stowed in tiers, the separate units must be kept apart by spacers.

(8) There must be means to prevent shifting.
