
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter R—Nautical Schools
#### PART 169-SAILING SCHOOL VESSELS
##### Subpart 169.500-Lifesaving and Firefighting Equipment
###### Firefighting Equipment
####### § 169.565 Fixed carbon dioxide system.
######## Cylinders.

(f)(1) Each cylinder must be securely fastened and supported, and where necessary protected against injury. Cylinders must be located outside the space protected.

(2) Each cylinder must be mounted in an upright position or inclined not more than 30&#xB0; from the vertical, except that cylinders which are fitted with flexible or bent siphon tubes may be inclined not more than 80&#xB0; from the vertical.

(3) Each cylinder used for storing extinguishing agent must be approved and marked in accordance with Department of Transportation regulations.

(4) Each cylinder must be mounted so it is readily accessible and capable of easy removal for recharging and inspection. Cylinders must be capable of being weighed in place.

(5) Where subject to moisture, cylinders must be installed so that a space of at least 2 inches is provided between the flooring and the bottom of the cylinders.

(6) Each cylinder storage area must be properly ventilated and the temperature inside must not exceed 130 &#xB0;F.

(g) Provision must be made by means of plugs, covers, dampers, etc., to prevent the admission of air into the space protected.

(h) Systems must be fitted with a delayed discharge and an alarm bell arranged so the alarm sounds for at least twenty seconds before the carbon dioxide is released into the space.
