
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter R—Nautical Schools
#### PART 169-SAILING SCHOOL VESSELS
##### Subpart 169.600-Machinery and Electrical
###### Steering Systems
####### § 169.619 Reliability.

(a) Except where the OCMI judges it impracticable, the steering system must-

(1) Provide continued or restored steering capability in the event of a failure or malfunction of any single steering system component other than the rudder or rudder stock;

(2) Be independent of other systems, including auxiliary propulsion machinery; and

(3) Be operable in the event of localized fire or flooding.

(b) A main and independent auxiliary steering gear must be provided, except when-

(1) A small vessel uses a tiller or direct mechanical linkage as the primary means of controlling the rudder; or

(2) Installation of an auxiliary steering gear is not possible.

(c) The strength and reliability of any component that is not provided in duplicate must be suitable to the cognizant OCMI. Where redundant or backup equipment or components are provided to meet the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the following must be provided:

(1) A means to readily transfer from the failed equipment or component to the backup.

(2) Readily available tools or equipment necessary to make the transfer.

(3) Instructions for transfer procedures, posted at the main steering location.

(4) A means to steady the rudder while making the transfer.
