
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter R—Nautical Schools
#### PART 169-SAILING SCHOOL VESSELS
##### Subpart 169.600-Machinery and Electrical
###### Bilge Systems
####### § 169.652 Bilge piping.

(a) All vessels of 26 feet in length and over must be provided with individual bilge lines and suction for each compartment except that the space forward of the collision bulkhead may be serviced by a sluice valve or portable bilge pump if the arrangement of the vessel is such that ordinary leakage can be removed this way.

(b) The bilge pipe on vessels 65 feet in length and under must be not less than one inch nominal pipe size. On vessels greater than 65 but less than 120 feet in length the bilge pipe must be not less than one and one-half inches. Piping on vessels of 120 feet or greater or of 100 gross tons or greater must meet the requirements contained in § 56.50-50 of this chapter.

(c) Each bilge suction must be fitted with a suitable strainer having an open area not less than three times the area of the bilge pipe.

(d) Each individual bilge suction line must be led to a central control point or manifold. Each line must be provided with a stop valve at the control point or manifold and a check valve at some accessible point in the bilge line, or a stop-check valve located at the control point or manifold.

(e) Each bilge pipe piercing the collision bulkhead must be fitted with a screw-down valve located on the forward side of the collision bulkhead and operable from above the weather deck.
