
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 15 - MANNING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart K - Vessels Subject to Requirements of STCW
###### ยง 15.1113 Security personnel.

(a) Onboard a seagoing vessel of 500 GT or more to which the International Ship and Port Facility Security (ISPS) Code applies, all persons performing duties as Vessel Security Officer (VSO) must hold a valid endorsement as VSO.

(b) Persons who hold an endorsement as VSO will be deemed to satisfy the requirements for vessel personnel with designated security duties in paragraph (c) of this section.

(c) After March 24, 2014, onboard a seagoing vessel of 500 GT or more to which the ISPS Code applies, all personnel with designated security duties must hold a valid endorsement as vessel personnel with designated security duties, or a certificate of course completion or documentary evidence of onboard training from an appropriate Coast Guard-accepted or Coast Guard-approved course meeting the requirements of 33 CFR 104.220.

(d) Persons who hold an endorsement as vessel personnel with designated security duties, or a certificate of course completion or documentary evidence of onboard training from an appropriate Coast Guard-accepted or Coast Guard-approved course for vessel personnel with designated security duties, will be deemed to satisfy the requirements for all other vessel personnel in paragraph (e) of this section.

(e) After March 24, 2014, onboard a seagoing vessel of 500 GT or more to which the ISPS Code applies, all other vessel personnel must hold a valid endorsement in security awareness, or a certificate of course completion from an appropriate Coast Guard-accepted or Coast Guard-approved course, or documentary evidence of onboard training meeting the requirements of 33 CFR 104.225.

(f) After March 24, 2014, onboard a seagoing vessel of 500 GT or more to which the ISPS Code applies, all contractors, whether part-time, full-time, temporary, or permanent, must have knowledge of the requirements in 33 CFR 104.225, through training or equivalent job experience. Vessel owners and operators must maintain records documenting this requirement and produce those records to the Coast Guard upon request.
