
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter R—Nautical Schools
#### PART 169-SAILING SCHOOL VESSELS
##### Subpart 169.600-Machinery and Electrical
###### Electrical Installations Operating at Potentials of Less Than 50 Volts on Vessels of Less Than 100 Gross Tons
####### § 169.668 Batteries.

(a) Each battery must be in a location that allows the gas generated in charging to be easily dissipated by natural or induced ventilation.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a battery must not be located in the same compartment with a gasoline tank or gasoline engine.

(c) If compliance with paragraph (b) of this section is not practicable, the battery must be effectively screened by a cage or similar structure to minimize the danger of accidental spark through dropping a metal object across the terminals.

(d) Each battery must be located as high above the bilges as practicable and secured against shifting with motion of the vessel. Each battery and battery connection must be accessible so as to permit removal.

(e) All connections must be made to battery terminals with permanent type connectors. Spring clips or other temporary type clamps may not be used.

(f) Each battery must be located in a tray of lead or other suitable material resistant to deteriorating action by the electrolyte.

(g) Each battery charger intended for connection to a commercial supply voltage must employ a transformer of the isolating type. An ammeter that is readily visible must be included in the battery charger circuit.

(h) A voltage dropping resistor, provided for charging a battery, must be mounted in a ventilated noncombustible enclosure that prevents hazardous temperatures at adjacent combustible materials.

(i) The main supply conductor from the battery must have an emergency switch, located as close as practicable to the battery, that opens all ungrounded conductors.

(j) If a storage battery is not in the same compartment and adjacent to the panel or box that distributes power to the various lighting, motor and appliance branch circuits, the storage battery lead must be fused at the battery.
