
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter R—Nautical Schools
#### PART 169-SAILING SCHOOL VESSELS
##### Subpart 169.600-Machinery and Electrical
###### Electrical Installations Operating at Potentials of 50 Volts or More on Vessels of Less Than 100 Gross Tons
####### § 169.675 Generators and motors.

(a) Each generator and motor must be fitted with a nameplate of corrosion-resistant material marked with the following information as applicable:

(1) Name of manufacturer.

(2) Manufacturer's type and frame designation.

(3) Output in kilowatts or horsepower rating.

(4) Kind of rating (continuous, intermittent, etc.).

(5) Revolutions per minute at rated load.

(6) Amperes at rated load.

(7) Voltage.

(8) Frequency if applicable.

(9) Number of phases, if applicable.

(10) Type of winding (for direct-current motors).

(b) Each vessel of more than 65 feet in length having only electrically driven fire and bilge pumps must have two generators. One of these generators must be driven by a means independent of the auxiliary propulsion plant. A generator that is not independent of the auxiliary propulsion plant must meet the requirements of § 111.10-4(c) of this chapter.

(c) Each generator and motor must be in a location that is accessible, adequately ventilated, and as dry as practicable.

(d) Each generator and motor must be mounted as high as practicable above the bilges to avoid damage by splash and to avoid contact with low lying vapors.

(e) Each motor for use in a location exposed to the weather must be of the watertight or waterproof type or must be enclosed in a watertight housing. The motor enclosure or housing must be provided with a check valve for drainage or a tapped hole at the lowest part of the frame for attaching a drain pipe or drain plug.

(f) Except as provided in paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section, each generator and motor for use in a machinery space must be designed for an ambient temperature of 50 degrees C. (122 degrees F.).

(g) A generator or motor may be designed for an ambient temperature of 40 degrees C. (104 degrees F.) if the vessel is designed so that the ambient temperature in the machinery space will not exceed 40 degrees C. under normal operating conditions.

(h) A generator or motor designed for 40 degrees C. may be used in a 50 degrees C. ambient location provided it is derated to 80 percent of full load rating, and the rating or setting of the overcurrent device is reduced accordingly. A nameplate specifying the derated capacity must be provided for each motor and generator.

(i) A voltmeter and an ammeter must be provided that can be used for measuring voltage and current of each generator that is in operation. For each alternating-current generator a means for measuring frequency must also be provided. Additional control equipment and measuring instruments must be provided, if needed, to ensure satisfactory operation of each generator.
