
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter R—Nautical Schools
#### PART 169-SAILING SCHOOL VESSELS
##### Subpart 169.600-Machinery and Electrical
###### Electrical Installations Operating at Potentials of 50 Volts or More on Vessels of Less Than 100 Gross Tons
####### § 169.678 Main distribution panels and switchboards.

(a) A distribution panel to which the generator leads are connected, and from which the electric leads throughout the vessel directly or indirectly receive their electric power is a switchboard.

(b) Each switchboard must have a driphood or an equivalent means of protecting against falling liquid.

(c) Nonconductive deck materials, mats, or gratings must be provided in front of each switchboard.

(d) If the switchboard is accessible from the rear, nonconductive deck material, mats, or gratings must be provided in the rear of the switchboard.

(e) Metal cases of instruments and secondary windings of instrument transformers must be grounded.

(f) Each switchboard must be placed in a location that is accessible, adequately ventilated, and as dry as practicable. All uninsulated current carrying parts must be mounted on nonabsorbent, noncombustible, high dielectric insulating material.

(g) Each switchboard must be of the dead front type.

(h) Each switchboard must have front and, if accessible from the back, rear non-conducting hand rails except on vessels where the surrounding bulkheads and decks are of an insulating material such as fiberglass or wood.
