
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter R—Nautical Schools
#### PART 169-SAILING SCHOOL VESSELS
##### Subpart 169.700-Vessel Control, Miscellaneous Systems, and Equipment
###### Markings
####### § 169.739 Lifeboats.

(a) The name and port of the vessel marked on its stern as required by § 67.15 of this chapter must be plainly marked or painted on each side of the bow of each lifeboat in letters not less than 3 inches high.

(b) Each lifeboat must have its number plainly marked or painted on each side of the bow in figures not less than 3 inches high. The lifeboats on each side of the vessel must be numbered from forward aft, with the odd numbers on the starboard side.

(c) The cubical contents and number of persons allowed to be carried in each lifeboat must be plainly marked or painted on each side of the bow of the lifeboat in letters and numbers not less than 1inches high. In addition, the number of persons allowed must be plainly marked or painted on top of at least 2 thwarts in letters and numbers not less than 3 inches high.

(d) Each oar must be conspicuously marked with the vessel's name.

(e) Where mechanical disengaging apparatus is used, the control effecting the release of the lifeboat must be painted bright red and must have thereon in raised letters either the words-"DANGER-LEVER DROPS BOAT", or the words-"DANGER-LEVER RELEASES HOOKS".

(f) The top of thwarts, side benches and footings of lifeboats must be painted or otherwise colored international orange. The area in way of the red mechanical disengaging gear control lever, from the keel to the side bench, must be painted or otherwise colored white, to provide a contrasting background for the lever. This band of white should be approximately 12 inches wide depending on the internal arrangements of the lifeboat.
