
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter R—Nautical Schools
#### PART 169-SAILING SCHOOL VESSELS
##### Subpart 169.700-Vessel Control, Miscellaneous Systems, and Equipment
###### § 169.703 Cooking and heating.

(a) Cooking and heating equipment must be suitable for marine use. Cooking installations must meet the requirements of ABYC Standard A-3, "Recommended Practices and Standards Covering Galley Stoves."

(b) The use of gasoline for cooking, heating or lighting is prohibited on all vessels.

(c) The use of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) or compressed natural gas (CNG) is authorized for cooking purposes only.

(1) The design, installation and testing of each LPG system must meet either ABYC A-1 or Chapter 6 of NFPA 302.

(2) The design, installation, and testing of each CNG system must meet either Chapter 6 of NFPA 302 or ABYC A-22.

(3) The stowage of each cylinder must comply with the requirements for the stowage of cylinders of liquefied or non-liquefied gases used for heating, cooking, or lighting in part 147 of this chapter.

(4) If the fuel supply line enters an enclosed space on the vessel, a remote shutoff valve must be installed which can be operated from a position adjacent to the appliance. The valve must be a type that will fail closed, and it must be located between the regulator and the point where the fuel supply enters the enclosed portion of the vessel.

(5) If Chapter 6 of NFPA 302 is used as the standard, then the following additional requirements must also be met:

(i) LPG or CNG must be odorized in accordance with ABYC A-1.5.d or A-22.5.b, respectively.

(ii) Ovens must be equipped with a flame failure switch in accordance with ABYC A-1.10.b for LPG or A-22.10.b for CNG.

(iii) The marking and mounting of LPG cylinders must be in accordance with ABYC-1.6.b.

(iv) LPG cylinders must be of the vapor withdrawal type as specified in ABYC A-1.5.b.

(6) If ABYC A-1 or A-22 is used as the standard for an LPG on CNG installation, then pilot lights or glow plugs are prohibited.

(7) If ABYC A-22 is used as the standard for a CNG installation, then the following additional requirements must also be met:

(i) The CNG cylinders, regulating equipment, and safety equipment must meet the installation, stowage, and testing requirements of paragraphs 6-5.11.1, 2, 3; 6-5.11.5; and 6-5.11.8 of NFPA 302.

(ii) The use or stowage of stoves with attached cylinders is prohibited as specified in paragraph 6-5.1 of NFPA 302.
