
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter R—Nautical Schools
#### PART 169-SAILING SCHOOL VESSELS
##### Subpart 169.700-Vessel Control, Miscellaneous Systems, and Equipment
###### § 169.711 Emergency lighting.

(a) Each vessel must be equipped with a suitable number of portable battery lights.

(b) Each vessel of 100 gross tons and over must satisfy the emergency lighting requirements for a miscellaneous self-propelled vessel as contained in part 112 of this chapter.

(c) Each vessel of less than 100 gross tons that has accommodation spaces located below the main deck must have permanently installed lighting which is connected to a single emergency power source or permanently installed, relay-controlled, battery-operated lanterns. The lighting or lanterns must be fitted along the avenues of escape, in the wheelhouse, and in the engine compartment.

(1) A single emergency power source, if provided, must be independent of the normal power source and must be either a generator or a storage battery.

(d) The emergency power source and batteries for individual, battery-operated, lanterns must have the capacity to supply all connected loads simultaneously for at least 6 hours of continuous operations. If the emergency lighting is provided by battery power, then an automatic battery charger that maintains the battery(s) in a fully charged condition must be provided.

(e) The emergency lighting system must be capable of being fully activated from a single location.
