
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter R—Nautical Schools
#### PART 169-SAILING SCHOOL VESSELS
##### Subpart 169.800-Operations
###### Tests, Drills, and Inspections
####### § 169.833 Fire and boat drills.

(a) When the vessel is operating, the master shall conduct a fire and boat drill each week. The scheduling of drills is at the discretion of the master except that at least one fire and boat drill must be held within 24 hours of leaving a port if more than 25 percent of the ship's company have been replaced at that port.

(b) The fire and boat drill must be conducted as if an actual emergency existed. All persons on board including guests shall report to their respective stations and be prepared to perform the duties specified in the station bill.

(1) Fire pumps must be started and a sufficient number of outlets used to ascertain that the system is in proper working order.

(2) All rescue and safety equipment must be brought from the emergency equipment lockers and the persons designated must demonstrate their ability to use the equipment.

(3) All watertight doors which are in use while the vessel is underway must be operated.

(4) Weather permitting, lifeboat covers and strongbacks must be removed, plugs or caps put in place, boat ladders secured in position, painters led forward and tended, and other life saving equipment prepared for use. The motor and hand-propelling gear of each lifeboat, where fitted, must be operated for at least 5 minutes.

(5) In port, every lifeboat must be swung out, if practicable. The unobstructed lifeboats must be lowered to the water and the ship's company must be exercised in the use of the oars or other means of propulsion. Although all lifeboats may not be used in a particular drill, care must be taken that all lifeboats are given occasional use to ascertain that all lowering equipment is in proper order and the crew properly trained. The master shall ensure that each lifeboat is lowered to the water at least once every 3 months.

(6) When the vessel in underway, and weather permitting, all lifeboats must be swung out to ascertain that the gear is in proper order.

(7) The person in charge of each lifeboat and liferaft shall have a list of its crew and shall ensure that the persons under his or her command are acquainted with their duties.

(8) Lifeboat equipment must be examined at least once a month to ensure that it is complete.

(9) The master shall ensure that all persons on board fully participate in these drills and that they have been instructed in the proper method of donning and adjusting the personal flotation devices and exposure suits used and informed of the stowage location of these devices.

(c) The master shall have an entry made in the vessel's official logbook relative to each fire and boat drill setting forth the date and hour, length of time of the drill, numbers on the lifeboats swung out and numbers on those lowered, the length of time that motor and hand-propelled lifeboats are operated, the number of lengths of hose used, together with a statement as to the condition of all fire and lifesaving equipment, watertight door mechanisms, valves, etc. An entry must also be made to report the monthly examination of the lifeboat equipment. If in any week the required fire and boat drills are not held or only partial drills are held, an entry must be made stating the circumstances and extend of the drills held.

(d) A copy of these requirements must be framed under glass or other transparent material and posted in a conspicuous place about the vessel.
