
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter R—Nautical Schools
#### PART 169-SAILING SCHOOL VESSELS
##### Subpart 169.800-Operations
###### § 169.813 Station bills.

(a) A station bill (muster list) shall be prepared and signed by the master of the vessel. The master shall ensure that the bill is posted in conspicuous locations throughout the vessel, particularly in the living spaces, before the vessel sails.

(b) The station bill must set forth the special duties and duty station of each member of the ship's company for the various emergencies. The duties must, as far as possible, be comparable with the regular work of the individual. The duties must include at least the following and any other duties necessary for the proper handling of a particular emergency:

(1) The closing of airports, watertight doors, scuppers, sanitary and other discharges which lead through the vessel's hull below the margin line, etc., the stopping of fans and ventilating systems, and the operating of all safety equipment.

(2) The preparing and launching of lifeboats and liferafts.

(3) The extinguishing of fire.

(4) The mustering of guests, if carried, including the following:

(i) Warning the guests.

(ii) Seeing that they are dressed and have put on their personal flotation devices in a proper manner.

(iii) Assembling the guests and directing them to the appointed stations.

(iv) Keeping order in the passageways and stairways and generally controlling the movement of the guests.

(v) Seeing that a supply of blankets is taken to the lifeboats.
