
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter S—Subdivision and Stability
#### PART 170-STABILITY REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL INSPECTED VESSELS
##### Subpart A-General Provisions
###### § 170.015 Incorporation by reference.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(a) Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. To enforce any edition other than that specified in this section, the Coast Guard must publish a notice of change in theand the material must be available to the public. All approved material is available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030 or go toIt is also available for inspection at Coast Guard Headquarters. Contact Commandant (CG-ENG), Attn: Office of Design and Engineering Systems, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7509, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7509. The material is also available from the sources listed below.

(b) American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), 100 Barr Harbor Drive, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959.

(1) ASTM F 1196-00, Standard Specification for Sliding Watertight Door Assemblies, 2008, incorporation by reference (IBR) approved for § 170.270.

(2) ASTM F 1197-00, Standard Specification for Sliding Watertight Door Control Systems, 2007, IBR approved for § 170.270.
