
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter S—Subdivision and Stability
#### PART 170-STABILITY REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL INSPECTED VESSELS
##### Subpart D-Stability Instructions for Operating Personnel
###### § 170.110 Stability booklet.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, a stability booklet must be prepared for each vessel, except for mobile offshore drilling units subject to the operating manual requirements of § 109.121 of this chapter.

(b) Each stability booklet must be approved by the Coast Guard Marine Safety Center.

(c) Each stability book must contain sufficient information to enable the master to operate the vessel in compliance with applicable regulations in this subchapter. Information on loading restrictions used to determine compliance with applicable intact and damage stability criteria must encompass the entire range of operating drafts and the entire range of the operating trims. Information must include an effective procedure for supervision and reporting of the opening and closing of all loading doors, where applicable.

(d) The format of the stability booklet and the information included will vary dependent on the vessel type and operation. Units of measure used in the stability booklet must agree with the units of measure of the draft markings. In developing the stability booklet, consideration must be given to including the following information:

(1) A general description of the vessel, including lightweight data.

(2) Instructions on the use of the booklet.

(3) General arrangement plans showing watertight compartments, closures, vents, downflooding angles, and allowable deck loadings.

(4) Hydrostatic curves or tables.

(5) Capacity plan showing capacities and vertical, longitudinal, and transverse centers of gravity of stowage spaces and tanks.

(6) Tank sounding tables showing capacities, vertical centers of gravity, and longitudinal centers of gravity in graduated intervals and showing free surface data for each tank.

(7) Information on loading restrictions, such as a maximum KG or minimum GM curve that can be used to determine compliance with applicable intact and damage stability criteria.

(8) Examples of loading conditions.

(9) A rapid and simple means for evaluating other loading conditions.

(10) A brief description of the stability calculations done including assumptions.

(11) General precautions for preventing unintentional flooding.

(12) A table of contents and index for the booklet.

(13) Each ship condition which, if damage occurs, may require cross-flooding for survival and information concerning the use of any special cross-flooding fittings.

(14) The amount and location of fixed ballast.

(15) Any other necessary guidance for the safe operation of the vessel under normal and emergency conditions.

(16) For each self-propelled hopper dredge with a working freeboard, the maximum specific gravity allowed for dredge spoil.

(e) A stability booklet is not required if sufficient information to enable the master to operate the vessel in compliance with the applicable regulations in this subchapter can be placed on the Certificate of Inspection, Load Line Certificate, or in the stability letter required in § 170.120.

(f) On board electronic stability computers may be used as an adjunct to the required booklet, but the required booklet must contain all necessary information to allow for the evaluation of the stability of any intact condition that can be evaluated by use of the computer.
