
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter S—Subdivision and Stability
#### PART 170-STABILITY REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL INSPECTED VESSELS
##### Subpart F-Determination of Lightweight Displacement and Centers of Gravity
###### § 170.185 Stability test preparations.

The following preparations must be made before conducting a stability test:

(a) The vessel must be as complete as practicable at the time of the test.

(b) Each tank vessel must be empty and dry, except that a tank may be partially filled or full if the Coast Guard Marine Safety Center determines that empty and dry tanks are impracticable and that the effect of filling or partial filling on the location of the center of gravity and on the displacement can be accurately determined.

(c) All dunnage, tools, and other items extraneous to the vessel must be removed.

(d) The water depth at the mooring site must provide ample clearance against grounding.

(e) Each mooring line must be arranged so that it does not interfere with the inclination of the unit during the test.

(f) The draft and axis of rotation selected for testing a mobile offshore drilling unit must be those that result in acceptable accuracy in calculating the center of gravity and displacement of the unit.

(g) The stability test procedure required by § 170.085 must include the following:

(1) Identification of the vessel to be tested.

(2) Date and location of the test.

(3) Inclining weight data.

(4) Pendulum locations and lengths.

(5) Approximate draft and trim of the vessel.

(6) Condition of each tank.

(7) Estimated items to be installed, removed, or relocated after the test, including the weight and location of each item.

(8) Schedule of events.

(9) Person or persons responsible for conducting the test.
