
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter S—Subdivision and Stability
#### PART 171-SPECIAL RULES PERTAINING TO VESSELS CARRYING PASSENGERS
##### Subpart C-Subdivision and Damage Stability
###### § 171.066 Calculation of permeability for Type I subdivision.

(a) Except as prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section, the following permeabilities must be used when doing the calculations required to demonstrate compliance with § 171.065(a), (b), and (c):

(1) When doing calculations required to demonstrate compliance with § 171.065(a) and (b), the uniform average permeability given by the formulas in Table 171.066 must be used.

(2) When doing calculations required to demonstrate that compartments on opposite sides of a main transverse watertight bulkhead that bounds the machinery space comply with § 171.065(c), the mean of the uniform average permeabilities determined from Table 171.066 for the two compartments must be used.

(b) If an average permeability can be calculated that is less than that given by the formulas in Table 171.066, the lesser value may be substituted if approved by the Commanding Officer, Marine Safety Center. When determining this lesser value, the following permeabilities must be used:

(1) 95% for passenger, crew, and all other spaces that, in the full load condition, normally contain no cargo, stores, provisions, or mail.

(2) 60% for cargo, stores, provisions, or mail spaces.

(3) 85% for spaces containing machinery.

(4) Values approved by the Commanding Officer, Marine Safety Center for double bottoms, oil fuel, and other tanks.

(c) In the case of unusual arrangements, the Commanding Officer, Marine Safety Center may require a detailed calculation of average permeability for the portions of the vessel forward or aft of the machinery spaces. When doing these calculations, the permeabilities specified in paragraph (b) of this section must be used.

(d) When calculating permeability, the total volume of the 'tween deck spaces between two adjacent main transverse watertight bulkheads that contains any passenger or crew space must be regarded as passenger space volume, except that the volume of any space that is completely enclosed in steel bulkheads and is not a crew or passenger space may be excluded.
