
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter S—Subdivision and Stability
#### PART 171-SPECIAL RULES PERTAINING TO VESSELS CARRYING PASSENGERS
##### Subpart E-Penetrations and Openings in Watertight Bulkheads
###### § 171.111 Penetrations and openings in watertight bulkheads in vessels of 100 gross tons or more.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, each opening in a watertight bulkhead must have a means to close it watertight.

(b) Except in a machinery space, the means for closing each opening may not be by bolted portable plates.

(c) If a main transverse watertight bulkhead is penetrated, the penetration must be made watertight. Lead or other heat sensitive materials must not be used in a system that penetrates a main transverse watertight bulkhead if fire damage to this system would reduce the watertight integrity of the bulkhead.

(d) A main transverse watertight bulkhead must not be penetrated by valves or cocks unless they are a part of a piping system.

(e) If a pipe, scupper, or electric cable passes through a main transverse watertight bulkhead, the opening through which it passes must be watertight.

(f) A main transverse watertight bulkhead may not have non-watertight penetrations below the bulkhead deck unless-

(1) The margin line is more than 9 inches (23 centimeters) below the bulkhead deck at the intersection of the margin line and the line formed by the intersection of the plane of the main transverse watertight bulkhead and the shell; and

(2) Making all penetrations watertight is impracticable.

(g) Penetrations approved in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section must comply with the following:

(1) The bottom of the penetration must not be located-

(i) More than 24 inches (61 centimeters) below the bulkhead deck; nor

(ii) Less than 9 inches (23 centimeters) above the margin line.

(2) The penetration must not be located outboard from the centerline more thanof the beam of the vessel measured-

(i) On the bulkhead deck; and

(ii) In the vertical plane of the penetration.

(h) No doors, manholes, or other access openings may be located in a watertight bulkhead that separates two cargo spaces or a cargo space and a permanent or reserve bunker.
