
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 16 - CHEMICAL TESTING
##### Subpart B - Required Chemical Testing
###### ยง 16.220 Periodic testing requirements.

(a) Except as provided by paragraph (c) of this section and ยง 10.227(g) of this chapter, an applicant must pass a chemical test for dangerous drugs for-

(1) An original issuance of a license, COR, MMD, or MMC;

(2) The first issuance, raise of grade, or renewal of an officer endorsement on a merchant mariner credential;

(3) A raise of grade of a license or COR;

(4) The first endorsement as an able seaman, lifeboatman, qualified member of the engine department, or tankerman; or

(5) A reissuance of a credential with a new expiration date. The applicant must provide the results of the test to the Coast Guard Regional Examination Center (REC) at the time of submitting an application. The test results must be completed and dated not more than 185 days before submission of the application.

(b) Unless excepted under paragraph (c) of this section, each pilot required by this subchapter to receive an annual physical examination must pass a chemical test for dangerous drugs as a part of that examination, and provide the results to the Coast Guard. Applicants need not submit additional copies of their annual chemical test for dangerous drugs pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section if the applicant submitted passing results of a chemical test for dangerous drugs to the Coast Guard within 12 months of the date of application.

(c) An applicant need not submit evidence of passing a chemical test for dangerous drugs required by paragraph (a) or (b) of this section if he or she provides satisfactory evidence that he or she has-

(1) Passed a chemical test for dangerous drugs required by this part within the previous six months with no subsequent positive chemical tests during the remainder of the 6-month period; or

(2) During the previous 185 days been subject to a random testing program required by ยง 16.230 for at least 60 days and did not fail or refuse to participate in a chemical test for dangerous drugs required by this part.

(d) Except as provided by paragraph (b) of this section, an applicant is required to provide the results of only one chemical test for dangerous drugs when multiple transactions are covered by or requested in a single application.
