
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 16 - CHEMICAL TESTING
##### Subpart B - Required Chemical Testing
###### ยง 16.230 Random testing requirements.

(a) Marine employers shall establish programs for the chemical testing for dangerous drugs on a random basis of crewmembers on inspected vessels who:

(1) Occupy a position, or perform the duties and functions of a position, required by the vessel's Certificate of Inspection;

(2) Perform the duties and functions of patrolmen or watchmen required by this chapter; or,

(3) Are specifically assigned the duties of warning, mustering, assembling, assisting, or controlling the movement of passengers during emergencies.

(b) Marine employers shall establish programs for the chemical testing for dangerous drugs on a random basis of crewmembers on uninspected vessels who:

(1) Are required by law or regulation to hold a license issued by the Coast Guard in order to perform their duties on the vessel;

(2) Perform duties and functions directly related to the safe operation of the vessel;

(3) Perform the duties and functions of patrolmen or watchmen required by this chapter; or,

(4) Are specifically assigned the duties of warning, mustering, assembling, assisting, or controlling the movement of passengers during emergencies.

(c) The selection of crewmembers for random drug testing shall be made by a scientifically valid method, such as a random number table or a computer-based random number generator that is matched with crewmembers' Social Security numbers, payroll identification numbers, or other comparable identifying numbers. Under the testing frequency and selection process used, each covered crewmember shall have an equal chance of being tested each time selections are made and an employee's chance of selection shall continue to exist throughout his or her employment. As an alternative, random selection may be accomplished by periodically selecting one or more vessels and testing all crewmembers covered by this section, provided that each vessel subject to the marine employer's test program remains equally subject to selection.

(d) Marine employers may form or otherwise use sponsoring organizations, or may use contractors, to conduct the random chemical testing programs required by this part.

(e) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, the minimum annual percentage rate for random drug testing shall be 50 percent of covered crewmembers.

(f) The annual rate for random drug testing may be adjusted in accordance with this paragraph.

(1) The Commandant's decision to increase or decrease the minimum annual percentage rate for random drug testing is based on the reported random positive rate for the entire industry. All information used for this determination is drawn from the drug MIS reports required by this part. In order to ensure reliability of the data, the Commandant considers the quality and completeness of the reported data, may obtain additional information or reports from marine employers, and may make appropriate modifications in calculating the industry random positive rate. Each year, the Commandant will publish in thethe minimum annual percentage rate for random drug testing of covered crewmembers. The new minimum annual percentage rate for random drug testing will be applicable starting January 1 of the calendar year following publication.

(2) When the minimum annual percentage rate for random drug testing is 50 percent, the Commandant may lower this rate to 25 percent of all covered crewmembers if the Commandant determines that the data received under the reporting requirements of 46 CFR 16.500 for two consecutive calendar years indicate that the positive rate is less than 1.0 percent.

(3) When the minimum annual percentage rate for random drug testing is 25 percent, and the data received under the reporting requirements of 46 CFR 16.500 for any calendar year indicate that the positive rate is equal to or greater than 1.0 percent, the Commandant will increase the minimum annual percentage rate for random drug testing to 50 percent of all covered crewmembers.

(g) Marine employers shall randomly select a sufficient number of covered crewmembers for testing during each calendar year to equal an annual rate not less than the minimum annual percentage rate for random drug testing determined by the Commandant. If the marine employer conducts random drug testing through a consortium, the number of crewmembers to be tested may be calculated for each individual marine employer or may be based on the total number of covered crewmembers covered by the consortium who are subject to random drug testing at the same minimum annual percentage rate under this part or any DOT drug testing rule.

(h) Each marine employer shall ensure that random drug tests conducted under this part are unannounced and that the dates for administering random tests are spread reasonably throughout the calendar year.

(i) If a given covered crewmember is subject to random drug testing under the drug testing rules of more than one DOT agency for the same marine employer, the crewmember shall be subject to random drug testing at the percentage rate established for the calendar year by the DOT agency regulating more than 50 percent of the crewmember's function.

(j) If a marine employer is required to conduct random drug testing under the drug testing rules of more than one DOT agency, the marine employer may-

(1) Establish separate pools for random selection, with each pool containing the covered crewmembers who are subject to testing at the same required rate; or

(2) Randomly select such crewmembers for testing at the highest percentage rate established for the calendar year by any DOT agency to which the marine employer is subject.

(k) An individual may not be engaged or employed, including self-employment, on a vessel in a position as master, operator, or person in charge for which a credential is required by law or regulation unless all crewmembers covered by this section are subject to the random testing requirements of this section.
