
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter S—Subdivision and Stability
#### PART 172-SPECIAL RULES PERTAINING TO BULK CARGOES
##### Subpart G-Special Rules Pertaining to a Ship That Carries a Bulk Liquefied Gas Regulated Under Subchapter O of This Chapter
###### § 172.175 Character of damage.

(a) If a type IG hull is required, design calculations must show that the vessel can survive damage at any location.

(b) If a type IIG hull is required, design calculations must show that a vessel-

(1) Longer than 492 feet (150 meters) in length can survive damage at any location; and

(2) 492 feet (150 meters) or less in length can survive damage at any location except the transverse bulkheads bounding an aft machinery space. The machinery space is calculated as a single floodable compartment.

(c) If a vessel has independent tanks type C with a MARVS of 100 psi (689 kPa) gauge or greater, is 492 feet (150 meters) or less in length, and Table 4 of part 154 of this chapter allows a type IIPG hull, design calculations must show that the vessel can survive damage at any location, except as prescribed in paragraph (e) of this section.

(d) If a type IIIG hull is required, except as specified in paragraph (e) of this section, design calculations must show that a vessel-

(1) 410 feet (125 meters) in length or longer can survive damage at any location; and

(2) Less than 410 feet (125 meters) in length can survive damage at any location, except in the main machinery space.

(e) The calculations in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section need not assume damage to a transverse bulkhead unless it is spaced closer than the longitudinal extent of collision penetration specified in Table 172.180 from another transverse bulkhead.

(f) If a main transverse watertight bulkhead or transverse watertight bulkhead bounding a side tank or double bottom tank has a step or a recess that is longer than 10 feet (3.05 meters) located within the extent of penetration of assumed damage, the vessel must be shown by design calculations to survive damage to this bulkhead. The step formed by the after peak bulkhead and after peak tank top is not a step for the purpose of this regulation.
