
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter S—Subdivision and Stability
#### PART 173-SPECIAL RULES PERTAINING TO VESSEL USE
##### Subpart D-Oceanographic Research
###### § 173.085 General subdivision requirements.

Each oceanographic vessel must comply with the following:

(a) Section 171.085(c)(1), (d) and (g) of this subchapter.

(b) Section 171.105 (a) through (g) of this subchapter except that a reduction or elimination of the required inner bottom is allowed if-

(1) The inner bottom would interfere with the mission of the vessel; and

(2) As a result of other design features, the ability of the vessel to withstand side and bottom damage is not reduced.

(c) Section 171.106 of this subchapter.

(d) Section 171.108 of this subchapter.

(e) Section 171.109 of this subchapter.

(f) Section 171.111 of this subchapter.

(g) Section 171.113 of this subchapter.

(h) The collision bulkhead must not be penetrated by more than one pipe that carries liquid to or from the forepeak tank. This pipe must have a screwdown valve that is-

(1) Operative from above the bulkhead deck; and

(2) Attached to the bulkhead inside the forepeak tank.

(i) Section 171.116 (b), (c), and (e) of this subchapter.

(j) Section 171.117(c) of this subchapter.

(k) Each port light in a space located below the freeboard deck, as defined in § 42.13-15(i) of this chapter, or in a space within an enclosed superstructure must be fitted with a hinged inside dead cover.

(l) Section 171.118 (b) and (c) of this subchapter.

(m) Section 171.122 (a) through (d) and (f) of this subchapter.

(n) Section 171.135 of this subchapter.

(o) A ventilation duct or forced draft duct may not penetrate a main transverse watertight bulkhead unless-

(1) The penetration is watertight;

(2) The penetration is located as near the vessel's centerline as possible; and

(3) The bottom of the duct is not more than-

(i) 18 inches (45.7 cm) below the bulkhead deck; and

(ii) 4 feet (121.9 cm) above the final waterline after damage determined in § 173.080.
