
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter S—Subdivision and Stability
#### PART 173-SPECIAL RULES PERTAINING TO VESSEL USE
##### Subpart C-School Ships
###### § 173.063 Intact stability requirements.

(a) Except as provided in this section, each sailing school vessel must meet the intact stability requirements in §§ 170.170, 171.050, and 171.055 of this chapter.

(b) In applying the requirements in §§ 170.170 and 171.050 of this subchapter, the value of "T" is equal to the angle of heel at which the deck edge is immersed orof the downflooding angle, whichever is less.

(c) In applying the requirements of § 171.055(d) (1) and (2) of this subchapter-

(1) The value "X" is equal to 0.6 long tons/square foot (9.8 metric tons/square meter).

(2) For a vessel in service on protected or partially protected waters, values "Y" and "Z" are determined from graphs 173.063 (a) and (b) and multiplied by the multiplier in graph 173.063(e).

(3) For a vessel in service on exposed waters, "Y" and "Z" are determined from graphs 173.063 (c) and (d) and multiplied by the multiplier from graph 173.063(e).

(4) To convert required numerals to units of "metric tons/square meter," multiply by 10.94.

(d) Each vessel of the open boat type that is required to comply with the requirements in §§ 178.300 and 178.310 of this chapter, may instead comply with the requirements in paragraph (e) of this section.

(e) In lieu of complying with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, an open boat may be provided with sufficient air tankage or other internal buoyancy to maintain the vessel afloat when the vessel is completely flooded or capsized. If foam is used to comply with this paragraph, it must be installed in accordance with the requirements in § 170.245 of this subchapter.

(f) A sailing school catamaran must meet the intact stability requirements in § 171.057.
