
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter S—Subdivision and Stability
#### PART 174-SPECIAL RULES PERTAINING TO SPECIFIC VESSEL TYPES
##### Subpart C-Special Rules Pertaining to Mobile Offshore Drilling Units
###### § 174.100 Appliances for watertight and weathertight integrity.

(a) Appliances to insure watertight integrity include watertight doors, hatches, scuttles, bolted manhole covers, or other watertight closures for openings in watertight decks and bulkheads.

(b) Appliances to insure weathertight integrity include weathertight doors and hatches, closures for air pipes, ventilators, ventilation intakes and outlets, and closures for other openings in deckhouses and superstructures.

(c) Each internal opening equipped with appliances to insure watertight integrity that is used intermittently during operation of the unit while afloat must meet the following:

(1) Each door, hatch, and scuttle must-

(i) Be remotely controlled from a normally manned control station, and be operable locally from both sides of the bulkhead; or

(ii) If there is no means of remote control there must be an alarm system that signals whether the appliance is open or closed both locally at each appliance and in a normally manned control station.

(2) Each closing appliance must remain watertight under the design water pressure of the watertight boundary of which it is a part.

(d) Each external opening fitted with an appliance to insure weathertight integrity must be located so that it would not be submerged below the final equilibrium waterline if the unit is subjected simultaneously to-

(1) Damage causing flooding described in §§ 174.075 through 174.085; and

(2) A wind heeling moment calculated in accordance with § 174.055 using a wind velocity of 50 knots (25.8 meters per second).

(e) If a unit is equipped with sliding watertight doors, each sliding watertight door must-

(1) Be designed, constructed, tested, and marked in accordance with ASTM F 1196 (incorporated by reference, see § 174.007);

(2) Have controls in accordance with ASTM F 1197 (incorporated by reference, see § 174.007), except that a remote manual means of closure, as specified in paragraphs 7.1 and 7.5.1, and a remote mechanical indicator, as specified in paragraph 7.5.2, will not be required; and

(3) If installed in a subdivision bulkhead, meet Supplemental Requirements Nos. S1 and S3 of ASTM F 1196 (incorporated by reference, see § 174.007), unless the watertight doors are built in accordance with plans previously approved by the Coast Guard, in which case, only Supplemental Requirements Nos. S1 and S3.1.4 of ASTM F 1196 (incorporated by reference, see § 174.007) must be met. In either case, control systems for watertight doors must have power supplies, power sources, installation tests and inspection, and additional remote operating consoles in accordance with Supplemental Requirements Nos. S1 through S4 of ASTM F 1197 (incorporated by reference, see § 174.007).

(f) Installations of sliding watertight door assemblies must be in accordance with the following:

(1) Before a sliding watertight door assembly is installed in a vessel, the bulkhead in the vicinity of the door opening must be stiffened. Such bulkhead stiffeners, or deck reinforcement where flush deck door openings are desired, must not be less than 6 inches nor more than 12 inches from the door frame so that an unstiffened diaphragm of bulkhead plating 6 to 12 inches wide is provided completely around the door frame. Where such limits cannot be maintained, alternative installations will be considered by the Marine Safety Center. In determining the scantlings of these bulkhead stiffeners, the door frame should not be considered as contributing to the strength of the bulkhead. Provision must also be made to adequately support the thrust bearings and other equipment that may be mounted on the bulkhead or deck.

(2) Sliding watertight door frames must be either bolted or welded watertight to the bulkhead.

(i) If bolted, a suitable thin heat and fire resistant gasket or suitable compound must be used between the bulkhead and the frame for watertightness. The bulkhead plating shall be worked to a plane surface in way of the frame when mounting.

(ii) If welded, caution must be exercised in the welding process so that the door frame is not distorted.
