
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter S—Subdivision and Stability
#### PART 174-SPECIAL RULES PERTAINING TO SPECIFIC VESSEL TYPES
##### Subpart G-Special Rules Pertaining to Offshore Supply Vessels
###### § 174.185 Intact stability.

(a) Each OSV must be shown by design calculations to meet, under each condition of loading and operation, the minimal requirements for metacentric height (GM) in § 170.170 of this chapter, and in either § 170.173 of this chapter or paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section.

(b) The area under each righting arm curve must be at least 0.08 meter-radians (15 foot-degrees) up to the smallest of the following angles:

(1) The angle of maximum righting arm;

(2) The downflooding angle; or

(3) 40 degrees.

(c) The downflooding angle must not be less than 20 degrees.

(d) The righting arm curve must be positive to at least 40 degrees.

(e) The freeboard at the stern must be equal to the freeboard calculated to comply with subchapter E of this chapter or to the value taken from Table 174.185, whichever is less.

(f) For paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section, at each angle of heel an OSV's righting arm may be calculated considering either-

(1) The vessel is permitted to trim free until the trimming moment is zero; or

(2) The vessel does not trim as it heels.

(g) For the purpose of paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section, the method of calculating righting arms chosen must be the same for all calculations.
