
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter T—Small Passenger Vessels (Under 100 Gross Tons)
#### PART 176-INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart B-Special Permits and Certificates
###### § 176.204 Permit to carry excursion party.

(a) The cognizant OCMI may permit a vessel to engage in a temporary excursion operation with a greater number of persons or on a more extended route, or both, than permitted by its Certificate of Inspection when, in the opinion of the OCMI, the operation can be undertaken safely.

(b) Upon the written application of the owner or managing operator of the vessel, the cognizant OCMI may issue a Form CG-949, "Permit To Carry Excursion Party," to indicate his or her permission to carry an excursion party. The OCMI will indicate on the permit the conditions under which it is issued, the number of persons the vessel may carry, the crew required, any additional lifesaving or safety equipment required, the route for which the permit is granted, and the dates on which the permit is valid.

(c) The number of passengers normally permitted on an excursion vessel shall be governed by § 176.113.

(d) The OCMI will not normally waive the applicable minimum safety standards when issuing an excursion permit. In particular, a vessel that is being issued an excursion permit will normally be required to meet the minimum stability, survival craft, life jacket, fire safety, and manning standards applicable to a vessel in the service for which the excursion permit is requested.

(e) The permit acts as a temporary, limited duration supplement to the vessel's Certificate of Inspection and must be carried with the Certificate of Inspection. A vessel operating under a permit to carry an excursion party must be in full compliance with the terms of its Certificate of Inspection as supplemented by the permit.

(f) The OCMI may require an inspection prior to the issuance of a permit to carry an excursion party.
