
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter T—Small Passenger Vessels (Under 100 Gross Tons)
#### PART 176-INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart H-Material Inspections
###### § 176.810 Fire protection.

(a) At each initial and subsequent inspection for certification, the owner or managing operator must be prepared to conduct tests and have the vessel ready for inspection of its fire protection equipment, including the following:

(1) Inspection of each portable fire extinguisher, semi-portable fire extinguisher, and fixed gas fire extinguishing system to check for excessive corrosion and general condition;

(2) Inspection of piping, controls, and valves, and the inspection and testing of alarms and ventilation shutdowns, for each fixed gas fire extinguishing system and detection system to determine that the system is in operating condition;

(3) Operation of the fire main system and checking of the pressure at the most remote and highest outlets;

(4) Testing of each firehose to a test pressure equivalent to its maximum service pressure;

(5) Checking of each cylinder containing compressed gas to ensure it has been tested and marked in accordance with 46 CFR 147.60;

(6) Testing or renewal of flexible connections and discharge hoses on semi-portable extinguishers and fixed gas extinguishing systems in accordance with 46 CFR 147.65; and

(7) Inspection and testing of all smoke and fire detection systems, including sensors and alarms.

(b) The owner, managing operator, or a qualified servicing facility as applicable must conduct the following inspections and tests:

(1) Portable and semi-portable extinguishers must be inspected and maintained in accordance with NFPA 10 (incorporated by reference, see § 175.600 of this chapter) as amended here:

(i) Certification or licensing by a state or local jurisdiction as a fire extinguisher servicing agency will be accepted by the Coast Guard as meeting the personnel certification requirements of NFPA 10 for annual maintenance and recharging of extinguishers.

(ii) Monthly inspections required by NFPA 10 may be conducted by the owner, operator, person-in-charge, or a designated member of the crew.

(iii) Non-rechargeable or non-refillable extinguishers must be inspected and maintained in accordance with NFPA 10; however, the annual maintenance need not be conducted by a certified person and can be conducted by the owner, operator, person-in-charge, or a designated member of the crew.

(iv) The owner or managing operator must provide satisfactory evidence of the required servicing to the marine inspector. If any of the equipment or records have not been properly maintained, a qualified servicing facility must perform the required inspections, maintenance procedures, and hydrostatic pressure tests. A tag issued by a qualified servicing organization, and attached to each extinguisher, may be accepted as evidence that the necessary maintenance procedures have been conducted.

(2) For fixed-gas fire extinguishing systems, the inspections and tests required by Table 176.810(b) of this section, in addition to the tests required by 46 CFR 147.60 and 147.65. The owner or managing operator must provide satisfactory evidence of the required servicing to the marine inspector. If any of the equipment or records have not been properly maintained, a qualified servicing facility may be required to perform the required inspections, maintenance procedures, and hydrostatic pressure tests.

(c) The owner, managing operator, or master must destroy, in the presence of the marine inspector, each firehose found to be defective and incapable of repair.

(d) At each initial and subsequent inspection for certification, the marine inspector may require that a fire drill be held under simulated emergency conditions to be specified by the inspector.
