
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter T—Small Passenger Vessels (Under 100 Gross Tons)
#### PART 177-CONSTRUCTION AND ARRANGEMENT
##### Subpart D-Fire Protection
###### § 177.410 Structural fire protection.
####### Composite materials.

(b)When the hull, bulkheads, decks, deckhouse, or superstructure of a vessel is partially or completely constructed of a composite material, including fiber reinforced plastic, the resin used must be fire retardant and meet as accepted by the Commandant as meeting NPFC MIL-R-21607E(SH) (incorporated by reference, see 46 CFR 175.600). Resin systems that have not been accepted as meeting NPFC MIL-R-21607E(SH) may be accepted as fire retardant if they have an ASTM E-84 flame spread rating of not more than 100 when tested in laminate form. The laminate submitted for testing the resin system to ASTM E-84 must meet the following requirements:

(1) The test specimen laminate total thickness must be between 3.2 and 6.4 millimeters (toinch).

(2) The test specimen laminate must be reinforced with glass fiber of any form and must have a minimum resin content of 40 percent by weight.

(3) Tests must be performed by an independent laboratory.

(4) Test results must include, at a minimum, the resin manufacturer's name and address, the manufacturer's designation (part number) for the resin system including any additives used, the test laboratory's name and address, the test specimen laminate schedule, and the flame spread index resulting from the ASTM E-84 test.
