
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter T—Small Passenger Vessels (Under 100 Gross Tons)
#### PART 178-INTACT STABILITY AND SEAWORTHINESS
##### Subpart C-Intact Stability Standards
###### § 178.330 Simplified stability proof test (SST).

(a) A vessel must be in the condition specified in this paragraph when a simplified stability proof test is performed.

(1) The construction of the vessel is complete in all respects.

(2) Ballast, if necessary, is in compliance with § 178.510 of this part and is on board and in place.

(3) Each fuel and water tank is approximately three-quarters full. Any sewage tank should be either empty or full.

(4) A weight equal to the total weight of all passengers, crew, and variable loads permitted on the vessel is on board and distributed so as to provide normal operating trim and to simulate the vertical center of gravity, causing the least stable condition that is likely to occur in service. The assumed weight per person of passengers and crew must be representative of the passengers and crew on board the vessel while engaged in the service intended. Unless the cognizant Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection (OCMI) permits or requires the use of other values in writing, weight and vertical center of gravity are to be assumed as follows:

(i) The weight of primary lifesaving equipment should be simulated at its normal location, if not on board at the time of the test.

(ii) The assumed weight per person is determined as provided by § 170.090 of this chapter.

(iii) The weight and associated vertical center of gravity of variable loads must be included as appropriate for the service intended and documented in the stability information required by subpart B of this part.

(iv) The vertical center for the total test weight must be at least 30 inches (760 millimeters) above the deck for seated passengers, and at least 39 inches (1.0 meter) above the deck for standing passengers.

(v) If the vessel carries passengers on diving excursions, the total weight of diving gear must be included in the loaded condition and placed in its stowed position. Not less than 80 pounds (36.3 kilograms) should be assumed for each person for whom diving gear is provided.

(vi) On vessels having one upper deck available to passengers above the main deck, the weight distribution must not be less severe than the following:

(5) All non-return closures on cockpit scuppers or on weather deck drains must be kept open during the test.

(b) A vessel must not exceed the limitations in paragraph (d) of this section, when subjected to the greater of the following heeling moments:

(c) For sailing vessels the heeling moment used for this test must be the greater of the following:

(1) Passenger heeling moment from paragraph (b) of this section.

(2) Wind heeling moment from paragraph (b) of this section.

(3) Wind heeling moment calculated from the wind heeling moment equation in paragraph (b) of this section, where:

(d) A vessel must not exceed the following limits of heel:

(1) On a flush deck vessel, not more than one-half of the freeboard may be immersed.

(2) On a well deck vessel, not more than one-half of the freeboard may be immersed, except that, on a well deck vessel that operates on protected waters and has non-return scuppers or freeing ports, the full freeboard may be immersed if the full freeboard is not more than one-quarter of the distance from the waterline to the gunwale.

(3) On a cockpit vessel, the maximum allowable immersion is calculated from the following equation:

(i) On exposed waters-

(ii) On protected or partially protected waters-

(4) On an open boat, not more than one quarter of the freeboard may be immersed.

(5) On a flush deck sailing vessel, the full freeboard may be immersed.

(6) On a non-sailing flush deck catamaran that is propelled by mechanical means, not more than one-third of the freeboard or one-third of the draft, whichever is less, may be immersed.

(7) In no case may the angle of heel exceed 14 degrees.

(e) The limits of heel must be measured at:

(1) The point of minimum freeboard; or

(2) At a point three-quarters of the vessel's length from the bow if the point of minimum freeboard is aft of this point.

(f) When demonstrating compliance with paragraph (d) of this section, the freeboard must be measured as follows:

(1) For a flush deck or well deck vessel, the freeboard must be measured to the top of the weatherdeck at the side of the vessel; and

(2) For a cockpit vessel or for an open boat, the freeboard must be measured to the top of the gunwale.

(g) A ferry must also be tested in a manner acceptable to the cognizant OCMI to determine whether the trim or heel during loading or unloading will submerge the deck edge. A ferry passes this test if, with the total number of passengers and the maximum vehicle weight permitted on board, the deck edge is not submerged during loading or unloading of the vessel.
