
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter T—Small Passenger Vessels (Under 100 Gross Tons)
#### PART 179-SUBDIVISION, DAMAGE STABILITY, AND WATERTIGHT INTEGRITY
##### Subpart C-Watertight Integrity Requirements
###### § 179.350 Openings in the side of a vessel below the bulkhead or weather deck.

(a) On a vessel operating on exposed or partially protected waters, an opening port light is not permitted below the weather deck unless the sill of the port light is at least 760 millimeters (30 inches) above the deepest load waterline.

(b) A port light must have an inside, hinged dead cover regardless of whether the port light is or is not capable of being opened.

(c) Except for engine exhausts, each inlet or discharge pipe that penetrates the hull below a line drawn parallel to and at least 150 millimeters (6 inches) above the deepest load waterline must have means to prevent water from entering the vessel if the pipe fractures or otherwise fails.

(d) A positive action valve or cock that is located as close as possible to the hull is an acceptable means for complying with paragraph (c) of this section.

(e) If an inlet or discharge pipe is inaccessible, the means for complying with paragraph (c) of this section must be a shut-off valve that is:

(1) Operable from the weather deck or any other accessible location above the bulkhead deck; and

(2) Labeled at the operating point for identity and direction of closing.

(f) Any connecting device or valve in a hull penetration must not be cast iron.

(g) Each plug cock in an inlet or discharge pipe must have a means, other than a cotter pin, to prevent its loosening or removal from the body.
