
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter T—Small Passenger Vessels (Under 100 Gross Tons)
#### PART 179-SUBDIVISION, DAMAGE STABILITY, AND WATERTIGHT INTEGRITY
##### Subpart C-Watertight Integrity Requirements
###### § 179.360 Watertight integrity.

(a) A hatch exposed to the weather must be watertight, except that the following hatches may be weathertight:

(1) A hatch on a watertight trunk that extends at least 305 millimeters (12 inches) above the weather deck;

(2) A hatch in a cabin top; and

(3) A hatch on a vessel that operates only on protected waters.

(b) A hatch cover must:

(1) Have securing devices; and

(2) Be attached to the hatch frame or coaming by hinges, captive chains, or other devices of substantial strength to prevent its loss.

(c) A hatch cover that provides access to accommodation spaces must be operable from either side.

(d) A weathertight door must be provided for each opening located in a deck house or companionway. Permanent watertight coamings must be provided as follows:

(1) On a vessel on an exposed or partially protected route, a watertight coaming with a height of at least 150 millimeters (6 inches) must be provided under each weathertight door in a cockpit or a well, or on the main deck of a flush deck vessel.

(2) On a vessel on a protected route, a watertight coaming with a height of at least 75 millimeters (3 inches) must be provided under each weathertight door in a cockpit or a well.

(3) The height of the watertight coaming for a hinged watertight door need only be sufficient to accommodate the door.
