
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter T—Small Passenger Vessels (Under 100 Gross Tons)
#### PART 181-FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart C-Fire Main System
###### § 181.320 Fire hoses and nozzles.

(a) A fire hose with a nozzle must be attached to each fire hydrant at all times. For fire hydrants located on open decks or cargo decks, where no protection is provided, hoses may be temporarily removed during heavy weather or cargo handling operations, respectively. Hoses so removed must be stored in nearby accessible locations.

(b) On a vessel of not more than 19.8 meters (65 feet) in length carrying more than 49 passengers, and on a vessel of more than 19.8 meters (65 feet) in length, each hose must:

(1) Be lined commercial fire hose that conforms to UL 19 (incorporated by reference, see 46 CFR 175.600) or hose that is listed and labeled by an independent laboratory recognized by the Commandant as being equivalent in performance;

(2) Be 15.25 meters (50 feet) in length and 40 millimeters (1.5 inches) in diameter; and

(3) Have fittings of brass or other suitable corrosion-resistant material that comply with NFPA 1963 (incorporated by reference, see 46 CFR 175.600) or other standard specified by the Commandant.

(c) Each fire hose on a vessel of not more than 19.8 meters (65 feet) in length carrying not more than 49 passengers must:

(1) Comply with paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(3) of this section or be garden type hose of not less than 16 millimeters (0.625 inches) nominal inside diameter;

(2) Be of one piece not less than 7.6 meters (25 feet) and not more than 15.25 meters (50 feet) in length; and

(3) If of the garden type, be of a good commercial grade constructed of an inner rubber tube, plies of braided fabric reinforcement, and an outer cover of rubber or equivalent material, and of sufficient strength to withstand the maximum pressure that can be produced by the fire pump. All fittings on the hose must be of suitable corrosion-resistant material.

(d) Each nozzle must be of corrosion-resistant material and be capable of being changed between a solid stream and a spray pattern. A nozzle on a vessel of not more than 19.8 meters (65 feet) in length carrying more than 49 passengers, and on a vessel of more than 19.8 meters (65 feet) in length, must:

(1) Be of a type approved in accordance with approval series 162.027; or

(2) Be of a type recognized by the Commandant as being equivalent in performance.
