
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter T—Small Passenger Vessels (Under 100 Gross Tons)
#### PART 181-FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart C-Fire Main System
###### § 181.300 Fire pumps.

(a) A self priming, power driven fire pump must be installed on each vessel:

(i) Of not more than 19.8 meters (65 feet) in length which is a ferry vessel;

(ii) Of not more than 19.8 meters (65 feet) in length that carries more than 49 passengers; or

(iii) Of more than 19.8 meters (65 feet) in length.

(b) On a vessel of not more than 19.8 meters (65 feet) in length carrying more than 49 passengers, and on a vessel of more than 19.8 meters (65 feet) in length, the minimum capacity of the fire pump must be 189 liters (50 gallons) per minute at a pressure of not less than 414 kPa (60 psi) at the pump outlet. The pump outlet must be fitted with a pressure gauge.

(c) On a ferry vessel of not more than 19.8 meters (65 feet) in length carrying not more than 49 passengers, the minimum capacity of the fire pump must be 38 liters (10 gallons) per minute. The fire pump must be capable of projecting a hose stream from the highest hydrant, through the hose and nozzle required by § 181.320 of this part, a distance of 7.6 meters (25 feet).

(d) A fire pump may be driven by a propulsion engine. A fire pump must be permanently connected to the fire main and may be connected to the bilge system to meet the requirements of § 182.520 of this chapter.

(e) A fire pump must be capable of both remote operation from the operating station and local operations at the pump.
