
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter T—Small Passenger Vessels (Under 100 Gross Tons)
#### PART 181-FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart D-Fixed Fire Extinguishing and Detection Systems
###### § 181.410 Fixed gas fire extinguishing systems.
####### Storage space.

(c)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a storage cylinder for a fixed gas extinguishing system must be:

(i) Located outside the space protected by the system; and

(ii) Not located in a space that might be inaccessible in the event of a fire in the space protected by the system.

(2) A normally unoccupied space of less than 170 cubic meters (6,000 cubic feet) may have the storage cylinders located within the space protected. When the storage cylinders are located in the space:

(i) The system must be capable of automatic operation by a heat actuator within the space; and

(ii) Have manual controls in compliance with paragraph (b) of this section except for paragraph (b)(3).

(3) A space containing a storage cylinder must be maintained at a temperature within the range from -30 &#xB0;C (-20 &#xB0;F) to 55 &#xB0;C (130 &#xB0;F) or at another temperature as listed by the independent laboratory and stated in the manufacturer's approved manual.

(4) A storage cylinder must be securely fastened, supported, and protected against damage.

(5) A storage cylinder must be accessible and capable of easy removal for recharging and inspection. Provisions must be available for weighing each storage cylinder in place.

(6) Where subject to moisture, a storage cylinder must be installed to provide a space of at least 51 millimeters (2 inches) between the deck and the bottom of the storage cylinder.

(7) A Halon 1301 storage cylinder must be stowed in an upright position unless otherwise listed by the independent laboratory. A carbon dioxide cylinder may not be inclined more than 30&#xB0; from the vertical unless fitted with flexible or bent siphon tubes, in which case it may be inclined not more than 80&#xB0; from the vertical. Cylinders for clean agent systems must be installed in an upright position unless otherwise specified in the system's instruction manual.

(8) Where a check valve is not fitted on an independent storage cylinder discharge, a plug or cap must be provided for closing the outlet resulting from storage cylinder removal.

(9) Each storage cylinder must meet the requirements of § 147.60 in subchapter N of this chapter, or other standard specified by the Commandant.

(10) A storage cylinder space must have doors that open outwards or be fitted with kickout panels installed in each door.
