
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter T—Small Passenger Vessels (Under 100 Gross Tons)
#### PART 181-FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart D-Fixed Fire Extinguishing and Detection Systems
###### § 181.405 Spaces required to have fire detection systems.

(a) The following spaces must be equipped with a fire detection and alarm system of an approved type installed in accordance with 46 CFR part 76, except when a fixed-gas fire extinguishing system that is capable of automatic discharge upon heat detection is installed or when the space is manned:

(1) A space containing propulsion machinery.

(2) A space containing an internal combustion engine of more than 50 hp.

(3) A space containing an oil-fired boiler.

(4) A space containing machinery powered by gasoline or any other fuels having a flash point of 43.3 &#xB0;C (110 &#xB0;F) or lower.

(5) A space containing a fuel tank for gasoline or any other fuel having a flash point of 43.3 &#xB0;C (110 &#xB0;F) or lower.

(b) All griddles, broilers, and deep fat fryers must be fitted with a grease extraction hood in compliance with § 181.425.

(c) Vessels described by 46 CFR 175.110(c) must have an interconnected fire detection system in compliance with § 181.450 installed in all enclosed areas where passengers and crew have routine access, including accommodation spaces and machinery spaces.

(d) An enclosed vehicle space must be fitted with an automatic sprinkler system that meets the requirements of 46 CFR part 76 and a fire detection and alarm system of an approved type that is installed in accordance with 46 CFR part 76.

(e) A partially enclosed vehicle space must be fitted with a manual sprinkler system that meets the requirements of 46 CFR part 76.
