
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter T—Small Passenger Vessels (Under 100 Gross Tons)
#### PART 181-FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart D-Fixed Fire Extinguishing and Detection Systems
###### § 181.410 Fixed gas fire extinguishing systems.
####### Piping.

(d)(1) A pipe, valve, or fitting of ferrous material must be protected inside and outside against corrosion unless otherwise approved by the Commandant. Aluminum or other low melting material must not be used for a component of a fixed gas fire extinguishing system except as specifically approved by the Commandant.

(2) A distribution line must extend at least 51 millimeters (2 inches) beyond the last orifice and be closed with a cap or plug.

(3) Piping, valves, and fittings must be securely supported, and where necessary, protected against damage.

(4) Drains and dirt traps must be fitted where necessary to prevent the accumulation of dirt or moisture and located in accessible locations.

(5) Piping must be used for no other purpose except that it may be incorporated with the fire detecting system.

(6) Piping passing through accommodation spaces must not be fitted with drains or other openings within such spaces.

(7) Installation test requirements for carbon dioxide systems. The distribution piping of a carbon dioxide fixed gas extinguishing system must be tested as required by this paragraph, upon completion of the piping installation, using only carbon dioxide, compressed air, or nitrogen gas.

(i) Piping between a storage cylinder and a stop valve in the manifold must be subjected to a pressure of 6,894 kPa (1,000 psi), except as permitted in paragraph (d)(7)(iii) of this section. Without additional gas being introduced to the system, the pressure drop must not exceed 2,068 kPa (300 psi) after two minutes.

(ii) A distribution line to a space protected by the system must be subjected to a test similar to that described in paragraph (d)(7)(i) of this section except the pressure used must be 4,136 kPa (600 psi). For the purpose of this test, the distribution piping must be capped within the space protected at the first joint between the nozzles and the storage cylinders.

(iii) A small independent system protecting a space such as a paint locker may be tested by blowing out the piping with air at a pressure of not less than 689 kPa (100 psi) instead of the tests prescribed in the paragraphs (d)(7)(i) and (d)(7)(ii) of this section.

(8) Installation test requirements for Halon 1301 systems. The distribution piping of a Halon 1301 fixed gas extinguishing system must be tested, as required by this paragraph, upon completion of the piping installation, using only carbon dioxide, compressed air, or nitrogen.

(i) When pressurizing the piping, pressure must be increased in small increments. Each joint must be subjected to a soap bubble leak test, and all joints must be leak free.

(ii) Piping between the storage cylinders and the manifold stop valve must be subjected to a leak test conducted at a pressure of 4,136 kPa (600 psi). Without additional gas being added to the system, there must be no loss of pressure over a two minute period after thermal equilibrium is reached.

(iii) Distribution piping between the manifold stop valve and the first nozzle in the system must be capped and pneumatically tested for a period of 10 minutes at 1,034 kPa (150 psi). At the end of 10 minutes, the pressure drop must not exceed 10% of the test pressure.
