
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter T—Small Passenger Vessels (Under 100 Gross Tons)
#### PART 182-MACHINERY INSTALLATION
##### Subpart D-Specific Machinery Requirements
###### § 182.450 Vent pipes for fuel tanks.

(a) Each unpressurized fuel tank must be fitted with a vent pipe connected to the highest point of the tank.

(b) The net cross sectional area of the vent pipe for a gasoline fuel tank must not be less than that of 19 millimeters (0.75 inches) outer diameter (O.D.) tubing (0.9 millimeter (0.035 Inch) wall thickness, 20 gauge), except that, where the tank is filled under pressure, the net cross sectional area of the vent pipe must be not less than that of the fill pipe.

(c) The minimum net cross sectional area of the vent pipe for diesel fuel tanks must be as follows:

(1) Not less than the cross sectional area of 16 millimeters (0.625 inches) outer diameter (O.D.) tubing (0.9 millimeter (0.035-inch) wall thickness, 20 gauge), if the fill pipe terminates at the top of the tank;

(2) Not less than the cross sectional area of 19 millimeters (0.75 inches) O.D. tubing (0.9 millimeter (0.035-inch) wall thickness, 20 gauge), if the fill pipe extends into the tank; and

(3) Not less than the cross sectional area of the fill pipe if the tank is filled under pressure.

(d) The discharge ends of fuel tank vent pipes must terminate on the hull exterior as high above the waterline as practicable and remote from any hull openings, or they must terminate in U-bends as high above the weather deck as practicable and as far as practicable from openings into any enclosed spaces. Vent pipes terminating on the hull exterior must be installed or equipped to prevent the accidental contamination of the fuel by water under normal operating conditions.

(e) The discharge ends of fuel tank vent pipes must be fitted with removable flame screens or flame arresters. The flame screens must consist of a single screen of corrosion resistant wire of at least 30 x 30 mesh. The flame screens or flame arresters must be of such size and design as to prevent reduction in the net cross sectional area of the vent pipe and permit cleaning or renewal of the flame screens or arrester elements.

(f) A vessel of not more than 19.8 meters (65 feet) in length, carrying not more than 12 passengers, with fuel gasoline tank vents built in accordance with ABYC H-24 (incorporated by reference; see 46 CFR 175.600), or 33 CFR 183, subpart J, or with diesel fuel tank vents built in accordance with ABYC H-33 (incorporated by reference; see 46 CFR 175.600), will be considered as meeting the requirements of this section.

(g) Where a flexible vent pipe section is necessary, suitable flexible tubing or hose having high resistance to salt water, petroleum oils, heat and vibration, may be used. Such hose must overlap metallic pipe ends at least 1times the pipe diameter and must be secured at each end by clamps. The flexible section must be accessible and as near the upper end of the vent pipe as practicable.

(h) Fuel tank vent pipes shall be installed to gradient upward to prevent fuel from being trapped in the line.
