
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter T—Small Passenger Vessels (Under 100 Gross Tons)
#### PART 182-MACHINERY INSTALLATION
##### Subpart D-Specific Machinery Requirements
###### § 182.480 Flammable vapor detection systems.

(a) A flammable vapor detection system required by § 182.410(c) must meet UL 1110 (incorporated by reference; see 46 CFR 175.600) or be approved by an independent laboratory.

(b) Procedures for checking the proper operation of a flammable vapor detection system must be posted at the primary operating station. The system must be self-monitoring and include a ground fault indication alarm.

(c) A flammable vapor detection system must be operational for 30 seconds prior to engine startup and continue sensing the entire time the engine is running.

(d) A flammable vapor detection system must provide a visual and audible alarm at the operating station.

(e) A sensor must be located above the expected bilge water level in the following locations:

(1) The lowest part of a machinery space;

(2) The lowest part of a space containing a fuel tank when separate from the machinery space; and

(3) Any other location when required by the cognizant OCMI.

(f) A flammable vapor detection system must be installed so as to permit calibration in a vapor free atmosphere.

(g) Electrical connections, wiring, and components for a flammable vapor detection system must comply with part 183 of this chapter.

(h) An operation and maintenance manual for the flammable vapor detection system must be kept onboard.
