
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter T—Small Passenger Vessels (Under 100 Gross Tons)
#### PART 182-MACHINERY INSTALLATION
##### Subpart E-Bilge and Ballast Systems
###### § 182.520 Bilge pumps.

(a) A vessel must be provided with bilge pumps in accordance with Table 182.520(a). A second power pump is an acceptable alternative to a hand pump if it is supplied by a source of power independent of the first power bilge pump. Individual power pumps used for separate spaces are to be controlled from a central control point and must have a light or other visual means at the control point to indicate operation.

(b) A portable hand bilge pump must be:

(1) Capable of pumping water, but not necessarily simultaneously, from all watertight compartments; and

(2) Provided with suitable suction hose capable of reaching the bilge of each watertight compartment and discharging overboard.

(c) Each fixed power bilge pump must be self priming. It may be driven off the main engine or other source of power. It must be permanently connected to the bilge manifold and may also be connected to the fire main. If of sufficient capacity, a power bilge pump may also serve as a fire pump.

(d) Where two fixed power bilge pumps are installed, they must be driven by different sources of power. If one pump is driven off the main engine in a single propulsion engine installation, the other must be independently driven. In a twin propulsion engine installation, each pump may be driven off a different propulsion engine.

(e) A submersible electric bilge pump may be used as a power bilge pump required by Table 182.520(a) only on a vessel of not more than 19.8 meters (65 feet) in length carrying not more than 49 passengers, other than a ferry, provided that:

(1) The pump is listed by an independent laboratory as meeting the requirements in UL 1113 (incorporated by reference; see 46 CFR 175.600);

(2) The pump is used to dewater not more than one watertight compartment;

(3) The pump is permanently mounted;

(4) The pump is equipped with a strainer that can be readily inspected and cleaned without removal;

(5) The pump discharge line is suitably supported;

(6) The opening in the hull for the pump discharge is placed as high above the waterline as possible;

(7) A positive shutoff valve is installed at the hull penetration; and

(8) The capacity of the electrical system, including wiring, and size and number of batteries, is designed to allow all bilge pumps to be operated simultaneously.

(f) A flexible tube or hose may be used instead of fixed pipe for the discharge line of a submersible electric bilge pump provided the hose or tube does not penetrate any required watertight bulkheads and is:

(1) Of good quality and of substantial construction, suitable for the intended use; and

(2) Highly resistant to salt water, petroleum oil, heat, and vibration.

(g) If a fixed hand pump is used to comply with Table 182.520(a), it must be permanently connected to the bilge system.

(h) On a vessel of not more than 19.8 meters (65 feet) in length, a power driven fire pump required by § 181.300 of this chapter may serve as a fixed power bilge pump required by this subpart, provided it has the minimum flow rate required by Table 182.520(a).

(i) On a vessel of more than 19.8 meters (65 feet) in length, a power driven fire pump required by § 181.300 of this subchapter may serve as one of the two fixed power bilge pumps required by this subpart, provided:

(1) The bilge and fire pump systems are interconnected;

(2) The dedicated bilge pump is capable of pumping the bilges at the same time the fire/bilge pump charges the firemain; and

(3) Stop valves and check valves are installed in the piping to isolate the systems during simultaneous operation and prevent possible flooding through the bilge system.

(j) A catamaran vessel must be equipped with bilge pumps for each hull, as if each hull is a separate vessel, in accordance with Table 182.520(a), except where:

(1) One dedicated pump is located in each hull;

(2) Each dedicated pump is driven by an independent source of power; and

(3) The bilge system is permanently cross connected between hulls.
