
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter C - Uninspected Vessels
#### PART 25 - REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart 25.25 - Life Preservers and Other Lifesaving Equipment
###### ยง 25.25-5 Life preservers and other lifesaving equipment required.

(a) No person may operate a vessel to which this subpart applies unless it meets the requirements of this subpart.

(b) (1) Each vessel not carrying passengers for hire and less than 40 feet in length must have on board at least one wearable personal flotation device (PFD) approved under subchapter Q of this chapter, and of a suitable size for each person on board.

(2) Each vessel carrying passengers for hire, and each vessel not carrying passengers for hire and 40 feet in length or longer, must have at least one PFD approved under approval series 160.055, 160.155, or 160.176, and of a suitable size for each person on board.

(3) In addition to the equipment required by paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section, each vessel 26 feet in length or longer, except for a barge to which this subpart applies, must have at least one approved lifebuoy, and each uninspected passenger vessel of at least 100 gross tons must have at least three approved lifebuoys. Lifebuoys must be approved under approval series 160.050 or 160.150, except that a lifebuoy approved under former 46 CFR 160.009 prior to May 9, 1979 (see 46 CFR chapter I, revised as of October 1, 1979), may be used as long as it is in good and serviceable condition.

(c)(1) Each vessel not carrying passengers for hire may substitute an immersion suit approved under 46 CFR 160.171 for a wearable PFD required under paragraphs (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section.

(2) On each vessel, regardless of length and regardless of whether carrying passengers for hire, an approved commercial hybrid PFD approved under approval series 160.077, may be substituted for a PFD approved under approval series 160.055, 160.155, or 160.176, if it is-

(i) Used in accordance with the conditions marked on the PFD and in the owner's manual; and

(ii) Labeled for use on commercial vessels.
