
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter T—Small Passenger Vessels (Under 100 Gross Tons)
#### PART 185-OPERATIONS
##### Subpart D-Crew Requirements
###### § 185.420 Crew training.

(a) The owner, charterer, master or managing operator shall instruct each crew member, upon first being employed and prior to getting underway for the first time on a particular vessel and at least once every three months, as to the duties that the crew member is expected to perform in an emergency including, but not limited to, the emergency instructions listed on the emergency instruction placard required by § 185.510 of this part and, when applicable, the duties listed in the station bill required by § 185.514 of this part.

(b) For a vessel described by 46 CFR 175.110(c), the training program in paragraph (a) of this section must address firefighting proficiency and must include, but need not be limited to-

(1) Training in the use and location of firefighting equipment and general firefighting knowledge, including:

(i) Location of firefighting appliances and emergency escape routes;

(ii) Types and sources of ignition;

(iii) Flammable materials, fire hazards and spread of fire;

(iv) The need for constant vigilance;

(v) Actions to be taken on board;

(vi) Fire and smoke detection and automatic systems on board; and

(vii) Classification of fire and applicable extinguishing agents.

(2) The drills required by § 185.524, including fire location and fire type; and

(3) Emergency egress training for each member of the crew, to occur for all members of the crew-

(i) At least monthly while such members are employed on board the vessels; and

(ii) Each time a crew member joins the crew of such vessel.

(c) Training conducted on a sister vessel may be considered equivalent to the initial, monthly, and quarterly training requirements contained in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.

(d) Crew training shall be logged or otherwise documented for review by the Coast Guard upon request. The training entry shall include the following information.

(1) Date of the training; and

(2) General description of the training topics.
