
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter T—Small Passenger Vessels (Under 100 Gross Tons)
#### PART 185-OPERATIONS
##### Subpart F-Markings Required
###### § 185.604 Lifesaving equipment markings.

(a) The name of a vessel must be marked or painted in clearly legible letters and numbers:

(1) On each side of the bow of each rescue boat; and

(2) On each life float and buoyant apparatus.

(b) Each life jacket, immersion suit, and ring life buoy must be marked in clearly legible block capital letters with the vessel's name. The marking is not required on a life jacket carried to meet a temporary need for additional life jackets, if the life jacket has the name of another vessel or company marked on it. For an immersion suit, the name of the person to whom the immersion suit is assigned is an acceptable alternative to the name of the vessel.

(c) The name of the vessel must be marked or painted in clearly legible letters on each Emergency Position Indicating Radiobeacon (EPIRB), except on an EPIRB in an inflatable liferaft.

(d) The number of persons capacity must be marked or painted in clearly legible letters and numbers on each side of the bow of each rescue boat.

(e) The number of persons capacity must be marked or painted in clearly legible letters and numbers on each life float and buoyant apparatus. This number must:

(1) Be the number of persons the device is equipped for; and

(2) Not be greater than the number of persons the device is approved for as shown on its nameplate.

(f) The number and identification of the items stowed inside, and their sizes, must be marked in clearly legible letters and numbers on each container for life jackets and immersion suits. Identification of the items may be in words, or the appropriate symbols in IMO Resolution A.760(18) (incorporated by reference; see 46 CFR 175.600). Letters and numbers must be at least 50 millimeters (2 inches) high. Symbols must be at least 100 mm (4 inches) square.

(g) The name of the vessel must be marked or painted in clearly legible letters on each life float paddle.

(h) Each life jacket must be marked with Type I retroreflective material approved in 46 CFR 164.018 or other standard specified by the Commandant. The arrangement of the retroreflective material applied after March 11, 1996, must be as specified by IMO Resolution A.658(16) (incorporated by reference; see 46 CFR 175.600).

(i) Each rescue boat and ring life buoy must be marked with Type II retroreflective material approved in accordance with 46 CFR 164.018 or other standard specified by the Commandant. The arrangement of the retroreflective material applied after March 11, 1996, must be as specified by IMO Resolution A.658(16).
