
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter U—Oceanographic Research Vessels
#### PART 189-INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart 189.01-General Provisions; Certificate of Inspection
###### § 189.01-10 Period of validity for a Certificate of Inspection.

(a) A Certificate of Inspection is valid for 5 years. Application may be made by the master, owner, or agent for inspection and issuance of a new certificate of inspection at any time during the period of validity of the current certificate.

(b) Certificates of inspection may be revoked or suspended by the Coast Guard where such process is authorized by law. This may occur if the vessel does not meet the requirements of law or regulations in this chapter or if there is a failure to maintain the safety requirements requisite to the issuance of a certificate of inspection.

(c)(1) In the case of the following vessels, modification of the period of validity of the certificate of inspection will be permitted as set forth in this paragraph:

(i) Non-self-propelled vessels of 100 gross tons and over proceeding on the high seas or ocean for the sole purpose of changing place of employment.

(ii) Non-self-propelled vessels of 100 gross tons and over making rare or infrequent voyages on the high seas or ocean and returning to the port of departure.

(2) The certificate of inspection may be issued for a specific period of time to cover a described situation or for one voyage only but not to exceed 5 years. The certificate of inspection will include the conditions under which the vessel must operate. Unless the vessel is in compliance with this subchapter insofar as it applies to seagoing barges of 100 gross tons and over, such vessel shall not carry any person on board while underway, and the certificate of inspection will be endorsed as an unmanned seagoing barge.
