
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter U—Oceanographic Research Vessels
#### PART 189-INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart 189.40-Drydocking
###### § 189.40-3 Drydock examination, internal structural examination, cargo tank internal examination, and underwater survey intervals.

(a) Except as provided for in paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section, each vessel must undergo drydock and internal structural examinations as follows:

(1) Vessels that operate in salt water must undergo two drydock and two internal structural examinations within any five year period. No more than three years may elapse between any two examinations.

(2) Vessels that operate in fresh water at least six months in every 12 month period since the last drydock examination must undergo drydock and internal structural examinations at intervals not to exceed five years.

(b) Vessels with wooden hulls must undergo two drydock and two internal structural examinations within any five year period regardless of the type of water in which they operate. No more than three years may elapse between any two examinations.

(c) If, during an internal structural examination or underwater survey, damage or deterioration to the hull plating or structural members is discovered, the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, may require the vessel to be drydocked or otherwise taken out of service to further assess the extent of the damage and to effect permanent repairs.

(d) Each vessel under paragraph (a) of this section that is less than 15 years of age may be considered for an underwater survey instead of alternate drydock examinations, provided the vessel is fitted with an effective hull protection system. Vessel owners or operators must apply to the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, for approval of underwater surveys instead of alternate drydock examinations for each vessel. The application must include the following information:

(1) The procedure to be followed in carrying out the underwater survey.

(2) The location where the underwater survey will be accomplished.

(3) The method to be used to accurately determine the diver location relative to the hull.

(4) The means that will be provided for examining through-hull fittings.

(5) The means that will be provided for taking shaft bearing clearances.

(6) The condition of the vessel, including the anticipated draft of the vessel at the time of the survey.

(7) A description of the hull protection system.

(e) Vessels otherwise qualifying under paragraph (d) of this section, that are 15 years of age or older, may be considered for continued participation in or entry into the underwater survey program on a case-by-case basis if-

(1) Before the vessel's next scheduled drydocking, the owner or operator submits a request for participation or continued participation to Commandant (CG-CVC);

(2) During the vessel's next drydocking after the request is submitted, no appreciable hull deterioration is indicated as a result of a complete set of hull gaugings; and

(3) The results of the hull gauging and the results of the Coast Guard drydock examination together with the recommendation of the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, are submitted to Commandant (CG-CVC) for final approval.

(f) Each vessel which has not met with the applicable examination schedules in paragraph (a) through (e) of this section because it is on a voyage, must undergo the required examinations upon completion of the voyage.

(g) The Commandant (CG-CVC) may authorize extensions to the examination intervals specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
