
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter C - Uninspected Vessels
#### PART 25 - REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart 25.30 - Fire Extinguishing Equipment
###### ยง 25.30-10 Portable fire extinguishers and semi-portable fire extinguishing systems.

(a) Portable and semi-portable extinguishers must be inspected and maintained in accordance with NFPA 10 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 25.01-3).

(b) Certification or licensing by a state or local jurisdiction as a fire extinguisher servicing agency will be accepted by the Coast Guard as meeting the personnel certification requirements of NFPA 10 for annual maintenance and recharging of extinguishers.

(c) Monthly inspections required by NFPA 10 may be conducted by the owner, operator, person-in-charge, or a designated member of the crew.

(d) Non-rechargeable or non-refillable extinguishers must be inspected and maintained in accordance with NFPA 10; however, the annual maintenance need not be conducted by a certified person and can be conducted by the owner, operator, person-in-charge, or a designated member of the crew.

(e) The owner or managing operator must provide satisfactory evidence of the required servicing to the marine inspector. If any of the equipment or records has not been properly maintained, a qualified servicing facility must perform the required inspections, maintenance procedures, and hydrostatic pressure tests. A tag issued by a qualified servicing organization, and attached to each extinguisher, may be accepted as evidence that the necessary maintenance procedures have been conducted.

(f) Vaporizing-liquid type fire extinguishers containing carbon tetrachloride, chlorobromomethane, or other toxic vaporizing liquids are not acceptable as equipment required by this subchapter.

(g) Portable or semi-portable extinguishers, which are required on their name plates to be protected from freezing, must not be located where freezing temperatures may be expected.

(h) The use of dry chemical, stored pressure, fire extinguishers not fitted with pressure gauges or indicating devices, manufactured prior to January 1, 1965, may be permitted on motorboats and other vessels so long as such extinguishers are maintained in good and serviceable condition. The following maintenance and inspections are required for such extinguishers:

(1) When the date on the inspection record tag on the extinguishers shows that 6 months have elapsed since the last weight check ashore, then such extinguishers are no longer accepted as meeting required maintenance conditions until they are reweighed ashore, found to be in a serviceable condition, and within required weight conditions.

(2) If the weight of the container isounce less than that stamped on the container, it must be serviced.

(3) If the outer seal or seals (which indicate tampering or use when broken) are not intact, the boarding officer or marine inspector will inspect such extinguishers to see that the frangible disc in the neck of the container is intact; and if such disc is not intact, the container must be serviced.

(4) If there is evidence of damage, use, or leakage, such as dry chemical powder observed in the nozzle or elsewhere on the extinguisher, the extinguisher must be serviced or replaced.

(i) Dry chemical extinguishers, stored pressure extinguishers, and fire extinguishers without pressure gauges or indicating devices manufactured after January 1, 1965, cannot be labeled with the marine type label described in 46 CFR 162.028-4. These extinguishers manufactured after January 1, 1965, may be carried onboard motorboats or other vessels as excess equipment.

(j) Semi-portable extinguishers must be fitted with a suitable hose and nozzle, or other practicable means, so that all portions of the space concerned may be covered.
