
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter U—Oceanographic Research Vessels
#### PART 190-CONSTRUCTION AND ARRANGEMENT
##### Subpart 190.07-Structural Fire Protection
###### § 190.07-10 Construction.

(a) The hull, superstructure, structural bulkheads, decks, and deckhouses shall be constructed of steel. Alternately, the Commandant may permit the use of other suitable material in special cases, having in mind the risk of fire.

(b) The boundary bulkheads of general laboratory areas, chemical storerooms, galleys, paint and lamp lockers and emergency generator rooms shall be of "A" class construction.

(1) Permanently installed divisional bulkheads between laboratories spaces within a general laboratory area may be of B or C class construction.

(2) Temporary divisional bulkheads between laboratory spaces within a general laboratory area may be constructed of combustible materials when they are necessary to facilitate a specific scientific mission.

(c) The boundary bulkheads and decks separating the accommodations and control stations from hold and machinery spaces, galleys, main pantries, laboratories, and storerooms, other than small service lockers, shall be of "A" Class construction.

(1) The boundary bulkheads and decks separating general laboratory areas of 500 square feet or less from accommodations and control stations shall be of "A-15" Class construction as defined by § 72.05-10 of Subchapter H (Passenger Vessels) of this chapter.

(2) The boundary bulkheads and decks separating general laboratory areas of over 500 square feet from accommodations and control stations shall be of "A-30" Class construction as defined by § 72.05-10 of Subchapter H (Passenger Vessels) of this chapter.

(d) Within the accommodation and service areas the following conditions shall apply:

(1) Corridor bulkheads in accommodation spaces shall be of the "A" or "B" Class intact from deck to deck. Stateroom doors in such bulkheads may have a louver in the lower half.

(2) Elevator, dumbwaiter, stairtower, and other trunks shall be of "A" Class construction.

(3) Bulkheads not already specified to be of "A" or "B" Class construction may be of "A", "B", or "C" Class construction.

(4) The integrity of any deck in way of a stairway, shall be maintained by means of "A" or "B" class bulkheads and doors at one level. The integrity of a stairtower shall be maintained by "A" class doors at every level. The door shall be of the self-closing type. Holdback hooks will not be permitted. However, magnetic holdbacks operated from the bridge or other suitable remote control positions are acceptable.

(5) Interior stairs, including stringers and treads, shall be of steel.

(6) Except for washrooms and toilet spaces, deck coverings within accommodation spaces shall be of an approved type. However, overlays for leveling or finishing purposes which do not meet the requirements for an approved deck covering may be used in thicknesses not exceeding three-eighths of an inch.

(7) Ceilings, linings, and insulation, including pipe and duct laggings, shall be approved incombustible materials.

(8) Any sheathing, furring, or holding pieces incidental to the securing of any bulkhead, ceiling, lining, or insulation shall be of approved incombustible materials.

(9) Bulkheads, linings, and ceiling may have a combustible veneer within a room not to exceed two twenty-eighths of an inch in thickness. However, combustible veneers, trim, decorations, etc., shall not be used in corridors or hidden spaces. This is not intended to preclude the use of an approved interior finish or a reasonable number of coats of paint.

(e) Nitrocellulose or other highly flammable or noxious fume-producing paints or lacquers shall not be used.

(f) The provisions of paragraphs (d) (1) through (9) of this section apply to control spaces on vessels whose initial Application for Inspection is submitted to an Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection on or after June 15, 1987.
