
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter U—Oceanographic Research Vessels
#### PART 190-CONSTRUCTION AND ARRANGEMENT
##### Subpart 190.15-Ventilation
###### § 190.15-5 Vessels using fuel having a flashpoint of 110 &#xB0;F. or lower.
####### Provided,

(e) The area of the ducts shall be such as to limit the air velocity to a maximum of 2,000 feet per minute. Ducts may be of any shape:That in no case shall one cross section dimension exceed twice the other.

(f) At least two inlet ducts shall be located at one end of the compartment and they shall extend to the lowest part of the compartment or bilge on each side. Similar exhaust ducts shall be led to the mechanical exhaust system from the lowest part of the compartment or bilge on each side of the compartment at the end opposite from that at which the inlet ducts are fitted. These ducts shall be so installed that ordinary collection of water in the bilge will not close off the ducts.

(g) All ducts shall be of steel construction and reasonably gastight from end to end. The ducts shall lead as direct as possible and be properly fastened and supported.

(h) All supply ducts shall be provided with cowls or scoops having a free area not less than twice the required duct area. When the cowls or scoops are screened, the mouth area shall be increased to compensate for the area of the screen wire. Dampers shall not be fitted in the supply ducts. Cowls or scoops shall be kept open at all times except when the stress of weather is such as to endanger the vessel if the openings are not temporarily closed. Supply and exhaust openings shall not be located where the natural flow of air is unduly obstructed, or adjacent to possible sources of vapor ignition, nor shall they be so located that exhaust air may be taken into the supply vents.

(i) Provisions must be made for closing all cowls or scoops when the fixed carbon dioxide or clean agent system is operated.
