
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter C - Uninspected Vessels
#### PART 25 - REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart 25.30 - Fire Extinguishing Equipment
###### ยง 25.30-20 Fire extinguishing equipment required.
####### Motor vessels.

(c)(1) All motor vessels must carry at least the minimum number of portable fire extinguishers set forth in table 25.30-20(b) (1).

(2) In addition to the portable fire extinguishers required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the following fire extinguishing equipment must be fitted in the machinery space:

(i) One Type 20-B portable fire extinguisher must be carried for each 1,000 B. H. P. of the main engines or fraction thereof. However, not more than 6 such extinguishers need be carried.

(ii) On motor vessels of over 300 gross tons, either one 160-B semi-portable fire extinguishing system must be fitted, or alternatively, a fixed fire extinguishing system must be fitted in the machinery space.

(3) The frame or support of each 160-B fire extinguisher required by paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section must be welded or otherwise permanently attached to a bulkhead or deck.

(4) If an approved semi-portable fire extinguisher has wheels, it must be securely stowed when not in use to prevent it from rolling out of control under heavy sea conditions.

(5) Table 25.30-20(b)(1) of this section indicates the minimum quantity and type of extinguisher to be carried. Extinguishers with larger numerical ratings or multiple letter designations may be used if the extinguishers meet the requirements of the table.
