
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter U—Oceanographic Research Vessels
#### PART 190-CONSTRUCTION AND ARRANGEMENT
##### Subpart 190.20-Accomodations for Officers, Crew, and Scientific Personnel
###### § 190.20-35 Hospital space.

(a) Except as specifically modified by paragraph (f) of this section, each vessel which in the ordinary course of its trade makes voyages of more than 3 days duration between ports and which carries a crew of 12 or more, must be provided with a hospital space. This space must be situated with regard to the comfort of the sick so that they may receive proper attention in all weather.

(b) The hospital must be suitably separated from other spaces and must be used for the care of the sick and for no other purpose.

(c) The hospital must be fitted with berths in the ratio of 1 berth to every 12 members of the crew or portion thereof who are not berthed in single occupancy rooms, but the number of berths need not exceed 6. Where all single occupancy rooms are provided, the requirement for a separate hospital may be withdrawn, provided that 1 stateroom is fitted with a bunk accessible from both sides.

(d) [Reserved]

(e) The hospital must have a toilet, washbasin, and bathtub or shower conveniently situated. Other necessary suitable equipment such as a clothes locker, a table and a seat must be provided.

(f) On vessels in which the crew is berthed in single occupancy rooms, a hospital space will not be required, provided that 1 room must be designated and fitted with use as a treatment or isolation room. This room must meet the following standards:

(1) The room must be available for immediate medical use; and

(2) A washbasin with hot and cold running water must be installed either in or immediately adjacent to the space and other required sanitary facilities must be conveniently located.
