
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter U—Oceanographic Research Vessels
#### PART 193-FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 193.10-Fire Main System, Details
###### § 193.10-10 Fire hydrants and hose.

(a) The size of fire hydrants, hose, and nozzles and the length of hose required must be as noted in Table 193.10-5(a) of this subpart.

(b) In 2-inch hose and hydrants specified in Table 193.10-5(a) of this subpart, on vessels of more than 1,500 gross tons, the hydrants in interior locations may have wye connections for 1-inch hose. In these cases, the hose must be 75 feet (22.86 meters) in length, and only one hose will be required at each fire station; however, if all such stations can be satisfactorily served with 50-foot lengths, 50-foot hose may be used. The hydrants for exterior locations may substitute two 1-inch outlets, each with a 1-inch hose, supplied through a wye connection.

(c) On vessels of 500 gross tons or more there must be at least one shore connection to the fire main available to each side of the vessel in an accessible location. Suitable cutout valves and check valves must be provided for furnishing the vessel's shore connections with couplings mating those on the shore fire lines. Vessels of 500 gross tons or more on an international voyage, must be provided with at least one international shore connection complying with ASTM F 1121 (incorporated by reference, see § 193.01-3). Facilities must be available enabling an international shore connection to be used on either side of the vessel.

(d) Fire hydrants must be of sufficient number and so located that any part of the vessel, other than main machinery spaces, may be reached with at least 2 streams of water from separate outlets, at least one of which must be from a single length of hose. In main machinery spaces, all portions of such spaces must be capable of being reached by at least 2 streams of water, each of which must be from a single length of hose from separate outlets; however, this requirement need not apply to shaft alleys containing no assigned space for the stowage of combustibles. Fire hydrants must be numbered as required by § 196.37-15 of this subchapter.

(e) All parts of the fire main located on exposed decks must either be protected against freezing or be fitted with cutout valves and drain valves so that the entire exposed parts of such piping may be shut off and drained in freezing weather. Except when closed to prevent freezing, such valves must be sealed open.

(f) The outlet at the fire hydrant must be limited to any position from the horizontal to the vertical pointing downward, so that the hose will lead horizontally or downward to minimize the possibility of kinking.

(g) Each fire hydrant must be provided with a single length of hose with nozzle attached and a spanner wrench. A suitable hose rack or other device must be provided for the proper stowage of the hose. If the hose is not stowed in the open or behind glass so as to be readily seen, the enclosures must be marked in accordance with § 196.37-15 of this subchapter.

(h) Firehoses must be connected to the outlets at all times. However, at open decks where no protection is afforded to the hose in heavy weather, the hose may be temporarily removed from the hydrant and stowed in an accessible nearby location.

(i) Each fire hydrant must have at least 1 length of firehose. Each firehose must have a combination solid stream and water spray nozzle that is approved under subpart 162.027 of this subchapter, except 19 millimeters (3/4 inch) hose may have a garden hose nozzle that is bronze or metal with strength and corrosion resistance equivalent to bronze. Combination solid stream and water spray nozzles previously approved under subpart 162.027 of this chapter may be retained so long as they are maintained in good condition to the satisfaction of the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection.

(j) When the firehose nozzle in the below locations was previously approved under subpart 162.027 of this chapter, a low-velocity water spray applicator, also previously approved under subpart 162.027, of this chapter must be installed as follows:

(1) At least 1 length of firehose on each fire hydrant outside and in the immediate vicinity of each laboratory; and

(2) Each firehose in each propulsion machinery space containing oil-fired boiler, internal combustion machinery, or oil fuel unit on a vessel of 1,000 gross tons or more-the length of each applicator must be 1.2 meters (4 feet).

(k) Fixed brackets, hooks, or other means for stowing an applicator must be next to each fire hydrant that has an applicator under paragraph (j) of this section.

(l) Firehose must not be used for any other purpose than fire extinguishing, drills, and testing.

(m) Fire hydrants, nozzles, and other fittings must have threads to accommodate the hose connections noted in this paragraph. Firehose and couplings must be as follows:
