
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter U—Oceanographic Research Vessels
#### PART 193-FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 193.15-Carbon Dioxide and Clean Agent Extinguishing Systems, Details
###### § 193.15-90 Installations contracted for prior to March 1, 1968.

(a) Installations contracted for prior to March 1, 1968, shall meet the following requirements:

(1) Existing arrangements, materials, and facilities previously approved shall be considered satisfactory so long as they meet the minimum requirements of this paragraph and they are maintained in good condition to the satisfaction of the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection. Minor repairs, alterations, and replacements may be permitted to the same standards as the original installations. However, all new installations or major replacements shall meet the applicable requirements in this subpart for new installations.

(2) The details of the systems shall be in general agreement with §§ 193.15-5 through 193.15-40 insofar as is reasonable and practicable, with the exception of § 193.15-5(d) (1), (2), and (4), covering machinery spaces, etc., which systems may be installed in accordance with paragraphs (a) (3) through (6) of this section.

(3) In boilerrooms, the bilges shall be protected by a system discharging principally below the floorplates. Perforated pipe may be used in lieu of discharge nozzles for such systems. The number of pounds of carbon dioxide shall be equal to the gross volume of the boilerroom taken to the top of the boilers divided by 36. In the event of an elevated boilerroom which drains to the machinery space, the system shall be installed in the engineroom bilge and the gross volume shall be taken to the flat on which the boilers are installed.

(4) In machinery spaces where main propulsion internal combustion machinery is installed, the number of pounds of carbon dioxide required shall be equal to the gross volume of the space taken to the under side of the deck forming the hatch opening divided by 22.

(5) In miscellaneous spaces other than cargo or main machinery spaces the number of pounds of carbon dioxide required shall be equal to the gross volume of the space divided by 22.

(6) Branch lines to the various spaces other than cargo and similar spaces shall be as noted in Table 193.15-90(a)(6). This table is based on cylinders having discharge outlets and siphon tubes of-inch diameter.
