
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter U—Oceanographic Research Vessels
#### PART 194-HANDLING, USE, AND CONTROL OF EXPLOSIVES AND OTHER HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
##### Subpart 194.10-Magazines
###### § 194.10-10 Integral magazine construction.

(a) Magazines shall be of permanent watertight construction. Bulkheads and decks, including the deck overhead, which are common with storerooms or workshops shall be of A-15 construction as defined by § 72.05-10 of Subchapter H (Passenger Vessels) of this chapter. Flush construction shall be employed where practicable.

(b) Where the shell or unsheathed weather decks form boundaries of the magazine spaces suitable approved incombustible thermal insulation shall be provided to prevent condensation of moisture.

(c) Where a tank top forms the magazine deck it shall be insulated with an approved deck covering to prevent condensation of moisture. Tank top manholes shall not be installed in magazines.

(d) Light fixtures shall be of an approved type equipped with globes and guards. Control of the lighting system shall be from a location external to the magazine. An indicator light shall be provided at the switch location to indicate when the lighting circuits are energized. Other electrical equipment and wiring shall not be installed within or pass through the magazine. Electrical cables enclosed in a watertight trunk are permitted.

(e) Piping, other than fresh or salt water service and drainage system, shall not be routed through magazines except as required for the magazines themselves. Other piping systems enclosed in a watertight trunk are permitted.

(f) Access doors for the magazine, or magazine groups, shall be of substantial watertight construction and be provided with means whereby they may be securely locked.

(g) Racks, stanchions, battens, and other devices shall be installed to provide rigid and safe stowage of explosives in their approved shipping containers with a minimum of dunnage.

(h) Decks shall be covered with a permanent nonslip nonspark covering.
