
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter C - Uninspected Vessels
#### PART 25 - REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart 25.45 - Cooking, Heating, and Lighting Systems
###### ยง 25.45-2 Cooking systems on vessels carrying passengers for hire.

(a) No fuel may be used in any cooking system on any vessel carrying passengers for hire without the approval of Commandant (CG-ENG) except those listed in ยง 25.45-1, subject to the requirements stated therein, and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), or compressed natural gas (CNG).

(b) Cooking systems using LPG or CNG must meet the following requirements:

(1) The design, installation, and testing of each LPG system must meet ABYC A-1-78 or chapter 6 of NFPA 302.

(2) The design, installation, and testing of each CNG system must meet ABYC A-22-78 or chapter 6 of NFPA 302.

(3) Cooking systems using chapter 6 of NFPA 302 as the standard must meet the following additional requirements:

(i) The storage or use of CNG containers within the accommodation area, machinery spaces, bilges, or other enclosed spaces is prohibited.

(ii) LPG or CNG must be odorized in accordance with ABYC A-1.5.d or A-22.5.b, respectively.

(iii) The marking and mounting of LPG cylinders must be in accordance with ABYC A-1.6.b.

(iv) LPG cylinders must be of the vapor withdrawal type as specified in ABYC A-1.5.b.

(4) Continuous pilot lights or automatic glow plugs are prohibited for an LPG or CNG installation using ABYC A-1 or A-22 as the standard.

(5) CNG installations using ABYC A-22 as the standard must meet the following additional requirements:

(i) The stowage or use of CNG containers within the accommodation area, machinery spaces, bilges, or other enclosed spaces is prohibited.

(ii) The CNG cylinders, regulating equipment, and safety equipment must meet the installation, stowage, and testing requirements specified in paragraph 6-5.12 of NFPA 302.

(iii) The use of stowage of stoves with attached CNG cylinders is prohibited as specified in paragraph 6-5.1 of NFPA 302.

(6) If the fuel supply line of an LPG or CNG system enters an enclosed space on the vessel, a remote shut-off valve must be installed that can be operated from a position adjacent to the appliance. The valve must be located between the fuel tank and the point where the fuel supply line enters the enclosed portion of the vessel. A power operated valve installed to meet this requirement must be of a type that will fail closed.

(7) The following variances from ABYC A-1.11.b(1) are allowed for CNG:

(i) The storage locker or housing access opening need not be in the top.

(ii) The locker or housing need not be above the waterline.

(8) The following variances from NFPA 302 are allowed:

(i) The storage locker or housing for CNG tank installations need not be above the waterline as required by paragraph 6-5.12.1.1(a).

(ii) Ignition protection need not be provided as required by paragraph 6-5.4.
