
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter U—Oceanographic Research Vessels
#### PART 194-HANDLING, USE, AND CONTROL OF EXPLOSIVES AND OTHER HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
##### Subpart 194.20-Chemical Stores and/or Storerooms
###### § 194.20-5 Ventilation.

(a) Chemical storerooms shall be equipped with a power ventilation system of exhaust type. The system shall have a capacity sufficient to effect a complete change of air in not more than 4 minutes based upon the volume of the compartment.

(1) Power ventilation units shall have nonsparking impellers and shall not produce a source of vapor ignition in either the compartment or the ventilation system associated with the compartment.

(2) This ventilation system shall be independent of any other ventilation system. It shall serve no other space in the vessel. It shall be of watertight construction.

(3) Inlets to exhaust ducts shall be provided and located at points where concentration of vapors may be expected. Ventilation exhaust outlets shall terminate more than 6 feet from any opening to the interior part of the vessel and from any possible source of vapor ignition. Terminals shall be fitted with acceptable flame screens.

(4) The control for the power ventilation system shall be conveniently located and marked in a manner to clearly identify the purpose of the control.

(b) Provisions shall be made so that the chemical storeroom will be ventilated before it is entered. An Indicator shall be provided outside the space to show that ventilation is being provided. In addition, the storeroom shall be marked "Danger-Ventilate Before Entering."
