
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter U—Oceanographic Research Vessels
#### PART 194-HANDLING, USE, AND CONTROL OF EXPLOSIVES AND OTHER HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
##### Subpart 194.15-Chemistry Laboratory and Scientific Laboratory
###### § 194.15-5 Ventilation.

(a) Operations, reactions or experiments which produce toxic, noxious or corrosive vapors shall be conducted under a suitably installed fume hood. The fume hood shall be equipped with an independent power exhaust ventilation system which terminates so as to prevent fumes from entering other portions of the vessel. The exhaust system of the fume hood shall be compatible with the ventilation system of the laboratory to prevent fumes from backing-up within the fume hood system. The terminals shall be equipped with acceptable flame screens.

(b) Chemical laboratories shall be equipped with power ventilation system of the exhaust type serving the entire laboratory for use in the event of spills or other emergencies. The system shall have a capacity sufficient to effect a complete change of air in not more than 4 minutes based upon the volume of the compartment.

(1) Power ventilation units shall have nonsparking impellers and shall not produce a source of vapor ignition in either the compartment or the ventilation system associated with the compartment.

(2) The power ventilation system shall be interlocked with any other ventilation or air-conditioning system serving the laboratory in a manner to prevent the circulation of vapors to other spaces.

(3) This ventilation system shall be independent of any other ventilation system in the vessel. It shall serve no other space. It shall be of watertight construction.

(4) Ventilation exhaust outlets shall terminate more than 6 feet from any opening to the interior part of the vessel and from any possible source of vapor ignition.

(5) The control for the power ventilation system shall be conveniently located and marked in a manner to clearly identify the purpose of the control.

(c) Ventilation of air conditioning systems serving the chemical laboratory shall be designed so that air cannot be recirculated into an accommodation space.
