
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter U—Oceanographic Research Vessels
#### PART 195-VESSEL CONTROL AND MISCELLANEOUS SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 195.11-Portable Vans and Tanks
###### § 195.11-10 Design and construction of portable vans.

(a) The design and material selection shall incorporate consideration of forces and environmental conditions to which the structure, attachments, and attachment points will be exposed.

(b) Steel, aluminum or other substantial material suitable for a marine environment may be used for construction of the basic van box.

(c) Accommodation vans are those intended to provide increased accommodation and related spaces of a temporary nature aboard a vessel. They shall, insofar as is reasonable and practicable, meet the applicable requirements of this subchapter for means of escape, arrangement, interior construction, and electrical installations.

(d) Power vans are those outfitted with electrical power generating machinery or batteries providing electrical power for other vans or to scientific equipment. They shall insofar as is reasonable and practicable meet the applicable requirements of this subchapter for pressure piping, electrical, fire extinguishing and ventilation systems.

(e) Vans for the use or storage of chemical stores as defined in § 194.05-3 of this subchapter shall be constructed and outfitted in accordance with the applicable requirements of this subchapter.

(f) Vans containing scientific equipment are considered as within the definition of § 188.10-67 of this subchapter.
