
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter C - Uninspected Vessels
#### PART 26 - OPERATIONS
##### Subpart 26.03 - Special Operating Requirements
###### ยง 26.03-8 Marine Event of National Significance special permits.

(a) For a Marine Event of National Significance, as determined by the Commandant, U.S. Coast Guard, a vessel may be permitted to engage in excursions while carrying passengers-for-hire for the duration of the event. Event sponsors seeking this determination must submit a written request to the Commandant (CG-CVC) at least one year prior to the event.

(b) The owner, operator, or agent of a vessel that is registered as a participant in a Marine Event of National Significance may apply for a special permit to carry passengers-for-hire for the duration of the event. The master, owner, or agent of the vessel must apply to the Coast Guard OCMI who has jurisdiction over the vessel's first United States port of call. The OCMI may issue a Form CG-949 "Permit to Carry Excursion Party" if, in the opinion of the OCMI, the operation can be undertaken safely. The OCMI may require an inspection prior to issuance of a special permit to ensure that the vessel can safely operate under the conditions for which the permit is issued.

(c) The permit will state the conditions under which it is issued. These conditions must include the number of passengers-for-hire the vessel may carry, the crew required, the number and type of lifesaving and safety equipment required, the route and operating details for which the permit is issued, and the dates for which the permit will be valid.

(d) The permit must be displayed in a location visible to passengers.

(e) The carrying of passengers-for-hire during a Marine Event of National Significance must comply with the regulations governing coastwise transportation of passengers under 19 CFR 4.50(b) and 19 CFR 4.80(a).
