
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter U—Oceanographic Research Vessels
#### PART 196-OPERATIONS
##### Subpart 196.35-Logbook Entries
###### § 196.35-5 Actions required to be logged.

The actions and observations noted in this section shall be entered in the official logbook. This section contains no requirements which are not made in other portions of this subchapter, the items being merely grouped together for convenience.

(a) Onboard training, musters, and drills: held in accordance with subchapter W (Lifesaving Appliances and Arrangements) of this chapter.

(b) Steering gear, whistle, and means of communication. Prior to departure. See § 196.15-3.

(c) Drafts and load line marks. Prior to leaving port, ocean, coastwise, and Great Lakes service only. See § 196.15-5.

(d) Verification of vessel compliance with applicable stability requirements. After loading and prior to departure and at all other times necessary to assure the safety of the vessel. See § 196.15-7.

(e) Loading doors. Where applicable, every closing and any opening when not docked. See § 196.15-18.

(f) Emergency lighting and power systems. Weekly and semiannually. See § 196.15-30.

(g) Fuel oil data: Upon receipt of fuel oil on board. See § 196.15-55.

(h) Hatches and other openings. All openings and closings required by § 196.15-20.

(i) Magazines and magazine chests. Maximum and minimum temperatures as required by § 196.85-1(b).

(j) Portable vans, prior to departure. See § 195.11-25(e) of this subchapter.

(k) Weight handling gear, prior to departure. See § 189.35-13(b) of this subchapter.
