
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - Procedures Applicable to the Public
#### PART 2 - VESSEL INSPECTIONS
##### Subpart 2.75 - Approvals of Safety Equipment, Materials and Installations, and Qualifications for Construction Personnel
###### ยง 2.75-1 Approvals.

(a) Certain navigation and vessel inspection laws, or regulations in this chapter or in 33 CFR chapter I, require the Commandant's approval before specific types of safety equipment, materials, or installations may be installed or used on vessels subject to Coast Guard inspection, or on other described vessels, motorboats, artificial islands, and fixed structures.

(b) The Commandant's approvals are issued to persons, partnerships, companies, or corporations who offer for sale specific items of safety equipment, materials, or installations, or intend them for their own or others' use. These approvals are intended to provide a control over the quality of such approved items. The Commandant's approvals apply only to those items constructed or installed in accordance with applicable requirements, and the details as described in the documents granting specific approval. If a specific item when manufactured does not comply with these details, then it is not considered to be approved and the approval issued does not apply to such modified item. For example, if an item is manufactured with changes in design or material not previously approved, the approval does not apply to such modified item. The failure to comply with applicable requirements and details specified in the approval subjects the holder to immediate suspension of approval as described in ยง 2.75-40, and if necessary, to a public hearing seeking withdrawal of approval and removal of all such items from use or installation as provided in ยง 2.75-50.

(c) The Commandant's approvals are issued to qualified holders in the form of certificates of approval (Form CGHQ-10030), by appropriate description and identification in documents filed with the Office of the Federal Register and published in theor by letters, or by appropriate markings on drawings, plans, etc. Under the direction of the Commandant, the Deputy for Operations Policy and Capabilities (CG-DCO-D) is delegated the authority to exercise the necessary actions relating to the granting, suspension, cancellation or revocation of approvals for special items of safety equipment, materials or installations required by law in regulation in this chapter or in 33 CFR chapter I to have the Commandant's approval. The authority delegated to the Deputy for Operations Policy and Capabilities (CG-DCO-D) may be further delegated by him.

(d) The approvals granted to holders qualifying under the regulations in this chapter or in specifications, copies of which may be obtained from the Commandant (CG-ENG), and to which official Coast Guard numbers are assigned, will be in the form of certificates of approval. Unless specifically provided otherwise, the approval shall be valid for a period of five years from the date on the certificate of approval, but subject to suspension and/or cancellation if it is found the item offered, sold, or used as Coast Guard approved differs in any detail from the item as described in the certificate of approval and referenced material.

(e) A specific Commandant's approval granted to anyone, which is described in a certificate of approval, or a letter, or marked plans, etc., cannot be transferred to another without a specific prior authorization from the Commandant. Such a transfer without the Commandant's authorization normally terminates such approval.
