
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter V—Marine Occupational Safety and Health Standards
#### PART 197-GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart B-Commercial Diving Operations
###### periodic tests and inspections of diving equipment
####### § 197.462 Pressure vessels and pressure piping.

(a) The diving supervisor shall ensure that each pressure vessel, including each volume tank, cylinder and PVHO, and each pressure piping system is examined and tested as required by this section and after any repair, modification or alteration to determine that they are in satisfactory condition and fit for the service intended.

(b) Pressure vessels and pressure piping shall be examined annually for mechanical damage or deterioration. Any defect that may impair the safety of the pressure vessel or piping shall be repaired and pressure tested to the satisfaction of the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection.

(c) The following tests shall be conducted at least every three years:

(1) All piping permanently installed on a PVHO shall be pressure tested.

(2) PVHOs subject to internal pressure shall be leak tested at the maximum allowable working pressure using the breathing mixture normally used in service.

(3) Equivalent nondestructive testing may be conducted in lieu of pressure testing. Proposals to use nondestructive testing in lieu of pressure testing shall be submitted to the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection.

(d) Unless otherwise noted, pressure tests conducted in accordance with this section shall be either hydrostatic tests or pneumatic tests.

(1) When a hydrostatic test is conducted on a pressure vessel, the test pressure shall be no less than 1.25 times the maximum allowable working pressure.

(2) When a pneumatic test is conducted on a pressure vessel, the test pressure shall be the maximum allowable working pressure stamped on the nameplate.

(3) When a pneumatic test is conducted on piping, the test pressure shall be no less than 90 percent of the setting of the relief device.

(4) Pressure tests shall be conducted only after suitable precautions are taken to protect personnel and equipment.

(5) When pressure tests are conducted on pressure vessels or pressure piping, the test pressure shall be maintained for a period of time sufficient to allow examination of all joints, connections and high stress areas.
