
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter V—Marine Occupational Safety and Health Standards
#### PART 197-GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart C-Benzene
###### § 197.560 Medical surveillance.
####### Emergency medical examinations.

(e)(1) Whenever an employee is exposed to benzene resulting from an emergency, a sample of that employee's urine must be taken at the end of the employee's shift and a urinary phenol test must be performed on the sample within 72 hours. Where due to unavoidable circumstances the sample cannot be tested by a laboratory within 72 hours of exposure, the sample shall be frozen until it can be delivered to the laboratory. The specific gravity of the urine must be corrected to 1.024. Since certain foods and medications can result in elevated phenol levels, the employee must provide the physician with a dietary and medication history.

(2) If the result of the urinary phenol test is below 75 mg phenol/l of urine, no further testing is required.

(3) If the result of the urinary phenol test is equal to or greater than 75 mg phenol/l of urine, the employee's complete blood count including an erythrocyte count, a leukocyte count with differential, and a thrombocyte count must be taken at monthly intervals for a duration of three months following the emergency.

(4) If any of the conditions specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section exists, the additional examinations and referrals specified in paragraph (d) of this section must be performed and the employee must be provided with periodic medical examinations, if any are recommended by the examining physician.
