
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter V—Marine Occupational Safety and Health Standards
#### PART 197-GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart C-Benzene
###### Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 197-Sample Substance Safety Data Sheet, Benzene
####### Swallowing.

(d)If benzene has been swallowed and the subject is conscious, do not induce vomiting. Call for medical assistance or a doctor immediately.

If you will be exposed to benzene at a concentration at or above 0.5 ppm as an eight-hour time-weighted average or have been exposed at or above 10 ppm in the past while employed by your current employer, your employer may be required by 46 CFR 197.560 to provide a medical examination and history and laboratory tests. These tests must be provided without cost to you. In addition, if you are accidentally exposed to benzene (either by ingestion, inhalation, or skin/eye contact) under emergency conditions known or suspected to constitute a toxic exposure to benzene, your employer is required to make special laboratory tests available to you.

The employer is required to conduct monitoring that is representative of your exposure to benzene, and you or your designated representative are entitled to observe the monitoring procedure. You are entitled to observe the steps taken in the measurement procedure and to record the results obtained. When the monitoring procedure is taking place in an area where respirators or personal protective clothing and equipment are required to be worn, you or your representative must wear the protective clothing and equipment (See 46 CFR 197.575.)

You or your representative may see the records of monitoring of your exposure to benzene upon written request to your employer. Your medical examination records may be furnished to you, your physician, or a representative designated by you. (See 46 CFR 197.570(c).)

Benzene liquid is highly flammable. Benzene vapor may form explosive mixtures in air. All sources of ignition must be controlled. Use non-sparking tools when opening or closing benzene containers. Fire extinguishers, where required, must be readily available. Know where they are located and how to operate them. Smoking is prohibited in areas where benzene is used or stored.
