
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter V—Marine Occupational Safety and Health Standards
#### PART 197-GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart C-Benzene
###### Appendix E to Subpart C of Part 197-Respirator Fit Tests
####### i.e.

(4) Moving head up and down. Standing in place, the subject must slowly move his or her head up and down. The subject must be instructed to inhale in the up position (, when looking toward the ceiling).

(5) Talking. The subject must talk slowly and loudly enough so as to be heard clearly by the test conductor. The subject must count backward from 100, recite a memorized poem or song, or read the following passage:

When the sunlight strikes raindrops in the air, they act like a prism and form a rainbow. The rainbow is a division of white light into many beautiful colors. These take the shape of a long round arch, with its path high above, and its two ends apparently beyond the horizon. There is, according to legend, a boiling pot of gold at one end. People look, but no one ever finds it. When a man looks for something beyond reach, his friends say he is looking for the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow.

(6) Grimace. The test subject must grimace by smiling or frowning.

(7) Bending over. The test subject must bend at the waist as if to touch the toes or, for test environments such as shroud type QNFT units which prohibit bending at the waist, the subject must jog in place.

(8) Normal breathing. Same as exercise 1.

Each test exercise must be performed for one minute, except for the grimace exercise which must be performed for 15 seconds. The test subject must be questioned by the test conductor regarding the comfort of the respirator upon completion of test exercises. If it has become uncomfortable, another respirator must be tried and the subject retested.

(n) The employer shall certify that a successful fit test has been administered to the test subject. The certification must include the following information:

(1) Name of employee.

(2) Type, brand, and size of respirator.

(3) Date of test.

Where QNFT is used, the fit factor, strip chart, or other recording of the results of the test must be retained with the certification. The certification must be maintained until the next fit test is administered.
