
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter V—Marine Occupational Safety and Health Standards
#### PART 197-GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart C-Benzene
###### Appendix E to Subpart C of Part 197-Respirator Fit Tests
####### Saccharin solution aerosol test.

(c)The saccharin solution aerosol test is an alternative qualitative test. Although it is the only validated test currently available for use with particulate disposable dust respirators not equipped with high-efficiency filters, it may also be used for testing other respirators. The entire screening and testing procedure must be explained to the test subject before the conduct of the saccharin test threshold screening test.

(1) Saccharin taste threshold screening test. The test, performed without wearing a respirator, is intended to determine whether the test subject can detect the taste of saccharin.

(i) The subject must wear an enclosure about the head and shoulders that is approximately 12 inches in diameter by 14 inches tall with at least the front portion clear. If the enclosure is also used for the saccharin solution aerosol fit test in compliance with section II(c)(2) of this appendix, the enclosure must allow free movements of the head when a respirator is worn. An enclosure substantially similar to the Minnesota, Mining and Manufacturing (3M) hood assembly, parts No. FT 14 and No. FT 15 combined, is adequate.

(ii) The test enclosure must have ainch hole in front of the test subject's nose and mouth area to accommodate the nebulizer nozzle.

(iii) The test subject must don the test enclosure. Throughout the threshold screening test, the test subject must breathe with mouth wide open and tongue extended.

(iv) Using a DeVilbiss Model 40 Inhalation Medication Nebulizer, the test conductor must spray the threshold check solution in accordance with II(c)(1)(v) of this appendix into the enclosure. The nebulizer must be clearly marked to distinguish it from the fit test solution nebulizer.

(v) The threshold check solution consists of 0.83 grams of sodium saccharin USP in one cc of warm water. It may be prepared by putting one cc of the fit test solution (see section II(c)(2)(iv) of this appendix) in 100 cc of distilled water.

(vi) To produce the aerosol, the nebulizer bulb must be firmly squeezed so that it collapses completely. Then, the bulb must be released and allowed to expand fully.

(vii) The bulb must be squeezed rapidly ten times and the test subject must be asked whether he or she tastes the saccharin.

(viii) If the first response is negative, the ten rapid squeezes must be repeated and the test subject is again asked whether he or she tastes the saccharin.

(ix) If the second response is negative, ten more squeezes are repeated rapidly and the test subject again asked whether the saccharin is tasted.

(x) The test conductor must take note of the number of squeezes required to solicit a taste response.

(xi) If the saccharin is not tasted after 30 squeezes, the test subject may not perform the saccharin fit test.

(xii) If a taste response is elicited, the test subject must be asked to take note of the taste for reference in the fit test.

(xiii) Correct use of the nebulizer means that approximately one cc of liquid is used at a time in the nebulizer body.

(xiv) The nebulizer must be thoroughly rinsed in water, shaken dry, and refilled at least each morning and afternoon or at least every four-hours.

(2) Saccharin solution aerosol fit test. (i) The test subject may not eat, drink (except plain water), or chew gum for 15 minutes before the test.

(ii) The fit test must be conducted with the same type of enclosure used for the saccharin taste threshold screening test in accordance with section II(c)(1) of this appendix.

(iii) The test subject must don the enclosure while wearing the respirator selected in the saccharin taste threshold screening test. The respirator must be properly adjusted and equipped with a particulate filter(s).

(iv) A second DeVilbiss Model 40 Inhalation Medication Nebulizer must be used to spray the fit test solution into the enclosure. This nebulizer must be clearly marked to distinguish it from the nebulizer used for the threshold check solution in accordance with section II(c)(1)(iv) of this appendix.

(v) The fit test solution must be prepared by adding 83 grams of sodium saccharin to 100 cc of warm water.

(vi) The test subject must breathe with mouth wide open and tongue extended.

(vii) The nebulizer must be inserted into the hole in the front of the enclosure and the fit test solution must be sprayed into the enclosure using the same number of squeezes required to elicit a taste response in the screening test in accordance with sections II(c)(1)(vi) through II(c)(1)(xi) of this appendix.

(viii) After generating the aerosol, the test subject must be instructed to perform the exercises in section I(n) of this appendix.

(ix) Every 30 seconds, the aerosol concentration must be replenished using one half the number of squeezes used initially.

(x) The test subject must indicate to the test conductor if, at any time during the fit test, the taste of saccharin is detected.

(xi) If the taste of saccharin is detected, the fit must be deemed unsatisfactory and a different respirator must be tried.
