
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter W - Lifesaving Appliances and Arrangements
#### PART 199 - LIFESAVING SYSTEMS FOR CERTAIN INSPECTED VESSELS
##### Subpart A - General
###### § 199.03 Relationship to international standards.

(a) This subpart and subparts B, C, and D of this part are based on Chapter III, SOLAS. Section numbers in this subpart and subparts B, C, and D of this part are generally related to the regulation numbers in Chapter III, SOLAS, but paragraph designations are not related to the numbering in Chapter III, SOLAS. To find the corresponding Chapter III, SOLAS regulation for this subpart and subparts B, C, and D of this part, beginning with § 199.10, divide the section number following the decimal point by 10.

(b) For purposes of this part, any vessel carrying a valid Passenger Ship Safety Certificate supplemented by a Record of Equipment, or a valid Cargo Ship Safety Equipment Certificate supplemented by a Record of Equipment, is considered to have met the requirements of this part if the equipment meets § 199.40 and if, in addition to the requirements of SOLAS Chapter III, the vessel meets the following requirements:

(1) Each new lifeboat and launching appliance on a tank vessel may be of aluminum construction only if its stowage location is protected with a water spray system in accordance with § 199.290(b).

(2) Each child-size lifejacket and immersion suit must be appropriately marked and stowed separately from adult or extended-size devices as required in § 199.70(b)(2).

(3) Each lifejacket and immersion suit must be marked with the vessel's name in accordance with § 199.70 (b)(3) and (c)(3).

(4) Inflatable lifejackets, if carried, must be of the same or similar design as required by § 199.70(b).

(5) Containers for lifejackets, immersion suits, and anti-exposure suits must be marked as specified in § 199.70(d).

(6) Instructions for passengers must include illustrated instructions on the method of donning lifejackets as required in § 199.80(c)(5).

(7) Each liferaft must be arranged to permit it to drop into the water from the deck on which it is stowed as required in § 199.130(c)(3).

(8) Lifeboats and rescue boats must be arranged to allow safe disembarkation onto the vessel after a drill in accordance with § 199.110(h).

(9) The requirements for guarding of falls in § 199.153 (e) and (g) must be met.

(10) The winch drum requirements described in § 199.153(f) must be met for all survival craft winches, including multiple drum winches.

(11) The maximum lowering speed requirements for launching arrangements using falls and a winch in § 199.153 (i) and (j) must be met.

(12) An auxiliary line must be kept with each line-throwing appliance in accordance with § 199.170(c)(2).

(13) Immersion suits must be carried on all cargo vessels except those operating between the 32 degrees north and 32 degrees south latitude in accordance with § 199.273.

(14) Vessels carrying immersion suits must conduct drills in accordance with §§ 199.180 (d)(11) and (d)(12).

(c) The certificates in paragraph (b) of this section will be accepted as proof of compliance with the requirements in this part unless the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection (OCMI), determines that-

(1) The condition of the vessel or of its equipment does not correspond substantially with the particulars of its certificates; or

(2) The vessel and its equipment have not been maintained in conformance with the provisions of the regulations in this part.
