
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter W - Lifesaving Appliances and Arrangements
#### PART 199 - LIFESAVING SYSTEMS FOR CERTAIN INSPECTED VESSELS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for All Vessels
###### ยง 199.80 Muster list and emergency instructions.
####### Muster list.

(b)Copies of the muster list must be posted in conspicuous places throughout the vessel including on the navigating bridge, in the engine room, and in crew accommodation spaces. The muster list must be posted before the vessel begins its voyage. After the muster list has been prepared, if any change takes place that necessitates an alteration in the muster list, the master must either revise the existing muster list or prepare a new one. Each muster lists must at least specify-

(1) The instructions for operating the general emergency alarm system and public address system;

(2) The emergency signals;

(3) The actions to be taken by the persons on board when each signal is sounded;

(4) How the order to abandon the vessel will be given.

(5) The officers that are assigned to make sure that lifesaving and firefighting appliances are maintained in good condition and ready for immediate use;

(6) The duties assigned to the different members of the crew. Duties to be specified include-

(i) Closing the watertight doors, fire doors, valves, scuppers, sidescuttles, skylights, portholes, and other similar openings in the vessel's hull;

(ii) Equipping the survival craft and other lifesaving appliances;

(iii) Preparing and launching the survival craft;

(iv) Preparing other lifesaving appliances;

(v) Mustering the passengers and other persons on board;

(vi) Using communication equipment;

(vii) Manning the emergency squad assigned to deal with fires and other emergencies; and

(viii) Using firefighting equipment and installations.

(7) The duties assigned to members of the crew in relation to passengers and other persons on board in case of an emergency. Assigned duties to be specified include-

(i) Warning the passengers and other persons on board;

(ii) Seeing that passengers and other persons on board are suitably dressed and have donned their lifejackets or immersion suits correctly;

(iii) Assembling passengers and other persons on board at muster stations;

(iv) Keeping order in the passageways and on the stairways and generally controlling the movements of the passengers and other persons on board; and

(v) Making sure that a supply of blankets is taken to the survival craft; and

(8) The substitutes for key persons if they are disabled, taking into account that different emergencies require different actions.
