
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter W - Lifesaving Appliances and Arrangements
#### PART 199 - LIFESAVING SYSTEMS FOR CERTAIN INSPECTED VESSELS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for All Vessels
###### ยง 199.100 Manning of survival craft and supervision.

(a) There must be a sufficient number of trained persons on board the vessel for mustering and assisting untrained persons.

(b) There must be a sufficient number of deck officers, able seamen, or certificated persons on board the vessel to operate the survival craft and launching arrangements required for abandonment by the total number of persons on board.

(c) There must be one person placed in charge of each survival craft to be used. The person in charge must-

(1) Be a deck officer, able seaman, or certificated person. The OCMI, considering the nature of the voyage, the number of persons permitted on board, and the characteristics of the vessel, may permit persons practiced in the handling and operation of liferafts or inflatable buoyant apparatus to be placed in charge of liferafts or inflatable buoyant apparatus; and

(2) Have a list of the survival craft crew and ensure that the crewmembers are acquainted with their duties.

(d) There must be a second-in-command designated for each lifeboat. This person should be a deck officer, able seaman, or certificated person. The second-in-command of a lifeboat must also have a list of the lifeboat crew.

(e) There must be a person assigned to each motorized survival craft who is capable of operating the engine and carrying out minor adjustments.

(f) The master must make sure that the persons required under paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this section are equitably distributed among the vessel's survival craft.
