
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter W - Lifesaving Appliances and Arrangements
#### PART 199 - LIFESAVING SYSTEMS FOR CERTAIN INSPECTED VESSELS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for All Vessels
###### ยง 199.110 Survival craft muster and embarkation arrangements.

(a) Each muster station must have sufficient space to accommodate all persons assigned to muster at that station. One or more muster stations must be close to each embarkation station.

(b) Each muster station and embarkation station must be readily accessible to accommodation and work areas.

(c) Each muster station and embarkation station must be adequately illuminated by lighting with power supplied from the vessel's emergency source of electrical power.

(d) Each alleyway, stairway, and exit giving access to a muster and embarkation station must be adequately illuminated by lighting that is capable of having its power supplied by the vessel's emergency source of electrical power.

(e) Each davit-launched and free-fall survival craft muster station and embarkation station must be arranged to enable stretcher cases to be placed in the survival craft.

(f) Each launching station, or each two adjacent launching stations, must have an embarkation ladder as follows:

(1) Each embarkation ladder must be approved under approval series 160.117 or be a rope ladder approved under approval series 160.017.

(2) Each embarkation ladder must extend in a single length from the deck to the waterline with the vessel in its lightest seagoing condition under unfavorable conditions of trim and with the vessel listed not less than 15 degrees either way.

(3) Provided that there is at least one embarkation ladder on each side of the vessel, the OCMI may permit additional embarkation ladders to be other approved devices that provide safe and rapid access to survival craft in the water.

(4) The OCMI may accept other safe and effective means of embarkation for use with a liferaft required under ยง 199.261(e).

(g) If a davit-launched survival craft is embarked over the edge of the deck, the craft must be provided with a means for bringing it against the side of the vessel and holding it alongside the vessel to allow persons to safely embark.

(h) If a davit-launched survival craft is not intended to be moved to the stowed position with persons on board, the craft must be provided with a means for bringing it against the side of the vessel and holding it alongside the vessel to allow persons to safely disembark after a drill.
