
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter W - Lifesaving Appliances and Arrangements
#### PART 199 - LIFESAVING SYSTEMS FOR CERTAIN INSPECTED VESSELS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for All Vessels
###### ยง 199.130 Stowage of survival craft.
####### Additional liferaft stowage requirements.

(c)In addition to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, each liferaft must be stowed as follows:

(1) Each liferaft must be stowed to permit manual release from its securing arrangements.

(2) Each liferaft must be stowed at a height above the waterline not greater than the maximum stowage height indicated on the liferaft container with the vessel in its lightest seagoing condition. Each liferaft without an indicated maximum stowage height must be stowed not more than 18 meters (59 feet) above the waterline with the vessel in its lightest seagoing condition.

(3) Each liferaft must be arranged to permit it to drop into the water from the deck on which it is stowed. A liferaft stowage arrangements meets this requirement if it-

(i) Is outboard of the rail or bulwark;

(ii) Is on stanchions or on a platform adjacent to the rail or bulwark; or

(iii) Has a gate or other suitable opening large enough to allow the liferaft to be pushed directly overboard and, if the liferaft is intended to be available for use on either side of the vessel, such gate or opening is provided on each side of the vessel.

(4) Each davit-launched liferaft must be stowed within reach of its lifting hook, unless some means of transfer is provided that is not rendered inoperable-

(i) Within the limits of trim and list specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section;

(ii) By vessel motion; or

(iii) By power failure.

(5) Each rigid container for an inflatable liferaft to be launched by a launching appliance must be secured so that the container or parts of it do not fall into the water during and after inflation and launching of the contained liferaft.

(6) Each liferaft must have a painter system providing a connection between the vessel and the liferaft.

(7) Each liferaft or group of liferafts must be arranged for float-free launching. The arrangement must ensure that the liferaft or liferafts, when released and inflated, are not dragged under by the sinking vessel. A hydrostatic release unit used in a float-free arrangement must be approved under approval series 160.162.
