
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter W - Lifesaving Appliances and Arrangements
#### PART 199 - LIFESAVING SYSTEMS FOR CERTAIN INSPECTED VESSELS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for All Vessels
###### § 199.160 Rescue boat embarkation, launching and recovery arrangements.

(a) Each rescue boat must be capable of being launched with the vessel making headway of 5 knots in calm water. A painter may be used to meet this requirement.

(b) Each rescue boat embarkation and launching arrangement must permit the rescue boat to be boarded and launched in the shortest possible time.

(c) The rescue boat must meet the embarkation and launching arrangement requirements of §§ 199.110 (e) and (g), 199.150, 199.155, and if the launching arrangement uses falls and a winch, § 199.153.

(d) If the rescue boat is one of the vessel's survival craft, the rescue boat must also meet the following requirements:

(1) The rescue boat must meet the muster and embarkation arrangement requirements of § 199.110 and the launching station requirements of § 199.120.

(2) If the launching arrangement uses a single fall, the rescue boat may have an automatic disengaging apparatus approved under approval series 160.170 instead of a lifeboat release mechanism.

(e) Rapid recovery of the rescue boat must be possible when loaded with its full complement of persons and equipment. If the rescue boat is also a lifeboat, rapid recovery must be possible when loaded with its lifeboat equipment and an approved rescue boat complement of at least six persons.

(f) Each rescue boat launching appliance must be fitted with a powered winch motor.

(g) Each rescue boat launching appliance must be capable of hoisting the rescue boat when loaded with its full rescue boat complement of persons and equipment at a rate of not less than 0.3 meters per second (59 feet per minute).
