
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter W - Lifesaving Appliances and Arrangements
#### PART 199 - LIFESAVING SYSTEMS FOR CERTAIN INSPECTED VESSELS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for All Vessels
###### ยง 199.153 Survival craft launching and recovery arrangements using falls and a winch.

Survival craft launching and recovery arrangements, in addition to meeting the requirements in ยง 199.150, must meet the following requirements:

(a) Each launching mechanism must be arranged so it may be actuated by one person from a position on the vessel's deck, and except for secondary launching appliances for free-fall launching arrangements, from a position within the survival craft.

(b) Each fall wire must be of rotation-resistant and corrosion-resistant steel wire rope.

(c) The breaking strength of each fall wire and each attachment used on the fall must be at least six times the load imparted on the fall by the fully-loaded survival craft.

(d) Each fall must be long enough for the survival craft to reach the water with the vessel in its lightest seagoing condition, under unfavorable conditions of trim, and with the vessel listed not less than 20 degrees either way.

(e) Each unguarded fall must not pass near any operating position of the winch, such as hand cranks, pay out wheels, and brake levers.

(f) Each winch drum must be arranged so the fall wire winds onto the drum in one or more level wraps. A multiple drum winch must be arranged so that the falls wind off at the same rate when lowering and onto the drums at the same rate when hoisting.

(g) Each fall, where exposed to damage or fouling, must have guards or equivalent protection. Each fall that leads along a deck must be covered with a guard that is not more than 300 millimeters (1 foot) above the deck.

(h) The lowering speed for a fully loaded survival craft must be not less than the speed obtained from one of the following formulas:

(1) S = 0.4 + (0.02 H), where S the lowering speed in meters per second and H is the lowering height in meters from the davit head to the waterline with the vessel in its lightest seagoing condition, with H not greater than 30 regardless of the actual lowering height.

(2) S = 79 + (1.2 H), where S is the lowering speed in feet per minute and H is the lowering height in feet from the davit head to the waterline with the vessel in its lightest seagoing condition, with H not greater than 99 regardless of the actual lowering height.

(i) The lowering speed for a survival craft loaded with all of its equipment must be not less than 70 percent of the speed required under paragraph (h) of this section.

(j) The lowering speed for a fully loaded survival craft must be not more than 1.3 meters per second (256 feet per minute).

(k) If a survival craft is recovered by electric power, the electrical installation, including the electric power-operated boat winch, must meet the requirements in subchapter J of this chapter. If a survival craft is recovered by any means using power, including a portable power source, safety devices must be provided that automatically cut off the power before the davit arms or falls reach the stops in order to avoid overstressing the falls or davits, unless the motor is designed to prevent such overstressing.

(l) Each launching appliance must be fitted with brakes that meet the following requirements:

(1) The brakes must be capable of stopping the descent of the survival craft or rescue boat and holding the survival craft or rescue boat securely when loaded with its full complement of persons and equipment.

(2) The brake pads must, where necessary, be protected from water and oil.

(3) Manual brakes must be arranged so that the brake is always applied unless the operator, or a mechanism activated by the operator, holds the brake control in the off position.
