
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter W - Lifesaving Appliances and Arrangements
#### PART 199 - LIFESAVING SYSTEMS FOR CERTAIN INSPECTED VESSELS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for All Vessels
###### ยง 199.175 Survival craft and rescue boat equipment.
####### Water.

(40)The water must meet the requirements in ISO 18813:2006(E) paragraph 4.46 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 199.05).

(i) The water must meet the U.S. Public Health Service "Drinking Water Standards" in 40 CFR part 141 to suitably protect the container against corrosion. After treatment and packing, the water must be free from organic matter, sediment, and odor. It must have a pH between 7.0 and 9.0 as determined by means of a standard pH meter using glass electrodes. Water quality must be verified by the local municipality or independent laboratory accepted by the Coast Guard in accordance with part 159, subpart 159.010, of this chapter.

(ii) Containers of emergency drinking water must be tested in accordance with the provisions in ISO 18813:2006(E) by an independent laboratory accepted by the Coast Guard in accordance with part 159, subpart 159.010, of this chapter.

(iii) The requirement for up to one-third of the emergency drinking water may be met by a desalting apparatus approved under approval series 160.058 that is capable of producing the substituted amount of water in 2 days.

(iv) The requirement for up to two-thirds of the emergency drinking water may be met by a manually-powered, reverse-osmosis desalinator approved under approval series 160.058 and that is capable of producing the substituted amount of water in 2 days.
