
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter W - Lifesaving Appliances and Arrangements
#### PART 199 - LIFESAVING SYSTEMS FOR CERTAIN INSPECTED VESSELS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for All Vessels
###### ยง 199.190 Operational readiness, maintenance, and inspection of lifesaving equipment.
####### Servicing of inflatable lifesaving appliances, inflated rescue boats, and marine evacuation systems.

(g)(1) Each inflatable lifesaving appliance and marine evacuation system must be serviced-

(i) Within 12 months of its initial packing; and

(ii) Within 12 months of each subsequent servicing, except when servicing is delayed until the next scheduled inspection of the vessel, provided the delay does not exceed 5 months.

(2) Each inflatable lifejacket must be serviced in accordance with servicing procedures meeting the requirements of part 160, subpart 160.176 of this chapter. Each hybrid inflatable lifejacket must be serviced in accordance with the owner's manual and meet the requirements of part 160, subpart 160.077 of this chapter.

(3) An inflatable liferaft or inflatable buoyant apparatus must be serviced at a facility specifically approved by the Commandant for the particular brand, and in accordance with servicing procedures meeting the requirements of part 160, subpart 160.151, of this chapter-

(i) No later than the month and year on its servicing sticker affixed under 46 CFR 160.151-57(n), except that servicing may be delayed until the next scheduled inspection of the vessel, provided that the delay does not exceed 5 months; and

(ii) Whenever the container is damaged or the container straps or seals are broken.

(4) Each inflated rescue boat must be repaired and maintained in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. All repairs to inflated chambers must be made at a servicing facility approved by the Commandant, except for emergency repairs carried out on board the vessel.
