
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter W - Lifesaving Appliances and Arrangements
#### PART 199 - LIFESAVING SYSTEMS FOR CERTAIN INSPECTED VESSELS
##### Subpart D - Additional Requirements for Cargo Vessels
###### ยง 199.261 Survival craft.

(a) Each survival craft must be approved and equipped as follows:

(1) Each lifeboat must be a totally enclosed lifeboat approved under approval series 160.135 and equipped as specified in table 199.175 of this part.

(2) Each inflatable liferaft must be approved under approval series 160.151 and be equipped with a SOLAS A pack.

(3) Each rigid liferaft must be approved under approval series 160.118 and be equipped as specified in table 199.175 of this part.

(4) Each liferaft must have a capacity of six persons or more.

(5) Each marine evacuation system must be approved under approval series 160.175.

(b) Each cargo vessel must carry-

(1) On each side of the vessel, lifeboats with an aggregate capacity sufficient to accommodate the total number of persons on board; and

(2) Liferafts-

(i) With an aggregate capacity sufficient to accommodate the total number of persons on board and that are stowed in a position providing for easy side-to-side transfer at a single open deck level; or

(ii) With an aggregate capacity on each side sufficient to accommodate the total number of persons on board.

(c) A cargo vessel is not required to meet the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section if it carries-

(1) Lifeboats capable of being free-fall launched over the stern of the vessel that have an aggregate capacity sufficient to accommodate the total number of persons on board; and

(2) On each side of the vessel, liferafts with an aggregate capacity sufficient to accommodate the total number of persons on board with the liferafts on at least one side of the vessel being served by launching appliances or marine evacuation systems.

(d) Cargo vessels less than 85 meters (278 feet) in length, with the exception of tank vessels, are not required to meet paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section if they meet the following:

(1) On each side of the vessel-

(i) Liferafts are carried with an aggregate capacity sufficient to accommodate the total number of persons on board and are stowed in a position providing for easy side-to-side transfer at a single open deck level; or

(ii) Liferafts are carried with an aggregate capacity sufficient to accommodate 150 percent of the total number of persons on board. If the rescue boat required under ยง 199.262 is also a lifeboat, its capacity may be included to meet the aggregate capacity requirement.

(2) In the event the largest survival craft on either side of the vessel is lost or rendered unserviceable, there must be survival craft available for use on each side of the vessel, including those which are stowed in a position providing for side-to-side transfer at a single open deck level, with a capacity sufficient to accommodate the total number of persons on board.

(e) Each cargo vessel on which the horizontal distance from the extreme end of the stem or stern of the vessel to the nearest end of the closest survival craft is more than 100 meters (328 feet) must carry, in addition to the liferafts required by paragraphs (b)(2) and (c)(2) of this section, a liferaft stowed as far forward or aft, or one as far forward and another as far aft, as is reasonable and practicable. The requirement for the liferaft to float free under ยง 199.130(c)(7) does not apply to a liferaft under this paragraph, provided it is arranged for quick manual release.

(f) Each lifeboat on a tank vessel certificated to carry cargos that emit toxic vapors or gases must be approved as a lifeboat with a self-contained air support system or a fire-protected lifeboat.

(g) Each lifeboat must be approved as a fire-protected lifeboat if it is carried on a tank vessel certificated to carry cargos that have a flashpoint less than 60 &#xB0;C as determined under ASTM D 93 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 199.05).
