
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter W - Lifesaving Appliances and Arrangements
#### PART 199 - LIFESAVING SYSTEMS FOR CERTAIN INSPECTED VESSELS
##### Subpart F - Exemptions and Alternatives for Vessels Not Subject to SOLAS
###### ยง 199.620 Alternatives for all vessels in a specified service.
####### Lifejacket quantity.

(d)Vessels may carry lifejackets as follows:

(1) If lifejackets are stowed in cabins, staterooms, or berthing areas that are readily accessible to each watch or work station, the requirement in ยง 199.70(b)(2)(iv) to have lifejackets at each watch or work station need not be met.

(2) If the vessel carries lifejackets that are designated extended-size, then the number of child-size lifejackets carried to meet ยง 199.70(b)(1)(i) may be reduced. To take the reduction in child-size lifejackets, extended-size lifejackets having the same lower size limit must be substituted for all of the required adult lifejackets. The number of child-size lifejackets required depends on the lower size limit of the extended-size lifejackets and is calculated by any one of the following formulas where PC is the number of child-size lifejackets expressed as a percentage of the number of lifejackets required under ยง 199.70(b)(1):

(i) PC = LS &#xF7; 4.1, where LS equals the lower size limit expressed in kilograms.

(ii) PC = LS &#xF7; 9, where LS equals the lower size limit expressed in pounds.

(iii) PC = (LS-81) &#xF7; 7.6, where LS equals the lower size limit expressed in centimeters.

(iv) PC = (LS-32) &#xF7; 3, where LS equals the lower size limit expressed in inches.
