
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter W - Lifesaving Appliances and Arrangements
#### PART 199 - LIFESAVING SYSTEMS FOR CERTAIN INSPECTED VESSELS
##### Subpart F - Exemptions and Alternatives for Vessels Not Subject to SOLAS
###### § 199.640 Alternatives for cargo vessels in a specified service.

(a) In addition to the alternatives for certain requirements in § 199.620, cargo vessels operating in oceans; coastwise; Great Lakes; lakes, bays, and sounds; and rivers service may comply with alternative requirements to subparts A, B, and D of this part as described in this section for the services specified in table 199.640(a) of this section.

(b) Vessels of less than 150 tons gross tonnage that do not carry persons other than the crew, may carry, as an alternative to distress signals that meet the requirements of § 199.60, six hand red flare distress signals approved under approval series 160.021 and six hand orange smoke distress signals approved under approval series 160.037.

(c) As an alternative to the survival craft requirements of § 199.261(b), (c), or (d), vessels may carry one or more liferafts with an aggregate capacity sufficient to accommodate the total number of persons on board. The liferafts must be-

(1) Readily transferable for launching on either side of the vessel; or

(2) Supplemented with additional liferafts to bring the total capacity of the liferafts available on each side of the vessel to at least 100 percent of the total number of persons on board. If additional liferafts are provided and the rescue boat required under § 199.262 is also a lifeboat, its capacity may be included in meeting the aggregate capacity requirement.

(d) As an alternative to the survival craft requirements in § 199.261 (b), (c), or (d), vessels may carry one or more totally enclosed lifeboats with an aggregate capacity sufficient to accommodate the total number of persons on board and one or more liferafts with an aggregate capacity sufficient to accommodate the total number of persons on board. This combination of survival craft must meet the following:

(1) The aggregate capacity of the lifeboats and liferafts on each side of the vessel must be sufficient to accommodate the total number of persons on board.

(2) If the survival craft are stowed more than 100 meters (328 feet from either the stem or the stern of the vessel, an additional liferaft must be carried and stowed as far forward or aft as is reasonable and practicable. The requirement for the liferaft to float free under § 199.290(b) does not apply to a liferaft under this paragraph, provided the liferaft is arranged for quick manual release.

(e) As an alternative to the survival craft requirements in § 199.261 (b), (c), or (d), during periods of the year the vessel operates in warm water, a vessel may carry lifefloats with an aggregate capacity sufficient to accommodate the total number of people on board. The lifefloat launching arrangement, stowage, and equipment must meet the requirements in § 199.640(j).

(f) A vessel need not comply with the requirements for survival craft in § 199.261 (b), (c), or (d) if the vessel operates-

(1) On a route that is in shallow water not more than 3 miles from shore and where the vessel cannot sink deep enough to submerge the topmost deck; or

(2) Where the cognizant OCMI determines that survivors can wade ashore.

(g) As an alternative to the rescue boat requirement in § 199.262(a), vessels may carry a motor-propelled workboat or a launch that meets all the embarkation, launching, and recovery arrangement requirements in § 199.160 (b) through (f). The OCMI may allow deviations from the rescue boat launching requirements based on the characteristics of the boat and the conditions of the vessel's route.

(h) As an alternative to the rescue boat requirement in § 199.262, vessels may carry a rescue boat meeting the requirements of part 160, subpart 160.056 of this chapter if the rescue boat is equipped with a motor and meets the following:

(1) The towline for the rescue boat must be at least the same size and length as the rescue boat painter.

(2) The rescue boat must meet the embarkation, launching, and recovery arrangement requirements in § 199.160(b). A manually-powered winch may be used if personnel embark and disembark the rescue boat only when it is in the water. If the rescue boat is launched or recovered with personnel on board, the embarkation, launching, and recovery arrangements must also meet § 199.160 (c) through (f). The OCMI may allow deviations from the rescue boat launching requirements based on the characteristics of the boat and the conditions of the vessel's route.

(i) As an alternative to the number of lifebuoys required in § 199.271, vessels may carry-

(1) If the vessel is self-propelled, the number of lifebuoys specified in table 199.640(i) of this section; or

(2) If the vessel is non self-propelled, one lifebuoy on each end of the vessel.
