
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter A - Policy, Practice and Procedure
#### PART 201 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart K - Discovery and Depositions (Rule 11)
###### ยง 201.110 Depositions: request for orders to take; time of filing.

The Administration or presiding officer may, upon proper request of a party to a proceeding or under circumstances deemed proper, issue an order to take a deposition regarding any matter, not privileged, which is relevant to the subject matter involved in the proceedings. A motion to take a deposition shall be filed not less than fifteen (15) days before the proposed date for taking the deposition, unless a shorter period is fixed under ยง 201.54, and shall set forth the reason for the deposition, the place and time of taking, the officer before whom it is to be taken, the name and address of each witness to be examined, if known, and, if the name is not known, a general description sufficient to identify him or the particular class or group to which he belongs, and whether the deposition is to be based upon written interrogatories or upon oral examination. If the deposition is to be based upon oral examination, the motion shall contain a statement of the matters concerning which each witness will testify. If the deposition is to be based on written interrogatories, the motion shall be accompanied by the interrogatories to be propounded, serially numbered. Copies of all motions to take depositions, and accompanying interrogatories, if any, shall conform to the requirements of subpart D of this part. Objection to the taking of such depositions may be made in an answer to such motion. Without prejudice to objection, the answer may also state objection to any individual interrogatory, and if the deposition is permitted, the presiding officer will rule upon such objections to interrogatories. A party served with an order to take a deposition on written interrogatories shall have ten (10) days after date of service of such order unless a shorter period is fixed under ยง 201.54, within which to file and serve written cross interrogatories, which shall be served pursuant to subpart D of this part. Answers to applications for cross interrogatories may be filed in accordance with ยง 201.80. Upon the issuance of an order by the Administration or the presiding officer for the taking of a deposition, the Docket Clerk shall mail a copy thereof to all parties, including the party who requested the deposition. An application to take a deposition in a foreign country will be entertained when necessary or convenient, and authority to take such deposition will be granted upon such notice and other terms and directions as are lawful and appropriate.
