
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter A - Policy, Practice and Procedure
#### PART 201 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart M - Hearing Procedures (Rule 13)
###### ยง 201.131 Presentation of evidence.
####### Exhibits.

(b)All exhibits and responses to requests for evidence shall be numbered consecutively by the party submitting same and appropriately indexed as to number and title and shall be exchanged on dates prior to the hearing prescribed in the prehearing rulings. Written testimony should be identified alphabetically. Two copies shall be sent to each party and two to the presiding officer. No response to a request for evidence will be received into the record unless offered and received as an exhibit at the hearing. The exhibits, other than the written testimony, shall include appropriate footnotes or narrative material explaining the source of the information used and the methods employed in statistical compilations and estimates and shall contain a short commentary explaining the conclusions which the offeror draws from the data. Rebuttal exhibits should refer specifically to the exhibits being rebutted. Where one part of a multipage exhibit is based upon another part, appropriate cross-reference should be made. The principal title of each exhibit should state precisely what it contains and may also contain a statement of the purpose for which the exhibit is offered. However, such explanatory statement, if phrased in an argumentative fashion, will not be considered as a part of the evidentiary record. Additional exhibits pertinent to the issues may be submitted in a proceeding with the approval of the presiding officer.
