
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter A - Policy, Practice and Procedure
#### PART 201 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart Q - Oral Argument; Submittal for Final Decision (Rule 17)
###### ยง 201.166 Oral argument.

If oral argument before the Administration is desired on exceptions or replies to exceptions to an initial, recommended, or tentative decision, or on a motion, petition, or application, a request therefor shall be made in writing properly addressed to the Administration. Any party may make such request irrespective of his filing exceptions or replies. If a brief on exceptions or replies thereto are filed, the request for oral argument shall be incorporated therein. Requests for oral argument on any motion, petition, or application shall be made in the motion, petition, or application or in the reply thereto. Requests for oral argument will be granted or denied in the discretion of the Administration, and, if granted, the notice of oral argument will set forth the order of presentation and the amount of time to be allotted. Those who appear before the Administration for oral argument should confine their argument to points of controlling importance and shall limit their argument to points upon which exceptions have been filed. Where the facts of a case are adequately and accurately dealt with in the initial, recommended, or tentative decision, parties should, as far as possible, address themselves in argument to the conclusions. Effort should be made by parties taking the same position to agree in advance of the argument upon those who are to present their side of the case. The names of persons who will argue and the amount of time requested by each should be received by the Administration not later than ten (10) days before the date set for the argument. Ordinarily, consolidation of appearances at oral argument will permit the parties' interests to be presented more effectively in the time allotted.
