
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter A - Policy, Practice and Procedure
#### PART 202 - PROCEDURES RELATING TO REVIEW BY SECRETARY OF TRANSPORTATION OF ACTIONS BY MARITIME SUBSIDY BOARD
##### ยง 202.3 Form of petitions, requests and replies.

(a) All papers presented to the Secretary, other than records, shall bear on the cover the name and post office address of the party, and the name and address of the principal attorney or authorized representative (if any) for the party concerned. Certification shall be made that service of the paper has been made upon all parties of record (if any) and upon the Secretary of the Maritime Subsidy Board. One copy of every paper filed with the Secretary must in addition bear at its close the hand written signature of the party or attorney.

(b) All papers presented to the Secretary, other than records, shall, unless they are fewer than 10 pages in length, be preceded by a subject index of the matter contained therein, with page references, and a table of the cases (alphabetically arranged), textbooks, statutes and other material cited, with references to the pages where they are cited.

(c) Whenever a reference is made to a transcript, exhibit or other part of the record, such reference must be accompanied by a specific citation identifying the document and indicating the relevant page number of the document concerned.

(d) Papers filed with the Secretary should be logically arranged, with proper headings, concise, and free from irrelevant and unduly repetitious matter.

(e) It will not be necessary to reproduce the opinion of the Board.
