
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter A - Policy, Practice and Procedure
#### PART 203 - PROCEDURES RELATING TO CONDUCT OF CERTAIN HEARINGS UNDER THE MERCHANT MARINE ACT, 1936, AS AMENDED
##### ยง 203.3 Opposition to applications.
###### Petition for leave to intervene.

(b)The petition for leave to intervene shall specify the basis upon which such person asserts a right to intervene and shall set forth with particularity:

(1) The number and type of U.S.-flag vessels currently operated by the person seeking intervention in the trade or trade route to which the application pertains.

(2) The frequency of sailings of vessels operated by such person in the trade or trade route to which the application pertains in the 36 calendar months immediately preceding the date of the application.

(3) The specific ports of call conducted by such person in the trade or trade route to which the application pertains in the 36 calendar months immediately preceding the date of the application.

(4) The average annual carriage by such person for the past 36 months on the trade route to which the application pertains.

(5) If applicable, specific information detailing firm and definite plans for the inauguration of a new service, including, as appropriate, but not limited to, approval by the board of directors or general partners, membership in applicable conference agreements, office openings or the retention of agents in the proposed service area, acquisition of vessels and related equipment, subsidy applications, applications for any needed Government approvals or advertisement for the proposed service.

(6) Such other information as the person believes should be considered in a determination of such person's right to intervene.
