
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter B - Regulations Affecting Maritime Carriers and Related Activities
#### PART 221 - REGULATED TRANSACTIONS INVOLVING DOCUMENTED VESSELS AND OTHER MARITIME INTERESTS
##### Subpart B - Transfers to Noncitizens or to Registry or Operation Under Authority of a Foreign Country
###### ยง 221.15 Approval for transfer of registry or operation under authority of a foreign country or for scrapping in a foreign country.
####### Vessels of 1,000 gross tons or more.

(b)(1) Applications for approval of Transfer to foreign registry and flag or Operation Under the Authority of a Foreign Country or for scrapping in a foreign country of Documented Vessels or vessels the last documentation of which was under the laws of the United States and which are of 1,000 gross tons or more will be evaluated in light of-

(i) The type, size speed, general condition, and age of the vessel;

(ii) The acceptability of the owner, proposed transferee and the country of registry or the country under the authority of which the vessel is to be operated; and

(iii) The need to retain the vessel under U.S. documentation, ownership or control for purposes of national defense, maintenance of an adequate merchant marine, foreign policy considerations or the national interest.

(2) If the application is found to be acceptable under the criteria of this paragraph, approval will be granted. For vessels of under 3,000 gross tons, in the absence of unusual circumstances, no conditions will be imposed on the transfer. For vessels of 3,000 gross tons and above, approval will be granted upon acceptance by the owner of the terms and conditions referred to in paragraph (c) or (d) of this section, as applicable. Additional terms deemed appropriate by the Maritime Administrator may be imposed. The terms and conditions shall be contained in an Approval Notice and Agreement ("Contract") executed prior to issuance of the Transfer Order. Unless otherwise specified, the terms and conditions shall remain in effect for the period of the remaining economic life of the vessel or for the duration of a national emergency proclaimed by the President prior or subsequent to such Transfer, whichever period is longer. The economic life of a vessel for purposes of this regulation is deemed to be twenty (20) years for tankers and other liquid bulk carriers and twenty-five (25) years for other vessel types. This period is to be calculated from the date the vessel was originally accepted for delivery from the shipbuilder, but may be extended for such additional period of time as may be determined by the Maritime Administrator if the vessel has been substantially rebuilt or modified in a manner that warrants such extension.
