
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter B - Regulations Affecting Maritime Carriers and Related Activities
#### PART 221 - REGULATED TRANSACTIONS INVOLVING DOCUMENTED VESSELS AND OTHER MARITIME INTERESTS
##### Subpart B - Transfers to Noncitizens or to Registry or Operation Under Authority of a Foreign Country
###### ยง 221.15 Approval for transfer of registry or operation under authority of a foreign country or for scrapping in a foreign country.
####### Foreign transfer for scrapping.

(d)If the transfer of control, whether or not there is a transfer of registry, of a vessel referred to in paragraph (b) of this section is for the purpose of scrapping the vessel abroad, the following conditions will be imposed on the transferee:

(1) The vessel or any interest therein shall not be subsequently sold to any Person without the prior written approval of the Maritime Administrator, nor shall it be used for the carriage of cargo or passengers of any kind whatsoever.

(2) Within a period of 18 months from the date of approval of the sale, the hull of the vessel shall be completely scrapped, dismantled, dismembered, or destroyed in such manner and to such extent as to prevent the further use thereof, or any part thereof, as a ship, barge, or any other means of transportation.

(3) The scrap resulting from the demolition of the hull of the vessel, the engines, machinery, and major items of equipment shall not be sold to, or utilized by, any citizen or instrumentality of a country referred to in ยง 221.13(a)(4) of the part, nor may such scrap be exported to these countries. The engines, machinery and major items of equipment shall not be exported to destinations within the United States.

(4) In the event of default under any or all of the conditions set forth in paragraphs (d) (1), (2) or (3) of this section, the transferee shall pay to the Maritime Administration, without prejudice to any other rights that the United States may have, as liquidated damages and not as a penalty, the sum of not less than $25,000 or more than $1,000,000, as specified in the contract, depending upon the size, type and condition of the vessel. This payment shall be secured by a surety company bond or other surety satisfactory to the Maritime Administrator. "Other surety" may be one of those set out in paragraph (c)(4) (i) through (vi) of this section.

(5) There shall be filed with the Vessel Transfer Officer a certificate or other evidence satisfactory to the Chief Counsel of the Maritime Administration, duly attested and authenticated by a United States Consul, that the scrapping of the vessel (hull only) and disposal or utilization of the resultant scrap and the engines, machinery and major items of equipment have been accomplished in accord with paragraphs (d) (2) and (3) of this section.
