
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter B - Regulations Affecting Maritime Carriers and Related Activities
#### PART 221 - REGULATED TRANSACTIONS INVOLVING DOCUMENTED VESSELS AND OTHER MARITIME INTERESTS
##### Subpart B - Transfers to Noncitizens or to Registry or Operation Under Authority of a Foreign Country
###### ยง 221.15 Approval for transfer of registry or operation under authority of a foreign country or for scrapping in a foreign country.
####### Resident agent for service.

(e)(1) Any proposed foreign transferee shall, prior to the issuance and delivery of the Transfer Order covering the vessel or vessels to be transferred, designate and appoint a resident agent in the United States to receive and accept service of process or other notice in any action or proceeding instituted by the United States relating to any claim arising out of the approved transaction.

(2) The resident agent designated and appointed by the foreign transferee shall be subject to approval by the Maritime Administrator. To be acceptable, the resident agent must maintain a permanent place of business in the United States and shall be a banking or lending institution, a ship-owner or ship-operating corporation or other business entity that is satisfactory to the Maritime Administrator.

(3) Appointment and designation of the resident agent shall not be terminated, revoked, amended or altered without the prior written approval of the Maritime Administrator.

(4) The foreign transferee shall file with the Vessel Transfer Officer a written copy of the appointment of the resident agent, which copy shall be fully endorsed by the resident agent stating that it accepts the appointment, that it will act thereunder and that it will notify the Vessel Transfer Officer in writing in the event it becomes disqualified from so acting by reason of any legal restrictions. Service of process or notice upon any officer, agent or employee of the resident agent at its permanent place of business shall constitute effective service on, or notice to, the foreign transferee.
