
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter B - Regulations Affecting Maritime Carriers and Related Activities
#### PART 221 - REGULATED TRANSACTIONS INVOLVING DOCUMENTED VESSELS AND OTHER MARITIME INTERESTS
##### Subpart E - Civil Penalties
###### ยง 221.75 Response by party.

(a) Within 30 days after receipt of notice from the Hearing Officer, the Party, or counsel for the Party, may-

(1) Pay the amount specified in the notice as being appropriate;

(2) In writing request a hearing, specifying the issues in dispute; or

(3) Submit written evidence or arguments in lieu of a hearing.

(b) The right to a hearing is waived if the Party does not submit a request to the Hearing Officer within 30 days after receipt of notice from the Hearing Officer, unless additional time has been granted by the Hearing Officer.

(c) The Hearing Officer has discretion as to the venue and scheduling of a hearing. The hearing will normally be held at the office of the Hearing Officer. A request for a change of location of a hearing or transfer to another Hearing Officer must be in writing and state the reasons why the requested action is necessary or desirable. Action on the request is at the discretion of the Hearing Officer.

(d) A Party who has requested a hearing may amend the specification of the issues in dispute at any time up to 10 days before the scheduled date of the hearing. Issues raised later than 10 days before the schedule hearing may be presented only at the discretion of the Hearing Officer.
