
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter B - Regulations Affecting Maritime Carriers and Related Activities
#### PART 221 - REGULATED TRANSACTIONS INVOLVING DOCUMENTED VESSELS AND OTHER MARITIME INTERESTS
##### Subpart E - Civil Penalties
###### ยง 221.85 Hearing procedures.

(a) The Hearing Officer shall conduct a fair and impartial proceeding in which the Party is given a full opportunity to be heard. At the opening of a hearing, the Hearing Officer shall advise the Party of the nature of the proceedings and of the alleged violation.

(b) The material in the case file pertinent to the issues to be determined by the Hearing Officer shall first be presented. The Party may examine, respond to and rebut this material. The Party may offer any facts, statements, explanations, documents, sworn or unsworn testimony, or other exculpatory items that bear on the issues, or which may be relevant to the size of an appropriate penalty. The Hearing Officer may require the authentication of any written exhibit or statement.

(c) At the close of the Party's presentation of evidence, the Hearing Officer may allow the introduction of rebuttal evidence. The Hearing Officer may allow the Party to respond to rebuttal evidence submitted.

(d) In receiving evidence, the Hearing Officer shall not be bound by the strict rules of evidence. In evaluating the evidence presented, the Hearing Officer shall give due consideration to the reliability and relevance of each item of evidence.

(e) After the evidence in the case has been presented, the Party may present argument on the issues in the case. The party may also request an opportunity to submit a written statement for consideration by the Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer shall allow a reasonable time for submission of the statement and shall specify the date by which it must be received. If the statement is not received within the specified time, the Hearing Officer may render a decision in the case without consideration of the statement.
