
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter B - Regulations Affecting Maritime Carriers and Related Activities
#### PART 232 - UNIFORM FINANCIAL REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Balance Sheet
###### ยง 232.4 Balance sheet accounts.
####### 4,150 Accounts Receivable.

()

(i) This account shall include trade or traffic receivables and claims receivable from insurance underwriters and other miscellaneous receivables not otherwise provided for in other accounts. Accrued accounts receivable for interest, dividends, rents, royalties, charters and other unmatured receivables of a current nature shall be reported in this account, except those accrued amounts which are required to be deposited to a restricted fund.

(ii) Separate subaccounts shall be used to segregate trade or traffic receivables, claims receivables and miscellaneous receivables. Receivables arising from transactions with related parties shall also be segregated.

(iii) This account shall also be used to report construction-differential subsidy (CDS) and operating-differential subsidy (ODS) estimated to have accrued to the contractor and which remain unpaid as of the balance sheet date.

(iv) Separate subaccounts shall be maintained by contract number and, under each contract, identified by year of termination and by category of subsidy as applicable, e.g., for CDS categories may include design and inspection costs; and for ODS categories may include wages, maintenance and repair, and any other category for which the contractor receives an operating subsidy.
