
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter B - Regulations Affecting Maritime Carriers and Related Activities
#### PART 232 - UNIFORM FINANCIAL REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Balance Sheet
###### ยง 232.4 Balance sheet accounts.
####### 1,400 Notes Payable and Current Portion of Long-Term Debt.

()

(i) The amount reported for this account shall include the face value of notes, drafts and other evidences of indebtedness issued by the contractor which are payable on demand or within one year of the balance sheet date.

(ii) Separate subaccounts shall be used to identify different groups of creditors, e.g., banks, insurance companies, officers and employees, related parties and all other creditors.

(iii) The amount of capitalized lease liability maturing during the twelve months following the balance sheet date shall also be reported in this account. A record shall be maintained for each lease agreement, with a description of the type of equipment under lease.

(iv) This account shall not include obligations due within one year which the contractor intends to refinance on a long-term basis or which are payable from restricted funds. Long-term refinancing of short-term obligations means replacement with long-term obligations or equity securities or renewal, extension, or replacement with short-term obligations for an uninterrupted period extending beyond one year from the balance sheet date. Such short-term obligations are to be recorded in account 510, Long-term Debt.
