
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter B - Regulations Affecting Maritime Carriers and Related Activities
#### PART 232 - UNIFORM FINANCIAL REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Income Statement
###### ยง 232.5 Income Statement Accounts.
####### 1,600 Vessel Revenue.

()

(i) This account shall be used to report revenue (including surcharges) from operations. As used here, vessel refers to any asset that qualifies for obligation guarantees pursuant to regulations issued under Title XI of the Act (46 CFR part 298).

(ii) For contractors who operate vessels in the U.S. foreign commerce with a construction or operating-differential subsidy agreement (CDSA or ODSA), operating revenue attributed to such vessels shall be separately accounted for to report the following: Freight-foreign, freight-coastwise and intercoastal; passenger-foreign, passenger-coastwide and intercoastal; charter revenue; and other voyage revenue. Contractors with an ODSA shall further describe freight and passenger revenue-foreign (including surcharges), U.S. foreign commerce revenue outbound and foreign commerce revenue (transportation between foreign ports). Revenue shall be accounted for to facilitate reporting the source of revenue by trade route or service area.

(iii) All other contractors shall report vessel revenue by category or class, or by operating segment or division if different business segments or operating divisions produce vessel revenue.
