
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter B - Regulations Affecting Maritime Carriers and Related Activities
#### PART 232 - UNIFORM FINANCIAL REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
##### Income Statement
###### ยง 232.6 Financial report filing requirement.
####### Reporting Frequency and Due Dates.

(a)The contractor shall file a semiannual financial report and an annual financial report, in the format referred to in ยง 232.1(a)(2), which MARAD shall make available to the contractor. This Form MA-172 (Revised) shall be prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and modified to the extent necessary to comply with this regulation. The annual financial report shall be reconciled to the financial statements audited by independent certified public accountants (CPAs) licensed to practice by a state or other political subdivision of the United States, or licensed public accountants licensed to practice by regulatory authority or other political subdivision of the United States on or before December 31, 1970. Both the annual and semiannual financial reports shall be due within 120 days after the close of the contractor's annual or semiannual accounting period. If certified (CPA) statements are not available when required, company certified statements are to be submitted within the due dates, and the CPA statements shall be submitted as soon as available. The respondent may, in place of any Schedule(s) contained in the Form MA-172, submit a schedule or schedules from its audited financial statements, or a computer print-out or schedule, consistent with the instructions provided in the MARAD formats. MARAD will accept electronic options (such as facsimile and Internet) for transmission of required information to MARAD, if practicable.
