
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Regulations Affecting Subsidized Vessels and Operators
#### PART 287 - ESTABLISHMENT OF CONSTRUCTION RESERVE FUNDS
##### ยง 287.10 Withdrawals from fund.
###### Other withdrawals.

(b)Checks, drafts, or other instruments of withdrawal executed by the taxpayer for purposes other than to meet obligations under a contract for the construction or acquisition of a new vessel or vessels or for the liquidation of existing or subsequently incurred purchase-money indebtedness, whether the taxpayer has the entire or a partial interest therein, shall be drawn by the taxpayer to its own order and forwarded to the Administration in Washington, DC, with appropriate explanation of the purpose of the proposed withdrawal. Such withdrawals may occur by reason of a determination by the Administration that the taxpayer is not entitled to the benefits of section 511 of the Act (see ยง 287.5), or that a particular deposit has been improperly made (see ยง 287.13), or by reason of the election of the taxpayer to make such withdrawals. Upon receipt of such checks, drafts, or other instruments of withdrawal, the Administration will give notice thereof to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. The Commissioner will advise the Administration of the receipt of the notice and the date it was received. The Administration shall not countersign such checks, drafts, or other instruments of withdrawal or transmit them to the taxpayer until the expiration of 30 days from the date of receipt of the notice by the Commissioner, unless the Commissioner or such official of the Internal Revenue Service as he may designate for the purpose consents in writing to earlier countersignature by the Administration and transmittal to the taxpayer. Upon the expiration of such 30-day period, or prior thereto if the aforesaid consent of the Commissioner has been obtained, the Administration will countersign the check, draft, or other instrument of withdrawal and forward it to the taxpayer.
