
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Regulations Affecting Subsidized Vessels and Operators
#### PART 287 - ESTABLISHMENT OF CONSTRUCTION RESERVE FUNDS
##### ยง 287.20 Obligation of deposits.
###### Requirements for obligation.

(b)Unless otherwise authorized by the Administration, contracts for the construction of new vessels must be for a fixed price, or provide for a base price that may be adjusted for changes in labor and material costs not exceeding 15 percent of the base price. The fixed or base price, as the case may be, shall be fair and reasonable as determined by the Maritime Administration. Any financial or other interests between the taxpayer and the contractor shall be disclosed to the Administration by the taxpayer. Plans and specifications for the new vessel or vessels must be approved by the Administration to the extent it deems necessary. A deposit in a construction reserve fund may be expended or obligated for expenditure for procurement under an acquisition or construction contract of a part interest in a new vessel or vessels only after obtaining the written consent of the Administration. The granting of such consent shall be entirely in the discretion of the Administration and it may impose such conditions with respect thereto as it may deem necessary or advisable for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of section 511 of the Act. Applications for such consent shall be executed in triplicate, and, together with eight conformed copies thereof, filed with the Administration.
