
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter C - Uninspected Vessels
#### PART 28 - REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL FISHING INDUSTRY VESSELS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 28.65 Termination of unsafe operations.

(a) A Coast Guard Boarding Officer may direct the master or individual in charge of a vessel, with the concurrence of the District Commander, or staff authorized by the District Commander, to immediately take reasonable steps necessary for the safety of individuals on board the vessel if the Boarding Officer observes the vessel being operated in an unsafe manner and determines that an especially hazardous condition exists. This may include directing the master or individual in charge of the vessel to return the vessel to a mooring and remain there until the situation creating the especially hazardous condition is corrected or other specific action is taken.

(b) Hazardous conditions include, but are not limited to, operation with-

(1) An insufficient number of lifesaving equipment on board, to include serviceable Personal Flotation Devices (PFDs), serviceable immersion suits, or adequate survival craft capacity.

(2) An inoperable Emergency Position Indicating Radio Beacon (EPIRB) or radio communication equipment when required by regulation. There should be at least one operable means of communicating distress. When both are required, then at least one must be in operable condition to avoid termination of the voyage;

(3) Inadequate firefighting equipment on board;

(4) Excessive volatile fuel (gasoline or solvents) or volatile fuel vapors in bilges;

(5) Instability resulting from overloading, improper loading or lack of freeboard;

(6) Inoperable bilge system;

(7) Intoxication of the master or individual in charge of a commercial fishing vessel. An individual is intoxicated when he/she is operating a commercial fishing vessel and has an alcohol concentration of .04 percent, or the intoxicant's effect on the person's manner, disposition, speech, muscular movement, general appearance or behavior is apparent by observation;

(8) A lack of adequate operable navigation lights during periods of reduced visibility;

(9) Watertight closures missing or inoperable;

(10) Flooding or uncontrolled leakage in any space; or

(11) A missing or expired certificate of class, as required by 46 U.S.C. 4503(1), for a fish processing vessel.

(c) A Coast Guard Boarding Officer may direct the individual in charge of a fish processing vessel that is missing a Load Line Certificate, or that does not comply with the provisions of the Load Line Certificate issued by the American Bureau of Shipping or a similarly qualified organization, to return the vessel to a mooring and to remain there until the vessel obtains such a certificate.
