
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Regulations Affecting Subsidized Vessels and Operators
#### PART 294 - TANKER SECURITY PROGRAM (TSP)
##### Subpart A - Introduction
###### ยง 294.5 Applications.
####### i.e.,

(iii) Form or type of organization,individual, partnership, corporation, etc.;

(iv) Federal, state, or other laws under which the Applicant is organized or incorporated, and the date of organization or incorporation;

(v) Address of principal offices, and of important branch offices, if any;

(vi) Description of domestic and international and corporate affiliations, including (but not limited to) parent companies, subsidiary companies, and other related companies within its corporate structure, along with a description of the nature of the business transacted with each affiliated corporation;

(vii) Concerning each officer and director of the Applicant, provide name, address, nationality, number of shares owned and specify type of shares whether voting or non-voting;

(viii) For each individual or entity that owns 5 percent or more of the outstanding capital shares of any class of stock of the Applicant, include the name, address, nationality, and number of capital shares owned and specify type of shares whether voting or non-voting; and

(ix) A brief statement of the general effect of each voting agreement, voting trust, or other arrangement whereby the voting rights of 5 percent or more of the outstanding shares of the Applicant are owned, controlled, or exercised by any person not the holder of legal title to such shares. Give the name, address, nationality, and business of any such person, and if not an individual, the form of organization;

(3) Financial data, to include the following:

(i) An audited financial statement or a completed MARAD Form MA-172 dated within 120 days after the close of the most recent fiscal period; and

(ii) Estimated annual forecast of maritime operations for the next five years showing revenue and expense, including explanations of any significant increase or decrease of these items.

(4) Maritime related affiliations including carriers or alliances with which the Applicant maintains an ongoing relationship;

(5) Ongoing business relationships with any refineries, terminals, distributors, or other entities engaged in refined petroleum production and distribution, whether in the United States or in a foreign state, both at the time of application and, if applicable, projected to be established within the five years following the date of application;

(6) Diversity of trading patterns. List of countries and trade routes serviced or trades in which the product tank vessel is to be operated, whether the vessel is to be operated on a voyage charter, or time charter, and any specific tanker pools the vessel is associated with;

(7) Applicant's record of owning and/or operating product tank vessels, include the following:

(i) Provide the number, type, and size of product tank vessels owned and/or operated in the last ten years, specifying whether owned or operated, flag(s) of the individual vessels, trades involved, number of employees in your ship operations department, including the number of employees directly employed in U.S.-flag operations;

(ii) Operating experience with product tank vessels in international trade;

(iii) Demonstration of reliability and breadth of services and experience;

(iv) Experience in delivering services in accordance with government contracts or in relation to the carriage of DoD or other government sponsored cargoes;

(v) Vessels owned by the applicant and chartered by other persons;

(vi) Vessels chartered by the applicant from other persons-provide vessel name, flag of registry, period of charter, name of charterer or owner (as applicable) and area of operation;

(vii) Vessel or ship managers utilized in the operation of your vessels; and

(viii) Any other information you believe to be relevant to your record of owning or operating vessels.

(8) Product tank vessel details and operational standards:

(i) Vessel must be a party to the Oil Companies International Marine Forum's Ship Inspection Report (SIRE) System and applicant must provide date of last SIRE report.

(ii) Applicant must confirm acceptances received and/or retained by the vessel since the last SIRE report.

(iii) Applicant must confirm that the vessel has not been rejected or refused by any Charterer since the inspections leading to the said SIRE report.

(iv) Applicant must provide a current Intertanko Standard Tanker Chartering Questionnaire 88 (Q-88) (no more than 60 days old).

(v) Applicant must confirm vessel has vetting approval from at least two oil majors providing date of vetting and name of oil major, at least one vetting approval must be less than 6 months old at time of application.

(vi) Applicant must provide a copy of vessel's current Class Society issued Safety Management Certificate.

(vii) Applicant must provide a copy of vessel's current Flag State issued International Ship Security Certificate.

(viii) Applicant must confirm vessel's ability to carry one complete un-decanted tank washing in dedicated slop tanks.

(ix) Applicant must submit a General Arrangement Plan, trim and stability booklet, and a set of the ship's capacity and stowage plans. This is to include cargo piping. Applicants are to provide narrative descriptions to accompany the drawings indicating proposed locations of all required spaces and compartments listed in the military requirements.

(x) Applicant must provide evidence of the vessel's most recent U.S. Coast Guard (USCG) and American Bureau of Shipping (ABS) (or other classification society accepted by the Commandant of the Coast Guard), inspections conducted within 12 months of the application.

(xi) Applicant must warrant vessel meets, or will meet, before the start of a TSP Operating Agreement, the requirements of a Quality Management System (QMS). If an applicant does not currently have the required systems in place it will provide a narrative describing how it will have these required systems in place.

(9) Provide an assessment of the utility of the product tank vessel(s) to DoD fuel transportation requirements including any specific national defense sealift features. Provide characteristics that indicate the utility of the product tank vessel(s) to DoD including items of specific value.
