
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Regulations Affecting Subsidized Vessels and Operators
#### PART 294 - TANKER SECURITY PROGRAM (TSP)
##### Subpart A - Introduction
###### ยง 294.5 Applications.
####### https://www.maritime.dot.gov/national-security/tanker-security-program.

(i) Applicant must provide an assessment of the vessel's ability to install CONSOL and the proposed locations for installation. CONSOL details may be found on the Maritime Administration's Tanker Security Program website at:

(ii) Owner must confirm vessel's ability to sustain warranted speed of 14 knots, fully laden, in moderate weather (Force 4 on the Beaufort Scale).

(iii) Provide the number and location of available berths for additional personnel beyond the ship crew.

(10) Provide an assessment of the commercial viability of your proposed product tank vessel(s).

(11) Provide any charters or management agreements that would govern the operation of the vessel if selected (pro forma copies are acceptable), including but not limited to the following:

(i) Demise or bareboat charter;

(ii) Vessel management agreement; and

(iii) Crewing agreement.

(12) Special security agreements. If applicable, provide a copy of any special security agreement.

(13) Documentation Citizen. If applicable, the Documentation Citizen must submit a signed certification as the demise charterer of the proposed Fleet Vessel. The certification must provide a statement that there are no treaties, statutes, regulations, or other laws of the foreign country of the parent that would prohibit the proposed Agreement Holder from performing its obligations under a TSP Operating Agreement.

(14) if operating under a foreign parent, the ultimate foreign parent of the Documentation Citizen demise charterer must submit a signed certification. The certification must provide a statement that the foreign parent will not influence the operation of the Fleet Vessel in a manner that will adversely affect the interests of the United States.

(15) For a United States Citizen Trust agreement, ff the Applicant intends to place the vessel in a United States Citizen Trust during its operation in the fleet, provide a copy of any such trust agreement (pro forma copies are acceptable).

(16) If applicable, provide a replacement product tank vessel plan if your product tank vessel is a fleet vessel over 10 years of age. The replacement product tank vessel plan must include:

(i) The vessel's characteristics as applicable in items (8-9) above;

(ii) A letter of intent or other document indicating agreement for purchase of product tank vessel; and

(iii) A forecast of operations for five years for the replacement product tank vessel.

(17) Special rule regarding age of participating fleet vessel. Age restrictions will not apply during the first 30-month period beginning on the date the vessel begins operating under the TSP Operating Agreement if the Secretary determines that the participant has entered an arrangement to obtain a replacement vessel that will be eligible to be included in a TSP Operating Agreement.

(18) Provide an anti-lobbying certificate as required by 49 CFR part 20 stating that no funds provided under the TSP have been used for lobbying to obtain a TSP Operating Agreement.
