
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter C - Uninspected Vessels
#### PART 28 - REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL FISHING INDUSTRY VESSELS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 28.80 Report of casualty.

(a) Except for a casualty which is required to be reported to the Coast Guard on Form CG 2692 in accordance with part 4 of this chapter, the owner, agent, operator, master, or individual in charge of a vessel involved in a casualty must submit a report in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, as soon as possible after the casualty, to the underwriter of primary insurance for the vessel or to an organization listed in paragraph (d) of this section whenever the casualty involves any of the following.

(1) Loss of life.

(2) An injury that requires professional medical treatment (treatment beyond first aid) and that renders the individual unfit to perform his or her routine duties.

(3) Loss of a vessel.

(4) Damage to or by a vessel, its cargo, apparel or gear, except for fishing gear while not on board a vessel, or that impairs the seaworthiness of the vessel, or that is initially estimated at $2,500.00 or more.

(b) Each underwriter of primary insurance for a commercial fishing industry vessel must submit a report of each casualty involving that vessel to an organization listed in paragraph (d) of this section within 90 days of receiving notice of the casualty and whenever it pays a claim resulting from the casualty. Initial reports must be in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. Subsequent reports must contain sufficient information to identify the casualty and any new or corrected casualty data.

(c) Each report of casualty must include the following information:

(1) The name and address of the vessel owner and vessel operator, if different than the vessel owner;

(2) The name and address of the underwriter of primary insurance for the vessel;

(3) The name, registry number, call sign, gross tonnage, year of build, length, and hull material of the vessel;

(4) The date, location, primary cause, and nature of the casualty;

(5) The specific fishery, intended catch, and length of fishery opening when applicable;

(6) The date that the casualty was reported to the underwriter of primary insurance for the vessel, or to an organization acceptable to the Commandant;

(7) The activity of the vessel at the time of the casualty;

(8) The weather conditions at the time of the casualty, if the weather caused or contributed to the cause of the casualty;

(9) The damages to or by the vessel, its apparel, gear, or cargo;

(10) The monetary amounts paid for damages;

(11) The name, birth date, social security number, address, job title, length of disability, activity at the time of injury, type of injury, and medical treatment required for each individual incapacitated for more than 72 hours, or deceased as a result of the casualty;

(12) The name, registry number, and call sign of every other vessel involved in the casualty; and

(13) The monetary amount paid for an injury or a death.

(d) A casualty to a commercial fishing industry vessel must be reported to an organization that has knowledge and experience in the collection and processing of statistical insurance data and that has been accepted by the Commandant to receive and process casualty data under this part. The Commandant has accepted for this purpose:

(1) Verisk Insurance Solutions, ISO Claim Search&#xAE; Solutions, 545 Washington Boulevard, Jersey City, NJ 07310.

(2) [Reserved]
