
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter C - Regulations Affecting Subsidized Vessels and Operators
#### PART 295 - MARITIME SECURITY PROGRAM (MSP)
##### Subpart C - Maritime Security Program Operating Agreements
###### ยง 295.20 General conditions.
####### Non-renewal for lack of funds.

(f)If, by the first day of a fiscal year, insufficient funds have been appropriated under section 655 of the act for that fiscal year, MARAD shall notify the Congress that MSP Operating Agreements for which insufficient funds are available will be terminated on the 60th day of that fiscal year if sufficient funds are not appropriated or otherwise made available by that date. If only partial funding is appropriated by the 60th day of such fiscal year, then MSP Operating Agreements for which funds are not available shall be terminated using the pro rata distribution method used to award MSP Operating Agreements set forth in ยง 295.12(d). With respect to each terminated agreement the Contractor shall be released from any further obligation under the agreement, and the Contractor may transfer and register the applicable vessel under a foreign registry deemed acceptable by MARAD. In the event that no funds are appropriated, then all MSP Operating Agreements shall be terminated and each Contractor shall be released from its obligations under the agreement. Final payments under the terminated agreements shall be made in accordance with ยง 295.30. To the extent that funds are appropriated in a subsequent fiscal year, existing operating agreements may be renewed if mutually acceptable to the Administrator and the Contractor and the MSP vessel remains eligible.
