
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter C - Uninspected Vessels
#### PART 28 - REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL FISHING INDUSTRY VESSELS
##### Subpart C - Requirements for Documented Vessels That Operate Beyond the Boundary Lines or With More Than 16 Individuals On Board, or for Fish Tender Vessels Engaged in the Aleutian Trade
###### ยง 28.210 First aid equipment and training.
####### First aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) course certification.

(b)Certification in first aid and CPR must be as described in this paragraph.

(1) First aid-a certificate indicating completion of a first aid course from:

(i) The American National Red Cross "Standard First Aid and Emergency Care" or "Multi-media Standard First Aid" course; or

(ii) A course approved by the Coast Guard under ยง 11.201(i) of this chapter.

(2) CPR-A certificate indicating completion of course from:

(i) The American National Red Cross;

(ii) The American Heart Association; or

(iii) A course approved by the Coast guard under ยง 10.205(h)(2)(iii) of this chapter.

(c) Each vessel that operates with more than 2 individuals on board must have at least 1 individual certified in first aid and at least 1 individual certified in CPR. An individual certified in both first aid and CPR will satisfy both of these requirements.

(d) Each vessel that operates with more than 16 individuals on board must have at least 2 individuals certified in first aid and at least 2 individuals certified in CPR. An individual certified in both first aid and CPR may be counted for both requirements.

(e) Each vessel that operates with more than 49 individuals on board must have at least 4 individuals certified in first aid and at least 4 individuals certified in CPR. An individual certified in both first aid and CPR may be counted for both requirements.
