
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter D - Vessel Financing Assistance
#### PART 298 - OBLIGATION GUARANTEES
##### Subpart A - Introduction
###### ยง 298.3 Applications.
####### Application time schedule.

(f)You must submit each application to us at least four (4) months prior to the anticipated date by which you require a Letter Commitment.

(1) We may consider applications with less than four (4) months notice, prior to the anticipated date by which you require a Letter Commitment, if you submit written documentation to us that extenuating circumstances exist.

(2) During the first fifteen (15) calendar days after you submit your application, we will preliminarily review your application for adequacy and completeness.

(i) If we find that your application is incomplete, or if we require additional data, we will notify you promptly in writing, and you will have fifteen (15) calendar days, from the date of each request for additional information, to correct deficiencies.

(ii) If you have not corrected the deficiencies or have not made substantial progress toward correcting them, within the 15 calendar days, then we may terminate the processing of your application without prejudice.

(3) Once we consider your Title XI application complete, we will act on the application within a period of 60 calendar days, unless for good cause, we find it necessary to extend the 60 day period.

(4) If you do not complete your application and we do not act upon your application within four (4) months from the submission date, unless we extend the time period, we will notify you in writing that processing of the application is terminated and that you may reapply at a later date.

(i) If we terminate your application without prejudice, we will not require you to pay a new filing fee for a later application for a similar project that you file within one year of the termination date.

(ii) If you submit an application for a substantially different project, you must pay a new filing fee. We will determine whether the application is substantially different on a case-by-case basis.

(5) If we issue you a Letter Commitment, you must submit two (2) sets of the Closing documentation to us for review at least six (6) weeks prior to the anticipated Closing. The six weeks time period will give us time to complete an adequate review of the documentation. You must use our standard form of documentation.
