
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter D - Vessel Financing Assistance
#### PART 298 - OBLIGATION GUARANTEES
##### Subpart B - Eligibility
###### ยง 298.12 Applicant and operator's qualifications.
####### Business and affiliations of applicants.

(c)You must include:

(1) A brief description of your principal business activities during the past five years.

(2) A list of all business entities that directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, control, are controlled by, or are under common control with you.

(3) The nature of the business transacted by each listed entity and the relationship between these entities. This information may be presented in the form of a chart.

(4) Whether any of the affiliated entities have previously applied for or received Title XI assistance.

(5) A statement indicating whether the applicant, any predecessor or affiliated entity has been in bankruptcy or reorganization under any insolvency or reorganization proceeding and if so, give details.

(6) A statement indicating whether the applicant or any predecessor or affiliated entity is now, or during the past five years has been, in default under any agreement or undertaking with others or with the United States of America, or is currently delinquent on any Federal debt, and if so, provide explanatory information.

(7) A list of your banking references:

(i) Principal bank(s) or lending institutions(s)-name and address;

(ii) Nature of relationship; and

(iii) Individual references-name(s), telephone and fax number of banking officer(s).
