
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter D - Vessel Financing Assistance
#### PART 298 - OBLIGATION GUARANTEES
##### Subpart B - Eligibility
###### ยง 298.12 Applicant and operator's qualifications.
####### Operating ability.

(f)(1) You must submit a detailed statement showing your ability to successfully operate the financed Vessel(s).

(2) If a company other than you will operate the Vessel(s), then the information in paragraph (f)(1) of this section must be provided for the operating company together with a copy of the operating agreement.

(3) You must submit a copy of any management agreement(s) between you and any related or unrelated organization(s) which will affect the management of the Title XI Vessel or shipyard.

(4) In the case of an Eligible Shipyard, which is an applicant for a guarantee for a Shipyard Project, a detailed statement must be submitted showing your ability to successfully operate the Shipyard Project and construct/reconstruct Vessels, including name, education, background of, and licenses held by, all senior supervisory personnel concerned with the physical operation of the Shipyard Project.

(5) Where an operator has an historical performance record, we will consider this record in evaluating your operating ability. For newly formed entities, we will evaluate the performance of affiliates and/or companies associated with the principals (where the principals have a significant degree of control) in determining your operating ability. However, unless the affiliates or principals have an obligation with respect to the debt, we will not consider historical performance in evaluating your creditworthiness.
