
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter D - Vessel Financing Assistance
#### PART 298 - OBLIGATION GUARANTEES
##### Subpart B - Eligibility
###### § 298.13 Financial requirements.
####### Financial definitions.

(d)For the purpose of this section and §§ 298.35 and 298.42 of this part:

(1) "Company" means any Person subject to financial requirements imposed under paragraph (f) of this section and in § 298.35, as well as the reporting requirements imposed by § 298.42.

(2) "Working Capital" means the excess, if any, of current assets over current liabilities, both determined in accordance with GAAP and adjusted as follows:

(i) In determining current assets you must exclude:

(A) Any securities, obligations or evidence of indebtedness of a Related Party or of any stockholder, director, officer or employee (or any member of his family) of the Company or of such Related Party, except advances to agents required for the normal current operation of the Company's vessels and current receivables arising out of the ordinary course of business and not outstanding for more than 60 days; and

(B) An amount equal to any excess of unterminated voyage revenue over unterminated voyage expenses.

(ii) In determining current liabilities, you must deduct any excess of unterminated voyage expenses over unterminated voyage revenue and add one half of all annual charter hire and other lease obligations (having a term of more than six months) due and payable within the succeeding fiscal year, other than charter hire and such other lease obligations already included and reported as a current liability on the Company's balance sheet.

(3) "Equity" or "net worth" means, as of any date, (the total of paid-in-capital stock, paid-in surplus, earned surplus and appropriated surplus,) and all other amounts that would be included in net worth in accordance with GAAP, but does not include:

(i) Any receivables from any stockholder, director, Officer or employee (or their family) of the Company or from any Related Party (other than current receivables arising out of the ordinary course of business and not outstanding for more than 60 days), and

(ii) Any increment resulting from the reappraisal of assets.

(4) "Long-Term Debt" means, as of any date, the total notes, bonds, debentures, equipment obligations and other evidence of indebtedness that would be included in long term debt in accordance with GAAP. You must include any guarantee or other liability for the debt of any other Person not otherwise included on the balance sheet.

(5) "Capitalizable Cost" means the aggregate of the Actual Cost of the Vessel or Shipyard Project and those other items which customarily would be capitalized as Vessel costs or Shipyard Project costs under GAAP.

(6) "Depreciated Capitalizable Cost" means the Capitalizable Cost of a Vessel or Shipyard Project, depreciated on a straightline basis over the same useful life as determined by us for Actual Cost, and depreciated as required by § 298.21(g).
