
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter C - Uninspected Vessels
#### PART 28 - REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL FISHING INDUSTRY VESSELS
##### Subpart C - Requirements for Documented Vessels That Operate Beyond the Boundary Lines or With More Than 16 Individuals On Board, or for Fish Tender Vessels Engaged in the Aleutian Trade
###### ยง 28.245 Communication equipment.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section, each vessel must be equipped as follows.

(1) Each vessel must be equipped with a VHF radiotelephone capable of transmitting and receiving on the frequency or frequencies within the 156-162 MHz band necessary to communicate with a public coast station or U.S. Coast Guard station serving the area in which the vessel is operating.

(2) Each vessel that operates more than 20 miles from the coastline, in addition to the VHF radiotelephone required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section, must be equipped with a radiotelephone transceiver capable of transmitting and receiving on frequencies in the 2-4 MHz band necessary to communicate with a public coast station or U.S. Coast Guard station serving the area in which the vessel is operating.

(3) Each vessel that operates more than 100 miles from the coastline, in addition to the communication equipment required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section must be equipped with a radiotelephone transceiver capable of transmitting and receiving on frequencies in the 2-27.5 MHz band necessary to communicate with a public coast station or U.S. Coast Guard station serving the area in which the vessel is operating.

(4) Each vessel that operates in waters contiguous to Alaska where no public coast station or U.S. Coast Guard station is within communications range of a VHF radio transceiver operating on the 156-162 MHz band or the 2-4 MHz band, in addition to the VHF radio communication equipment required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section, must be equipped with a radiotelephone transceiver capable of transmitting and receiving on frequencies in the 2-27.5 MHz band necessary to communicate with a public coast station or a U.S. Coast Guard station serving the area in which the vessel is operating.

(b) A single radio transceiver capable of meeting the requirements of paragraphs (a) (2) and (3), or paragraphs (a) (2), (3), and (4) of this section, is acceptable.

(c) Satellite communication capability with the system servicing the area in which the vessel is operating is acceptable as an alternative to the requirements of paragraphs (a)(2), (a)(3), or (a)(4) of this section.

(d) A cellular telephone capable of communicating with a public coast station or a U.S. Coast Guard station serving the area in which the vessel is operating is acceptable as an alternative to the requirements of paragraphs (a)(2), (a)(3), or (a)(4) of this section.

(e) A radiotelephone transceiver installed on board a vessel before September 15, 1991, capable of transmitting and receiving on frequencies on the 4-20 MHz band may continue to be used to satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (a)(3) and (a)(4) of this section.

(f) The principle operating position of the communication equipment must be at the operating station.

(g) Communication equipment must be installed to ensure safe operation of the equipment and to facilitate repair. It must be protected against vibration, moisture, temperature, and excessive currents and voltages. It must be located so as to minimize the possibility of water intrusion from windows broken by heavy seas.

(h) Communication equipment must comply with the technical standards and operating requirements issued by the Federal Communications Commission, as set forth in 47 CFR part 80.

(i) All communication equipment must be provided with an emergency source of power that complies with ยง 28.375.
