
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter D - Vessel Financing Assistance
#### PART 298 - OBLIGATION GUARANTEES
##### Subpart B - Eligibility
###### ยง 298.14 Economic soundness.
####### Objective criteria.

(d)We must make a finding of economic soundness as to each project based on an assessment of the entire project. In order for the project to receive approval, we must determine that a project meets the following criteria:

(1) The projected long-term demand (equal to length of time that you request financing) for the particular Vessel(s) or new Shipyard Project to be financed must exceed the supply of similar vessels or new shipyard project in the applicable markets. We will determine the supply of similar vessels and similar shipyard projects based on:

(i) Existing equipment,

(ii) Similar vessels or new shipyard project under construction, and

(iii) The projected need for new equipment in that particular segment of the maritime industry.

(2) We will base our determination of the project's economic soundness on the following:

(i) Conformity of your projections with our supply and demand analyses;

(ii) Availability of charters, letters of intent, outstanding contractual commitments, contracts of affreightment, transportation agreements or similar agreements or undertakings; and

(iii) Your existing market share compared with the market share necessary to meet projected revenues.

(3) In cases where market conditions are temporarily inadequate for you to service the Obligation indebtedness at the time of Vessel delivery, or completion of the Shipyard Project, we may approve your application only if you have sufficient outside sources of cash flow to service your indebtedness during this temporary period.

(4) With respect to the asset for which Obligations are to be issued, the operating cash flow to Obligation debt service ratio over the term of the Guarantee must be in excess of 1:1. Operating cash flow means revenues less operating and capital expenses including taxes paid but exclusive of interest, accrued taxes, depreciation and amortization for the Title XI asset. Debt service means interest plus principal.
