
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter D - Vessel Financing Assistance
#### PART 298 - OBLIGATION GUARANTEES
##### Subpart D - Documentation
###### ยง 298.31 Mortgage.
####### Mortgage secured by multiple Vessels.

(f)(1) When two or more Vessels are to be security for Guarantees, the Security Agreement may provide that one Mortgage relating to all the Vessels (Fleet Mortgage) shall be executed, perfected and delivered to us by the Obligor.

(2) If the Fleet Mortgage relates to undelivered Vessels, the Fleet Mortgage will be executed upon delivery of the first vessel. At the time of each subsequent Vessel delivery, the Obligor shall execute a supplement to the Fleet Mortgage which makes that Vessel subject to our Mortgage lien.

(3) The Fleet Mortgage shall provide that payment by the Obligor of the entire amount of Obligations covered or to be covered by Guarantees shall be required to discharge the Fleet Mortgage, regardless of the amount of the Secretary's Note or Notes issued and outstanding at the time of execution and delivery of the Fleet Mortgage or the number of Vessels covered by the Fleet Mortgage.

(4) The discharge date of the Fleet Mortgage shall be the maturity date of the Secretary's Note. We may require, as authorized by section 1104(c)(2) of the Act, such payments of principal prior to maturity (redemptions), regarding all related Obligations, as deemed necessary to maintain adequate security for the Guarantees.

(5) Each Fleet Mortgage shall provide that in the event of constructive total loss, requisition of title or sale of any Vessel covered by the Fleet Mortgage, indebtedness represented by the Obligations shall be paid, unless we otherwise determine that there remains adequate security for the Guarantees, and the Vessel shall be discharged from the Mortgage lien.
