
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter D - Vessel Financing Assistance
#### PART 298 - OBLIGATION GUARANTEES
##### Subpart D - Documentation
###### ยง 298.35 Title XI Reserve Fund and Financial Agreement.
####### Deposits.

(d)Unless the Company, as of the close of its accounting year, was subject to and in compliance with the financial requirements set forth in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the Company shall make one or more deposits to us to be held by the Depository (the Title XI Reserve Fund), as further provided for in the Depository Agreement. The amount of deposit as to any year, or period less than a full year, where applicable, will be determined as follows:

(1) Fifty percent of the Title XI Reserve Fund Net Income, less an amount equal to 10% of the Company's total original equity investment in the Vessel or Vessels, (if the Company is the owner of the assets), will be deposited into the Title XI Reserve Fund.

(2) In the case of Shipyard Project, the shipyard shall make a deposit at two percent of its net cash flow, as defined by GAAP, and as shown on its audited financial statements.

(3) Any additional amounts that may be required pursuant to the Security Agreement or any other agreement in the documentation to which the Company is a party.

(4) Any additional amounts that may be required, pursuant to provisions of the Security Agreement or any other agreement in the documentation to which the Company is a party.

(5) Irrespective of the Company's deposit requirement, as stated in paragraphs (d) (1) through (4) of this section, the Company will not be required to make any deposits into the Title XI Reserve Fund if any of the following events will have occurred:

(i) The Company will have discharged the Obligations and related Secretary's Note and will have paid other sums secured under the Security Agreement and Preferred Mortgage;

(ii) All Guarantees with respect to outstanding Obligations will have terminated pursuant to the provisions of the Security Agreements, other than by reason of payment of the Guarantees; or

(iii) The amount in the Title XI Reserve Fund, (including any securities at market value), is equal to, or in excess of 50 percent of the principal amount of outstanding Obligations.
