
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Emergency Operations
#### PART 308 - WAR RISK INSURANCE
##### Subpart A - General
###### § 308.3 Applications for insurance; warranties; supporting documents; payment of binder fees.
####### Warranties,In general.

(b)-(1)Applications for war risk hull and protection and indemnity insurance in any eligible category of this part 308 shall include a warranty that, at all times during the effective period of the binder and any insurance attaching thereunder, the insured vessel, regardless of its nation of registry, will comply with Department of Commerce Transportation Order T-1 (44 CFR parts 401 and 402), or any modifications thereof so long as it remains in force and that the vessel will not be chartered, unless in accordance with the provisions of §§ 221.11 and 221.13 of this chapter, which requirement is applicable to any charter in existence at the time the applicant applies for insurance.

(2) Vessels described in § 308.1(a). Applications for war risk insurance on a vessel described in § 308.1(a) shall contain the warranty that at, and from the date of issuance of the interim binder, and for and during the term of any insurance attaching thereunder, such vessel will remain eligible within its category.

(3) Vessels described in § 308.1(b). Applications for war risk insurance on a vessel described in § 308.1(b) shall contain the warranties that at all times the vessel will remain eligible within its applicable category; that the vessel will be made available for use by the United States pursuant to the signed Contract of Commitment submitted with the insurance applications, as required by MARAD; that the vessel will remain in the approved service; and that no controlling interest in the vessel shall be transferred by a subsequent sale or long-term charter, except on the condition that the successor in interest agrees to be bound by the terms of the applicant's Contract of Commitment. All instruments transferring any controlling interest in the vessel, including long-term charter or merger agreements, shall be submitted to MARAD for prior approval.

(4) Vessels described in § 308.1(c). Applications for war risk insurance on a vessel described in § 308.1(c) shall contain warranties that the vessel will remain in the approved service and that any change in flag or service will be reported in advance to MARAD for a new determination as to whether the vessel's service is in the interest of the national defense or the national economy of the United States. Vessels in this category are not eligible for war risk insurance interim binders.

(5) Vessel locator filing requirements. Applications for insurance on vessels in all categories, except tugs and barges and vessels used exclusively in the fishing trade or industry, described in § 308.1(a), shall contain a warranty that at all times the vessel will file reports as required under the U.S. Coast Guard's Automated Mutual-Assistance Vessel Rescue System (AMVER) as prescribed in § 308.2(c) of this section.
