
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter G - Emergency Operations
#### PART 308 - WAR RISK INSURANCE
##### Subpart F - War Risk Cargo Insurance
###### Open Policy War Risk Cargo Insurance
####### ยง 308.518 Standard optional endorsement No. 1, Form MA-300-A.

Standard Optional Endorsement No. 1, which may be obtained from MARAD's underwriting agent or MARAD, limits the amount payable for the loss of goods to the actual bona fide pecuniary loss to the Assured, exclusive of any allowance for anticipated or accrued profit arising out of the insured venture. An Assured may elect to have his Open Cargo Policy endorsed with Standard Optional Endorsement No. 1 applicable on all shipments, or on all outward shipments, or on all inward shipments, or on named commodities except goods sold by the Assured prior to loading on board the overseas vessel and shipped for the account and at the risk of third persons other than a branch subsidiary or affiliate of the Assured. When an Assured has elected to have Standard Optional Endorsement No. 1 made applicable to certain named commodities he may not change to a different basis of valuation for those commodities until after he has given ninety (90) days written notice to the Maritime Administrator through the Underwriting Agent of his election to make the change. Application for Standard Optional Endorsement No. 1 may be made to the Underwriting Agent which is authorized to issue the endorsement without prior approval of the Maritime Administrator.
