
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter C - Uninspected Vessels
#### PART 28 - REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL FISHING INDUSTRY VESSELS
##### Subpart D - Requirements for Vessels Which Have Their Keel Laid or Are at a Similar Stage of Construction on or After or Which Undergo a Major Conversion Completed on or After September 15, 1991, and That Operate With More Than 16 Individuals on Board
###### ยง 28.335 Fuel systems.
####### Fuel piping.

(e)Except as permitted in paragraph (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section, each fuel line must be seamless and must be of steel, annealed copper, nickel-copper, or copper-nickel. Each fuel line must have a wall thickness of not less than that of 0.035 inch (0.9 millimeters) except that:

(1) Aluminum piping is acceptable on an aluminum hull vessel provided it is installed outside the machinery space and is at least Schedule 80 in thickness; and

(2) Nonmetallic flexible hose is acceptable but must-

(i) Not be used in lengths of more than 30 inches (0.82 meters);

(ii) Be visible, easily accessible, and must not penetrate a watertight bulkhead;

(iii) Be fabricated with an inner tube and a cover of synthetic rubber or other suitable material reinforced with wire braid.

(iv) Be fitted with suitable, corrosion resistant, compression fittings; and

(v) Be installed with two clamps at each end of the hose, if designed for use with clamps. Clamps must not rely on spring tension and must be installed beyond the bead or flare or over the serrations of the mating spud, pipe, or hose fitting.

(f) A fuel line subject to internal head pressure from fuel in the tank must be fitted with a positive shutoff valve located at the tank which is operable from a safe location outside the space in which the valve is located.

(g) A vessel less than 79 feet (24 meters) in length may comply with one of the following standards in lieu of the requirements of paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section.

(1) ABYC H-33.

(2) Chapter 5 of NFPA 302.

(3) 33 CFR chapter I, subchapter S (Boating Safety).
