
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter C - Uninspected Vessels
#### PART 28 - REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL FISHING INDUSTRY VESSELS
##### Subpart D - Requirements for Vessels Which Have Their Keel Laid or Are at a Similar Stage of Construction on or After or Which Undergo a Major Conversion Completed on or After September 15, 1991, and That Operate With More Than 16 Individuals on Board
###### ยง 28.350 General requirements for electrical systems.

(a) Electrical equipment exposed to the weather or in a location exposed to seas must be waterproof, watertight, or enclosed in a watertight housing.

(b) Aluminum must not be used for current carrying parts of electrical equipment or wiring.

(c) As far as practicable, electrical equipment must not be installed in lockers used to store paint, oil, turpentine, or other flammable or combustible liquid. If electrical equipment, such as lighting, is necessary in these spaces, it must be explosion-proof or intrinsically safe.

(d) Explosion-proof and intrinsically safe equipment must meet the requirements of 46 CFR part 111, subpart 111.105.

(e) Metallic enclosures and frames of electrical equipment must be grounded.

(f) Each vessel with a nonmetallic hull must have a continuous, non-current carrying grounding conductor which connects together the enclosures and frames of electrical equipment and which connects metallic items such as engines, fuel tanks, and equipment enclosures to a common ground point.

(g) The equipment grounding conductor must be sized in accordance with section 250-95 of NFPA Standard 70.
