
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter H - Training
#### PART 310 - MERCHANT MARINE TRAINING
##### Subpart A - Regulations and Minimum Standards for State, Territorial or Regional Maritime Academies and Colleges
###### ยง 310.3 Schools and courses.
####### General rules for operation of a School.

(b)(1) The Schools shall maintain adequate berthing, messing and classroom instruction facilities ashore, or have plans to establish same at the earliest possible time, unless prevented from doing so by conditions beyond the control of the School. During a period a school is implementing an approved plan, Cadets may be housed and instructed on a Training Ship. However, the approved plan may include the ongoing use of the Training Ship as an instructional and laboratory facility and for the berthing of entering class cadets for a period not to exceed six months for purposes of shipboard indoctrination.

(2) The School shall arrange for the Cadet or Midshipman to take the United States Coast Guard original licensing examination prior to the date of graduation.

(3) As a condition to receiving payments of any amount allowable by the 1958 Act and the Act in excess of $25,000 for any year, a School shall agree to admit student residents of other States to the extent of at least ten percent (10%) of each entering class, if such out-of-State students apply for admission and are otherwise qualified for such admission. The calculation of residents of other States shall exclude residents of foreign countries, but shall include residents of Territories and possessions of the United States (including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico).

(4) Upon the request of the Administration a school shall furnish such reports and estimates as may be required in the preparation of Federal Budget estimates.

(5) State authorities shall prescribe and administer rules and regulations for the internal organization and administration of each School.

(6) The Administration shall have the right to inspect shore base facilities at all reasonable times.

(7) Records pertaining to a School, its officers, crew, Cadets, the Training Ship, and shore base, shall be maintained by each School and shall be available to the Supervisor upon request. A detailed record of applications for admissions, enrollments, reenrollments, absences with or without leave, hospitalizations, determinations of students not in good standing, disenrollments, graduations, and other data concerning cadets and Midshipmen shall be kept by each school for the period of enrollment plus one year. Copies of these records shall be furnished to the Supervisor upon request.

(8) The Administration may include in any pamphlets, brochures or other public information materials an adequate description of each School giving the reader knowledge of the existence of the School, its purposes and where to obtain application forms and further information.
