
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter H - Training
#### PART 310 - MERCHANT MARINE TRAINING
##### Subpart A - Regulations and Minimum Standards for State, Territorial or Regional Maritime Academies and Colleges
###### ยง 310.4 Training Ship.
####### General provisions.

(a)(1) The State, acting through the School shall exercise reasonable care to safeguard the interests of the Administration and avoid (i) injury to any person aboard the Training Ship, and (ii) loss and damage of every nature with respect to the Training Ship. Also, the school shall have reasonable layup procedures during noncruise status of the Training Ship.

(2) Excerpts from log books and reports shall be submitted as directed by the Supervisor.

(3) Initial telegraphic or telephonic reports shall be made promptly to the Supervisor and the appropriate Region Director in the event of an accident causing (i) serious injury to any person, or to the Training Ship, or (ii) damage inflicted by the Training Ship upon any other ship or other property. Such reports shall be followed by complete written details of the occurrence.

(4) The Supervisor shall determine whether or not the berth of the Training Ship at the base in its home port is suitable from the standpoint of safe mooring. When the Training Ship is not on cruise, the Commanding Officer or Superintendent shall keep the Supervisor informed of the location of the Training Ship and any contemplated change of berth.

(5) The following notice shall be posted conspicuously aboard each Training Ship furnished to a State for use by a School:

This training ship is the property of the United States of America. It is furnished to the State of ________ by the Department of Transportation, Maritime Administration, for the purpose of training young men and women to become officers in the merchant marine of the United States. Neither the State, the Commanding Officer, nor any other person has any right, power or authority to create, incur or permit to be imposed upon this vessel, any lien whatever.

(6) No changes requiring U.S. Coast Guard approval shall be made to the Training Ship without the written approval of the Administration.

(7) In the event of the termination of the use of a Training Ship by the State or by the Maritime Administrator, the State shall return to the State base port, the Training Ship and all property whatsoever owned by the Administration. Title to all additions, replacements, and renewals made by the State shall vest in the Administration without charge.
