
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter H - Training
#### PART 310 - MERCHANT MARINE TRAINING
##### Subpart A - Regulations and Minimum Standards for State, Territorial or Regional Maritime Academies and Colleges
###### ยง 310.3 Schools and courses.
####### Curriculum.

(c)(1) The minimum period of training shall be three (3) years. For the Cadets and Midshipmen at the schools located in California, Maine, Massachusetts, New York and Texas at least six (6) months of the total time must be aboard a Training Ship in cruise status. A maximum of two (2) months of training time aboard commercial vessels of not less than 2,500 horsepower may be substituted for two (2) months of the specified cruise time. For the cadets at the Great Lakes Maritime Academy, six (6) months of the time shall be aboard Great Lakes commercial vessels and an additional three (3) months shall be aboard either a Training Ship in a cruise status or Great Lakes commercial vessels while underway. Cadets in training status aboard commercial vessels shall sign on board as cadets and shall pursue their training within the framework of formal sea projects prepared and monitored by their respective Schools.

(2) State authorities shall prescribe and be responsible for the courses of instruction and general system of training and the addition of such reasonable maritime courses as may be prescribed by Federal authorities, subject to approval by the Maritime Administrator. The curriculum as a composite shall, as a minimum, meet the requirements set out in the Federal Curriculum Standards for Merchant Marine Officers Training Program.

(3) Copies of the Federal Curriculum Standards for Merchant Marine Officers Training Program at the State maritime academies may be obtained from the Maritime Administration, Office of Policy and Plans, 400 Seventh Street, SW, Washington, DC 20590.
