
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter H - Training
#### PART 310 - MERCHANT MARINE TRAINING
##### Subpart A - Regulations and Minimum Standards for State, Territorial or Regional Maritime Academies and Colleges
###### ยง 310.4 Training Ship.
####### Maintenance and repairs,Administration payment.

(e)-(1)A Training Ship shall be maintained in good repair by the Secretary as provided by the 1958 Act and the Act. Expenses for repairs, changes and alterations, repairs to equipage and replacements of equipage in accordance with the Administration's approved allowance lists for the Training Ship (i.e. authorized under the Act and to the extent that funds are available), shall be borne by the Administration under the following terms and conditions:

(i) When it is necessary to repair or drydock the Training Ship because of damage (except in an emergency, when on foreign cruise), the Commanding Officer or Superintendent shall notify the Supervisor and appropriate Region Director by telephone or telegraph in order to enable a representative of the Region Director, if available, to be present, when the survey of the damage is made.

(ii) Repairs which need not be carried out during the annual overhaul period shall be made by the Cadets or Midshipmen, if possible, under the supervision of the officers. When repair material is required for this purpose, the Commanding Officer or Superintendent shall forward to the Supervisor a list of such material and estimated costs, and a description of the repairs to be carried out by the Cadets or Midshipmen. The Supervisor shall promptly advise the Commanding Officer or Superintendent whether or not such work comes under the heading of repairs, and if procurement of the material is authorized.

(iii) Requisitions covering repairs, renewals, and betterments shall be prepared in quintuplicate by the heads of departments of the Training Ship and submitted by the Commanding Officer or Superintendent to the Supervisor at least forty-five (45) days before the date of the annual overhaul, with one copy to the Region Director.

(iv) The State is authorized to expend not to exceed $5,000 for emergency repairs which become necessary while the Training Ship is on foreign cruise. The Administration shall reimburse the State upon submission of vouchers to, and approval by, the Maritime Administrator. To obtain reimbursement for emergency repairs estimated to cost in excess of $5,000, authorization must be obtained by the State from the Supervisor prior to undertaking such repairs. The Commanding Officer shall be responsible for all necessary filings with the United States Customs Service to avoid duties upon all emergency repairs performed outside the United States. If penalties are imposed, for non-filing or improper filing, they shall be solely the responsibility of the State.
