
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter H - Training
#### PART 310 - MERCHANT MARINE TRAINING
##### Subpart A - Regulations and Minimum Standards for State, Territorial or Regional Maritime Academies and Colleges
###### ยง 310.6 Entrance requirements.
####### Enrollment prior to April 1, 1982.

(a)A candidate for admission to a school who wishes to be considered for Federal student subsistence payments shall:

(1) Be a citizen of the United States.

(2) Be obligated to (i) complete the Naval Science curriculum (ii) take all necessary and positive steps to obtain a commission as ensign in the United States Naval Reserve, (iii) apply before graduation for such commission, and (iv) accept such commission if offered. A breach of this agreement will result in termination of cadet status and of Federal student subsistence payments, and may lead to legal action for recovery of all past such payments. The requirements of this paragraph shall not apply at The Great Lakes Maritime Academy.

(3) Be obligated to sit for the appropriate licensing examination of the United States Coast Guard. A breach of this agreement will result in termination of cadet status and of Federal student subsistence payments, and may lead to legal action for recovery of all past such payments.

(4) Meet the physical standards specified by the United States Coast Guard for original licensing as a merchant marine officer. The written certification of the Superintendent of the school, based on a physical examination by a doctor, the results of which are on record at the school, that a candidate meets these requirements, will be acceptable to the Administration.

(5) Possess a secondary school education or equivalent, satisfactory for admission as an undergraduate, to colleges or universities under control of the State in which the school is located.

(6) Meet requirements established by the school in regard to such criteria as the individual's secondary school grades, rank in graduating class, aptitude, achievement, and qualities of leadership.
