
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter H - Training
#### PART 310 - MERCHANT MARINE TRAINING
##### Subpart A - Regulations and Minimum Standards for State, Territorial or Regional Maritime Academies and Colleges
###### ยง 310.7 Federal student subsistence allowances and student incentive payments.
####### Reporting requirement.,https://mscs.marad.dot.gov.

(6)(i) The schools must promptly submit copies of all resignation forms (containing the name, reason, address and telephone number) of juniors and seniors to the Supervisor, to be used for monitoring and enforcement purposes. Each graduate must submit an annual Service Obligation Compliance Report form (MA-930) to the Maritime Administration (Supervisor) between January 1 and March 1 following his or her graduation. After the initial report is submitted, each graduate must continue to submit annual reports during the same time frame between January 1 and March 1 for six (6) consecutive years thereafter, or until all components of the service obligation are fulfilled, whichever is latest. Each graduate will file a minimum of seven (7) reports in order to give information on all six (6) years of the armed forces reserve and merchant marine officer license service obligations. Graduates are encouraged to submit their Service Obligation Compliance Report forms (MA-930) to MARAD using the web-based Internet system atReports may also be mailed to: Compliance Specialist, Office of Policy and Plans, Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation, 400 7th St., SW., Room 7123, Washington, DC 20590. In case a deferment has been granted to engage in a maritime-related graduate course of study, annual reports must be submitted during the extension period resulting from such deferments. Examples of the reporting requirements are as follows.

(ii) The Maritime Administration will provide reporting forms. However, non-receipt of such forms will not exempt a graduate from submitting information as required by this paragraph. The reporting form has been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (2133-0509).
