
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter H - Training
#### PART 310 - MERCHANT MARINE TRAINING
##### Subpart A - Regulations and Minimum Standards for State, Territorial or Regional Maritime Academies and Colleges
###### ยง 310.7 Federal student subsistence allowances and student incentive payments.
####### Federal student incentive payments,General provisions.

(b)-(1)In accordance with the Administration's established subsidy quotas for classes entering after April 1982, each school shall identify to the Administration, no later than February 1 annually, those students who have been selected to receive the student incentive payment authorized by the Act. The students so identified must meet the requirements of ยง 310.6(b). The Administration shall provide the school with the necessary service obligation contracts. The contracts will be signed by the designated students and returned by the School to the Supervisor and shall become effective when signed by the Supervisor or his or her designee. A copy shall be returned to the School for transmittal to the student. Payments will be issued to midshipmen in amounts equaling $4000 for each academic year of attendance whom execute the service obligation contracts providing for such payment amount. Payments shall commence to accrue on the day each such midshipman begins his or her first term of work at the School. Such payments shall be made quarterly to the midshipman until the completion of his or her course of instruction but in no event for more than four (4) academic years. The School shall submit a quarterly certified Daily Attendance Report listing the names of all designated midshipmen who are entitled to student incentive payments. Midshipmen who do not take all necessary steps to maintain their midshipman status, who lose their midshipman status due to action by the U.S. Navy, or who make the commitment identified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section will have their student incentive payment terminated.
