
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter H - Training
#### PART 310 - MERCHANT MARINE TRAINING
##### Subpart A - Regulations and Minimum Standards for State, Territorial or Regional Maritime Academies and Colleges
###### ยง 310.7 Federal student subsistence allowances and student incentive payments.
####### Breach of contract,Breach before graduation.

(7)-(i)(A) If the Maritime Administrator determines that any individual who has accepted Federal student incentive payments for a minimum of two (2) academic years has failed to fulfill any part of the contract set forth in ยง 310.7(b)(3), such individual may be ordered by the Secretary of Defense to active duty in one of the Armed Forces of the United States to serve a period of time not to exceed two (2) years. In cases of hardship as determined by the Maritime Administrator, the Maritime Administrator may waive this provision in whole or in part.

(B) If the Secretary of Defense is unable or unwilling to order an individual to active duty under paragraph (b)(7)(i)(A) of this section, or if the Maritime Administrator determines that reimbursement of the cost of education provided would better serve the interests of the United States, the Maritime Administrator may recover from the individual the amount of student incentive payments, plus interest and attorney's fees.

(C) The Maritime Administrator is authorized to reduce the amount to be recovered under paragraph (b)(7)(i)(B) of this section from such individual to reflect partial performance of service obligations and such other factors as the Maritime Administrator determines merit such reduction.

(D) For purposes of paragraph (b)(7)(i)(A) of this section, an "academic year" is defined as the completion by a student of the required number of semesters, trimesters, or quarters, as applicable, whether at school or at sea, which comprise a complete course of study for an academic year. Thus, liability under paragraph (b)(7)(i)(A) of this section begins for students at the beginning of their third (3rd) academic year, whether at school or at sea.
