
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter H - Training
#### PART 310 - MERCHANT MARINE TRAINING
##### Subpart A - Regulations and Minimum Standards for State, Territorial or Regional Maritime Academies and Colleges
###### ยง 310.7 Federal student subsistence allowances and student incentive payments.
####### Determination of compliance with service obligation contract; deferment; waiver; and appeal procedures.

(10)(i) An official of the Administration designated by the Supervisor shall:

(A) Render determinations of whether a student or graduate has breached his or her service agreement;

(B) Grant or deny a deferment of the service obligation under paragraph (b)(9) of this section, except obligations otherwise a part of the graduate Reserve officer status;

(C) Grant or deny a waiver of the requirements of the service agreement in hardship cases.

(ii)(A) If a student or graduate disagrees with the decision of the designated official, the student or graduate may appeal that decision to the Maritime Administrator. The appeal must set forth all the legal and factual grounds on which the student or graduate bases the appeal. Any grounds not set forth in the appeal are waived.

(B) Appeals must be filed with the Maritime Administrator within 30 calendar days of the date of receipt by such student or graduate of the written decision of the designated official. Appeals must be filed at the Office of the Secretary, Maritime Administration, Room 7210, 400 7th St., SW., Washington, DC 20590. Each decision will include a notice of appeal rights.

(C) A decision is deemed to be received by a student or graduate five (5) working days after the date it is mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the address for such student or graduate listed with the Office of Policy and Plans. It is the responsibility of such student or graduate to ensure that their current mailing address is on file with the Office of Policy and Plans, 400 7th St., SW., Washington, DC 20590.

(D) If the appeal is sent by conventional mail (through the United States Postal Service), the date of filing is determined by the postmark date. If no legible postmark date appears on the mailing, the appeal is deemed to be filed five (5) working days before the date of its receipt in the Office of the Secretary. If delivered by other than the United States Postal Service, an appeal is filed with the Maritime Administrator on the date it is physically delivered to the Office of the Secretary at the address referenced in paragraph (b)(10)(ii)(B) of this section. The date of filing by commercial delivery (not United States Postal Service) is the date it is received at the address for the Office of the Secretary set forth in paragraph (b)(10)(ii)(B) of this section. Appeals may not be submitted by facsimile or by electronic mail. Requests for extension of the time to file an appeal may be submitted by facsimile or electronic mail to the Office of the Secretary. Requests for extension of time do not stop or toll the running of the time for filing an appeal. Appeals may only be filed after the deadline if the Maritime Administrator or his designee, in their sole discretion, grants an extension.

(E) In computing the number of days, the first day counted is the day after the event from which the time period begins to run. If the date that ordinarily would be the last day for filing falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, the filing period will include the first workday after that date.

(iii) The Maritime Administrator will issue a written decision for each timely appeal. This decision constitutes final agency action.

(iv) If a student or graduate fails to appeal within the time set forth in paragraph (b)(10)(ii) of this section, the decision of the designated official will be final and constitute final agency action.
