
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter H - Training
#### PART 310 - MERCHANT MARINE TRAINING
##### Subpart C - Admission and Training of Midshipmen at the United States Merchant Marine Academy
###### ยง 310.58 Service obligation for students executing or reexecuting contracts.
####### Breach of contract.

(e)(1) Breach before graduation: (i) If the Maritime Administrator determines that an individual who has attended the Academy for not less than two (2) academic years has failed to complete the course of instruction at the Academy, such individual may be ordered by the Secretary of Defense to active duty in one of the Armed Forces of the United States to serve for a period of time not to exceed two (2) years. In cases of hardship, as determined by the Maritime Administrator, the Maritime Administrator may waive this provision in whole or in part.

(ii) If the Secretary of Defense is unable or unwilling to order an individual to active duty under the previous paragraph, or if the Maritime Administrator determines that reimbursement of the Cost of Education Provided by the Federal Government would better serve the interests of the United States, the Maritime Administrator may recover from the individual the Cost of Education Provided by the Federal Government.

(iii) For purposes of paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section, an "academic year" is defined as the completion by a student of a total of three (3) trimesters, whether at the Academy or at sea. Thus, liability under paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section begins for students when they begin their seventh (7th) trimester, whether at the Academy or at sea.

(2) Breach after graduation: (i) If the Maritime Administrator determines that an individual has failed to fulfill any part of the service obligation contract (described in ยง 310.58(a)), such individual may be ordered to active duty to serve a period of time not less than three (3) years and not more than the unexpired portion of the service obligation contract relating to service in the foreign or domestic commerce or the national defense, as determined by the Maritime Administrator. The Maritime Administrator, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, shall determine in which service the individual shall be ordered to active duty to serve such period of time. In cases of hardship, as determined by the Maritime Administrator, the Maritime Administrator may waive this provision in whole or in part.

(ii) If the Secretary of Defense is unable or unwilling to order an individual to active duty under paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section or if the Maritime Administrator determines that reimbursement of the Cost of Education Provided would better serve the interests of the United States, the Maritime Administrator may recover from the individual the Cost of Education Provided.

(iii) The Maritime Administrator may reduce the amount to be recovered from such individual to reflect partial performance of service obligations and such other factors as the Maritime Administrator determines merit such reduction.
