
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter H - Training
#### PART 310 - MERCHANT MARINE TRAINING
##### Subpart C - Admission and Training of Midshipmen at the United States Merchant Marine Academy
###### ยง 310.58 Service obligation for students executing or reexecuting contracts.
####### Determination of compliance with service obligation contract; deferment; waiver; and appeal procedures.

(h)(1) A designated official of the Administration shall:

(i) Determine whether a student or graduate has breached his or her service obligation contract;

(ii) Grant or deny a deferment of the service obligation, except for obligations otherwise a part of the graduate's commissioned officer status; and,

(iii) Grant or deny a waiver of the requirements of the service obligation contract in cases of undue hardship or impossibility of performance due to accident, illness or other justifiable reason.

(2)(i) If a student or graduate disagrees with the decision of the designated official, the student or graduate may appeal that decision to the Maritime Administrator. The appeal will set forth all the legal and factual grounds on which the student or graduate bases the appeal. Any grounds not set forth in the appeal are waived.

(ii) Appeals must be filed with the Maritime Administrator within thirty (30) calendar days of the date of receipt by such student or graduate of the written decision of the designated official. Appeals must be filed at the Office of the Maritime Administrator, Maritime Administration, Room 7210, 400 7th St., SW., Washington, DC 20590. Each decision will include a notice of appeal rights.
