
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter H - Training
#### PART 310 - MERCHANT MARINE TRAINING
##### Subpart C - Admission and Training of Midshipmen at the United States Merchant Marine Academy
###### ยง 310.66 Foreign students.
####### Qualifications.

(2)Each candidate shall:

(i) Be a bona fide citizen of the country transmitting the application and meet the requirements as to age and character set forth in ยง 310.54 of this subpart;

(ii) Possess the physical qualifications, specified in ยง 310.56 of this subpart, and undergo a physical examination as arranged by the Academy's Admissions Office;

(iii) Be proficient in reading, writing and speaking idiomatic English; and,

(iv) Satisfy the following scholastic requirements:

(A) Meet the minimum qualifying scores on the entrance examinations as specified in ยง 310.55 of this subpart. When available, special foreign language College Board examinations may be substituted for the College Board or American College Testing Program examinations. Detailed certificates covering schoolwork of foreign students are required. Transcripts shall be submitted in the English language.

(B) Submit a certificate from his or her Government that he or she is conversant with the literature of his or her native country and that he or she has completed a course in the literature of his or her native language generally equivalent to two (2) years of secondary schoolwork in literature in the United States. In lieu of this certificate, a candidate may produce evidence of having acquired the units for literature from accredited United States schools.
