
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter I-A - National Shipping Authority
#### PART 317 - BONDING OF SHIP'S PERSONNEL
##### Sec. 5 Measures to protect ship's payrolls.

(a) General Agents are not required to consider the amount of the payroll delivered to the Master at the conclusion of a voyage in determining the amount of bond required for any one person filling a bonded position hereunder. However, the person paying off the crew should be either the Master, or purser, or some other member of the ship's personnel acting for the Master who has been bonded pursuant to this order. If, however, the person paying off is a shoreside employee of the General Agent, such employee shall be bonded under the General Agents' general fidelity bond.

(b) The principal risk involved where payrolls are delivered to a vessel at the conclusion of a voyage is loss through hold-up. Therefore, reasonable protection shall be taken by all General Agents where payrolls are delivered to a vessel or elsewhere. Because the circumstances of each case will vary, the General Agents shall use their best judgment in determining whether armored car service, armed guards or similar types of protection should be employed (in other words, the General Agents should follow their usual practices). The cost of these services may be included in vessel operating expenses.

(c) General Agents are not required to purchase hold-up insurance, since subject to the terms, conditions and limitations of Service Agreement "G.A.A., 3/19/51" losses resulting from this exposure are assumed by the National Shipping Authority.
