
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter I-A - National Shipping Authority
#### PART 324 - PROCEDURAL RULES FOR FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS UNDER AGENCY AGREEMENTS
##### Documents
###### Sec. 8 Disbursement documents.
####### Certification of master, ship's officers, branch houses, sub-agents, or duly authorized representatives.

(b)(1) Evidence of delivery of supplies, performance of services, or use of facilities, as normally provided by delivery receipts, or an equivalent form, comprises an essential part of proper documentation for disbursing purposes.

(i) Where supplies are delivered or services or facilities are furnished directly to a vessel, evidence of delivery or performance normally should be signed by a ship's officer.

(ii) Where such evidence is not signed by a ship's officer, any duly authorized representative of the agent may sign as "Duly Authorized Representative," provided the agent shall be responsible for the designation of proper and qualified representatives and provided the agent shall furnish, when so required by the owner, adequate evidence that the signing representative was duly authorized by him. In instances in which the agent may not be able to identify in advance the representative who may sign, the agent shall have the responsibility for determining that the person signing was qualified to execute evidence of delivery of supplies, performance of services, or use of facilities involved.

(2) For charges for watching cargo, stevedoring, wharfage, receiving and delivering cargo, clerking and checking, or other services or facilities not rendered directly to the vessel, for which normally delivery receipts or any equivalent form are not furnished, the following certification on the face of the original invoice by a duly authorized representative of the agent is required.

(3) Ships' payrolls shall be certified by the master (or his authorized representative) as follows:

(4) In instances where vessels are under foreign articles the payroll shall bear proper evidence of having been paid off before a United States Shipping Commissioner or an American Consul.

(5) The slop chest account shall be certified by the master as follows:

(6) A similar certification shall be made by the Chief Steward (or his authorized representative) covering bar transactions (if any).
