
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter I-A - National Shipping Authority
#### PART 324 - PROCEDURAL RULES FOR FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS UNDER AGENCY AGREEMENTS
##### Disbursements
###### Sec. 7 Disbursements at foreign ports.

Disbursement procedures at foreign ports may differ in the case of individual agents and in view of existing conditions. Disbursements at foreign ports shall be made by one of the following methods or by any other method outlined to and approved by the owner in advance of its use:

(a) The agent may advance from time to time from the joint bank account the funds necessary to meet the requirements of the business of the vessels assigned under the agency agreement. In such cases the foreign branch house or sub-agent shall pay invoices from such advances and shall make proper accounting to the agent for all advances supported by invoices bearing satisfactory evidence of payment. Any gains or losses in exchange on such advances or disbursements shall be for the account of the owner.

(b) The foreign branch house or sub-agent may pay all invoices from his own funds and thereafter draw on the agent for reimbursement, at the same time forwarding the disbursements account by air mail.

(c) The agent may establish Letters of Credit making funds available to the foreign branch house or sub-agent against which funds may be drawn by the sub-agent for branch house for payment of properly approved documents.
