
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter I-A - National Shipping Authority
#### PART 327 - SEAMEN'S CLAIMS; ADMINISTRATIVE ACTION AND LITIGATION
##### Subpart A - Clarification Act Claims: Seamen's Claims; Administrative Action and Litigation.
###### ยง 327.4 Claim requirements.
####### Contents.

(b)Each claim shall include the following information:

(1) With respect to the seaman:

(i) Name;

(ii) Mailing address;

(iii) Date of birth;

(iv) Legal residence address;

(v) Place of birth; and

(vi) Merchant mariner license or document number and social security number.

(2) With respect to the basis for the claim:

(i) Name of vessel on which the seaman was serving when the incident occurred that is the basis for the claim;

(ii) Place where the incident occurred;

(iii) Time of incident-year, month and day, and the precise time of day, to the minute, where possible;

(iv) Narrative of the facts and circumstances surrounding the incident, including a statement explaining why the United States is liable for this claim;

(v) Pictures, video recordings and other physical evidence related to the case and

(vi) The names, addresses, and telephone numbers, if available, of others who can supply factual information about the incident and its consequences.

(3) A sum certain dollar amount of claim, which includes a total for all amounts sought. The claim shall explain the amounts sought for:

(i) Past loss of earnings or earning capacity;

(ii) Future loss of earnings or earning capacity;

(iii) Medical expenses paid out of pocket;

(iv) Pain and suffering; and

(v) Any other loss arising out of the incident (describe).

(4) All medical and clinical records of physicians and hospitals related to a seaman's claim for injury, illness, or death shall be attached. If the claimant does not have a copy of each record, the claimant shall identify every physician and hospital having records relating to the seaman and shall provide written authorization for MarAd to obtain all such records. The claim shall also include the number of days the seaman worked as a merchant mariner and the earnings received for the current calendar year, as well as for the two preceding calendar years.

(5) If the claim does not involve a seaman's death, the following information shall be submitted with the claim:

(i) Date the seaman signed a reemployment register as a merchant mariner;

(ii) Copy of the medical fit-for-duty certificate issued to the seaman;

(iii) Date and details of next employment as a seaman; and

(iv) Date and details of next employment as other than a seaman.

(6) If the claim is for other than personal injury, illness or death, the claim shall provide all supporting information concerning the nature and dollar amount of the loss.
