
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter I-A - National Shipping Authority
#### PART 327 - SEAMEN'S CLAIMS; ADMINISTRATIVE ACTION AND LITIGATION
##### Subpart C - Other Admiralty Claims
###### ยง 327.42 Who may present claims.
####### General rules.

(a)(1) A claim for property loss or damage may be presented by anyone having an interest in the property, including an insurer or other subrogee.

(2) A claim for personal injury may be presented by the person injured.

(3) A claim based on death may be presented by the executor or administrator of the decedent's estate, or any other person legally entitled to assert such a claim under local law. The claimant's status must be stated in the claim.

(4) A claim for medical, hospital, or burial expenses may be presented by any person who by reason of family relationship has, in fact, incurred the expenses.

(5) A joint claim must be presented in the names of and signed by, the joint claimants, and the settlement must be made payable to the joint claimants.

(b) A claim may be presented by a duly authorized agent, legal representative or survivor, if it is presented in the name of the claimant. If the claim is not signed by the claimant, the agent, legal representative, or survivor shall indicate their title or legal capacity and provide evidence of their authority to present the claim.

(c) Where the same claimant has a claim for damage to or loss of property and a claim for personal injury or a claim based on death arising out of the same incident, they must be combined in one claim.
