
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter I-A - National Shipping Authority
#### PART 328 - SLOP CHESTS
##### Sec. 3 Master's requirements.

The Master shall:

(a) Receive and receipt for the quantities of slop chest items delivered on board.

(b) Upon the termination of each voyage complete the Slop Chest Statement referred to in section 2(c) of this order, as to quantities and total value sold, quantities and total cost value on hand at end of voyage and quantities of each item required for the next voyage.

(c) Sell, from time to time as specified by him, any of the contents of the slop chest to any or every seaman applying therefor, at the unit price, specified by the Slop Chest Statement furnished the Master by the General Agent as provided in section 2(c) of this order.

(d) Account to the General Agent for all slop chest items received on board, for all receipts and for all other slop chest transactions engaged in during the voyage.

(e) Cause entry to be made in the ship's log authenticated by the person designated by the Master to be in charge of the slop chest, together with signatures of two other witnesses, for all losses sustained due to fire, water or other damage which renders articles unsaleable. Such log entries shall itemize the quantities damaged and the cost thereof.

(f) Submit a detailed written report to the General Agent covering losses incurred due to damage, theft or pilferage of slop chest items. The report shall be submitted at the termination of the voyage during which the damage, theft or pilferage occurred.

(g) Retain on board, all damaged slop chest items, for survey, removal and disposition by the General Agent at a domestic port.
