
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter I-A - National Shipping Authority
#### PART 328 - SLOP CHESTS
##### Sec. 2 General Agent's requirements.

The General Agent shall:

(a) Obtain from the Master, a requisition for slop chest items required for the intended voyage. Purchase for the account of the NSA, from recognized bona fide slop chest suppliers, at prices not in excess of the fair and reasonable level prevailing at the respective domestic ports, only such items and quantities reflecting past experience of actual requirements.

(b) Arrange for delivery on board to the custody of the Master all slop chest items purchased, together with a copy of the vendor's invoice showing items, units, unit cost and totals.

(c) Furnish the Master with a Slop Chest Statement showing on hand at the beginning of each voyage the items, units, unit cost, totals and selling price per unit of each item. The selling price shall approximate but not exceed 110 percent of the reasonable wholesale value of the same at the port at which the voyage commenced. The Slop Chest Statement shall also provide spaces for:

(1) Quantities and total value sold.

(2) Quantities and total cost value on hand, end of voyage.

(3) Quantities of each item required for next voyage.

(d) Submit to the Coast Director in the district in which the General Agent is located, upon termination of each voyage a copy of the Slop Chest Statement obtained from the Master as provided for in section 3(b) of this order and a copy of all invoices for slop chest purchases showing items by brand or trade name, unit cost and total.

(e) Account to the cognizant Coast Director for the purchase, delivery to the Master, receipts from sales, condemnations, transfers and all other transactions in connection with slop chests.
