
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter I-A - National Shipping Authority
#### PART 329 - VOYAGE DATA
##### Sec. 5 Idle status period.

(a) The General Agent shall place a vessel in idle status during the period of reactivation or deactivation or upon redelivery from Military Sea Transportation Service notwithstanding the fifteen (15) days minimum period as provided for in paragraph (b) of this section.

(b) The General Agent shall place a vessel in idle status, although the voyage may have commenced, whenever and as soon as it is anticipated that the minimum period of inactivity will exceed fifteen (15) days, due, but not limited to: (1) Repairs, (2) labor, (3) awaiting allocation, (4) awaiting cargo.

(c) Should the anticipated period of inactivity terminate prior to the expiration of the 15 day minimum idle status period, except as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, the General Agent shall cancel the idle status and antedate the succeeding voyage commencement to the termination of the previous voyage as prescribed in section 4(a) of this order.

(d) Should an idle status period be established after a voyage has commenced, the voyage shall be suspended for the duration of the idle status period and resumed when the idle status period is terminated.

(e) Idle status periods as defined in this order, shall be established only in continental United States ports.

(f) Idle status periods shall be treated as separate accounting periods.
