
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter I-A - National Shipping Authority
#### PART 328 - SLOP CHESTS
##### Sec. 4 General provisions.

(a) All slop chest items, damaged or otherwise, shall be removed or transferred only in compliance with applicable regulations dealing with Property Removals.

(b) In the transfer of a vessel from one General Agent to another General Agent the physical transfer of the complete slop chest shall also be accomplished between the respective General Agents. The General Agents participating in such transfer shall complete and have their respective representatives sign, a joint inventory containing the unit cost price and extensions of all slop chest items, a copy of which shall be submitted to the Division of Operations, NSA, Washington, DC 20590, together with a copy of the Slop Chest Statement for the voyage terminated prior to transfer of the vessel. An additional copy of the Slop Chest Statement shall be submitted to the Comptroller's Office, Division of Accounts, Maritime Administration, Washington, DC 20590.

(c) In pricing the contents of the slop chest, the General Agent shall comply with all applicable regulations of the Office of Price Stabilization, Economic Stabilization Agency.

(d) It shall be the responsibility of each General Agent and Master to exercise reasonable care and diligence in the compliance with the Owner's obligations hereunder and in the protection and disposition of slop chest items.

(e) Neither the General Agent nor the Master shall place insurance on the contents of the slop chest purchased for the account of the NSA.
