
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter I-A - National Shipping Authority
#### PART 332 - REPATRIATION OF SEAMEN
##### Sec. 4 Manner of repatriation.
###### repatriated seaman (non-working).

(b) A seaman described in paragraph (b) of section 3 of this order may be repatriated as a passenger where space is available and circumstances permit. If applicable collective bargaining agreements, employment contracts, or statutes do not conflict, he may return as a workaway or, at the discretion of the master of the repatriating vessel, he may sign on articles either as a replacement of to complete a vessel's complement or, when deemed advisable by the official authorizing the repatriation and with the approval of the master of the repatriating vessel, he may be signed on the articles as aIf a seaman in this class is repatriated as a passenger, or repatriate seaman (non-working), the General Agent of the vessel of which he was last a crew member shall arrange for his passage and pay the amount of expense involved.

(c) A seaman described in paragraph (c) of section 3 of this order shall be returned as a workaway or, at the discretion of the master of the repatriating vessel, he may sign on as a replacement or to complete a vessel's complement. Only in unusual cases, and only with the prior approval of the Chief, Division of Operations, shall a seaman in this class be repatriated as a passenger or as a repatriate seaman (non-working). If a seaman in this class is repatriated as a passenger, or as a repatriate seaman (non-working), the General Agent of the vessel of which he was last a crew member shall arrange for his passage and pay the amount of expense involved.

(d) A master shall be repatriated in accordance with applicable collective bargaining agreement, employment contract, statute, or established commercial practice.
