
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter I-A - National Shipping Authority
#### PART 332 - REPATRIATION OF SEAMEN
##### Sec. 6 General provisions.

(a) In case of repatriation of any seaman as a passenger aboard a vessel operated for account of the National Shipping Authority, the requirements of the applicable collective bargaining agreement or employment contract shall be met. In any event, a seaman repatriate shall receive at least as good accommodations as would be his due while sailing in his capacity.

(b) Unless otherwise directed, a seaman when repatriated as a passenger aboard a vessel operated for the account of the National Shipping Authority, shall be issued a ticket in the form prescribed by the General Agent of the vessel for its own vessels. Such ticket shall be surrendered to the master of the repatriating vessel. When repatriated as a repatriate seaman (non-working), the master of the repatriating vessel shall be furnished with a certificate from the official authorizing the repatriation setting forth that the circumstances require that the seaman be signed on as a repatriate seaman (non-working). The master shall ascertain the seaman's full name and rating, cause of repatriation, and the names of the vessels and the General Agent to be charged with the cost of the repatriation.

(c) It is recognized that the procedure set forth in this order will not cover all situations arising out of obligations to repatriate seamen nor fix ultimate responsibility for repatriation expenses which may sometimes depend upon determinations of fact which cannot be made prior to repatriation. In cases of emergency or in situations not covered in this order, the General Agent shall proceed in accordance with established commercial practice.

(d) Nothing in this order shall be construed to interfere with the proper exercise of authority by United States consular officials relative to repatriation of seamen in accordance with applicable statutes.
