
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter I-A - National Shipping Authority
#### PART 338 - PROCEDURE FOR ACCOMPLISHMENT OF VESSEL REPAIRS UNDER NATIONAL SHIPPING AUTHORITY MASTER LUMP SUM REPAIR CONTRACT - NSA-LUMPSUMREP
##### Sec. 2 Use of contract for competitive bid and negotiated price awards.
###### Where the element of time is paramount.

(2)There will be instances where expeditious ship turnarounds will necessitate the award of work without the delay involved in awarding on the basis of competitive bids. In such cases immediate negotiation for a fixed price with one contractor will be permissible. However, full consideration must be given to the factors involved in order to determine whether, under the circumstances, the time requirements make necessary the negotiation of price rather than using the competitive bid procedure. Such relevant factors are the individual ship's commitments with respect to loading berths, sailing dates, and the charter hire, etc., that might accrue in the event additional ship lay-time is required because of competitive bidding. Definite dollar and time values cannot be established as specific guides for determining when to negotiate. The individual ship and circumstances involved are the governing elements. The practice of consistently favoring one contractor where this type of repair is required will not be permitted but instead, to the maximum extent possible, all qualified contractors in the particular port shall be given the opportunity to perform work for the National Shipping Authority.
