
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter I-A - National Shipping Authority
#### PART 338 - PROCEDURE FOR ACCOMPLISHMENT OF VESSEL REPAIRS UNDER NATIONAL SHIPPING AUTHORITY MASTER LUMP SUM REPAIR CONTRACT - NSA-LUMPSUMREP
##### Sec. 6 Awarding of work.
###### lowest

(a) Those portions of all bids reflecting the total aggregate cost of the work involved shall be opened publicly. The work shall be awarded to the contractor submitting the lowest qualified bid. The termshall mean the bid most advantageous to the Government after evaluation of all bids by the application of differentials and any other relevant factors set forth in the Invitation for Bids. All pertinent costs of moving the vessel from the port where said vessel is located at the time bids are invited to the port of the responsive bidders' work sites and/or plants are to be stated on the Invitation for Bids. If the vessel is scheduled to return to the same port where located at the time bids were invited, all costs of returning the vessel to that port shall also be included on the Invitation for Bids and considered in the bid evaluation.

(b) Immediately after an award of a job order or a supplemental job order on a negotiated basis a written report shall be submitted by the representative of the Authority, making the award, to the appropriate Coast Director's office stating the pertinent reasons for awarding the job on a negotiated rather than bid basis. A copy of this report must be attached to the Ship Repair Summary.

(c) When an award is made, a job order in the form attached to the NSA-LUMPSUMREP Contract shall be issued to the contractor and when awards are made in excess of the Coast Directors' Authority one copy each of all job orders and supplemental job orders and supporting specifications are to be forwarded to the Chief, Division of Ship Repair and Maintenance, Washington, DC, simultaneously with the issuance of said orders to the contractors.
