
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter I-A - National Shipping Authority
#### PART 338 - PROCEDURE FOR ACCOMPLISHMENT OF VESSEL REPAIRS UNDER NATIONAL SHIPPING AUTHORITY MASTER LUMP SUM REPAIR CONTRACT - NSA-LUMPSUMREP
##### Sec. 10 Bonds.

(a) All bids in response to an Invitation for Bids and all quotations in response to a request for a quotation in excess of $2,000, shall be accompanied by a guaranty or a bid bond in a sum equal to twenty-five (25) percent of such bid or quotation to insure the acceptance of the job order covering the awarded work and the furnishing of the performance and payment bonds required by Article 14 of the NSA-LUMPSUMREP Contract. The stand- ard Government form of bid bond (Standard Form 24 Revised November 1950) shall be used.

(b) In compliance with the perform- ance bond and payment bond requirements of Article 14 of the NSA-LUMPSUMREP Contract, the standard form of individual performance bond (Standard Form 25 Revised November 1950) and the standard form of individual payment bond (Standard Form 25A Revised November 1950) respectively, shall be used. Such bonds (in the respective penal sums of 50 percent of the respective job order contract prices but if the job order contract price is in excess of $1,000,000 in the penal sum of 40 percent of such job order contract price) shall guarantee the Contractor's performance and payment obligations in connection with the work covered by an original job order awarded on either competitive bid or negotiated basis, as that work may be modified by supplemental job orders to such original job orders.

(c) The individual bid, performance and payment bonds shall be submitted by the contractors to the awarding offices (General Agents or local offices of NSA) to verify the correctness of the penalty amount, contract and job order numbers, etc. The individual bonds shall then be forwarded by the awarding office to the office of the appropriate Coast Director for final action and approval pursuant to existing regulations.

(d) For the convenience of contractors, in lieu of submitting individual bid, performance and payment bonds they may file with the Authority approved annual or blanket bid, performance and payment bonds covering the Contractor's bond obligations under job orders (as such job orders may be modified by supplemental job orders) awarded under said contracts in such annual period. Annual bonds shall be submitted by the Contractors or their surety representative to the appropriate Coast Director's office for clearance pursuant to existing regulations. In this regard all annual bonds must be of the open penalty type.

(e) No repair voucher (progress or final) where bond coverage is required shall be passed for payment until such time as the required bid, performance and payment bonds have been given final clearance.
