
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter I-A - National Shipping Authority
#### PART 338 - PROCEDURE FOR ACCOMPLISHMENT OF VESSEL REPAIRS UNDER NATIONAL SHIPPING AUTHORITY MASTER LUMP SUM REPAIR CONTRACT - NSA-LUMPSUMREP
##### Sec. 7 Job order numbering.

(a) The NSA-LUMPSUMREP Contract number shall be inserted in every job order and supplemental job order thereto awarded to a Contractor. The Chiefs of local Ship Repair and Maintenance offices shall give consecutive numbers starting with No. 1 to job orders awarded by them to each contractor. The General Agents shall give consecutive numbers starting with No. 1 to job orders awarded by each General Agent. Job orders and supplemental job orders covering work awarded by a General Agent shall bear the initials of the prime General Agent, as a prefix to the numeral for example, "Job Order No. USL-1." Thus, the first award made by a local Ship Repair and Maintenance office to each respective master repair contractor shall bear "Job Order No. 1". The first award made by each General Agent to each respective master repair contractor shall also bear "Job Order No. 1" and in addition the Prime General Agents initials. Sub-agents shall use the initials of the Prime General Agent in identifying the job order number. Any additional means of numbering other than the numeral and Prime Agent's initials are not to be used. Supplemental job orders shall contain the original job order number suffixed by the letter "A" on the first supplemental job order, the letter "B" on the second supplemental job order, and so forth.
