
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter I-A - National Shipping Authority
#### PART 338 - PROCEDURE FOR ACCOMPLISHMENT OF VESSEL REPAIRS UNDER NATIONAL SHIPPING AUTHORITY MASTER LUMP SUM REPAIR CONTRACT - NSA-LUMPSUMREP
##### Sec. 9 Payment.

(a) Repair contractors invoices covering work awarded by the field staff of the National Shipping Authority:

(1) Repair Contractors will submit invoices for repair costs covered by job orders under Master Repair Contract or work orders under WORKSMALREP Contracts, directly to the local office of the National Shipping Authority awarding the work.

(2) The local office of the National Shipping Authority will:

(i) Review repair contractors' invoices to determine that the charges have been billed in accordance with the prices provided in the job order and repair contract.

(ii) Attach to each repair contractor's invoice, a copy of the WORKSMALREP work order or job order and supplemental job order(s), if any; a signed completion certificate; and, in the case of competitive bids, abstract of bids listing the contractors who submitted bids, the bid prices and completion time specified by each contractor, the name of the contractor to whom the work was awarded, and an explanation of the basis for the award when the contract is not awarded to the lowest bidder.

(iii) Review each repair contractor's invoice and attachments to ascertain completeness of supports and whether repair items included therein have been placed under the appropriate repair group numbers as set out in section 18 and make corrections as necessary.

(iv) Forward the invoices and supports to the District Ship Repair and Maintenance office for final review.

(3) The District office shall make a final review and if in order forward the contractor's invoices and other supports relating to (i) voyage and idle status repairs to the principal office of the General Agent, and (ii) reactivation repairs and all others which do not involve General Agency operated ships to the appropriate District Finance Officer.

(4) The General Agent, upon receiving repair contractors' invoices and attachments thereto from the District Ship Repair and Maintenance office will:

(i) Review each invoice and attachments to assure that the payment authorized by the District office appears to be proper on the basis of the attachments.

(ii) Upon determination that all necessary supporting documents are attached, make payment directly to the contractor.

(5) The District Finance Officer, upon receiving repair contractors' invoices pursuant to paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section will process them in accordance with prescribed procedures.

(b) Repair contractors invoices covering work awarded by General Agents:

(1) Repair contractors will submit invoices for repair costs covered by job orders under Master Repair Contracts or work orders and WORKSMALREP contracts directly to the principal office of the General Agent or author- ized Sub-Agent contracting for the ship repair work.

(2) The General Agent or authorized Sub-Agent, upon receipt of an invoice from a contractor, will follow the procedure outlined in paragraph (a) (2)(i thru iii) and (4)(ii) of this section.
