
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter I-A - National Shipping Authority
#### PART 338 - PROCEDURE FOR ACCOMPLISHMENT OF VESSEL REPAIRS UNDER NATIONAL SHIPPING AUTHORITY MASTER LUMP SUM REPAIR CONTRACT - NSA-LUMPSUMREP
##### Sec. 4 Procedure for securing competitive bids.

(a) The geographical area within which bids will be invited involves the exercise of sound administrative judgment. All the relevant factors should be considered in deciding over what areas competitive bids should be invited. Such factors will include the scope and nature of the work, the location of the vessel, and the time and expense involved in shifting and returning the vessel to its loading berth consistent with the operating requirements.

(b) Invitations for Bids shall be sent to all contractors, within the area as determined in paragraph (a) of this section, who are considered to be financially qualified and to be capable of performing all of the work set forth in the specifications either by the utilization of their own or subcontractors' facilities. In this regard attention is invited to section 15 of this order.

(c) When inviting Bids the NSA form entitled "Invitation for Bids, Instruction for Bidders, and Specifications for Repairs, Renewals, Alterations and Additions to the Vessel __________" shall be used.

(d) Attention is called to the fact that the Invitation for Bids form includes a statement of the completion date for the work. In the event bids are invited the individual vessel's period of availability and the extent of the proposed work shall be considered in fixing a completion date that is consistent with the scope of the work involved. Consideration must be given to the fact that it will not be possible in every case to get lower bids by extending a completion date beyond the normal time required to do the work merely because the vessel's availability is exceptionally long. At the same time, care is to be exercised to insure that the repair period is not shortened, when there is no urgent need for the use of the vessel, to such an extent that it is impossible for the contractor to accomplish the work under normal working conditions. A completion date can only be fixed so as to be financially and otherwise to the best interests of the Government after due consideration has been given to all of the factors involved.

(e) The Invitations for Bids shall provide that the contractors shall submit, simultaneously with their responses to Invitations for Bids, unit prices for each item of specification work in a separate sealed envelope. Only the envelope containing the separate item prices of the contractor determined to be the low bidder shall be retained by the representative of the Authority and shall not be opened until after the award is made. All other envelopes containing separate item prices shall be returned un- opened to each contractor by the representative of the Authority. In the event the low bid is rejected, the itemized prices of the low bidder shall be returned to him in the unopened envelope. Item prices submitted by contractors will not be subject to public perusal.

(f) Vessel repair work contracted for by representatives of the National Shipping Authority is subject to the provisions of the Davis-Bacon Act, except in those cases where at the time of the issuance of the Invitations for Bids the site of the work is not known. Where bids are being invited from bidders in more than one port area, the port area in which the award will be made will not be known, and the Invitations for Bids, accordingly, must state that the work in question is not subject to the Davis-Bacon Act.

(g) The Invitations for Bids shall also include a statement of the per day liquidated damages, for the particular type vessel on which the work is to be performed.

(h) The Invitation for Bids shall state where the bids are to be opened.

(i) When Invitations for Bids are issued by a General Agent, the General Agent, at the time the invitations are issued shall make available to the local Ship Repair and Maintenance office, three (3) copies of the specifications, three (3) copies of a list of contractors to whom invitations have been sent, and three (3) copies of the Invitation for Bids.

(j) Where the scope and probable cost of the work and the time required for effecting such work are secondary as compared to the ship's time, and where the preparation of formal specifications and the issuance of formal Invitations for Bids are not practicable, the representative of the Authority may orally contact as many qualified contractors as is feasible, in order to obtain written "Spot Bids." Each contractor who indicates its intention to bid shall be fully advised as to the specific work involved and given an opportunity to inspect the vessel to enable it to prepare a bid. The contractor shall be verbally advised of a time and place for the submission of the "Spot Bids." If such bids are invited by the General Agent, the General Agent shall also advise the Coast Director or his duly appointed representative of the time and place of opening the "Spot Bids," and if practicable, the NSA representative shall attend such opening. If submission of such spot bids is not in writing the contractors shall immediately confirm their respective Spot Bids by written tenders. The representative of the Authority shall, if requested by responsive contractors, furnish invitations for bids and supporting specifications to the contractors.
