
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter I-A - National Shipping Authority
#### PART 338 - PROCEDURE FOR ACCOMPLISHMENT OF VESSEL REPAIRS UNDER NATIONAL SHIPPING AUTHORITY MASTER LUMP SUM REPAIR CONTRACT - NSA-LUMPSUMREP
##### Sec. 17 Performance of work resulting from damage sustained while undergoing repairs.

(a) When damage is sustained by a vessel during performance of repairs under the NSA Master Contract, negotiations for accomplishment of work necessary to correct such damage are to be made with the repair contractor involved, if practicable, and a job order issued to the contractor for the repair of damage. Such job orders are to be assigned a new number and are not to be supplemental to the original award. The following "without prejudice" clause is to be made a part of and place on each job order issued for the performance of work discussed in this section.

(b) If it is determined that the contractor is at fault and the contractor refuses to accept the responsibility, the procedure outlined in Article 27 of the master repair contract shall be followed. It is to be understood that the payment of this type of account is to be withheld pending establishment that the contractor involved is relieved of all responsibility for the damage.

(c) In the event other than the original contractor effects the damage repairs immediate arrangements are to be made by and through the General Agent to collect from the contractor considered responsible for the damages.

(d) A damage survey is to be conducted in all such cases and a report thereon submitted to the Chief, Division of Ship Repair and Maintenance, Washington, DC.
