
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter I-A - National Shipping Authority
#### PART 340 - PRIORITY USE AND ALLOCATION OF SHIPPING SERVICES, CONTAINERS AND CHASSIS, AND PORT FACILITIES AND SERVICES FOR NATIONAL SECURITY AND NATIONAL DEFENSE RELATED OPERATIONS
##### ยง 340.3 General provisions.
###### et seq.

(a) The provisions of this rule apply pursuant to authority granted to the President by title I, Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (50 U.S.C. App. 2061) that authority having been delegated to the Secretary of Transportation, with respect to civil transportation services, by ยง 322.3(b) of title 44, Code of Federal Regulations. In order to give priority to performance under contracts deemed necessary or appropriate to promote the national defense and to allocate materials and facilities in such manner, upon such conditions and to such extent as necessary or appropriate to promote the national defense, the following procedures shall be applicable:

(1) In connection with deployment of the Armed Forces of the United States, or other requirements of the nation's defense, a defense agency (as defined in ยง 340.2(h) of this part) may request priority use or allocation of vessels employed in commercial shipping services, containers, chassis, or port facilities and services.

(2) The Secretary may authorize initiation of priority and allocation authority in accordance with administrative and statutory authorities.

(3) The Administrator, on approval by the Secretary to initiate the use of priority and allocation authority under this regulation and in conformance with national program priorities, may direct owners and/or operators of vessels, containers, chassis, or port facilities to give priority usage to the defense agency or may allocate vessels, containers, chassis, or facilities for the defense agency's use during specified periods.

(b) A defense agency may transmit requests for assignment of priority for use or for allocation of vessels, containers, chassis, and port facilities and services to the Secretary by letter, memorandum, or electrical message.

(c) Justification for requested priorities or allocations may include references to military operations plans. When classified, justifications may be provided separately by correspondence or staff coordination. NSPOs and NAOs will not include classified information.

(d) The Administrator shall determine, before issuing an NSPO or NAO, that the action is necessary to meet the requirements of the national defense (as determined by the defense agency) and conforms to Secretarial guidance for coordinating the Department's crisis response, and that the proposed approach is the most effective way to do so. The Administrator, in conjunction with the defense agency, shall coordinate with vessel operators, container suppliers, chassis suppliers, port authorities and the Coast Guard to identify vessels, equipment and facilities to meet requirements covered by NSPOs and NAOs. The Administrator shall ensure that arrangements to provide defense support under NSPOs and NAOs satisfy the defense agency's requirements with minimum disruption to commercial activities.

(e) When resources are required for movement of hazardous or other special cargo, the Administrator shall ensure that the Commandant of the Coast Guard and the Captain of the Port and other concerned hazardous materials officials of the U.S. Department of Transportation, as required, are notified and that the views of all concerned agencies and interests are obtained and reflected in actions taken pursuant to this regulation. Any action taken pursuant to this regulation shall conform with existing regulations for the safe transportation of hazardous materials and or cargoes, subject to Department of Transportation exemptions.

(f) The Secretary shall notify FEMA of the intention to issue any directive granting priority for use or allocation of vessels, containers, chassis, or port facilities and services, and shall provide information copies of NSPOs and NAOs as required to the defense agency concerned, FEMA, the Interstate Commerce Commission and the Coast Guard.

(g) Defense agencies which foresee difficulty in meeting their needs for vessels employed in commercial shipping services, containers, chassis, or port facilities and services shall coordinate with MARAD, the Coast Guard, vessel operators, container suppliers, chassis suppliers, and port authorities concerned before the need arises. The Administrator, after Secretarial review, may issue planning orders for information and guidance of affected agencies confirming tentative arrangements to meet the defense agencies' needs. No action will be taken to give effect to those arrangements until NSPOs and NAOs are issued at the time the services, equipment, or facilities are required.

(h) Defense agencies shall pay for services covered by NSPOs and NAOs on the basis of commercial tariffs, or on the basis of contracts concluded between the operator interests and the defense agencies concerned, or on the basis of existing contracts where both parties so agree.

(i) Defense agencies shall be responsible for payment of costs arising from:

(1) Shifting ships to unoccupied berths for defense use;

(2) Discharging commercial cargo to free ships for defense use; and

(3) Such other costs as may be agreed between the defense agency and the provider of service.

(j) The provisions of this regulation shall apply to foreign vessels, containers, and chassis only when and to the extent that such vessels, containers, and chassis are available to the United States because of control by U.S. citizens (46 App. U.S.C. 802) or by provision of international agreements for use of shipping services and related resources for the common defense.

(k) Recipients of NSPOs and NAOs shall notify the Administrator, without undue delay, when they cannot comply or are experiencing difficulty in complying with the provisions of the Orders.
