
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter C - Uninspected Vessels
#### PART 28 - REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL FISHING INDUSTRY VESSELS
##### Subpart E - Stability
###### ยง 28.515 Submergence test as an alternative to stability calculations.

(a) A vessel may comply with this section in lieu of the remainder of the requirements in this subpart. A certification plate installed under 33 CFR part 183, subpart B, is acceptable evidence of compliance with this section.

(b) A vessel which is fitted with inboard engines and loaded as described in paragraph (e) of this section must float in calm water, after being submerged for 18 hours, so that-

(1) For an open vessel, any portion of the vessel's gunwale is above the water's surface; or

(2) For a decked vessel, any portion of the main deck is above the water's surface.

(c) A vessel which is fitted with an outboard engine must be loaded as described in paragraph (e) of this section and must float in calm water after being submerged for 18 hours so that-

(1) The vessel has an equilibrium heel angle of less than 10&#xB0;;

(2) Any portion of the vessel's hull is above the water's surface; and

(3) Any portion of the lowest 3 feet (0.91 meters) of the vessel's hull is not more than 6 inches (152 millimeters) below the water's surface as measured at the lowest point on the following-

(i) The gunwale, for an open boat; or

(ii) The main deck, for a decked vessel.

(d) A vessel which is fitted with an outboard engine must be loaded as described in paragraph (f) of this section and must survive the submergence described in paragraph (c) of this section, except that the equilibrium heel angle must not exceed 30&#xB0; and the vessel must float with the lower end of the vessel not more than 12 inches (0.31 meters) below the water's surface in calm water.

(e) For the tests described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, a vessel must be complete in all respects, except that machinery which would be damaged by water may be replaced with equivalent fixed weight in the same location as the machinery it replaces. The vessel must be loaded with weight to represent the most adverse loading condition. The most adverse loading condition normally includes the maximum weight of fish in its highest possible location. Weights must be substituted for operating personnel at 165 pounds (734 Newtons) per individual and may be substituted for fishing gear. The substitute weights may be located transversely so that the vessel floats level prior to being submerged. The two largest air chambers, or compartments of a decked vessel not used as fuel tanks, that contribute buoyancy to the vessel must be flooded.

(f) For the test described in paragraph (d) of this section, a vessel must be complete and loaded as described in paragraph (e) of this section, except that the center of gravity of the equivalent maximum fish load must be located to one side of the vessel's centerline by a distance equal to one-fifth of the maximum transverse dimension of the fish storage space.
