
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter C - Uninspected Vessels
#### PART 28 - REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL FISHING INDUSTRY VESSELS
##### Subpart E - Stability
###### ยง 28.550 Icing.
####### Applicability.

(a)Each vessel that operates north of 42&#xB0; North latitude between November 15 and April 15 or south of 42&#xB0; South latitude between April 15 and November 15 must meet the requirements of this section.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the weight of assumed ice on each surface above the waterline of a vessel which operates north of 66&#xB0;30&#x2032; North latitude or south of 66&#xB0; South latitude must be assumed to be at least:

(1) 6.14 pounds per square foot (30 Kilograms per square meter) of horizontal projected area which corresponds to a thickness of 1.3 inches (33 millimeters); and

(2) 3.07 pounds per square foot (15 Kilograms per square meter) of vertical projected area which corresponds to a thickness of 0.65 inches (16.5 millimeters).

(c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the weight of assumed ice on a vessel that operates north of 42&#xB0; North but south of 66&#xB0;30&#x2032; North latitude or south of 42&#xB0; South but north of 66&#xB0; South latitude must be assumed to be at least one-half of the values required by paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.

(d) The height of the center of gravity of the accumulated ice should be calculated according to the position of each corresponding horizontal surface (deck and gangway) and each other continuous surface on which ice can reasonably be expected to accumulate. The projected horizontal and vertical area of each small discontinuous surface such as a rail, a spar, and rigging with no sail can be accounted for by increasing the calculated area by 15 percent.

(e) The weight and location of ice must be included in the vessel's weight and centers of gravity in each condition of loading when performing the stability calculations required by this subpart.
