
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter J - Miscellaneous
#### PART 356 - REQUIREMENTS FOR VESSELS OF 100 FEET OR GREATER IN REGISTERED LENGTH TO OBTAIN A FISHERY ENDORSEMENT TO THE VESSEL'S DOCUMENTATION
##### Subpart B - Ownership and Control
###### ยง 356.7 Methods of establishing ownership by United States Citizens.

(a) An entity may demonstrate that the interest in the entity (75% for Citizens of the United States or 51% for entities meeting the Controlling Interest requirements) is owned by Citizens of the United States either by direct proof or through the fair inference method depending on the size of the entity.

(b) The "direct proof" method is used for closely held companies that have 30 or fewer stockholders. Under the direct proof method, the following information must be set forth in paragraph four of the Affidavit of U.S. Citizenship:

(1) The identity of the holders of stock or other equitable interests;

(2) The amount of stock or interest that each stockholder owns;

(3) A representation as to the citizenship of the stockholder; and

(4) If the stockholder is a corporation or other entity, the names and citizenship of officers, directors, stockholders, etc. must be set out in the Affidavit of U.S. Citizenship.

(c) The "fair inference method" is used by corporations whose stock is publicly traded (more than 30 stockholders). Use of the fair inference method requires that:

(1)(i) At least 95% of the stock (each class) of the corporation be held by Persons having a registered U.S. address in order to infer at least 75% ownership by U.S. Citizens, or

(ii) At least 65% of the stock (each class) of the corporation be held by Persons having a registered U.S. address in order to infer at least 51% ownership by U.S. Citizens; and

(2) Disclosure be made in the Affidavit of U.S. Citizenship of the names and citizenship of any stockholders who holds five percent or more of the corporation's stock (including all classes of stock, voting and non-voting), officers, and directors.

(d) If the owner of a Fishing Industry Vessel is consecutively owned by several "parent" corporations, the facts revealing the stock ownership of each entity must be set forth in the Affidavit of U.S. Citizenship.
