
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter J - Miscellaneous
#### PART 356 - REQUIREMENTS FOR VESSELS OF 100 FEET OR GREATER IN REGISTERED LENGTH TO OBTAIN A FISHERY ENDORSEMENT TO THE VESSEL'S DOCUMENTATION
##### Subpart D - Mortgages
###### ยง 356.19 Requirements to hold a Preferred Mortgage.
####### http://www.marad.dot.gov/afa.html.

(b) A Mortgagee must demonstrate to the Citizenship Approval Officer that it satisfies one of the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section before it will be qualified to obtain a Preferred Mortgage on a Fishing Industry Vessel after April 1, 2003. A Mortgagee that has an existing Preferred Mortgage on a Fishing Industry Vessel prior to April 1, 2003, will be required to demonstrate that it satisfies one of the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section before the vessel's next certificate of documentation renewal date after April 1, 2003. Failure to submit the required information may result in the loss of the preferred status for the mortgage. A sample format that may be used to submit the required information for Mortgagees, Commercial Lenders and Lender Syndicates is available on the MARAD website atThe required information that must be submitted in order to make such a demonstration for each category in paragraph (a) is as follows:

(1) If a Mortgagee plans to qualify as a United States Citizen under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the Mortgagee must file an Affidavit of United States Citizenship demonstrating that it complies with the citizenship requirements of 46 U.S.C. 12102(c) and section 2(c) of the 1916 Act, which require that 75% of the ownership and control in the Mortgagee be vested in U.S. Citizens at each tier and in the aggregate. In addition to the Affidavit of U.S. Citizenship, a certified copy of the Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, or other comparable corporate documents must be submitted to the Citizenship Approval Officer.

(2) A state or federally chartered financial institution must provide a certification that indicates whether it is a state chartered or federally chartered financial institution and that certifies that it is insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC"). The certification must include the FDIC Certification Number assigned to the institution.
