
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter J - Miscellaneous
#### PART 356 - REQUIREMENTS FOR VESSELS OF 100 FEET OR GREATER IN REGISTERED LENGTH TO OBTAIN A FISHERY ENDORSEMENT TO THE VESSEL'S DOCUMENTATION
##### Subpart G - Special Requirements for Certain Vessels
###### ยง 356.47 Special requirements for large vessels.
####### et seq.

(iii) In the case of a vessel listed in paragraphs (1) through (20) of section 208(e) of the American Fisheries Act (title II of division C of Pub. L. 105-277; 112 Stat. 2681-625) is neither participating in nor eligible to participate in the non-AFA trawl catcher processor subsector (as that term is defined under section 219(a)(7) of the Department of Commerce and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2005 (Pub. L. 108-447; 118 Stat. 2887)); or

(3) The vessel is a fish tender vessel that is not engaged in harvesting or processing of fish.

(c) A vessel that is prohibited from receiving a fishery endorsement under paragraph (a) of this section will be eligible if the owner of such vessel demonstrates to MARAD that:

(1) The regional fishery management council of jurisdiction established under section 302(a)(1) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1852(a)(1)) has recommended after October 21, 1998, and the Secretary of Commerce has approved, conservation and management measures in accordance with the American Fisheries Act (Pub. L. 105-277, div. C, title II) (16 U.S.C. 1851 note) to allow the vessel to be used in fisheries under the council's authority; and
