
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter J - Miscellaneous
#### PART 382 - DETERMINATION OF FAIR AND REASONABLE RATES FOR THE CARRIAGE OF BULK AND PACKAGED PREFERENCE CARGOES ON U.S.-FLAG COMMERCIAL VESSELS
##### ยง 382.2 Data submission.
###### Required vessel information.

(b)The following information shall be submitted not later than April 30, 1998, for calendar year 1997 and shall be updated not later than April 30 for each subsequent calendar year. In instances where a vessel has not previously participated in the carriage of cargoes described in ยง 382.1, the information shall be submitted not later than the same date as the offer for carriage of such cargoes is submitted to the sponsoring Federal agency, and/or its program participant, and/or its agent and/or program's agent, or freight forwarder.

(1) Vessel name and official number.

(2) Vessel DWT (summer) in metric tons.

(3) Date built, rebuilt and/or purchased.

(4) Normal operating speed.

(5) Daily fuel consumption at normal operating speed, in metric tons (U.S. gallons for tugs) and by type of fuel.

(6) Daily fuel consumption in port while pumping and standing, in metric tons (U.S. gallons for tugs) and by type of fuel.

(7) Total capitalized vessel costs (list and date capitalized improvements separately), and applicable interest rates for indebtedness (where capital leases are involved, the operator shall report the imputed capitalized cost and imputed interest rate).

(8) Operating cost information, to be submitted in the format stipulated in 46 CFR 232.1, on Form MA-172, Schedule 310. Operators are encouraged to provide operating cost information for similar vessels that the operator considers substitutable within a category, as defined in ยง 382.3(a)(1), in the aggregate on a single schedule. Information shall be applicable to the most recently completed calendar year.

(9) Number of vessel operating days pertaining to data reported in paragraph (b)(8) of this section for the year ending December 31. For purposes of this part, an operating day means any day on which a vessel or tug/barge unit is in a seaworthy condition, fully manned, and either in operation or standing ready to begin pending operations.
