
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter J - Miscellaneous
#### PART 382 - DETERMINATION OF FAIR AND REASONABLE RATES FOR THE CARRIAGE OF BULK AND PACKAGED PREFERENCE CARGOES ON U.S.-FLAG COMMERCIAL VESSELS
##### ยง 382.3 Determination of fair and reasonable rate.
###### Determination of voyage days.

(e)The following assumptions shall be made in determining the number of preference cargo voyage days:

(1) The voyage shall be round-trip with the return in ballast to a port or port range selected by MARAD as the most appropriate, unless the vessel is scrapped or sold after discharge of the preference cargo and does not return to the United States as a U.S.-flag vessel. In this event, only voyage days from the load port to the discharge port, including time allowed to discharge, shall be included.

(2) Cargo is loaded and discharged as per cargo tender terms interpreted in accordance with the "International Rules For the Interpretation of Trade Terms" (INCOTERMS) published by the International Chamber of Commerce.

(3) Total loading and discharge time includes the addition of a factor to account for delays and days not worked.

(4) One extra port day is included at each anticipated bunkering port.

(5) An allowance shall be included for canal transits, when appropriate.

(6) Transit time shall be based on the average speed of vessels in the category. When calculating the vessels' average speed, individual vessel speeds will be reduced by five percent for self-propelled vessels and ten percent for tugs/barges to account for weather conditions.
