
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter J - Miscellaneous
#### PART 385 - RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT GRANT AND COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS REGULATIONS
##### General Policies
###### ยง 385.32 Selection of award instrument.
####### General.

(a)This section provides guidance on the appropriate use of award instruments consistent with the Act and the supplementary interpretative guidelines required by section 9 of the Act, which were published by the OMB in theof August 18, 1978 (41 FR 36860), and are incorporated by reference herein. This section applies to all program and individual transactions where the choice of award instruments is within the administrative discretion of MarAd and is not otherwise prescribed or limited by law. A variety of award instruments is available as the means for defining the terms and conditions and the nature of the relationship between MarAd and eligible recipients. The award instruments are intended to be different in purpose, application, content, and nature. When properly employed, they create different relationships between the parties. Because of these differences, the decision to use a particular instrument must be made deliberately. The determination of whether a program, to be implemented through individual transactions, is principally one of acquisition or assistance will be made by the Grants Officer. MarAd generally will employ the cooperative agreement form of assistance instrument but will employ the grant form where deemed appropriate.
