
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter J - Miscellaneous
#### PART 385 - RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT GRANT AND COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS REGULATIONS
##### General Policies
###### § 385.33 Unsolicited applications and proposals for financial assistance awards.
####### Receipt and review.

(g)(1) Receipt of unsolicited proposals will be acknowledged promptly by the Awards Officer and then forwarded expeditiously to potentially interested program offices for comment. Each unsolicited proposal that is circulated for a comprehensive evaluation shall have a legend attached or imprinted on it by the Awards Officer, identifying it as an unsolicited proposal and stating that it shall be used only for purposes of evaluation.

(2) The responsible program officials shall evaluate the proposal fairly and objectively using the criteria in §§ 385.50 through 385.52.

(3) An unsolicited proposal may include data which the proposer does not want disclosed for purposes other than the evaluation of the proposal. In such case, the proposer should mark each page containing such data with the words "Proprietory Data-Restricted Use" at the top of the page. In the event that an unsolicited proposal, in whole or in part, indicates that the proposer wishes to impose restrictions on the use or disclosure of the data contained in the proposal, MarAd personnel handling the proposal will take care to ensure that the information in the proposal is not disclosed outside of MarAd. The Awards Officer has responsibility for ensuring that proposal reviewers are free of any direct affiliation with the individual(s) or institution submitting the proposal. MarAd policy on the use of information contained in proposals is to use such information only for evaluation purposes, except to the extent such information is generally available to the public, is already the property of the Government, or is available to the Government without restriction. Accordingly, if a proposal contains information the proposer wishes to protect, the proposer shall mark the cover page of the proposal with the following Notice:
