
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter C - Uninspected Vessels
#### PART 28 - REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL FISHING INDUSTRY VESSELS
##### Subpart G - Aleutian Trade Act Vessels
###### ยง 28.815 Bilge pumps, bilge piping, and dewatering systems.

Instead of meeting the requirements of ยง 28.255, each vessel to which this subpart applies must meet the following requirements:

(a) Each vessel must be equipped with a fixed, self priming, powered, bilge pump, having a minimum capacity rating of 50 gallons per minute, connected to a bilge manifold and piping capable of draining any watertight compartment, other than tanks and small buoyancy compartments, under all service conditions. Large spaces, such as engine rooms and cargo holds must be fitted with more than one suction line.

(b) In addition, each vessel must be fitted with a fixed secondary or backup bilge pump having an independent and separate source of power from the pump required in paragraph (a) of this section. One of the bilge pumps may be attached to the propelling engine.

(c) A portable bilge pump may substitute for the secondary pump required above, as long as it meets the following:

(1) It must be self priming and provided with a suitable suction hose of adequate length to reach the bilges of each watertight compartment it must serve and be fitted with a built-in check valve and strainer.

(2) The portable pump must be of at least the same minimum capacity as that listed in paragraph (a) of this section and fitted with a discharge hose of adequate length to ensure overboard discharge from the lowest compartment in which it can serve.

(3) The portable pump must also be capable of being quickly and efficiently attached to the vessel's fixed bilge suction main and/or discharge piping (such as with "camlocks", etc.) for alternate emergency use.

(d) Except for suction lines attached to an individual pump provided for a separate space, or for a portable pump, each individual bilge suction line must be provided with a stop valve at the manifold and a check valve at some accessible point in the bilge line to prevent unintended flooding of a space.

(e) Each bilge suction line and dewatering system must be fitted with a suitable strainer to prevent clogging of the suction line. Strainers must have an open area of not less than three times the open area of the suction line.

(f) Except for a fire pump required by 46 CFR 28.820, a bilge pump may be used for other purposes.

(g) Each vessel must comply with the oil pollution prevention requirements of 33 CFR parts 151 and 155.
