
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter J - Miscellaneous
#### PART 388 - ADMINISTRATIVE WAIVERS OF THE COASTWISE TRADE LAWS
##### ยง 388.6 Process.
###### Review of determinations.,http://dms.dot.gov.

(c)(1) The decisions by the Director, Office of Ports and Domestic Shipping, to grant a waiver, deny a waiver, or revoke a waiver will not be final until time for discretionary review by the Administrator has expired. Each decision to grant, deny, or revoke a waiver will be made in writing and a copy of the written decision will be provided to each applicant and other parties to the decision. Applicants, persons who requested revocation of a waiver, and persons who submitted comments in response to anotice may petition the Administrator to review a decision by the Director, Office of Ports and Domestic Shipping, to grant a waiver, deny a waiver, or revoke a waiver within five (5) business days after such decision is filed in the docket. Each petition for review should state the petitioner's standing and the reasons review is being sought, clearly pointing out alleged errors of fact or misapplied points of law. Within five (5) business days of submission of a petition for review, the applicant, and other persons with standing, may request that the Administrator not review a decision by the Director, Office of Ports and Domestic Shipping, to grant, deny, or revoke a waiver. Such petitions and responses must either be sent by facsimile to the Secretary, Maritime Administration, at (202) 366-9206 or filed electronically in the appropriate DOT docket atThe Administrator will decide whether to review within five (5) business days following the last day for submission of a request that the Administrator not take review. If the Administrator undertakes review, the decision by the Director, Office of Ports and Domestic Shipping, is stayed until final disposition. In the event the Administrator decides to undertake review, a decision will be made based on the written submissions and all available information. As a matter of discretion, the Administrator or designated representative may hold a hearing on the proposed action and make a decision based on the hearing record. The decision will be communicated in writing to the interested parties and the Coast Guard. In the review process, the decision of the Maritime Administrator is the final disposition. In the absence of any petition for review, the determination by the Director, Office of Ports and Domestic Shipping, becomes final on the sixth business day after the decision. The Secretary, MARAD, may extend any of the time limits, but only for good cause shown.
