
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter J - Miscellaneous
#### PART 388 - ADMINISTRATIVE WAIVERS OF THE COASTWISE TRADE LAWS
##### ยง 388.6 Process.
###### Initial process.,http://dot.dms.gov.

(a)(1) We will review each application for completeness as received. We will notify the applicant if additional information is necessary or if the application does not meet the initial eligibility requirements for waiver. All applications will be available for public inspection electronically in the Department of Transportation Docket at

(2) Applications being processed on the merits will be noticed in theInterested parties will be given an opportunity to comment on whether introduction of any proposed vessel would adversely affect them. In the absence of duly filed objections to an application, and in the absence of unduly adverse impact on vessel builders or businesses employing U.S.-built vessels otherwise discovered by us, we will conclude that there will be no adverse effect. If an objection to an application is received, additional information may be sought from the objector. The applicant will be given a sufficient amount of time to respond. The Director, Office of Ports and Domestic Shipping, will then either make a decision based on the written submissions and all available information or, on MARAD's motion or at the applicant's request, hold a hearing on the application and make a decision based on the hearing record. The decision will be communicated to the applicant, commenters and the United States Coast Guard in writing and placed in the docket. If MARAD grants a waiver, the applicant must thereafter contact the Coast Guard to obtain the necessary documentation for domestic operation. MARAD's waiver does not satisfy other requirements of the Coast Guard for documentation. The waiver, if approved, will be assigned to the vessel.
