
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter J - Miscellaneous
#### PART 389 - DETERMINATION OF AVAILABILITY OF COASTWISE-QUALIFIED VESSELS FOR TRANSPORTATION OF PLATFORM JACKETS
##### ยง 389.4 Application and fee.
###### Required platform jacket transportation project information.

(e)(1) Applications must include a general description of the transport, placement and/or launch project, including:

(i) A description of the platform jacket structure with launching weight, center of gravity, major dimensions, and a general arrangement plan,

(ii) The projected loading date and site,

(iii) The projected transportation date and destination site,

(iv) The names of potential coastwise-qualified vessel owners/operators contacted and their responses regarding suitability and availability of transportation vessels, and

(v) The technical merits and availability studies of coastwise-qualified vessels considered.

(2) Characteristics of the applicant's desired foreign launch barge, including, at a minimum, the following information:

(i) Name of the vessel,

(ii) Registered owner of the vessel,

(iii) Physical dimensions, deadweight capacity in long tons, ballasting capacities and arrangements, and launch capacity in long tons and arrangements,

(iv) Documentation showing classification as a launch barge by one of the following classification societies: American Bureau of Shipping (ABS), Bureau Veritas (BV), Lloyd's Register (LR), Germanischer Lloyd (GL), Det Norske Veritas (DNV) or Registro Italiano Navale (RINA).

(v) Date and place of construction of the foreign launch barge and (if applicable) rebuilding. If the applicant is unable to document the origin of the vessel, foreign construction will be assumed.

(vi) Name, address, e-mail address and telephone number of the foreign launch vessel owner.

(3) A signed statement that the applicant represents that the foregoing information is true to the best of the applicant's knowledge and belief, as required by paragraph (b) of this section.

(f) The Maritime Administration may require additional information from an applicant as part of the review process. The application will not be considered complete until the agency has received all required information.
