
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter J - Miscellaneous
#### PART 389 - DETERMINATION OF AVAILABILITY OF COASTWISE-QUALIFIED VESSELS FOR TRANSPORTATION OF PLATFORM JACKETS
##### § 389.5 Review; issuance of determinations.

(a) The Maritime Administration will review each application for completeness, including evidence of prior notification and payment of the application fee. Applications will not be processed until deemed complete. The Maritime Administration will notify an applicant if additional information is necessary. The agency encourages submission of applications well in advance of project dates in order to allow sufficient time for review under this part.

(b) The Maritime Administration will review the information required by Section 389.4. When the application is deemed complete, the agency will publish a notice in thedescribing the project and platform jacket involved, advising that all relevant information reasonably necessary to assess the transportation requirements will be made available to interested parties upon request. The notice will request that information on the availability of coastwise-qualified vessels be submitted within thirty (30) days after the publication date. The Maritime Administration will also notify coastwise-qualified owners/operators who have registered with per § 389.3.

(c) The Maritime Administration will review any submissions whereby an offeror owner or operator of a coastwise-qualified vessel asserts it is available and will facilitate discussions between the offeror and a platform jacket owner/operator who requires transportation services. If the parties are unable to reach agreement, the Maritime Administration will make a determination regarding vessel availability.

(d) If needed, the Maritime Administration's technical personnel will review data required by § 389.4. The data must be complete and current. Any data submitted will not be returned to an applicant and will be retained by the agency on file further to applicable record retention directives. Maritime Administration review will not substitute for the review or approval by a major classification society (ABS, BV, LR, GL, DNV, RINA). Maritime Administration review will not verify the accuracy or correctness of an applicant's engineering proposal; rather, it will only pertain to the general reasonableness and soundness of the technical approach.

(e) The Maritime Administration will disapprove the application if:

(1) The agency finds the applicant does not comply with requirements set forth by § 389.3 or § 389.4; or

(2) The agency finds that the applicant refused to attempt to obtain transportation services that comply with the Jones Act; or

(3) The agency determines a suitable coastwise-qualified vessel is reasonably available.

(f) The Maritime Administration will issue a determination of non-availability if it is determined that no suitable coastwise-qualified vessel is reasonably available.

(g) A determination will be issued within ninety (90) days from the date the application notice was published in the

(h) A determination of non-availability will expire one-hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of issuance, unless the agency provides an extension for good cause shown.

(i) Maritime Administration determinations in this regard should not be interpreted as a change setting new Federal maritime precedents. The Maritime Administration fully supports the Jones Act, the Passenger Vessel Services Act, and other Federal U.S.-flag requirements.
