
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - Procedures Applicable to the Public
#### PART 3 - DESIGNATION OF OCEANOGRAPHIC RESEARCH VESSELS
##### Subpart 3.10 - Designation
###### ยง 3.10-1 Procedures for designating oceanographic research vessels.

(a) Upon written request by the owner, master, or agent of a vessel, a determination will be made by the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, of the zone in which the vessel is located, whether the vessel may be designated as an oceanographic research vessel.

(b) The request should contain sufficient information to allow the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, to make this determination. At a minimum, the following items must be submitted:

(1) A detailed description of the vessel, including its identification number, owner and charterer.

(2) A specific operating plan stating precisely the intended use of the vessel.

(3) Any additional information as may be requested by the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection.

(c) If designation is granted, it shall be indicated as follows:

(1) For inspected vessels-indicated on the certificate of inspection, valid for its duration.

(2) For uninspected vessels-indicated by a letter of designation, which shall be maintained on board the vessel and remain in effect for two years from date of issuance.

(d) All designations shall remain valid for the period specified on the applicable document, provided all operating conditions remain unchanged from the date of designation.

(e) In the event of a change in operating conditions, the owner, master, or agent of the vessel shall advise the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection who issued the designation. After reviewing the pertinent information concerning the operational changes, the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, shall determine if the vessel is still eligible to retain its designation as an oceanographic research vessel.
