
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter K - Regulations Under Public Law 91-469
#### PART 390 - CAPITAL CONSTRUCTION FUND
##### Appendix I to Part 390 - U.S. Department of Transportation, Maritime Administration - Application Instructions
###### As to the Business and Affiliations of the Applicant.

II.A. A brief description of the principal business activities during the past five years of the Applicant and of any predecessor or predecessors of the Applicant; if any change is presently contemplated, a brief statement of the nature and circumstances thereof.

B. A list of all companies or persons that are related within the meaning of section 482 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, and the regulations thereunder ("related companies") or that directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, control, are controlled by, or are under common control with the Applicant, together with an indication of the nature of the business transacted by each, the relationships between the companies named, and the nature and extent of the control. This information may be furnished in the form of a chart.

C. A statement whether during the past 5 years the Applicant or any predecessor or related company has been in bankruptcy or in reorganization under II-B of the Bankruptcy Act or in any other insolvency or reorganization proceedings, and whether any substantial property of the Applicant or any predecessor or related company has been acquired in any such proceeding or has been subject to foreclosure or receivership during such period. If so, give details.

D. A statement of whether the Applicant or any predecessor or related company is now or during the past 5 years was involved in any litigation or subject to any outstanding judgments. If so, give details.

E. Describe any contemplated plan of reorganization or recapitalization involving new capital, the consolidation or mergers of the Applicant with related or other companies, debt elimination, or other changes or modifications in the corporate or individual structure, and indicate by appropriate financial statements the anticipated results thereof.
