
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter K - Regulations Under Public Law 91-469
#### PART 390 - CAPITAL CONSTRUCTION FUND
##### Appendix I to Part 390 - U.S. Department of Transportation, Maritime Administration - Application Instructions
###### et seq.,

An application for a capital construction fund under 46 U.S.C. 53501the Rules and Regulations prescribed jointly by the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Transportation (26 CFR Part 3 and reprinted in 46 CFR Part 391, the "Joint Regulations") and individually by the Secretary of Transportation (46 CFR Part 390, the "SOC Regulations") shall be prepared and submitted in the form specified by these instructions.

The application must be legible and shall be submitted in six (6) complete sets, including the required Schedules and Exhibits. The application shall be filed with the Secretary, Maritime Administration, Washington, DC 20590. Three of these sets must be duly executed and certified by the Applicant. The name of the Applicant shall be shown on all accompanying papers for identification.

All questions contained in the application must be responded to; if a question is not applicable the respondent should so state. Additional information may be requested if such information is necessary to aid the Contracting Officer in making a determination to enter into a Capital Construction Fund Agreement.

The undersigned ______ ("Applicant"), a citizen of the United States within the meaning of 46 U.S.C. 50501, as amended, hereby applies under section 607 of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936, as amended ("Act"), the Rules and Regulations jointly prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Transportation ("Joint Regulations") and individually by the Secretary of Transportation ("SOC Regulations") to establish a Capital Construction Fund to aid in the acquisition, construction or reconstruction of a qualified vessel, the acquisition, construction or reconstruction of barges, containers or trailers which are part of the complement of a qualified vessel and the payment of the principal on indebtedness incurred in connection with the acquisition, construction or reconstruction of a qualified vessel or a barge, container or trailer which is part of the complement of a qualified vessel. The fund hereby applied for will be effective for deposits relating to the taxable year beginning __________________, 20____ and ending ________________, 20____, and for subsequent taxable years. In support of this application, the Applicant submits the following information:
