
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter K - Regulations Under Public Law 91-469
#### PART 390 - CAPITAL CONSTRUCTION FUND
##### Appendix I to Part 390 - U.S. Department of Transportation, Maritime Administration - Application Instructions
###### Incorporated Companies.

C.If the Applicant is an incorporated company, the following identifying information should be submitted:

1. Exact name of Applicant.

2. State in which incorporated and date of incorporation.

3. Address of principal executive offices, and of important branch offices, if any.

4. The following information with respect to each officer and director of the corporation:

a. Name and address.

b. Office.

c. Citizenship.

d. Capital shares owned (specify type, whether voting or non-voting and percentage of total of each type issued if five percent (5%) or more).

5. The name, address and citizenship of and number of capital shares owned by each person not named in answer to item 4, owning of record, or beneficially if known, five percent (5%) or more of the issued capital shares of any class stock of the Applicant.

6. A brief statement of the general effect of each voting agreement, voting trust, or other arrangement whereby the voting rights in any shares of the Applicant are owned, controlled, or exercised, or whereby the control of the Applicant is in any way held or exercised by any person not the holder of legal title to such shares. (Give the name, address, citizenship, and business of any such person, and, if not an individual, include the form of organization.)
