
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter K - Regulations Under Public Law 91-469
#### PART 390 - CAPITAL CONSTRUCTION FUND
##### Appendix I to Part 390 - U.S. Department of Transportation, Maritime Administration - Application Instructions
###### Acquisition or Construction of Barges, Containers and Trailers.

B.Provide in a form headed "SCHEDULE B" (see prescribed format in appendix II) the proposed program for acquisition or construction of barges, containers and trailers giving:

a. Number, type and size of barges, containers and trailers.

b. Whether barges, containers and trailers will be replacements or additions, if replacements, identify barges, containers or trailers to be replaced.

c. Projected date of acquisition or award of construction contract.

d. Projected date of introduction into service.

e. Estimated total cost.

f. Method by which estimated total cost of project was determined.

g. Estimated amount of Capital Construction Fund monies to be used as down payment by the Applicant.

h. Estimated amount of borrowings and the amount of such borrowings to be retired by qualified withdrawals from the Capital Construction Fund including anticipated terms of such financing.

i. Identification of vessels for which the barges, containers and trailers will be part of the complement, and the vessel's area of operation. In the case of barges which are not a part of the complement of a vessel provide the barges' intended area of operation.

j. Full details concerning the use of the proposed barge; if the barge is to be used for multiple purposes indicate the approximate percentage of time in which the barge will be engaged in each service.
