
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter K - Regulations Under Public Law 91-469
#### PART 390 - CAPITAL CONSTRUCTION FUND
##### Appendix I to Part 390 - U.S. Department of Transportation, Maritime Administration - Application Instructions
###### As to Exhibits Furnished.

IX.At the time of original filing, the following exhibits, properly identified, shall be furnished:

Exhibit I-A copy of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Applicant or other organization papers including all amendments thereto presently in effect.

Exhibit II-A copy of the By-Laws or other governing instruments of the Applicant, including all amendments thereto presently in effect.

Exhibit III-Such other financial statements, copies of contracts, schedules and other required data which the Applicant desires to incorporate by reference.

X. A statement of any additional information which, in the opinion of the Applicant, is necessary to make the application and attached exhibits true and complete.

XI. A specific written request, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4), must accompany the application if the Applicant wishes certain trade secrets, financial and commercial information contained in this application to be withheld from disclosure. The Maritime Administrator, Department of Transportation will endeavor to respect such a request, acting within the limits of the applicable provisions of the Freedom of Information Act.

I, ______, do certify that I am the (Title of Office) of (Exact Name of Applicant), the Applicant on whose behalf I have executed the foregoing application; that the Applicant is a citizen of the United States within the meaning of 46 U.S.C. 50501; that this application is made for the purpose of inducing the United States of America to permit the Applicant, pursuant to section 607 of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936, as amended, the Joint Regulations and the SOC Regulations to establish a Capital Construction Fund for the purposes set forth in 46 U.S.C. 53501; that I have carefully examined the application and all documents submitted in connection therewith and, to the best of my knowledge, information and belief, the statements and representations contained in said application and related documents are full, complete, accurate, and true.

Subscribed and sworn to before me, a ______________ in and for the State and County above named, this ____________ day of ________________, 20____.

My Commission expires ______________________.
