
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter K - Regulations Under Public Law 91-469
#### PART 390 - CAPITAL CONSTRUCTION FUND
##### Appendix II to Part 390 - Sample Capital Construction Fund Agreement
###### Warranties and Representations by the Party:

13.The Party hereby warrants and represents that:

(A) The Party is a citizen of the United States within the meaning of section 2 of the Shipping Act, 1916, as amended, and will continue to be so for the term of this Agreement. The Party agrees that, each year, within thirty (30) days after the annual meeting of its stockholders, it shall file a supplemental affidavit as evidence of its continuing United States citizenship, provided that any changes in data last furnished with respect to officers, directors, and stockholders holding five percent or more of the issued and outstanding stock of each class or series which would result in a loss of the Party's status as a United States citizen shall be promptly reported to the Maritime Administrator.

(B) The Party owns, is the lessee, or has contracted for the construction of one or more eligible vessels (within the meaning of 46 U.S.C. 53501) as listed in Schedule A hereof.

(C) The qualified vessels described in Schedule B hereof: (1) Were or will be constructed or reconstructed in the United States, except as provided in the Act and the rules and regulations;

(2) Are or will be documented under the laws of the United States and will continue to remain so documented; and

(3) Will be operated in the foreign, Great Lakes or noncontiguous domestic trade of the United States within the meaning of the Act and the rules and regulations

(D) The Party will meet its deposit obligations as agreed upon in Article 5 of this Agreement.

(E) The Party will promptly inform the Maritime Administrator, in writing, of any change in circumstances which would tend to adversely affect the ability of the Party to carry out its obligations under the Agreement.

(F) The Party will faithfully conform to all rules and regulations governing the Agreement and the Fund.

(G) Nothing of monetary value has been improperly given, promised, or implied for entering into this Agreement. The Party further warrants that no improper personal, political or other activities have been used or attempted in an effort to influence the outcome of the discussions or negotiations leading to the award of this Agreement. Breach of this warranty shall constitute an event of default for which the Maritime Administrator shall have the right, notwithstanding Article 4, to terminate this Agreement without liability to the United States.
