
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter K - Regulations Under Public Law 91-469
#### PART 391 - FEDERAL INCOME TAX ASPECTS OF THE CAPITAL CONSTRUCTION FUND
##### ยง 391.2 Ceiling on deposits.
###### Earnings and gains from the investment or reinvestment of amounts held in a fund,In general.

(d)-(1)(i) Earnings and gains received or accrued by a party from the investment or reinvestment of assets in a fund is the total amount of any interest or dividends received or accrued, and gains realized, by the party with respect to assets deposited in, or purchased with amounts deposited in, such fund. Such earnings and gains are therefore required to be included in the gross income of the party unless such amount, or a portion thereof, is not taken into account under section 607(d)(1)(C) of the Act and ยง 391.3(b)(2)(ii) by reason of a deposit or deemed deposit into the fund. For rules relating to receipts from the sale or other disposition of nonmoney deposits into the fund, see paragraph (g) of this section.

(ii) Earnings received or accrued by a party from investment or reinvestment of assets in a fund include the ratable monthly portion of original issue discount included in gross income pursuant to section 1232(a)(3) of the Code. Such ratable monthly portion shall be deemed to be deposited into the ordinary income account of the fund, but an actual deposit representing such ratable monthly portion shall not be made. For basis of a bond or other evidence of indebtedness issued at a discount, see ยง 391.3(b)(2)(ii)(b).
