
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter II - Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation
### Subchapter K - Regulations Under Public Law 91-469
#### PART 393 - AMERICA'S MARINE HIGHWAY PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Marine Highway Route and Project Designations
###### ยง 393.3 Marine Highway Projects.
####### How will MARAD support designated America's Marine Highway Projects?

(e)(1) Upon designation as a Marine Highway Project, the Department Program Office will coordinate with the Project Applicants to identify the most appropriate departmental actions to support the project. USDOT support could include any of the following, as appropriate and subject to agency resources:

(i) Promote the service with appropriate governmental, regional, State, local or tribal government transportation planners, private sector entities or other decision makers to the extent permitted by law.

(ii) Coordinate with ports, State Departments of Transportation, metropolitan planning organizations, localities, other public agencies and the private sector to support the designated service. Efforts can be aimed at identifying resources, obtaining access to land or terminals, developing landside facilities and infrastructure, and working with Federal, regional, State, local or Tribal governmental entities to remove barriers to success.

(iii) Pursue commitments from Federal entities to transport Federally owned or generated cargo using the services of the designated project, when practical or available.

(iv) In cases where transportation infrastructure is needed, Project Applicants may request to be included on the Secretary's list of high-priority transportation infrastructure projects under E.O. 13274, "Environmental Stewardship and Transportation Infrastructure Project Review."

(v) Assist with developing individual performance measures for Marine Highway Projects.

(vi) Work with Federal entities and regional, State, local and tribal governments to include designated Projects in transportation planning.

(vii) Coordinate with public and private entities to resolve impediments to the success of Marine Highway Projects.

(viii) Conduct research on issues specific to Marine Highway Projects.

(ix) Advise Project Applicants on the availability of various Federal funding mechanisms to support the Projects.

(x) Maintain liaison with Project Applicants and representatives of designated Projects to provide ongoing support and identify lessons learned and best practices for other projects and the overall Marine Highway program.

(2) [Reserved]
