
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter III - Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security
### PART 401 - GREAT LAKES PILOTAGE REGULATIONS
#### Subpart B - Registration of Pilots
##### ยง 401.210 Requirements and qualifications for registration.

(a) No person shall be registered as a United States Registered Pilot unless:

(1) The individual holds a license or MMC endorsed as a master, mate, or pilot, issued under the authority of the provisions of Title 52 of the Revised Statutes, and has acquired at least twenty-four months service as a licensed or credentialed officer or comparable experience on vessels or integrated tugs and tows, of 4,000 gross tons, or over, operating on the Great Lakes or oceans. Those applicants qualifying with ocean service must have obtained at least six months of service as a licensed or credentialed officer or comparable experience on the Great Lakes. Those applicants qualifying with comparable experience must have served a minimum of twelve months as a deck officer under the authority of their license or MMC.

(2) The individual is a citizen of the United States.

(3) The individual is of good moral character and temperate habits.

(4) The individual is physically competent to perform the duties of a U.S. Registered Pilot and meets the medical requirements prescribed by the Commandant.

(5) The individual has not reached the age of 70.

(6) Until April 15, 2009, the individual possesses a validated Merchant Mariner's Document issued by the Coast Guard or a valid Transportation Worker Identification Credential (TWIC). After April 15, 2009, the individual must posses a valid TWIC.

(7) The individual agrees to be available for service under the terms and conditions as may be approved or prescribed by the Commandant.

(8) The individual has complied with the requirements set forth in ยง 401.220(b) for Applicant Pilots if applying for registration for waters in which a pilotage pool is authorized.

(9) The individual agrees to comply with all applicable provisions of this part and amendments thereto.

(b) Any person registered as a United States Registered Pilot pursuant to the provisions of this part whose application contains false or misleading statements furnished by the applicant in furtherance of his or her application shall be in violation of these regulations and may be proceeded against under ยง 401.250(a) or ยง 401.500.
