
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter III - Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security
### PART 401 - GREAT LAKES PILOTAGE REGULATIONS
#### Subpart B - Registration of Pilots
##### ยง 401.211 Requirements for training of Applicant Pilots.

(a) The Director shall determine the number of Applicant Pilots required to be in training by each Association authorized to form a pool in order to assure an adequate number of Registered Pilots. No Applicant Pilot shall be selected for training unless:

(1) The individual meets the requirements and qualifications set forth in paragraphs (a) (1) through (4), (6), (7), and (9) of ยง 401.210.

(2) The individual shall not have reached the age of 60.

(3) The individual possesses a radar observer competency certificate or equivalent U.S. Coast Guard endorsement.

(b) For purpose of determining whether an applicant meets the experience requirements contained in ยง 401.210(a)(1), not more than twelve months of "comparable experience" may be used in fulfilling the twenty-four month experience requirement.

(c) The Director shall approve the United States Registered Pilots that are designated by the authorized pilot organization to provide training to those pilots that are in training to be registered pilots.

(d) Persons desiring to be considered as an Applicant Pilot shall file with the Director a completed Application Form, CG-4509, with two full-face photographs, 1inches by 2 inches, signed on the face.

(e) Individuals selected as Applicant Pilots by the Director shall be issued a U.S. Coast Guard Applicant Pilot Identification Card, which shall be valid until such time as (1) the applicant is registered as a pilot under ยง 401.210; (2) the applicant withdraws from the training program, or (3) upon withdrawal by the Director.
