
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter III - Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security
### PART 401 - GREAT LAKES PILOTAGE REGULATIONS
#### Subpart B - Registration of Pilots
##### ยง 401.240 Renewal of Certificates of Registration.

(a) An application for renewal of a Certificate of Registration shall be submitted to the Director together with two full-face photographs, 1inches by 2 inches, signed on the face, at least 15 days before the expiration date of the existing Certificate. The form for renewal of Certificates of Registration may be obtained from the Director. A renewal fee of 5 dollars by check or money order, drawn to the order of the U.S. Coast Guard, shall accompany an application for renewal of registration, which will be refunded if registration is not renewed. Failure of a Registered Pilot to comply with these requirements or file a complete and sufficient application may constitute cause for denying renewal of the Certificate of Registration.

(b) No Certificate of Registration shall be renewed unless the applicant for renewal thereof meets the requirements and qualifications set forth in ยง 401.210 for issuance of an original Certificate of Registration; excepting that compliance with ยง 401.210(a)(4) shall not be required if the examination was satisfactorily passed on a previous application for registration within six (6) months next preceding the date of application for renewal.

(c) If the Director determines that there is good cause for denying renewal of a Certificate of Registration, the applicant shall be notified in writing of such determination and the cause thereof. The applicant may thereupon apply within fifteen (15) days of the receipt of such notice for a hearing in regard to the cause for the denying of a renewal of the Certificate, which hearing shall be granted.

(d) In any case in which the applicant has made timely and sufficient application for renewal of his registration, no such registration shall expire until such application shall have been finally determined by the Commandant unless the public health, interest, or safety requires otherwise.

(e) Upon receipt of a renewal Certificate of Registration, the expired Certificate shall be surrendered to the Director.
