
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter III - Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security
### PART 401 - GREAT LAKES PILOTAGE REGULATIONS
#### Subpart F - Procedure Governing Revocation or Suspension of Registration and Refusal To Renew Registration
##### ยง 401.650 Review of Administrative Law Judge's initial decision.

(a) The Commandant may, on his own motion, or on the basis of a petition filed by the U.S. Registered Pilot in the proceedings or the Commandant, review any initial decision of the Administrative Law Judge by entering a written order stating that he elects to review the action of the Administrative Law Judge. Copies of all orders for review, replies, and decisions shall be served on all parties.

(b) A petition for review shall be in writing and shall state the grounds upon which the petition relies. A petition for review shall be limited to the record before the Administrative Law Judge. Five (5) copies of such a petition for review, together with proof of service on all parties, shall be filed with the Commandant (CL) within fifteen (15) days after the date of service of the initial decision of the Administrative Law Judge. Parties may file replies, in writing, to a petition for review, with proof of service on other parties in the same manner and number of copies as is provided for filing of a petition for review and within ten (10) days after the date the petition for review is timely filed. A reply shall be limited to the record before the Administrative Law Judge and the petition for review.

(c) If a petition for review is filed within the time prescribed, the initial decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall be final fifteen (15) days after expiration of the time prescribed for filing a reply thereto unless the Commandant prior to expiration of the fifteen (15) days after expiration of the time prescribed for filing a reply thereto enters a written order granting the petition for review. If no petition for review is filed within the time prescribed and the Commandant does not elect to review on his own motion, the initial decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall be final twenty (20) days after the date of service of the decision.

(d) If the Commandant reviews the initial decision as provided in this section, he shall issue a written order affirming, amending, overruling, or remanding the initial decision of the Administrative Law Judge within thirty (30) days after the date on which he takes review. There is no other administrative remedy within the Department of Transportation.

(e) When the Commandant has sustained an order of suspension or revocation of a registration, the respondent may appeal to the National Transportation Safety Board under 49 CFR 825.5 within ten (10) days after service of the Commandant decision.
