
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter III - Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security
### PART 402 - GREAT LAKES PILOTAGE RULES AND ORDERS
#### Subpart B - Registration of Pilots
##### ยง 402.220 Registration of pilots.

(a) Each applicant pilot must complete the number of round trips specified in this section prior to registration as a U.S. registered pilot. The round trips must be made in company with a registered pilot, on oceangoing vessels of 4,000 gross tons or over, and must be within one year of the date of application.

(1) If the applicant pilot holds a master's license or endorsement, a minimum of five round trips are required over the waters for which registration is desired.

(2) If the applicant pilot holds a chief mate's license or endorsement or a second mate's license or endorsement, or, holds a first class pilot's license or endorsement with service in the capacity of first mate or second mate, a minimum of eight round trips are required over the waters for which registration is desired.

(3) If the applicant pilot holds a first class pilot's license or endorsement or a third mate's license or endorsement, a minimum of twelve round trips are required over the waters for which registration is desired.

(b) No course of instruction prescribed by a pilot association shall be approved unless it includes the following minimum criteria:

(1) Instruction in the maneuvering characteristics of various types of vessels and propulsion machinery including the characteristics of direct-drive motor, geared-drive motor, turbo-electric, steam turbine and steam reciprocating drives. Study of maneuvering characteristics to include turning radius, times and distances to stop, time to back, etc.

(2) Instruction in the effects of oceangoing vessels in restricted waters.

(3) Instruction in the use of tugs, docking procedures in locks and piers, and transiting bridges.

(4) Instruction in search and rescue and civil defense procedures as issued by the U.S. Coast Guard, Federal, State, and local port authorities.

(5) Instruction in basic helm and engine telegraph orders in the Greek, Spanish, German, and Italian languages.

(6) Instruction in communication, security, and signal procedures applicable to U.S. registered and foreign vessels on the Great Lakes as prescribed by the U.S. Coast Guard, St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, U.S. Corps of Army Engineers, and port authorities.

(7) Instruction in Customs, Immigration, Quarantine, Department of Agriculture, and Coast Guard regulations applicable to U.S. registered and foreign vessels on the Great Lakes.

(8) Instruction in the Great Lakes Pilotage Act of 1960; Great Lakes Pilotage Regulations; Presidential Proclamation of December 22, 1960; and Memorandum of Arrangements Great Lakes Pilotage Between the Minister of Transport of Canada and the Secretary of Transportation of the United States of America, January 18, 1977.

(9) Instruction in miscellaneous subjects including man-overboard recovery (i.e. Williamson turn); collision, fire, and explosion procedures; and maneuvering in ice.

(10) Instruction in radar plotting and use of foreign made navigational equipment.
