
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter III - Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security
### PART 402 - GREAT LAKES PILOTAGE RULES AND ORDERS
#### Subpart B - Registration of Pilots
##### ยง 402.210 Requirements and qualifications for registration.

(a) Pursuant to ยง 401.210(a)(4), each applicant for an original registration at the time of application and each Registered Pilot annually is required to pass a physical examination given by a licensed medical doctor and reported on the form furnished by the Director. The examination report shall describe the applicant's or Registered Pilot's visual acuity, color sense, physical condition, and competency to perform the duties of a U.S. Registered Pilot.

(b) Any disease, physical or mental defect, or impairment to hearing or visual acuity, such as epilepsy, insanity, senility, acute venereal disease, neurosyphilis, hemiplegia, paralysis or missing arm, leg, or eye, muteness or pronounced speech impairment, acute kidney or gastro-enteritis disease, extreme obesity, addiction of alcohol or narcotics, acute varicosity of the legs, cardiovascular disease or other disorder which would impair the applicant's ability to be available for service when required and to withstand the rigors of boarding vessels, climbing ladders or great heights, standing for long periods of time, and performing his duties under prolonged periods of nervous strain are causes for determination of physical incompetency.

(c) An applicant for original registration must have a visual acuity either with or without glasses of at least 20/20 vision in one eye and at least 20/40 in the other. An applicant who wears glasses or contact lenses must also pass a test without glasses or lens of at least 20/40 in one eye and at least 20/70 in the other. Registered Pilots, however, must have either with or without glasses or lens visual acuity of at least 20/30 in one eye and at least 20/50 in the other. A Registered Pilot who wears glasses or lens must also pass a test without glasses or lens of at least 20/50 in one eye and at least 20/100 in the other. The color sense of original applicants and Registered Pilots shall be tested by a pseudoisochromatic plate test. Passage of the Williams lantern test or its equivalent is an acceptable substitute for a pseudoisochromatic plate test.
