
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter III - Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security
### PART 402 - GREAT LAKES PILOTAGE RULES AND ORDERS
#### Subpart C - Establishment of Pools by Voluntary Associations of United States Registered Pilots
##### ยง 402.320 Working rules.

(a) Sections 401.320(d)(2) and (6) of this chapter require that voluntary associations of U.S. Registered Pilots authorized to establish pilotage pools agree to submit Working Rules for approval of the Director and that they will coordinate their pool operations with Canada on a reciprocal basis. The following approved Working Rules are on file in the office of the Director and are available for public inspection by any person properly and directly concerned:

(1) The Working Rules and Dispatching Procedures for the designated waters of District No. 1 adopted by the St. Lawrence Seaway Pilots' Association, Inc., Cape Vincent, N.Y., dated May 1, 1980, amended to March 24, 1999.

(2) The Working Rules and Dispatch Procedures for the undesignated waters of District No. 1 adopted by the St. Lawrence Seaway Pilots' Association, Inc., Cape Vincent, N.Y., dated July 27, 1982.

(3) The Working Rules, Dispatching Procedures, and General Rules of District No. 2 adopted by the Lakes Pilots Association, Inc., Port Huron, MI., dated March 30, 1999.

(4) The Working Rules for District No. 3, adopted by the Western Great Lakes Pilots Association, LLP, Superior, WI., dated February 24, 2001 amended to February 28, 2007.

(b) [Reserved]
