
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter IV - Federal Maritime Commission
### Subchapter A - General and Administrative Provisions
#### PART 501 - THE FEDERAL MARITIME COMMISSION - GENERAL
##### Subpart B - Delegation and Redelegation of Authorities
###### ยง 501.13 Delegation to the Secretary.

(a) Authority to approve applications for permission to practice before the Commission and to issue admission certificates to approved applicants.

(b) Authority to extend the time to file exceptions or replies to exceptions, and the time for Commission review, relative to initial decisions of administrative law judges and decisions of Special Dockets Officers.

(c) Authority to extend the time to file appeals or replies to appeals, and the time for Commission review, relative to dismissals of proceedings, in whole or in part, issued by administrative law judges.

(d) Authority to establish and extend or reduce the time:

(1) To file documents either in docketed proceedings or relative to petitions filed under part 502 of this chapter, which are pending before the Commission itself; and

(2) To issue initial and final decisions under ยง 502.61 of this chapter.

(e) Authority to prescribe a time limit for the submission of written comments with reference to agreements filed pursuant to 46 U.S.C. chapter 403.

(f) Authority, in appropriate cases, to publish in thenotices of intent to prepare an environmental assessment and notices of finding of no significant impact.

(g) Authority to prescribe a time limit less than ten days from the date published in thefor filing comments on notices of intent to prepare an environmental assessment and notice of finding of no significant impact and authority to prepare environmental assessments of no significant impact.
