
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter IV - Federal Maritime Commission
### Subchapter A - General and Administrative Provisions
#### PART 501 - THE FEDERAL MARITIME COMMISSION - GENERAL
##### Subpart B - Delegation and Redelegation of Authorities
###### § 501.17 Delegation to and redelegation by the Director, Bureau of Trade Analysis.

(a) Authority to determine that no action should be taken to prevent an agreement or modification to an agreement from becoming effective under 46 U.S.C. 40304(c), and to shorten the review period under 46 U.S.C. 40304(c)(1) and (e)(1), when the agreement or modification involves solely a restatement, clarification, or change in an agreement which adds no new substantive authority beyond that already contained in an effective agreement. This category of agreement or modification includes, for example, the following: A restatement filed to conform an agreement to the format and organization requirements of part 535 of this chapter; a clarification to reflect a change in the name of a country or port or a change in the name of a party to the agreement; a correction of typographical or grammatical errors in the text of an agreement; a change in the title of persons or committees designated in an agreement; or a transfer of functions from one person or committee to another.

(b) Authority to grant or deny applications filed under § 535.407 of this chapter for waiver of the form, organization, and content requirements of §§ 535.401 through 535.406 of this chapter.

(c) Authority to grant or deny applications filed under § 535.504 of this chapter for waiver of the Information Form requirements in subpart E of part 535 of this chapter.

(d) Authority to grant or deny applications filed under § 535.705 of this chapter for waiver of the reporting requirements in subpart G of part 535 of this chapter.

(e) Authority to determine that no action should be taken to prevent an agreement or modification of an agreement from becoming effective under 46 U.S.C. 40304(c)(1) for all unopposed agreements and modifications to agreements which will not result in a significant reduction in competition. Agreements which are deemed to have the potential to result in a significant reduction in competition and which, therefore, are not covered by the delegation in this paragraph (e) include but are not limited to:

(1) New agreements authorizing the parties to collectively discuss or fix rates (including terminal rates).

(2) New agreements authorizing the parties to pool cargoes or revenues.

(3) New agreements authorizing the parties to establish a joint service or consortium.

(4) New equal access agreements.

(f) Authority to grant or deny shortened review pursuant to § 535.605 of this chapter for agreements for which authority is delegated in paragraph (e) of this section.

(g) Subject to review by the General Counsel, authority to deny, but not approve, requests filed pursuant to § 535.605 of this chapter for a shortened review period for agreements for which authority is not delegated under paragraph (e) of this section.

(h) Authority to issue notices of termination of agreements which are otherwise effective under the Shipping Act of 1984, after publication of notice of intent to terminate in thewhen such terminations are:

(1) Requested by the parties to the agreement;

(2) Deemed to have occurred when it is determined that the parties are no longer engaged in activity under the agreement and official inquiries and correspondence cannot be delivered to the parties; or

(3) Deemed to have occurred by notification of the withdrawal of the next to last party to an agreement without notification of the addition of another party prior to the effective date of the next to last party's withdrawal.

(i) Authority to determine whether agreements for the use or operation of terminal property or facilities, or the furnishing of terminal services, are within the purview of 46 U.S.C. chapter 403.

(j) Authority to request controlled carriers to file justifications for existing or proposed rates, charges, classifications, rules, or regulations, and to review responses to such requests for the purpose of recommending to the Commission that a rate, charge, classification, rule, or regulation be found unlawful and, therefore, requires Commission action under 46 U.S.C. 40704(b)-(e).

(k) Authority to recommend to the Commission the initiation of formal proceedings or other actions with respect to suspected violations of the shipping statutes and rules and regulations of the Commission.

(l)(1) Authority to approve for good cause or disapprove special permission applications submitted by common carriers, or conferences of such carriers, subject to 46 U.S.C. chapter 405, for relief from statutory and/or Commission tariff requirements.

(2) The authority under this paragraph (l) is redelegated to the Director of Agreements, Service Contracts, and Tariffs, in the Bureau of Trade Analysis.

(m)(1) Authority to approve or disapprove special permission applications submitted by a controlled carrier subject to the provisions of 46 U.S.C. chapter 407 for relief from statutory and/or Commission tariff requirements.

(2) The authority under this paragraph (m) is redelegated to the Director of Agreements, Service Contracts, and Tariffs, in the Bureau of Trade Analysis.

(n)(1) The authority to accept, deny, or deactivate a Form FMC-1 submitted by ocean common carriers, non-vessel-operating common carriers, conferences, and marine terminal operators under parts 520 and 525 of this chapter.

(2) The authority under this paragraph (n) is redelegated to the Director of Agreements, Service Contracts, and Tariffs, in the Bureau of Trade Analysis.

(o) Authority contained in part 530 of this chapter to approve, but not deny, requests for permission to correct clerical or administrative errors in the essential terms of filed service contracts.

(p) Authority to require Monitoring Reports from, or prescribe alternative periodic reporting requirements for, parties to agreements under § 535.702(c) and (d) of this chapter.

(q) Authority to require parties to agreements subject to the Monitoring Report requirements in § 535.702(a)(2) of this chapter to report their agreement commodity data on a sub-trade basis pursuant to § 535.703(d) of this chapter.
