
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter IV - Federal Maritime Commission
### Subchapter A - General and Administrative Provisions
#### PART 502 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart J-Disclosures and Discovery
###### ยง 502.150 Motions to compel initial disclosures or compliance with discovery requests; failure to comply with order to make disclosure or answer or produce documents; sanctions; enforcement.
####### Motion for order to compel initial disclosures or compliance with discovery requests.

(a)(1) A party may file a motion pursuant to ยง 502.69 for an order compelling compliance with the requirement for initial disclosures provided in ยง 502.141 or with its discovery requests as provided in this subpart, if a deponent fails to answer a question asked at a deposition or by written questions; a corporation or other entity fails to make a designation of an individual who will testify on its behalf; a party fails to answer an interrogatory; or a party fails to respond that inspection will be permitted, or fails to permit inspection, as requested under ยง 502.146 of this subpart. For purposes of this section, a failure to make a disclosure, answer, or respond includes an evasive or incomplete disclosure, answer, or response.

(2) A motion to compel must include:

(i) A certification that the moving party has conferred in good faith or attempted to confer with the party failing to make initial disclosure or respond to discovery requests as provided in this subpart in an effort to obtain compliance without the necessity of a motion;

(ii) A copy of the discovery requests that have not been answered or for which evasive or incomplete responses have been given. If the motion is limited to specific discovery requests, only those requests are to be included;

(iii) If a disclosure has been made or an answer or response has been given, a copy of the disclosure, answer, or response in its entirety;

(iv) A copy of the certificate of service that accompanied the discovery request; and

(v) A request for relief and supporting argument, if any.

(3) A party may file a response to the motion within 7 days of the service date of the motion. Unless there is a dispute with respect to the accuracy of the versions of the discovery requests, responses thereto, or the disclosures submitted by the moving party, the response must not include duplicative copies of them.

(4) A reply to a response is not allowed unless requested by the presiding officer, or upon a showing of extraordinary circumstances.
