
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter IV - Federal Maritime Commission
### Subchapter A - General and Administrative Provisions
#### PART 502 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart N-Oral Argument; Submission for Final Decision
###### ยง 502.241 Oral argument.

(a) The Commission may hear oral argument either on its own motion or upon the written request of a party. If oral argument before the Commission is desired on exceptions to an initial or recommended decision, or on a motion, petition, or application, a request therefor shall be made in writing. Any party may make such a request irrespective of its filing exceptions under ยง 502.227. If a brief on exceptions is filed, the request for oral argument shall be incorporated in such brief. Requests for oral argument on any motion, petition, or application shall be made in the motion, petition, or application, or in the reply thereto. If the Commission determines to hear oral argument, a notice will be issued setting forth the order of presentation and the amount of time allotted to each party.

(b)(1) Requests for oral argument will be granted or denied in the discretion of the Commission.

(2) Parties requesting oral argument shall set forth the specific issues they propose to address at oral argument.

(c) Those who appear before the Commission for oral argument shall confine their argument to points of controlling importance raised on exceptions or replies thereto. Where the facts of a case are adequately and accurately dealt with in the initial or recommended decision, parties should, as far as possible, address themselves in argument to the conclusions.

(d) Effort should be made by parties taking the same position to agree in advance of the argument upon those persons who are to present their side of the case, and the names of such persons and the amount of time requested should be received by the Commission not later than ten (10) days before the date set for the argument. The fewer the number of persons making the argument the more effectively can the parties' interests be presented in the time allotted. [Rule 241.]
