
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter IV - Federal Maritime Commission
### Subchapter A - General and Administrative Provisions
#### PART 502 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart U-Alternative Dispute Resolution
###### ยง 502.408 Conduct of arbitration proceedings.

(a) The arbitrator shall set a time and place for the hearing on the dispute and shall notify the parties not less than seven (7) days before the hearing.

(b) Any party wishing a record of the hearing shall-

(1) Be responsible for the preparation of such record;

(2) Notify the other parties and the arbitrator of the preparation of such record;

(3) Furnish copies to all identified parties and the arbitrator; and

(4) Pay all costs for such record, unless the parties agree otherwise or the arbitrator determines that the costs should be apportioned.

(c)(1) The parties to the arbitration are entitled to be heard, to present evidence material to the controversy, and to cross-examine witnesses appearing at the hearing.

(2) The arbitrator may, with the consent of the parties, conduct all or part of the hearing by telephone, television, computer, or other electronic means, if each party has an opportunity to participate.

(3) The hearing shall be conducted expeditiously and in an informal manner.

(4) The arbitrator may receive any oral or documentary evidence, except that irrelevant, immaterial, unduly repetitious, or privileged evidence may be excluded by the arbitrator.

(5) The arbitrator shall interpret and apply relevant statutory and regulatory requirements, legal precedents, and policy directives.
