
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter IV - Federal Maritime Commission
### Subchapter A - General and Administrative Provisions
#### PART 502 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
##### Subpart V-Implementation of the Equal Access to Justice Act in Commission Proceedings
###### ยง 502.503 Procedures for considering petitions.
####### Reply to petition.

(b)(1) Within 30 days after service of a petition, counsel representing the agency against which an award is sought may file a reply to the petition. Unless counsel requests an extension of time for filing or files a statement of intent to negotiate under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, failure to file a reply within the 30-day period may be treated as a consent to the award requested.

(2) If agency counsel and the applicant believe that the issues in the fee application can be settled, they may jointly file a statement of their intent to negotiate a settlement. The filing of this statement shall extend the time for filing a reply for an additional 30 days, and further extension may be granted by the adjudicative officer upon request by agency counsel and the applicant.

(3) The reply shall explain in detail any objections to the award requested and identify the facts relied on in support of counsel's position. If the reply is based on any alleged facts not already in the record of the proceeding, agency counsel shall include with the reply either supporting affidavits or a request for further proceedings under paragraph (f) of this section.
