
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter IV - Federal Maritime Commission
### Subchapter A - General and Administrative Provisions
#### PART 503-PUBLIC INFORMATION
##### Subpart C-Records, Information and Materials Generally Available to the Public Without Resort to Freedom of Information Act Procedures
###### ยง 503.21 Mandatory public records.
####### www.fmc.gov:

(a) The Commission, as required by the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, is responsible for determining which of its records must be made publicly available, for identifying additional records of interest to the public that are appropriate for public disclosure, for posting and indexing such records, and for reviewing and updating posted records and indices on an ongoing basis. The Commission makes the following materials available for public inspection in electronic format on its Web site at

(1) Final opinions (including concurring and dissenting opinions) and all orders made in the adjudication of cases.

(2) Those statements of policy and interpretations which have been adopted by the Commission.

(3) Administrative staff manuals and instructions to staff that affect any member of the public.

(4) Copies of all records, regardless of form or format, which have been released to any person pursuant to a Freedom of Information Act request, and which the Secretary determines have become or are likely to become the subject of subsequent requests for substantially the same records, and a general index of such records.

(b) To prevent unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, the Secretary may delete identifying details when it makes available or publishes an opinion, statement of policy, interpretation, staff manual, instruction, or copies of records referred to in paragraph (a)(4) of this section. In each case, the justification for the deletion shall be explained fully in writing, and the extent of such deletion shall be indicated on that portion of the record which is made available or published, unless including that indication would harm an interest protected by an exemption in ยง 503.33 under which the deletion is made. If technically feasible, the extent of the deletion shall be indicated at the place in the record where the deletion was made.

(c) The Commission maintains and makes available for public inspection in an electronic format, a current log or index providing identifying information for the public as to any matter which is issued, adopted, or promulgated, and which is required by paragraph (a) of this section to be made available or published.

(1) No final order, opinion, statement of policy, interpretation, or staff manual or instruction that affects any member of the public will be relied upon, used, or cited as precedent by the Commission against any private party unless:

(i) It has been logged or indexed and either made available or published on its public Web site as provided by this subpart; or

(ii) That private party shall have actual and timely notice of the terms thereof.

(2) [Reserved]

(d) Duplication of records may be subject to fees as prescribed in subpart E of this part.
