
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter IV - Federal Maritime Commission
### Subchapter A - General and Administrative Provisions
#### PART 503-PUBLIC INFORMATION
##### Subpart C-Records, Information and Materials Generally Available to the Public Without Resort to Freedom of Information Act Procedures
###### ยง 503.22 Records available through the Commission's Web site or at the Office of the Secretary.
####### secretary@fmc.gov.

The following records are also available without the requirement of a FOIA request on the Commission's Web site or by contacting the Office of the Secretary, Federal Maritime Commission, 800 North Capitol St. NW., Washington, DC 20573,Access to requested records may be delayed if they have been sent to archives. Certain fees may be assessed for duplication of records made available by this section as prescribed in subpart F of this part.

(a) Proposed and final rules and regulations of the Commission including general substantive rules, statements of policy and interpretations, and rules of practice and procedure.

(b) Federal Maritime Commission reports.

(c) Official docket files in all formal proceedings including, but not limited to, orders, final decisions, notices, pertinent correspondence, transcripts, exhibits, and briefs, except for materials which are the subject of a protective order.

(d) News releases, consumer alerts, Commissioner statements, and speeches.

(e) Approved summary minutes of Commission actions showing final votes, except for minutes of closed Commission meetings which are not available until the Commission publicly announces the results of such deliberations.

(f) Annual reports of the Commission.

(g) Agreements filed or in effect pursuant to section 5 (46 U.S.C. 40301(d)-(e), 40302-40303, 40305) and section 6 (46 U.S.C. 40304, 40306, 41307(b)-(d)) of the Shipping Act of 1984.

(h) List of FMC-licensed and bonded ocean transportation intermediaries.

(i) Notification of ocean transportation intermediaries license applications, revocations, and suspensions.

(j) General descriptions of the functions, bureaus, and offices of the Commission, phone numbers and email addresses, as well as locations of Area Representatives.

(k) Information about how to file a complaint alleging violations of the Shipping Act, and how to seek mediation or alternative dispute resolution services.

(l) Commonly used forms.

(m) Final and pending proposed rules.

(n) Access to statements of policy and interpretations as published in part 545 of this chapter.

(o) Lists of the location of all common carrier and conference tariffs and publically available terminal schedules of marine terminal operators.
