
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter IV - Federal Maritime Commission
### Subchapter A - General and Administrative Provisions
#### PART 503-PUBLIC INFORMATION
##### Subpart D-Requests for Records Under the Freedom of Information Act
###### ยง 503.32 Procedures for responding to requests made under the Freedom of Information Act.
####### Determination to grant or deny request.

(a)Upon request by any member of the public for documents, made in accordance with the rules of this part, the Commission's Secretary or his or her delegate in his or her absence, shall determine whether or not such request shall be granted.

(1) Such determination shall be made by the Secretary within twenty (20) business days after receipt of such request, except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (e)(4) of this section, and the Secretary shall immediately notify the requester of:

(i) Such determination and the reasons therefor;

(ii) The right of such person to seek assistance from the agency's FOIA Public Liaison; and

(iii) In the case of an adverse determination, the right of such requester to appeal to the Chairman no less than 90 days after the date of such adverse determination, and the right of such requester to seek dispute resolution services from the agency's FOIA Public Liaison or the Office of Government Information Services.

(2) Upon granting a request, the Secretary shall promptly make records available to the requestor. Upon denial of such a request the Secretary shall promptly notify the requestor of the determination, explain the reason for denial, give an estimate of the volume of matter denied, and set forth the names and titles or positions of each person responsible for the denial of the request.

(3)(i) Any party whose request for documents or other information pursuant to this part has been denied in whole or in part by the Secretary may appeal such determination. Any such appeal must:

(A) Be addressed to: Chairman, Federal Maritime Commission, Washington, D.C. 20573-0001; and

(B) Be filed not later than 90 days following receipt of notification of full or partial denial of records requested.

(ii) The Chairman or the Chairman's specific delegate, in his or her absence, shall make a determination with respect to that appeal within twenty (20) business days after receipt of such appeal, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.

(iii) If, on appeal, the denial is upheld, either in whole or in part, the Chairman shall so notify the party submitting the appeal and shall notify such person of the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4) regarding judicial review of such determination upholding the denial. Notification shall also include the statement that the determination is that of the Chairman of the Federal Maritime Commission and the name of the Chairman.
