
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter IV - Federal Maritime Commission
### Subchapter A - General and Administrative Provisions
#### PART 503-PUBLIC INFORMATION
##### Subpart E-Requests for Testimony by Employees Relating to Official Information and Production of Official Records in Litigation
###### ยง 503.41 Procedure when testimony or production of documents is sought.

The Commission shall follow the procedures set forth in this part.

(a) If oral testimony is sought by a demand in any case or matter in which the United States is not a party, an affidavit, or, if that is not feasible, a statement by the party seeking the testimony or by his attorney, setting forth a summary of the testimony sought and its relevance to the proceeding, must be furnished to the Commission. Any authorization for testimony by a present or former employee of the Commission shall be limited to the scope of the demand as summarized in such statement.

(b) When information other than oral testimony is sought by a demand, the Commission shall request a summary of the information sought and its relevance to the proceeding.

(c) Permission to testify or to release documents in all cases will be limited to matters outlined in the affidavit or declaration described in ยง 503.41(a) and (b), or to such matters as deemed appropriate by the Commission. If the Commission, in considering the factors in ยง 503.39, allows the release of documents or testimony to be given by an employee, arrangements shall be made for the taking of testimony or receipt of documents by the method least disruptive to the employee's official duties. Testimony may, for example, be provided by affidavits, answers to interrogatories, written depositions, or depositions transcribed, recorded, or preserved by any other means allowable by law.

(d) Upon issuance of a final determination to not authorize testimony or release of Commission information by the Commission, the party or the party's counsel seeking testimony or documents may consult or negotiate with the Commission to refine and limit the demand.
