
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter IV - Federal Maritime Commission
### Subchapter A - General and Administrative Provisions
#### PART 503-PUBLIC INFORMATION
##### Subpart F-Fees
###### § 503.48 Policy and services available.

Pursuant to policies established by Congress, the Government's costs for services provided to identifiable persons are to be recovered by the payment of fees (Independent Offices Appropriations Act, 31 U.S.C. 9701 and Freedom of Information Reform Act of 1986, October 27, 1986, 5 U.S.C. 552). Except as otherwise noted, it is the general policy of the Commission not to waive or reduce service and filing fees contained in this chapter. In extraordinary situations, the Commission will accept requests for waivers or fee reductions. Such requests are to be made to the Secretary of the Commission at the time of the information request or the filing of documents and must demonstrate that the waiver or reduction of a fee is in the best interest of the public, or that payment of a fee would impose an undue hardship. The Secretary will notify the requestor of the decision to grant or deny the request for waiver or reduction.

(a) Upon request, the following services are available upon the payment of the fees hereinafter prescribed; except that no fees shall be assessed for search, duplication or review in connection with requests for single copies of materials described in §§ 503.11 and 503.21:

(1) Records/documents search.

(2) Duplication of records/documents.

(3) Review of records/documents.

(4) Certification of copies of records/documents.

(b) Fees shall also be assessed for the following services provided by the Commission:

(1) Placing one's name, as an interested party, on the mailing list of a docketed proceeding.

(2) Processing nonattorney applications to practice before the Commission.
