
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter IV - Federal Maritime Commission
### Subchapter A - General and Administrative Provisions
#### PART 503-PUBLIC INFORMATION
##### Subpart F-Fees
###### ยง 503.50 Fees for services.
####### Charges for search, review, duplication and certification.

(c)(1) Records search (including electronic search) will be performed by Commission personnel at the following rates:

(i) Search will be performed by clerical/administrative personnel at a rate of $39 per hour and by professional/executive personnel at a rate of $77 per hour.

(ii) Unless an exception provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section applies, the minimum charge for record search is $39.

(2) Charges for review of records to determine whether they are exempt from disclosure under ยง 503.33 must be assessed to recover full costs at the rate of $108 per hour. Charges for review will be assessed only for initial review to determine the applicability of a specific exemptions to a particular record. No charge will be assessed for review at the administrative appeal level.

(3) Charges for duplication of records and documents will be assessed as follows, limited to size 8&#x2033; x 14&#x2033; or smaller:

(i) If performed by requesting party at the rate of ten cents per page (one side).

(ii) By Commission personnel, at the rate of ten cents per page (one side) plus $39 per hour.

(iii) Unless an exception provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section applies, the minimum charge for copying is $7.

(iv) No charge will be made by the Commission for notices, decisions, orders, etc., required by law to be served on a party to any proceeding or matter before the Commission. No charge will be made for single copies of such Commission issuances individually requested in person or by mail.

(4) The certification and validation (with Federal Maritime Commission seal) of documents filed with or issued by the Commission will be available at $111 for each certification.

(d) Applications for admission to practice before the Commission for persons not attorneys at law must be accompanied by a fee of $206 pursuant to ยง 502.27 of this chapter.
