
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter IV - Federal Maritime Commission
### Subchapter A - General and Administrative Provisions
#### PART 503-PUBLIC INFORMATION
##### Subpart G-Information Security Program
###### ยง 503.58 Appeals of denials of mandatory declassification review requests.

(a) Within 60 days after the receipt of denial of a request for mandatory declassification review, the requester may submit an appeal in writing to the Chairman through the Secretary, Federal Maritime Commission, Washington, DC 20573. The appeal shall:

(1) Identify the document in the same manner in which it was identified in the original request;

(2) Indicate the dates of the request and denial, and the expressed basis for the denial; and

(3) State briefly why the document should be declassified.

(b) The Chairman shall rule on the appeal within 60 working days of receiving it. If additional time is required to make a determination, the Chairman shall notify the requester of the additional time needed and provide the requester with the reason for the extension. The Chairman shall notify the requester in writing of the final determination and the reasons for any denial.

(c) In accordance with section 5.3 of Executive Order 13526 and 32 CFR 2001.33, within 60 days of such issuance, the requester may appeal a final determination of the Commission under paragraph (b) of this section to the Interagency Security Classification Appeals Panel. The appeal should be addressed to, Executive Secretary, Interagency Security Classification Appeals Panel, Attn: Classification Challenge Appeals, c/o Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration, 7th and Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Room 5W, Washington, DC 20408.
