
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter IV - Federal Maritime Commission
### Subchapter A - General and Administrative Provisions
#### PART 504-PROCEDURES FOR ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ANALYSIS
##### ยง 504.7 Environmental impact statements.
###### Final environmental impact statements.

(c)(1) After receipt of comments on the DEIS, a final environmental impact statement (FEIS) will be prepared pursuant to 40 CFR part 1502, which shall include a discussion of the possible alternative actions to a potential or proposed action. The FEIS will be distributed in the same manner as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(2) The FEIS shall be prepared prior to the Commission's final decision and shall be filed with the Secretary, Federal Maritime Commission. Upon filing, it shall become part of the administrative record.

(3) For any Commission action which has been assigned to an ALJ for evidentiary hearing:

(i) The FEIS shall be submitted prior to the close of the record, and

(ii) The ALJ shall consider the environmental impacts and alternatives contained in the FEIS in preparing the initial decision.

(4)(i) For all proposed Commission actions, any party may, by petition to the Commission within ten (10) days following EPA's notice in theassert that the FEIS contains a substantial and material error of fact which can only be properly resolved by conducting an evidentiary hearing, and expressly request that such a hearing be held. Other parties may submit replies to the petition within ten (10) days of its receipt.

(ii) The Commission may delineate the issue(s) and refer them to an ALJ for expedited resolution or may elect to refer the petition to an ALJ for consideration.

(iii) The ALJ shall make findings of fact on the issue(s) and shall certify such findings to the Commission as a supplement to the FEIS. To the extent that such findings differ from the FEIS, it shall be modified by the supplement.

(iv) Discovery may be granted by the ALJ on a showing of good cause and, if granted, shall proceed on an expedited basis.
