
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter IV - Federal Maritime Commission
### Subchapter A - General and Administrative Provisions
#### PART 505-ADMINISTRATIVE OFFSET
##### ยง 505.7 Administrative offset.

(a) If the debtor does not exercise the right to request a review within the time specified in ยง 505.5 or if as a result of the review, it is determined that the debt is due and no written agreement is executed, then administrative offset shall be ordered in accordance with these regulations without further notice.

(b) Requests for offset to other Federal agencies. The Chairman or his or her designee may request that funds due and payable to a debtor by another Federal agency be administratively offset in order to collect a debt owed to the Commission by that debtor. In requesting administrative offset, the Commission, as creditor, will certify in writing to the Federal agency holding funds of the debtor:

(1) That the debtor owes the debt;

(2) The amount and basis of the debt; and

(3) That the agency has complied with the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 3716, its own administrative offset regulations and the applicable provisions of 4 CFR part 102 with respect to providing the debtor with due process.

(c) Requests for offset from other Federal agencies. Any Federal agency may request that funds due and payable to its debtor by the Commission be administratively offset in order to collect a debt owed to such Federal agency by the debtor. The Commission shall initiate the requested offset only upon:

(1) Receipt of written certification from the creditor agency:

(i) That the debtor owes the debt;

(ii) The amount and basis of the debt;

(iii) That the agency has prescribed regulations for the exercise of administrative offset; and

(iv) That the agency has complied with its own administrative offset regulations and with the applicable provisions of 4 CFR part 102, including providing any required hearing or review.

(2) A determination by the Commission that collection by offset against funds payable by the Commission would be in the best interest of the United States as determined by the facts and circumstances of the particular case, and that such offset would not otherwise be contrary to law.
