
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter IV - Federal Maritime Commission
### Subchapter B—Regulations Affecting Ocean Shipping in Foreign Commerce
#### PART 515-LICENSING, REGISTRATION, FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REQUIREMENTS AND GENERAL DUTIES FOR OCEAN TRANSPORTATION INTERMEDIARIES
##### Subpart B-Eligibility and Procedure for Licensing and Registration
###### § 515.16 Revocation or suspension of license.
####### Grounds.

(a)Except for the automatic revocation for termination of proof of financial responsibility under § 515.26, a license may be revoked or suspended after notice and an opportunity for a hearing under the procedures of § 515.17. The notice of revocation or suspension will provide, in detail, a statement of the facts supporting the action. The licensee may request a hearing on the proposed revocation or suspension by submitting to the Commission's Secretary, within twenty (20) days of the date of the notice, a statement of reasons why the license should not be revoked or suspended. Such hearing shall be provided pursuant to the procedures contained in § 515.17. Otherwise, the action regarding the license will become effective. A license may be revoked or suspended for any of the following reasons:

(1) Violation of any provision of the Act, or any other statute or Commission order or regulation related to carrying on the business of an ocean transportation intermediary;

(2) Failure to respond to any lawful order or inquiry by the Commission;

(3) Making a materially false or misleading statement to the Commission in connection with an application for a license or an amendment to an existing license;

(4) A Commission determination that the licensee is not qualified to render intermediary services; or

(5) Failure to honor the licensee's financial obligations to the Commission.
