
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Tank Vessels
#### PART 31 - INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart 31.10 - Inspections
###### ยง 31.10-18 Fire fighting equipment: General - TB/ALL.

(a) The owner, master, or person-in-charge of a tank vessel must ensure that portable and semi-portable extinguishers are inspected and maintained in accordance with NFPA 10 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 31.01-2) as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) Certification or licensing by a state or local jurisdiction as a fire extinguisher servicing agency will be accepted by the Coast Guard as meeting the personnel certification requirements of NFPA 10 for annual maintenance and recharging of extinguishers.

(2) Monthly inspections required by NFPA 10 may be conducted by the owner, operator, person-in-charge, or a designated member of the crew.

(3) Non-rechargeable or non-refillable extinguishers must be inspected and maintained in accordance with NFPA 10; however, the annual maintenance need not be conducted by a certified person and can be conducted by the owner, operator, person-in-charge, or a designated member of the crew.

(4) The owner or managing operator must provide satisfactory evidence of the required servicing to the marine inspector. If any of the equipment or records has not been properly maintained, a qualified servicing facility must perform the required inspections, maintenance procedures, and hydrostatic pressure tests. A tag issued by a qualified servicing organization, and attached to each extinguisher, may be accepted as evidence that the necessary maintenance procedures have been conducted.

(b) The owner, master, or person-in-charge of a tank vessel must ensure that the following tests and inspections of fixed fire extinguishing equipment are made:

(c) Deck foam systems must be tested at the inspection for certification and the periodic inspection by discharging foam for approximately 15 seconds from any nozzle designated by the marine inspector. It is not required to deliver foam from all foam outlets, but all lines and nozzles must be tested with water to prove they are clear of obstruction. Before the inspection for certification and periodic inspection of deck foam systems utilizing a mechanical foam system, a representative sample of the foam concentrate must be submitted to the manufacturer who will issue a certificate indicating gravity, pH, percentage of water dilution, and solid content.

(d) At each inspection for certification, periodic inspection, and at such other times as considered necessary, the inspector must determine that all fire extinguishing equipment is in suitable condition and that the tests and inspections required by paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section have been conducted. In addition, the marine inspector may require additional tests to determine the condition of the equipment.

(e) On all fire extinguishing systems, the piping, controls, valves, and alarms must be checked by the marine inspector to determine that the system is in good operating condition.

(f) The fire main system must be operated and the pressure checked at the most remote and highest outlets by the marine inspector. All firehoses must be exposed to a test pressure equivalent to the maximum pressure to which they may be subjected, but not less than 100 psi. The marine inspector must check that the hose couplings are securely fastened in accordance with the regulations of this subchapter.

(g) Steam smothering lines must be tested with at least 50 psi of air pressure or by blowing steam through the lines at the working pressure. A survey must be conducted for detecting corrosion and defects.
