
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter IV - Federal Maritime Commission
### Subchapter B—Regulations Affecting Ocean Shipping in Foreign Commerce
#### PART 515-LICENSING, REGISTRATION, FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REQUIREMENTS AND GENERAL DUTIES FOR OCEAN TRANSPORTATION INTERMEDIARIES
##### Appendix B to Part 515 - Ocean Transportation Intermediary (OTI) Insurance Form [Form 67]
###### bcl@fmc.gov

The liability of the Insurer shall not be discharged by any payment or succession of payments hereunder, unless and until such payment or payments shall aggregate the penalty of the Insurance in the amount per member OTI set forth in 46 CFR 515.21, or the amount per group or association of OTIs set forth in 46 CFR 515.21, regardless of the financial responsibility or lack thereof, or the solvency or bankruptcy, of Insured. The insurance evidenced by this undertaking shall be applicable only in relation to incidents occurring on or after the effective date and before the date termination of this undertaking becomes effective. The effective date of this undertaking shall be ____ day of ____, ____, and shall continue in effect until discharged or terminated as herein provided. The Insured or the Insurer may at any time terminate the Insurance by mail or email () written notice to the Director, Bureau of Certification and Licensing, Federal Maritime Commission, Washington, DC 20573. Such termination shall become effective thirty (30) days after receipt of said notice by the Commission. The Insurer shall not be liable for any transportation-related activities under the Shipping Act of the Insured after the expiration of the 30-day period but such termination shall not affect the liability of the Insured and Insurer for such activities occurring prior to the date when said termination becomes effective.

(Name of Agent) ____ domiciled in the United States, with offices located in the United States, at ____ is hereby designated as the Insurer's agent for service of process for the purposes of enforcing the Insurance certified to herein.

If more than one insurer joins in executing this document, that action constitutes joint and several liability on the part of the insurers.
