
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter IV - Federal Maritime Commission
### Subchapter B—Regulations Affecting Ocean Shipping in Foreign Commerce
#### PART 515-LICENSING, REGISTRATION, FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REQUIREMENTS AND GENERAL DUTIES FOR OCEAN TRANSPORTATION INTERMEDIARIES
##### Appendix C to Part 515 - Ocean Transportation Intermediary (OTI) Guaranty Form [Form 68]
###### bcl@fmc.gov

9. The Applicant or Guarantor will promptly notify the Director, Bureau of Certification and Licensing, Federal Maritime Commission, Washington, DC 20573, in writing by mail or email (), of all claims made, lawsuits filed, judgments rendered, and payments made under the Guaranty.

10. Applicant and Guarantor agree to handle the processing and adjudication of claims by claimants under the Guaranty established herein in the United States, unless by mutual consent of all parties and claimants another country is agreed upon. Guarantor agrees to appoint an agent for service of process in the United States.

11. This Guaranty shall be governed by the laws in the State of ____ to the extent not inconsistent with the rules and regulations of the FMC.

12. This Guaranty is effective the day of ____, ____, ____ 12:01 a.m., standard time at the address of the Guarantor as stated herein and shall continue in force until terminated as herein provided.

13. The Guarantor hereby designates as the Guarantor's legal agent for service of process domiciled in the United States ____, with offices located in the United States at ____, for the purposes of enforcing the Guaranty described herein.
