
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Tank Vessels
#### PART 31 - INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart 31.10 - Inspections
###### ยง 31.10-24 Integral fuel oil tank examinations - T/ALL.
####### integral fuel oil tank

(a) Each fuel oil tank with at least one side integral to the vessel's hull and located within the hull () is subject to inspection as provided in this section. The owner or operator of the vessel shall have the tanks cleaned out and gas freed as necessary to permit internal examination of the tank or tanks designated by the marine inspector. The owner or operator shall arrange for an examination of the fuel tanks of each vessel during an internal structural examination at intervals not to exceed five years.

(b) Integral non-double-bottom fuel oil tanks need not be cleaned out and internally examined if the marine inspector is able to determine by external examination that the general condition of the tanks is satisfactory.

(c) Double-bottom fuel oil tanks on vessels less than 10 years of age need not be cleaned out and internally examined if the marine inspector is able to determine by external examination that the general condition of the tanks is satisfactory.

(d) All double-bottom fuel oil tanks on vessels 10 years of age or older but less than 15 years of age need not be cleaned out and internally examined if the marine inspector is able to determine by internal examination of at least one forward double-bottom fuel oil tank, and by external examination of all other double-bottom fuel oil tanks on the vessel, that the general condition of the tanks is satisfactory.

(e) All double-bottom fuel oil tanks on vessels 15 years of age or older but less than 25 years of age need not be cleaned out and internally examined if the marine inspector is able to determine by internal examination of at least one forward, one amidships, and one aft double-bottom fuel oil tank, and by external examination of all other double-bottom fuel oil tanks on the vessel, that the general condition of the tanks is satisfactory.

(f) All double-bottom fuel oil tanks on vessels 25 years of age or older need not be cleaned out and internally examined if the marine inspector is able to determine by internal examination of at least one double-bottom fuel oil tank in way of each cargo tank, and by external examination of all other double-bottom fuel oil tanks, that the general condition of the tanks is satisfactory.
