
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter IV - Federal Maritime Commission
### Subchapter B—Regulations Affecting Ocean Shipping in Foreign Commerce
#### PART 535-OCEAN COMMON CARRIER AND MARINE TERMINAL OPERATOR AGREEMENTS SUBJECT TO THE SHIPPING ACT OF 1984
##### Subpart C-Exemptions
###### § 535.302 Exemptions for certain modifications of effective agreements.

(a) Non-substantive modifications to effective agreements. A non-substantive modification to an effective agreement between ocean common carriers and/or marine terminal operators, acting individually or through approved agreements, is one which:

(1) Reflects changes in the name of any geographic locality stated therein, the name of the agreement or the name of a party to the agreement, the names and/or numbers of any other section 4 agreement (46 U.S.C. 40301(a)-(c)) or designated provisions thereof referred to in an agreement;

(2) Corrects typographical and grammatical errors in the text of the agreement or renumbers or reletters articles or sub-articles of agreements and references thereto in the text; or

(3) Reflects changes in the titles of persons or committees designated therein or transfers the functions of such persons or committees to other designated persons or committees or which merely establishes a committee.

(b) Other Miscellaneous Modifications to effective agreements. A miscellaneous modification to an effective agreement is one that:

(1) Cancels the agreement or a portion thereof;

(2) Deletes an agreement party;

(3) Changes the parties to a conference agreement or a discussion agreement among passenger vessel operating common carriers that is open to all ocean common carriers operating passenger vessels of a class defined in the agreements and that does not contain ratemaking, pooling, joint service, sailing or space chartering authority; or

(4) Changes the officials of the agreement and delegations of authority.

(c) A copy of a modification described in (a) or (b) of this section shall be submitted to the Commission but is otherwise exempt from the waiting period requirement of the Act and this part.

(d) Parties to agreements may seek a determination from the Director of the Bureau of Trade Analysis as to whether a particular modification is a non-substantive or other miscellaneous modification within the meaning of this section.

(e) The filing fee for non-substantive or other miscellaneous modifications is provided in § 535.401(g).
