
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter IV - Federal Maritime Commission
### Subchapter B—Regulations Affecting Ocean Shipping in Foreign Commerce
#### PART 535-OCEAN COMMON CARRIER AND MARINE TERMINAL OPERATOR AGREEMENTS SUBJECT TO THE SHIPPING ACT OF 1984
##### Subpart G-Reporting Requirements
###### § 535.701 General requirements.
####### http://www.fmc.gov

(d) Monitoring Reports and minutes required to be filed by this subpart should be submitted to: Director, Bureau of Trade Analysis, Federal Maritime Commission, Washington, DC 20573-0001. A copy of the Monitoring Report form in Microsoft Word and Excel format may be downloaded from the Commission's home page at, or a paper copy may be obtained from the Bureau of Trade Analysis. In lieu of submitting paper copies, parties may complete and submit their Monitoring Reports in the Commission's prescribed electronic format, either on diskette or CD-ROM.

(e)(1) The regulations in this paragraph (e) are stayed until further notice.

(2) Reports and minutes required to be filed by this subpart may be filed by direct electronic transmission in lieu of hard copy. Detailed information on electronic transmission is available from the Commission's Bureau of Trade Analysis. Certification and signature requirements of this subpart can be met on electronic transmissions through use of a pre-assigned Personal Identification Number (PIN) obtained from the Commission. PINs can be obtained by submission by an official of the filing party of a statement to the Commission agreeing that inclusion of the PIN in the transmission constitutes the signature of the official. Only one PIN will be issued for each agreement. Where a filing party has more than one official authorized to file minutes or reports, each additional official must submit such a statement countersigned by the principal official of the filing party. Each filing official will be issued a unique password. A PIN or designation of authorized filing officials may be canceled or changed at any time upon the written request of the principal official of the filing party. Direct electronic transmission filings may be made at any time except between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 2 p.m. Eastern time on Commission business days.
