
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter IV - Federal Maritime Commission
### Subchapter B—Regulations Affecting Ocean Shipping in Foreign Commerce
#### PART 535-OCEAN COMMON CARRIER AND MARINE TERMINAL OPERATOR AGREEMENTS SUBJECT TO THE SHIPPING ACT OF 1984
##### Subpart F-Action on Agreements
###### § 535.605 Requests for expedited review.

(a) Upon written request of the filing party, the Commission may shorten the waiting period. In support of a request, the filing party should provide a full explanation, with reference to specific facts and circumstances, of the necessity for a shortened waiting period. In reviewing requests, the Commission will consider the parties' needs and the Commission's ability to complete its review of the agreement's potential impact. In no event, however, may the period be shortened to less than fourteen (14) days after the publication of the notice of the filing of the agreement in theWhen a request for expedited review is denied, the normal 45-day waiting period will apply. Requests for expedited review will not be granted routinely and will be granted only on a showing of good cause. Good cause would include, but is not limited to, the impending expiration of the agreement; an operational urgency; Federal or State imposed time limitations; or other reasons that, in the Commission's discretion, constitute grounds for granting the request.

(b) A request for expedited review will be considered for an agreement whose 45-day waiting period has begun anew after being stopped by a request for additional information.
