
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter IV - Federal Maritime Commission
### Subchapter B—Regulations Affecting Ocean Shipping in Foreign Commerce
#### PART 535-OCEAN COMMON CARRIER AND MARINE TERMINAL OPERATOR AGREEMENTS SUBJECT TO THE SHIPPING ACT OF 1984
##### Subpart G-Reporting Requirements
###### § 535.703 Monitoring Report form.

(a) For agreements subject to the Monitoring Report requirements in § 535.702(a), the Monitoring Report form, with instructions, is set forth in sections I through III of appendix B of this part. The instructions should be read in conjunction with the Act and this part.

(b) The Monitoring Report shall apply as follows:

(1) Section I shall be completed by parties to agreements identified in § 535.702(a)(1);

(2) Section II shall be completed by parties to agreements identified in § 535.702(a)(2); and

(3) Section III shall be completed by parties to all agreements identified in § 535.702(a).

(c) In accordance with the requirements and instructions in appendix B of this part, parties to an agreement subject to part 2(C) of section I of the Monitoring Report shall submit a narrative statement on any significant reductions in vessel capacity that the parties will implement under the agreement. The term "a significant reduction" is defined in appendix B. The narrative statement shall be submitted to the Director, Bureau of Trade Analysis, no later than 15 days after a significant reduction in vessel capacity has been agreed upon by the parties but prior to the implementation of the actual reduction under the agreement.

(d)(1) The Commission may require, in its discretion, that the information on the top agreement commodities in part 4 of section II of the Monitoring Report be reported on a sub-trade basis, as defined in appendix B of this part, rather than on an agreement-wide basis. When commodity sub-trade information is required under this section, the Commission shall notify the parties to the agreement.

(2) For purposes of § 535.703(d)(1), the top agreement commodities shall mean the top 10 liner commodities (including commodities not subject to tariff publication) carried by all the agreement parties in each sub-trade within the geographic scope of the agreement during the calendar quarter. Where the agreement covers both U.S. inbound and outbound liner movements, inbound and outbound sub-trades shall be stated separately. All other instructions, definitions, and terms shall apply as specified and required in appendix B of this part.
