
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter IV - Federal Maritime Commission
### Subchapter B—Regulations Affecting Ocean Shipping in Foreign Commerce
#### PART 535-OCEAN COMMON CARRIER AND MARINE TERMINAL OPERATOR AGREEMENTS SUBJECT TO THE SHIPPING ACT OF 1984
##### Appendix A to Part 535 - Information Form and Instructions
###### liner movement,liner cargo,liner operator,liner vessel,liner service,TEU

2. For clarification of the agreement terminology used in this Form, the parties may refer to the definitions provided in 46 CFR 535.104. In addition, the following definitions shall apply for purposes of this Form:means the carriage of liner cargo by liner operators;means cargo carried on liner vessels in a liner service;means a vessel-operating common carrier engaged in liner service;means a vessel used in a liner service;means a definite, advertised schedule of sailings at regular intervals; andmeans a unit of measurement equivalent to one 20-foot shipping container. Further, when used in this Form, the terms "entire geographic scope of the agreement" or "agreement-wide" refer to the combined U.S. inbound trade and/or the combined U.S. outbound trade as such trades apply to the geographic scope of the agreement, as opposed to the term "sub-trade," which is defined for reporting purposes as the scope of all liner movements between each U.S. port range and each foreign country within the scope of the agreement. Whether required on a combined trade basis or a sub-trade basis, the U.S. inbound trade (or sub-trades) and the U.S. outbound trade (or sub-trades) shall always be stated separately.

Section I applies to all agreements identified in 46 CFR 535.502. Parties to such agreements must complete parts 1 through 4 of this section. The authorities listed in part 4 of this section do not necessarily include all of the authorities that must be set forth in an agreement filed under the Act. The specific authorities between the parties to an agreement, however, must be set forth, clearly and completely, in a filed agreement in accordance with 46 CFR 535.402.

State the full name of the agreement.

Provide a narrative statement describing the specific purpose(s) of the agreement pertaining to the parties' business activities as ocean common carriers in the foreign commerce of the United States, and the commercial or other relevant circumstances within the geographic scope of the agreement that led the parties to enter into the agreement.

List all effective agreements that cover all or part of the geographic scope of this agreement, and whose parties include one or more of the parties to this agreement.

Identify whether the agreement authorizes the parties to discuss, or agree upon, whether on a binding basis under a common tariff or a non-binding basis, any kind of rate or charge.

Identify whether the agreement authorizes the parties to establish a joint service.

Identify whether the agreement authorizes the parties to pool cargo traffic or revenues.

Identify whether the agreement authorizes the parties to discuss, or agree on, any service contract matter.

Identify whether the agreement authorizes the parties to discuss or agree on capacity rationalization as defined in 46 CFR 535.104(e).

Identify whether the agreement contains provisions that place conditions or restrictions on the parties' agreement participation, and/or use or offering of competing services within the geographic scope of the agreement.

Identify whether the agreement authorizes the parties to charter or use vessel space in exchange for compensation or services. This authority does not include capacity rationalization as referred to in part 4(E) of this section.

Identify whether the agreement authorizes the parties to rationalize sailings or services relating to a schedule of ports, the frequency of vessel calls at ports, or the size and capacity of vessels for deployment. This authority does not include the establishment of a joint service or capacity rationalization as referred to in parts 4(B) and 4(E) of this section.

Section II applies to agreements identified in 46 CFR 535.502(a) that contain any of the following authorities: a) the charter or use of vessel space in exchange for compensation or services; or b) the rationalization of sailings or services relating to a schedule of ports, the frequency of vessel calls at ports, or the size and capacity of vessels for deployment. Such authorities do not include the establishment of a "joint service," nor "capacity rationalization" as these terms are defined in 46 CFR 535.104 (o) and (e). Parties to agreements identified in this section must complete all items in part 1.

For the most recent 12-month period for which complete data are available, provide the number of vessel calls each party made at each port for its liner services that would be covered by the agreement within the entire geographic scope of the agreement.

Provide a narrative statement on any significant changes, anticipated or planned to be implemented when the agreement goes into effect, in the number of vessel calls at a port for the parties' liner services that would be covered by the agreement within the entire geographic scope of the agreement. Specifically, explain the nature of the significant change and its effect on the frequency of vessel calls at the port for the liner service that would be subject to the change. For purposes of this part, a significant change refers to an increase or a decrease in the number of vessel calls at a port for a fixed, seasonally planned, or indefinite period of time. A significant change excludes an incidental or temporary alteration in the number of vessel calls at a port, or an operational change in vessel calls that would have little or no impact on the number of vessel calls at a port. If no significant change is anticipated or planned, it shall be noted with the term "none" in response to part 1(B) of this section.

Section III applies to agreements identified in 46 CFR 535.502 that contain the authority to discuss or agree on capacity rationalization as defined in 46 CFR 535.104(e). Parties to such agreements must complete parts 1 and 2 of this section.

1. For the most recent calendar quarter for which complete data are available, provide the amount of vessel capacity for each party for each of its liner services that would be covered by the agreement within the entire geographic scope of the agreement, stated separately for the U.S. inbound and outbound trades as applicable to the geographic scope of the agreement. For purposes of this Form, vessel capacity means a party's total commercial liner space on line-haul vessels, whether operated by it or other parties from whom space is obtained, sailing to and/or from the continent of North America for each of its liner services that would be covered by the agreement.

2. When 50 percent or more of the total liner cargo carried by all the parties in the geographic scope of the agreement during the calendar quarter was containerized, the amount(s) of vessel capacity for each party shall be reported in TEUs. When 50 percent or more of the total liner cargo carried by all the parties in the geographic scope of the agreement during the calendar quarter was non-containerized, the amount(s) of vessel capacity for each party shall be reported in non-containerized units of measurement. The unit of measurement used in calculating the amounts of non-containerized vessel capacity must be specified clearly and consistently applied.

Provide the percentage of vessel capacity utilization for each party for each of its liner services that would be covered by the agreement within the entire geographic scope of the agreement, corresponding to the figures and time period used in part 1(A) of this section, stated separately for the U.S. inbound and outbound trades as applicable to the geographic scope of the agreement. For purposes of this Form, the percentage of vessel capacity utilization means a party's total volume of liner cargo, for each of its liner services that would be covered by the agreement, carried on any vessel space counted under part 1(A) of this section, divided by its total vessel capacity as defined and derived in part 1(A) of this section, which quotient is multiplied by 100.

Provide a narrative statement on any significant changes, anticipated or planned to be implemented when the agreement goes into effect, in the amounts of vessel capacity for the parties' liner services that would be covered by the agreement within the entire geographic scope of the agreement. Specifically, explain the nature of and the reasons for the significant change and its effects on the liner service and the total amount of vessel capacity for such service that would be subject to the change. For purposes of this part, a significant change refers to the removal from or addition to a liner service of vessels or vessel space for a fixed, seasonally planned, or indefinite period of time. A significant change excludes instances when vessels may be temporarily repositioned or shifted from one service to another, or when vessel space may be temporarily altered, or when vessels are removed from a liner service and vessels of similar capacity are substituted. It also excludes operational changes in vessels or vessel space that would have little or no impact on the amount of vessel capacity offered in a liner service or a trade. If no significant change is anticipated or planned, it shall be noted with the term "none" in response to part 1(C) of this section.

For the most recent 12-month period for which complete data are available, provide the number of vessel calls each party made at each port for its liner services that would be covered by the agreement within the entire geographic scope of the agreement.

Provide a narrative statement on any significant changes, anticipated or planned to be implemented when the agreement goes into effect, in the number of vessel calls at a port for the parties' liner services that would be covered by the agreement within the entire geographic scope of the agreement. Specifically, explain the nature of the significant change and its effect on the frequency of vessel calls at the port for the liner service that would be subject to the change. For purposes of this part, a significant change refers to an increase or a decrease in the number of vessel calls at a port for a fixed, seasonally planned, or indefinite period of time. A significant change excludes an incidental or temporary alteration in the number of vessel calls at a port, or an operational change in vessel calls that would have little or no impact on the number of vessel calls at a port. If no significant change is anticipated or planned, it shall be noted with the term "none" in response to part 2(B) of this section.

Section IV applies to agreements identified in 46 CFR 535.502 that contain any of the following authorities: a) the discussion of, or agreement upon, whether on a binding basis under a common tariff or a non-binding basis, any kind of rate or charge; b) the establishment of a joint service; c) the pooling or division of cargo traffic, earnings, or revenues and/or losses; or d) the discussion of, or agreement on, any service contract matter. Parties to such agreements must complete parts 1 through 5 of this section.

1. For the most recent calendar quarter for which complete data are available, provide the market shares of all liner operators for the entire geographic scope of the agreement and in each sub-trade within the scope of the agreement. A joint service shall be treated as a single liner operator, whether it is an agreement line or a non-agreement line. Sub-trade is defined as the scope of all liner movements between each U.S. port range within the scope of the agreement and each foreign country within the scope of the agreement. Where the agreement covers both U.S. inbound and outbound liner movements, inbound and outbound market shares shall be shown separately.

2. U.S. port ranges are defined as follows:

a. Atlantic and Gulf-Includes ports along the eastern seaboard and the Gulf of Mexico from the northern boundary of Maine to Brownsville, Texas. Also includes all ports bordering upon the Great Lakes and their connecting waterways, all ports in the State of New York on the St. Lawrence River, and all ports in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.

b. Pacific-Includes all ports in the States of Alaska, Hawaii, California, Oregon, and Washington. Also includes all ports in Guam, American Samoa, Northern Marianas, Johnston Island, Midway Island, and Wake Island.

3. An application may be filed for a waiver of the definition of "sub-trade" under the procedures described in 46 CFR 535.504. In any such application, the burden shall be on the parties to show that their marketing and pricing practices have been done by ascertainable multi-country regions rather than by individual countries or, in the case of the United States, by broader areas than the port ranges defined herein. The parties must further show that, though operating individually, they were nevertheless applying essentially similar regional practices.

4. The formula for calculating market share in the entire agreement scope or in a sub-trade is as follows: The total amount of liner cargo carried on each liner operator's liner vessels in the entire agreement scope or in the sub-trade during the most recent calendar quarter for which complete data are available, divided by the total liner movements in the entire agreement scope or in the sub-trade during the same calendar quarter, which quotient is multiplied by 100. The calendar quarter used must be clearly identified. The market shares held by non-agreement lines as well as by agreement lines must be provided, stated separately in the format indicated.

5. If 50 percent or more of the total liner cargo carried by the parties in the entire agreement scope during the calendar quarter was containerized, only containerized liner movements (measured in TEUs) must be used for determining market share. If 50 percent or more of the total liner cargo carried by the parties was non-containerized, only non-containerized liner movements must be used for determining market share. The unit of measurement used in calculating amounts of non-containerized cargo must be specified clearly and applied consistently.

1. For each party that served all or any part of the geographic scope of the agreement during all or any part of the most recent 12-month period for which complete data are available, provide each party's total liner revenues within the geographic scope, total liner cargo carried within the geographic scope, and average revenue. For purposes of this Form, total liner revenues means the total revenues, in U.S. dollars, of each party corresponding to its total cargo carried for its liner services that would fall under the agreement, inclusive of all ocean freight charges, whether assessed on a port-to-port basis or a through intermodal basis; accessorial charges; surcharges; and charges for inland cargo carriage. Average revenue shall be calculated as the quotient of each party's total liner revenues within the geographic scope divided by its total cargo carried within the geographic scope.

2. When 50 percent or more of the total liner cargo carried by all the parties in the geographic scope of the agreement during the 12-month period was containerized, each party shall report only its total carryings of containerized liner cargo (measured in TEUs) within the geographic scope, total revenues generated by its carriage of containerized liner cargo, and average revenue per TEU. When 50 percent or more of the total liner cargo carried by all the parties in the geographic scope of the agreement during the 12-month period was non-containerized, each party shall report only its total carryings of non-containerized liner cargo (specifying the unit of measurement used), total revenues generated by its carriage of non-containerized liner cargo, and average revenue per unit of measurement. When the agreement covers both U.S. inbound and outbound liner movements, inbound and outbound data shall be stated separately.

For the same 12-month period used in part 2 of this section, provide a list, for the entire geographic scope of the agreement, of the top 10 liner commodities (including commodities not subject to tariff publication) carried by all the parties for their liner services that would fall under the agreement. For purposes of this Form, commodities shall be identified at the 4-digit level of customarily used commodity coding schedules. When 50 percent or more of the total liner cargo carried by all the parties in the geographic scope of the agreement during the 12-month period was containerized, this list shall include only containerized commodities. When 50 percent or more of the total liner cargo carried by all the parties in the geographic scope of the agreement during the 12-month period was non-containerized, this list shall include only non-containerized commodities. When the agreement covers both U.S. inbound and outbound liner movements, inbound and outbound data shall be stated separately.

Provide the cargo volume and revenue results for each party for each of the major commodities listed in part 3(A) of this section, corresponding to the same 12-month period and unit of measurement used. For purposes of this Form, revenue results means the revenues, in U.S. dollars, earned by each party on the cargo volume of each major commodity listed in part 3(A) of this section, inclusive of all ocean freight charges, whether assessed on a port-to-port basis or a through intermodal basis; accessorial charges; surcharges; and charges for inland cargo carriage. If a party has no cargo volume and revenue results for a commodity listed in part 3(A) of this section, it shall be noted by using a zero for that party in response to part 3(B) of this section.

For the same calendar quarter used in part 1 of this section, provide the amount of vessel capacity for each party for each of its liner services that would fall under the agreement within the entire geographic scope of the agreement, stated separately for the U.S. inbound and outbound trades as applicable to the geographic scope of the agreement. For purposes of this Form, vessel capacity means a party's total commercial liner space on line-haul vessels, whether operated by it or other parties from whom space is obtained, sailing to and/or from the continent of North America for each of its liner services that would fall under the agreement. When 50 percent or more of the total liner cargo carried by all the parties in the geographic scope of the agreement during the calendar quarter was containerized, the amount(s) of vessel capacity for each party shall be reported in TEUs. When 50 percent or more of the total liner cargo carried by all the parties in the geographic scope of the agreement during the calendar quarter was non-containerized, the amount(s) of vessel capacity for each party shall be reported in non-containerized units of measurement. The unit of measurement used in calculating the amounts of non-containerized vessel capacity must be specified clearly and consistently applied.

Provide the percentage of vessel capacity utilization for each party for each of its liner services that would fall under the agreement within the entire geographic scope of the agreement, corresponding to the figures and time period used in part 4(A) of this section, stated separately for the U.S. inbound and outbound trades as applicable to the geographic scope of the agreement. For purposes of this Form, the percentage of vessel capacity utilization means a party's total volume of liner cargo, for each of its liner services that would fall under the agreement, carried on any vessel space counted under part 4(A) of this section, divided by its total vessel capacity as defined and derived in part 4(A) of this section, which quotient is multiplied by 100.

Provide a narrative statement on any significant changes, anticipated or planned for when the agreement goes into effect, in the amounts of vessel capacity for the parties' liner services that would fall under the agreement within the entire geographic scope of the agreement. Specifically, explain the nature of and reasons for the significant change and its effects on the liner service and the total amount of vessel capacity for such service that would be subject to the change. For purposes of this part, a significant change refers to the removal from or addition to a liner service of vessels or vessel space for a fixed, seasonally planned, or indefinite period of time. A significant change excludes instances when vessels may be temporarily repositioned or shifted from one service to another, or when vessel space may be temporarily altered, or when vessels are removed from a liner service and vessels of similar capacity are substituted. It also excludes operational changes in vessels or vessel space that would have little or no impact on the amount of vessel capacity offered in a liner service or a trade. If no significant change is anticipated or planned, it shall be noted with the term "none" in response to part 4(C) of this section.

For the same 12-month period used in parts 2 and 3 of this section, provide the number of vessel calls each party made at each port for its liner services that would fall under the agreement within the entire geographic scope of the agreement.

Provide a narrative statement on any significant changes, anticipated or planned for when the agreement goes into effect, in the number of vessel calls at a port for the parties' liner services that would fall under the agreement within the entire geographic scope of the agreement. Specifically, explain the nature of the significant change and its effect on the frequency of vessel calls at the port for the liner service that would be subject to the change. For purposes of this part, a significant change refers to an increase or decrease in the number of vessel calls at a port for a fixed, seasonally planned, or indefinite period of time. A significant change excludes an incidental or temporary alteration in vessel calls at a port, or an operational change in vessel calls that would have little or no impact on the number of vessel calls at a port. If no significant change is anticipated or planned, it shall be noted with the term "none" in response to part 5(B) of this section.

Section V applies to all agreements identified in 46 CFR 535.502. Parties to such agreements must complete all items in part 1 of this section.

State the name, title, address, telephone and fax numbers, and electronic mail address of a person the Commission may contact regarding the Information Form and any information provided therein.

State the name, title, address, telephone and fax numbers, and electronic mail address of a person the Commission may contact regarding a request for additional information or documents.

A representative of the parties shall sign the Information Form and certify that the information in the Form and all attachments and appendices are, to the best of his or her knowledge, true, correct and complete. The representative also shall indicate his or her relationship with the parties to the agreement.

1. The collection of this information is authorized generally by section 15 of the Shipping Act of 1984 (46 U.S.C. 40104). The submission of this form is mandatory for parties to agreements that contain certain authorities.

2. You are not required to provide information requested on a form that is subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act unless the form displays a valid OMB control number. The valid control number for this information collection is 3072-0045.

3. The time needed to complete and submit this form will vary depending on individual circumstances. The total estimated average time to complete this form is about 30 hours. This estimate includes reading the instructions, collecting necessary data, and compiling that data.
