
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter IV - Federal Maritime Commission
### Subchapter B—Regulations Affecting Ocean Shipping in Foreign Commerce
#### PART 535-OCEAN COMMON CARRIER AND MARINE TERMINAL OPERATOR AGREEMENTS SUBJECT TO THE SHIPPING ACT OF 1984
##### Subpart H-Mandatory and Prohibited Provisions
###### § 535.802 Service contracts.

(a) Ocean common carrier agreements may not prohibit or restrict a member or members of the agreement from engaging in negotiations for service contracts with one or more shippers.

(b) Ocean common carrier agreements may not require a member or members of the agreement to disclose a negotiation on a service contract, or the terms and conditions of a service contract, other than those terms or conditions required by section 8(c)(3) of the Act (46 U.S.C. 40502(d)).

(c) Ocean common carrier agreements may not adopt mandatory rules or requirements affecting the right of an agreement member or agreement members to negotiate or enter into service contracts.

(d) An agreement may provide authority to adopt voluntary guidelines relating to the terms and procedures of an agreement member's or agreement members' service contracts if the guidelines explicitly state the right of the members of the agreement not to follow these guidelines.

(e) Voluntary guidelines shall be submitted to the Director, Bureau of Trade Analysis, Federal Maritime Commission, Washington, DC 20573-0001. Voluntary guidelines shall be kept confidential in accordance with § 535.608 of this part. Use of voluntary guidelines prior to their submission is prohibited.
