
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter IV - Federal Maritime Commission
### Subchapter B—Regulations Affecting Ocean Shipping in Foreign Commerce
#### PART 540 - PASSENGER VESSEL FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
##### Subpart A - Proof of Financial Responsibility, Bonding and Certification of Financial Responsibility for Indemnification of Passengers for Nonperformance of Transportation
###### § 540.4 Procedure for establishing financial responsibility.
####### http://www.fmc.gov,

(a) In order to comply with section 3 of Public Law 89-777 (46 U.S.C. 44101-44102, 44104-44106) enacted November 6, 1966, there must be filed with the Federal Maritime Commission an application on Form FMC-131 for a Certificate of Financial Responsibility for Indemnification of Passengers for Nonperformance of Transportation. Copies of Form FMC-131 may be obtained from the Commission's Web site ator from the Bureau of Certification and Licensing, Federal Maritime Commission, Washington, DC 20573.

(b) An application for a Certificate (Performance) shall be filed with the Bureau of Certification and Licensing, Federal Maritime Commission, by the vessel owner or charterer at least 60 days in advance of the arranging, offering, advertising, or providing of any water transportation or tickets in connection therewith except that any person other than the owner or charterer who arranges, offers, advertises, or provides passage on a vessel may apply for a Certificate (Performance). Late filing of the application will be permitted without penalty only for good cause shown.

(c) All applications and evidence required to be filed with the Commission shall be in English, and any monetary terms shall be expressed in terms of U.S. currency.

(d) The Commission shall have the privilege of verifying any statements made or any evidence submitted under the rules of this subpart.

(e) An application for a Certificate (Performance), excluding an application for the addition or substitution of a vessel to the applicant's fleet, must be accompanied by a filing fee remittance of $4,332. An application for a Certificate (Performance) for the addition or substitution of a vessel to the applicant's fleet must be accompanied by a filing fee remittance of $2,180. Administrative changes, such as the renaming of a vessel will not incur any additional fees.

(f) The application shall be signed by a duly authorized officer or representative of the applicant with a copy of evidence of his or her authority.

(g) In the event of any material change in the facts as reflected in the application, an amendment to the application shall be filed no later than fifteen (15) days following such change. For the purpose of this subpart, a material change shall be one which:

(1) Results in a decrease in the amount submitted to establish financial responsibility to a level below that required to be maintained under the rules of this subpart, or

(2) Requires that the amount to be maintained be increased above the amount submitted to establish financial responsibility.
