
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter IV - Federal Maritime Commission
### Subchapter B—Regulations Affecting Ocean Shipping in Foreign Commerce
#### PART 540 - PASSENGER VESSEL FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
##### Subpart A - Proof of Financial Responsibility, Bonding and Certification of Financial Responsibility for Indemnification of Passengers for Nonperformance of Transportation
###### § 540.9 Miscellaneous.
####### Process for obtaining refunds from the financial instrument in the event of nonperformance.

(f)(1) The passenger must make a written request for a refund from the PVO in accordance with the respective PVO's claims procedure.

(2) In the event the passenger is unable to resolve the claim within 180 days, or such shorter claim resolution period for which the PVO's claims procedure provides, after nonperformance of transportation occurs or if the claim is denied by the PVO, the passenger may submit a claim against the financial instrument as per instructions on the Commission website. The claim may include a copy of the boarding pass, proof and amount of payment, the cancellation or delay notice, and dated proof of properly filed claim against the PVO or written notification as required in paragraph (f)(1) of this section. All documentation must clearly display the vessel and voyage with the scheduled and actual date of sailing.

(3) Nothing in this rule shall be interpreted to preclude the consumer and the PVO from entering into an alternative form of compensation in full satisfaction of a required refund, such as a future cruise credit.

(g) Financial data filed in connection with the rules of this subpart shall be confidential except in instances where information becomes relevant in connection with hearings which may be requested by applicant pursuant to § 540.8 (a) or (b).

(h) Every person who has been issued a Certificate (Performance) must submit to the Commission a semi-annual statement of any changes with respect to the information contained in the application or documents submitted in support thereof or a statement that no changes have occurred. Negative statements are required to indicate no change. These statements must cover the 6-month period of January through June and July through December and include a statement of the highest unearned passenger vessel revenue accrued for each month in the 6-month reporting period as well as any instances of nonperformance of transportation. Such statements will be due within 30 days after the close of every such 6-month period. The reports required by this paragraph shall be submitted to the Bureau of Certification and Licensing at its office in Washington, DC by certified mail, courier service, or electronic submission.
