
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter IV - Federal Maritime Commission
### Subchapter B—Regulations Affecting Ocean Shipping in Foreign Commerce
#### PART 540 - PASSENGER VESSEL FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
##### Subpart A - Proof of Financial Responsibility, Bonding and Certification of Financial Responsibility for Indemnification of Passengers for Nonperformance of Transportation
###### Appendix A to Subpart A of Part 540-Example of Escrow Agreement for Use Under 46 CFR 540.5(b)

THIS ESCROW AGREEMENT, ____ made as of this ______day of (month & year), by and between (Customer), a corporation/company having a place of business at ("Customer") ______________ and (Banking Institution name & address) a banking corporation, having a place of business at ("Escrow Agent").

WHEREAS, Customer wishes to establish an escrow account in order to provide for the indemnification of passengers in the event of non-performance of water transportation to which such passengers would be entitled, and to establish Customer's financial responsibility therefore; and

WHEREAS, Escrow Agent wishes to act as Escrow Agent of the escrow account established hereunder;

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and covenants contained herein and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:

1. Customer has established on (month, & year) (the "Commencement Date") an escrow account with the Escrow Agent which escrow account shall hereafter be governed by the terms of this Agreement (the "Escrow Account"). Escrow Agent shall maintain the Escrow Account in its name, in its capacity as Escrow Agent.

2. Customer will determine, as of the date prior to the Commencement Date, the amount of unearned passenger revenue, including any funds to be transferred from any predecessor Escrow Agent. Escrow Agent shall have no duty to calculate the amount of unearned passenger revenue. Unearned Passenger Revenues are defined as that passenger revenue received for water transportation and all other accommodations, services and facilities relating thereto not yet performed. 46 CFR 540.2(i).

3. Customer will deposit on the Commencement Date into the Escrow Account cash in an amount equal to the amount of Unearned Passenger Revenue determined under Paragraph 2 above plus a cash amount ("the Fixed Amount") equal to (10 percent of the Customer's highest Unearned Passenger Revenue for the prior two fiscal years. For periods on or after (year of agreement (2009)), the Fixed Amount shall be determined by the Commission on an annual basis, in accordance with 46 CFR part 540.

4. Customer acknowledges and agrees that until such time as a cruise has been completed and Customer has taken the actions described herein, Customer shall not be entitled, nor shall it have any interest in any funds deposited with Escrow Agent to the extent such funds represent Unearned Passenger Revenue.

5. Customer may, at any time, deposit additional funds consisting exclusively of Unearned Passenger Revenue and the Fixed Amount, into the Escrow Account and Escrow Agent shall accept all such funds for deposit and shall manage all such funds pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.

6. After the establishment of the Escrow Account, as provided in Paragraph 1, Customer shall on a weekly basis on each (identify day of week), or if Customer or Escrow Agent is not open for business on (identify day of week) then on the next business day that Customer and Escrow Agent are open for business recompute the amount of Unearned Passenger Revenue as of the close of business on the preceding business day (hereinafter referred to as the "Determination Date") and deliver a Recomputation Certificate to Escrow Agent on such date. In each such weekly recomputation, Customer shall calculate the amount by which Unearned Passenger Revenue has decreased due to (i) the cancellation of reservations and the corresponding refund of monies from Customer to the persons or entities canceling such reservations; (ii) the amount which Customer has earned as revenue as a result of any cancellation fee charged upon the cancellation of any reservations; (iii) the amount which Customer has earned due to the completion of cruises; and (iv) the amount by which Unearned Passenger Revenue has increased due to receipts from passengers for future water transportation and all other accommodations, services and facilities relating thereto and not yet performed.

The amount of Unearned Passenger Revenue as recomputed shall be compared with the amount of Unearned Passenger Revenue for the immediately preceding period to determine whether there has been a net increase or decrease in Unearned Passenger Revenue. If the balance of the Escrow Account as of the Determination Date exceeds the sum of the amount of Unearned Passenger Revenue, as recomputed, plus the Fixed Amount then applicable, then Escrow Agent shall make any excess funds in the Escrow Account available to Customer. If the balance in the Escrow Account as of the Determination Date is less than the sum of the amount of Unearned Passenger Revenue, as recomputed, plus an amount equal to the Fixed Amount, Customer shall deposit an amount equal to such deficiency with the Escrow Agent. Such deposit shall be made in immediately available funds via wire transfer or by direct transfer from the Customer's U.S. Bank checking account before the close of business on the next business day following the day on which the Recomputation Certificate is received by Escrow Agent. The Escrow Agent shall promptly notify the Commission within two business days any time a deposit required by a Recomputation Certificate delivered to the Escrow Agent is not timely made.

7. Customer shall furnish a Recomputation Certificate, in substantially the form attached hereto as Annex 1, to the Federal Maritime Commission (the "Commission") and to the Escrow Agent setting forth the weekly recomputation of Unearned Passenger Revenue required by the terms of Paragraph 6 above. Customer shall mail or fax to the Commission and deliver to the Escrow Agent the required Recomputation Certificate before the close of business on the business day on which Customer recomputes the amount of Unearned Passenger Revenue. Notwithstanding any other provision herein to the contrary, Escrow Agent shall not make any funds available to Customer out of the Escrow Account because of a decrease in the amount of Unearned Passenger Revenue or otherwise, until such time as Escrow Agent receives the above described Recomputation Certificate from Customer, which Recomputation Certificate shall include the Customer's verification certification in the form attached hereto as Annex 1. The copies of each Recomputation Certificate to be furnished to the Commission shall be mailed to the Commission at the address provided in Paragraph 25 herein. If copies are not mailed to the Commission, faxed or emailed copies shall be treated with the same legal effect as if an original signature was furnished. No repayment of the Fixed Amount may be made except upon approval of the Commission.

Within fifteen (15) days after the end of each calendar month, Escrow Agent shall provide to Customer and to the Commission at the addresses provided in Paragraph 25 below, a comprehensive statement of the Escrow Account. Such statement shall provide a list of assets in the Escrow Account, the balance thereof as of the beginning and end of the month together with the original cost and current market value thereof, and shall detail all transactions that took place with respect to the assets and investments in the Escrow Account during the preceding month.

8. At the end of each quarter of Customer's fiscal year, Customer shall cause the independent auditors then acting for it to conduct an examination in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards with respect to the weekly Recomputation Certificates furnished by Customer of the Unearned Passenger Revenues and the amounts to be deposited in the Escrow Account and to express their opinion within forty-five (45) days after the end of such quarter as to whether the calculations at the end of each fiscal quarter are in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 6 of this Agreement. The determination of Unearned Passenger Revenue of such independent auditors shall have control over any computation of Unearned Passenger Revenue by Customer in the event of any difference between such determinations. To the extent that the actual amount of the Escrow Account is less than the amount determined by such independent auditors to be required to be on deposit in the Escrow Account, Customer shall immediately deposit an amount of cash into the Escrow Account sufficient to cause the balance of the Escrow Account to equal the amount determined to be so required. Such deposit shall be completed no later than the business day after receipt by the Escrow Agent of the auditor's opinion containing the amount of such deficiency.

The opinion of such independent auditors shall be furnished by such auditors directly to Customer, to the Commission and to the Escrow Agent at their addresses contained in this Agreement. In the event that a required deposit to the Escrow Agent is not made within one Business Day after receipt of an auditor's report or a Recomputation Certificate, Escrow Agent shall send notification to the Commission within the next two Business Days.

9. Escrow Agent shall invest the funds in the Escrow Account in Qualified Investments as directed by Customer in its sole and absolute discretion. "Qualified Investments" means, to the extent permitted by applicable law:

(a) Government obligations or obligations of any agency or instrumentality of the United States of America;

(b) Commercial paper issued by a United States company rated in the two highest numerical "A" categories (without regard to further gradation or refinement of such rating category) by Standard & Poor's Corporation, or in the two highest numerical "Prime" categories (without regard to further gradation or refinement of such rating) by Moody's Investor Services, Inc.;

(c) Certificates of deposit and money market accounts issued by any United States bank, savings institution or trust company, including the Escrow Agent, and time deposits of any bank, savings institution or trust company, including the Escrow Agent, which are fully insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation;

(d) Corporate bonds or obligations which are rated by Standard & Poor's Corporation or Moody's Investors Service, Inc. in one of their three highest rating categories (without regard to any gradation or refinement of such rating category by a numerical or other modifier); and

(e) Money market funds registered under the Federal Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and whose shares are registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and whose shares are rated "AAA", "AA + " or "AA" by Standard & Poor's Corporation.

10. All interest and other profits earned on the amounts placed in the Escrow Account shall be credited to Escrow Account.

11. This Agreement has been entered into by the parties hereto, and the Escrow Account has been established hereunder by Customer, to establish the financial responsibility of Customer as the owner, operator or charterer of the passenger vessel(s) (see Exhibit A), in accordance with 46 CFR part 540, subpart A. The Escrow Account shall be held by Escrow Agent in accordance with the terms hereof, to be utilized to discharge Customer's legal liability to indemnify the passengers of the named vessel(s) for non-performance of transportation within the meaning of 46 CFR 540.2(m). The Escrow Agent shall make indemnification payments pursuant to written instructions from Customer, on which the Escrow Agent may rely, or in the event that:

(1) The passenger makes a request for refund from the Principal in accordance with the ticket contract.

(2) In the event the passenger is unable to resolve the claim within 180 days, or such shorter claim resolution period for which the PVO's claims procedure provides, after nonperformance of transportation occurs or if the claim is denied by the PVO, the passenger may submit a claim against the Escrow Account as per instructions on the Commission website. The claim may include a copy of the boarding pass, proof and amount of payment, cancellation notice, and dated proof of properly filed claim against the Principal. All documentation must clearly display the vessel and voyage with scheduled and actual date of sailing. And, The Escrow Agent shall make indemnification payments pursuant to written instructions from Customer, on which the Escrow Agent may rely, or in the event that such legal liability has not been discharged by Customer within twenty-one (21) days after any such passenger has obtained a final judgment (after appeal, if any) against Customer from a United States Federal or State Court of competent jurisdiction the Escrow Agent is authorized to pay funds out of the Escrow Account, after such twenty-one day period, in accordance with and pursuant to the terms of an appropriate order of a court of competent jurisdiction on receipt of a certified copy of such order.

(3) Valid claims must be paid within 90 days of submission to the Escrow Agent.

As further security for Customer's obligation to provide water transportation to passengers holding tickets for transportation on the passenger vessel(s) (see Exhibit A) Customer will pledge to each passenger who has made full or partial payment for future passage on the named vessel(s) an interest in the Escrow Account equal to such payment. Escrow Agent is hereby notified of and acknowledges such pledges. Customers' instructions to Escrow Agent to release funds from the Escrow Account as described in this Agreement shall constitute a certification by Customer of the release of pledge with respect to such funds due to completed, canceled or terminated cruises. Furthermore, Escrow Agent agrees to hold funds in the Escrow Account until directed by Customer or a court order to release such funds as described in this Agreement. Escrow Agent shall accept instructions only from Customer, acting on its own behalf or as agent for its passengers, and shall not have any obligations at any time to act pursuant to instructions of Customer's passengers or any other third parties except as expressly described herein. Escrow Agent hereby waives any right of offset to which it is or may become entitled with regard to the funds on deposit in the Escrow Account which constitute Unearned Passenger Revenue.

12. Customer agrees to provide to the Escrow Agent all information necessary to facilitate the administration of this Agreement and the Escrow Agent may rely upon any information so provided.

13. Customer hereby warrants and represents that it is a corporation in good standing in its State of organization and that is qualified to do business in the State. Customer further warrants and represents that (i) it possesses full power and authority to enter into this Agreement and fulfill its obligations hereunder and (ii) that the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement have been authorized and approved by all required corporate actions.

14. Escrow Agent hereby warrants and represents that it is a national banking association in good standing. Escrow Agent further warrants and represents that (i) it has full power and authority to enter into this Agreement and fulfill its obligations hereunder and (ii) that the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement have been authorized and approved by all required corporate actions.

15. This Agreement shall have a term of one (1) year and shall be automatically renewed for successive one (1) year terms unless notice of intent not to renew is delivered to the other party to this Agreement and to the Commission at least 90 days prior to the expiration of the current term of this Agreement. Notice shall be given by certified mail to the parties at the addresses provided in Paragraph 25 below. Notice shall be given by certified mail to the Commission at the address specified in this Agreement.

16. (a) Customer hereby agrees to indemnify and hold harmless Escrow Agent against any and all claims, losses, damages, liabilities, cost and expenses, including litigation, arising hereunder, which might be imposed or incurred on Escrow Agent for any acts or omissions of the Escrow Agent or Customer, not caused by the negligence or willful misconduct of the Escrow Agent. The indemnification set forth herein shall survive the resignation or removal of the Escrow Agent and the termination of this agreement.

(b) In the event of any disagreement between parties which result in adverse claims with respect to funds on deposit with Escrow Agent or the threat thereof, Escrow Agent may refuse to comply with any demands on it with respect thereto as long as such disagreement shall continue and in so refusing, Escrow Agent need not make any payment and Escrow Agent shall not be or become liable in any way to Customer or any third party (whether for direct, incidental, consequential damages or otherwise) for its failure or refusal to comply with such demands and it shall be entitled to continue so to refrain from acting and so refuse to act until such conflicting or adverse demands shall finally terminate by mutual written agreement acceptable to Escrow Agent or by a final, non-appealable order of a court of competent jurisdiction.

17. Escrow Agent shall be entitled to such compensation for its services hereunder as may be agreed upon from time to time by Escrow Agent and Customer and which shall initially be set forth in a separate letter agreement between Escrow Agent and Customer. This Agreement shall not become effective until such letter agreement has been executed by both parties hereto and confirmed in writing to the Commission.

18. Customer may terminate this Agreement and engage a successor escrow agent, after giving at least 90 days written termination notice to Escrow Agent prior to terminating Escrow Agent if such successor agent is a commercial bank whose passbook accounts are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and such successor agrees to the terms of this agreement, or if there is a new agreement then such termination shall not be effective until the new agreement is approved in writing by the Commission. Upon giving the written notice to Customer and the Commission, Escrow Agent may terminate any and all duties and obligations imposed on Escrow Agent by this Agreement effective as of the date specified in such notice, which date shall be at least 90 days after the date such notice is given. All escrowed funds as of the termination date specified in the notice shall be turned over to the successor escrow agent, or if no successor escrow agent has been named within 90 days after the giving of such notice, then all such escrowed funds for sailing scheduled to commence after the specified termination date shall be returned to the person who paid such passage fares upon written approval of the Commission. In the event of any such termination where the Escrow Agent shall be returning payments to the passengers, then Escrow Agent shall request from Customer a list of passenger names, addresses, deposit/fare amounts and other information needed to make refunds. On receipt of such list, Escrow Agent shall return all passage fares held in the Escrow Account as of the date of termination specified in the notice to the passengers, excepting only amounts Customer is entitled to receive pursuant to the terms of this Agreement for cruises completed through the termination date specified in the notice, and all interest which shall be paid to Customer.

In the event of termination of this Agreement and if alternative evidence of financial responsibility has been accepted by the Commission and written evidence satisfactory to Escrow Agent of the Commission's acceptance is presented to Escrow Agent, then Escrow Agent shall release to Customer all passage fares held in the Escrow Account as of the date of termination specified in the notice. In the event of any such termination where written evidence satisfactory to Escrow Agent of the Commission's acceptance has not been presented to Escrow Agent, then Escrow Agent shall request from Customer a list of passenger names, addresses, deposit/fare amounts and other information needed to make refunds. On receipt of such list, Escrow Agent shall return all passage fares held in the Escrow Account as of the date of termination specified in the notice to the passengers, excepting only amounts Customer is entitled to receive pursuant to the terms of this Agreement for cruises completed through the termination date specified in the notice, and all interest which shall be paid to Customer. Upon termination, Customer shall pay all costs and fees previously earned or incurred by Escrow Agent through the termination date.

19. Neither Customer nor Escrow Agent shall have the right to sell, pledge, hypothecate, assign, transfer or encumber funds or assets in the Escrow Account except in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.

20. This Agreement is for the benefit of the parties hereto and, accordingly, each and every provision hereof shall be enforceable by any or each or both of them. Additionally, this Agreement shall be enforceable by the Commission. However, this Agreement shall not be enforceable by any other party, person or entity whatsoever.

21. (a) No amendments, modifications or other change in the terms of this Agreement shall be effective for any purpose whatsoever unless agreed upon in writing by Escrow Agent and Customer and approved in writing by the Commission.

(b) No party hereto may assign its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the other, and unless approved in writing by the Commission. The merger of Customer with another entity or the transfer of a controlling interest in the stock of Customer shall constitute an assignment hereunder for which prior written approval of the Commission is required, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.

22. The foregoing provisions shall be binding upon undersigned, their assigns, successors and personal representative.

23. The Commission shall have the right to inspect the books and records of the Escrow Agent and those of Customer as related to the Escrow Account. In addition, the Commission shall have the right to seek copies of annual audited financial statements and other financial related information.

24. All investments, securities and assets maintained under the Escrow Agreement will be physically located in the United States.

25. Notices relating to this Agreement shall be sent to Customer at (address) and to Escrow Agent at (address) or to such other address as any party hereto may hereafter designate in writing. Any communication sent to the Commission or its successor organization shall be sent to the following address: Bureau of Certification and Licensing, Federal Maritime Commission, 800 North Capitol NW, Washington, DC 20573-0001.

26. This agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original and all of which when taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.

27. This Agreement is made and delivered in, and shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of ________without regard to the choice of law rules.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have each caused this Agreement to be executed on their behalf as of the date first above written.

ESCROW AGREEMENT, dated ________by and between (Customer) and (Escrow Agent).

The undersigned, the Controller of ________hereby furnishes this Recomputation Certificate pursuant to the terms of the Escrow Agreement dated , between the Customer and ("Bank"). Terms herein shall have the same definitions as those in such Escrow Agreement and Federal Maritime Commission regulations.

I. Unearned Passenger Revenue as of ("Date") was: $ ________

a. Additions to unearned Passenger Revenue since such date were:

b. Reductions in Unearned Passenger Revenue since such date were:

II. Unearned Passenger Revenue as of the date of this Recomputation Certificate is: $ ________

III. Plus the Required Fixed Amount: $ ________

IV. Total Required in Escrow: $ ________

V. Current Balance in Escrow Account: $ ________

VI. Amount to be Deposited in Escrow Account: $ ________

VII. Amount of Escrow Account available to Operator: $ ________

VIII. I declare under penalty of perjury that the above information is true and correct.
