
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter IV - Federal Maritime Commission
### Subchapter B—Regulations Affecting Ocean Shipping in Foreign Commerce
#### PART 540 - PASSENGER VESSEL FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
##### Subpart B-Proof of Financial Responsibility, Bonding and Certification of Financial Responsibility To Meet Liability Incurred for Death or Injury to Passengers or Other Persons on Voyages
###### § 540.23 Procedure for establishing financial responsibility.

(a) In order to comply with section 2 of Pub. L. 89-777 (46 U.S.C. 44101, 44103-44106) enacted November 6, 1966, there must be filed an Application on Form FMC-131 for a Certificate of Financial Responsibility to Meet Liability Incurred for Death or Injury to Passengers or Other Persons on Voyages. Copies of Form FMC-131 may be obtained from the Secretary, Federal Maritime Commission, Washington, DC 20573.

(b) An application for a Certificate (Casualty) shall be filed in duplicate with the Secretary, Federal Maritime Commission, by the vessel owner or charterer at least 60 days in advance of the sailing. Late filing of the application will be permitted only for good cause shown. All applications and evidence required to be filed with the Commission shall be in English, and any monetary terms shall be expressed in terms of U.S. currency. The Commission shall have the privilege of verifying any statements made or any evidence submitted under the rules of this subpart. An application for a Certificate (Casualty), excluding an application for the addition or substitution of a vessel to the applicant's fleet, must be accompanied by a filing fee remittance of $1,889. An application for a Certificate (Casualty) for the addition or substitution of a vessel to the applicant's fleet must be accompanied by a filing fee remittance of $921.

(c) The application shall be signed by a duly authorized officer or representative of the applicant with a copy of evidence of his authority. In the event of any material change in the facts as reflected in the application, an amendment to the application shall be filed no later than five (5) days following such change. For the purpose of this subpart, a material change shall be one which: (1) Results in a decrease in the amount submitted to establish financial responsibility to a level below that required to be maintained under the rules of this subpart, or (2) requires that the amount to be maintained be increased above the amount submitted to establish financial responsibility. Notice of the application for, issuance, denial, revocation, suspension, or modification of any such Certificate shall be published in the
