
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter IV - Federal Maritime Commission
### Subchapter B—Regulations Affecting Ocean Shipping in Foreign Commerce
#### PART 540 - PASSENGER VESSEL FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
##### Subpart B-Proof of Financial Responsibility, Bonding and Certification of Financial Responsibility To Meet Liability Incurred for Death or Injury to Passengers or Other Persons on Voyages
###### § 540.24 Insurance, surety bonds, self-insurance, guaranties, and escrow accounts.

Evidence of adequate financial responsibility for the purposes of this subpart may be established by one of the following methods:

(a) Filing with the Commission evidence of insurance issued by an insurer providing coverage for liability which may be incurred for death or injury to passengers or other persons on voyages in an amount based upon the number of passenger accommodations aboard the vessel, calculated as follows:

(1) Termination or cancellation of the evidence of insurance, whether by the assured or by the insurer, and whether for nonpayment of premiums, calls or assessments, or for other cause, shall not be effected: (i) Until notice in writing has been given to the assured or to the insurer and to the Secretary of the Commission at its office in Washington, DC 20573, by certified mail, and (ii) until after 30 days expire from the date notice is actually received by the Commissioner, or until after the Commission revokes the Certificate (Casualty), whichever occurs first. Notice of termination or cancellation to the assured or insurer shall be simultaneous to such notice given to the Commission. The insurer shall remain liable for claims covered by said evidence of insurance arising by virtue of an event which had occurred prior to the effective date of said termination or cancellation. No such termination or cancellation shall become effective while a voyage is in progress.

(2) The insolvency or bankruptcy of the assured shall not constitute a defense to the insurer as to claims included in said evidence of insurance and in the event of said insolvency or bankruptcy, the insurer agrees to pay any unsatisfied final judgments obtained on such claims.

(3) No insurance shall be acceptable under these rules which restricts the liability of the insurer where privity of the owner or charterer has been shown to exist.

(4) Paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section shall apply to the guaranty as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.

(b) Filing with the Commission a surety bond on Form FMC-132B issued by a bonding company authorized to do business in the United States and acceptable to the Commission. Such surety bond shall evidence coverage for liability which may be incurred for death or injury to passengers or other persons on voyages in an amount calculated as in paragraph (a) of this section, and shall not be terminated while a voyage is in progress. The requirements of Form FMC-132B, however, may be amended by the Commission in a particular case for good cause.

(c) Filing with the Commission for qualification as a self-insurer such evidence acceptable to the Commission as will demonstrate continued and stable passenger operations over an extended period of time in the foreign or domestic trade of the United States. In addition, applicant must demonstrate financial responsibility by maintenance of working capital and net worth, each in an amount calculated as in paragraph (a) of this section. The Commission will take into consideration all current contractual requirements with respect to the maintenance of working capital and/or net worth to which the applicant is bound. Evidence must be submitted that the working capital and net worth required above are physically located in the United States. This evidence of financial responsibility shall be supported by and subject to the following which are to be submitted on a continuing basis for each year or portion thereof while the Certificate (Casualty) is in effect:

(1) A current quarterly balance sheet, except that the Commission, for good cause shown, may require only an annual balance sheet;

(2) A current quarterly statement of income and surplus except that the Commission, for good cause shown, may require only an annual statement of income and surplus;

(3) An annual current balance sheet and an annual current statement of income and surplus to be certified by appropriate certified public accountants;

(4) An annual current statement of the book value or current market value of any assets physically located within the United States together with a certification as to the existence and amount of any encumbrances thereon;

(5) An annual current credit rating report by Dun and Bradstreet or any similar concern found acceptable to the Commission;

(6) A list of all contractual requirements or other encumbrances (and to whom the applicant is bound in this regard) relating to the maintenance of working capital and net worth;

(7) All financial statements required to be submitted under this section shall be due within a reasonable time after the close of each pertinent accounting period;

(8) Such additional evidence of financial responsibility as the Commission may deem necessary in appropriate cases.

(d) Filing with the Commission a guaranty on Form FMC-133B by a guarantor acceptable to the Commission. Any such guaranty shall be in an amount calculated as in paragraph (a) of this section. The requirements of Form FMC-133B, however, may be amended by the Commission in a particular case for good cause.

(e) Filing with the Commission evidence of an escrow account, acceptable to the Commission, the amount of such account to be calculated as in paragraph (a) of this section.

(f) The Commission will, for good cause shown, consider any combination of the alternatives described in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section for the purpose of establishing financial responsibility.
