
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter IV - Federal Maritime Commission
### Subchapter C—Regulations and Actions to Address Restrictive Foreign Maritime Practices
#### PART 555-ACTIONS TO ADDRESS ADVERSE CONDITIONS AFFECTING U.S.-FLAG CARRIERS THAT DO NOT EXIST FOR FOREIGN CARRIERS IN THE UNITED STATES
##### § 555.5 Investigations.
###### ex parte,ad hoc

(b) The provisions of part 502 of this chapter (Rules of Practice and Procedure) shall not apply to this part except for those provisions governingcommunications (§ 502.11 of this chapter) and except as the Commission may otherwise determine by order. The precise procedures and timetables for participation in investigations initiated under this part will be established on anbasis as appropriate and set forth in the notice. Proceedings may include oral evidentiary hearings, but only when the Commission determines that there are likely to be genuine issues of material fact that cannot be resolved on the basis of written submissions, or that the nature of the matter in issue is such that an oral hearing and cross-examination are necessary for the development of an adequate record. In any event, investigations initiated under this part shall proceed expeditiously, consistent with due process, to conform with the time limits specified in the Foreign Shipping Practices Act and to identify promptly the conditions described in § 555.3 of this part.

(c) Upon initiation of an investigation, interested persons will be given the opportunity to participate in the proceeding pursuant to the procedures set forth in the notice. Submissions filed in response to a notice of investigation may include written data and statistics, views, and legal arguments. Factual information submitted shall be certified under oath. An original and 15 copies of such submissions will be filed with the Secretary, Federal Maritime Commission, Washington, DC 20573. Persons who receive information requests from the Commission pursuant to § 555.6 of this part are not precluded from filing additional voluntary submissions in accordance with this paragraph.

(d) An investigation shall be completed and a decision rendered within 120 days after it has commenced as defined in paragraph (a) of this section, unless the Commission determines that an additional 90-day period is necessary in order to obtain sufficient information on which to render a decision. When the Commission determines to extend the investigation period for an additional 90 days, it shall issue a notice clearly stating the reasons therefor.
