
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Tank Vessels
#### PART 32 - SPECIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINERY, AND HULL REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart 32.40 - Accommodations for Officers and Crew
###### ยง 32.40-20 Sleeping accommodations - T/ALL.

(a) Where practicable, each licensed officer shall be provided with a separate stateroom.

(b) Sleeping accommodations for the crew must be divided into rooms, no one of which may berth more than 4 persons.

(c) Each room must be of such size that there is at least 2.78 square meters (30 square feet) of deck area and a volume of at least 5.8 cubic meters (210 cubic feet) for each person accommodated. The clear head room must not be less than 190 centimeters (75 inches). In measuring sleeping accommodations any furnishings contained therein for the use of the occupants are not to be deducted from the total volume or from the deck area.

(d) Each person shall have a separate berth and not more than one berth may be placed above another. The berth must be composed of materials not likely to corrode. The overall size of a berth must not be less than 68 centimeters (27 inches) wide by 190 centimeters (75 inches) long, except by special permission of the Commandant. Where two tiers of berths are fitted, the bottom of the lower berth must not be less than 30 centimeters (12 inches) above the deck. The berths must not be obstructed by pipes, ventilating ducts, or other installations.

(e) A locker must be provided for each person accommodated in a room.
