
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Tank Vessels
#### PART 32 - SPECIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINERY, AND HULL REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart 32.50 - Pumps, Piping, and Hose for Cargo Handling
###### ยง 32.50-15 Cargo piping on tank vessels constructed on or after July 1, 1951 - TB/ALL.

(a) On all tank vessels, the construction or conversion of which is started on or after July 1, 1951, the cargo piping shall be:

(1) A fixed cargo piping system shall be installed on a tank vessel carrying Grade A, B, or C cargo. The piping shall be arranged so as to avoid excessive stresses at the joints. For sizes exceeding 2 inches in diameter, flanged, welded, or other approved types of joints shall be employed. Packing material shall be suitable for the cargo carried. Connections at bulkheads shall be made so that the plating does not form part of a flanged joint. Piping may be carried through bunker spaces and deep tanks provided it is run through a pipe tunnel. The tunnel may be omitted where the pipe is extra heavy, all joints are welded, and bends are installed to provide for expansion and contraction.

(2) Tank vessels carrying only Grades D and E cargo may use a portable piping system in lieu of a fixed piping system meeting the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, provided:

(i) The hose complies with 33 CFR 154.500 or the portable piping complies with part 56 of this chapter;

(ii) The connections comply with 33 CFR 156.130;

(iii) A shutoff valve is at or near the point of entry into the tank;

(iv) Except for the carriage of animal fats and vegetable oils, the system has a closure which forms a vapor-tight seal on the tank opening through which the cargo is transferred, is bolted or dogged in place, and has the hose and drop line connected to it; and

(v) Except for the carriage of animal fats and vegetable oils, the system has a metallic drop line which complies with 46 CFR 153.282.
