
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Tank Vessels
#### PART 32 - SPECIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINERY, AND HULL REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart 32.55 - Ventilation and Venting
###### ยง 32.55-20 Venting of cargo tanks of tankships constructed on or after July 1, 1951 - T/ALL.
####### Grade A liquids.

(b)(1) Cargo tanks in which Grade A liquids are to be transported must be fitted with a venting system consisting of a branch vent line from each cargo tank connected to a vent header which must extend to a height above the weather deck equal to at least 13.1 feet and must terminate at a comparable distance from any living or working space, ventilator inlet, or source of ignition. When special conditions will prevent the vent line or header outlets being permanently installed at a height above the deck of 13.1 feet an adjustable system must be provided which, when extended vertically, is capable of reaching a height of 13.1 feet.

(2) A weather hood may be installed at the vent outlet providing it is of such design as not to direct the flow of vapor below the horizontal.

(3) The branch vent lines shall consist of either:

(i) Pipe with no valves or other hindrances to a free flow of gas; or,

(ii) Piping fitted with a pressure vacuum relief valve, provided means are supplied for relieving all internal pressure on cargo tanks by fitting the valve with a positive means for opening its pressure valve to allow free passage of gases through the branch vent line or by the installation of a by-pass fitted with a manually operated stop valve.

(4) The vent header shall be fitted with a flame arrester or pressure vacuum relief valve. If a pressure vacuum relief valve is used in the header, means shall be provided for relieving all internal pressure on cargo tanks by fitting the valve with a positive means for opening its pressure valve to allow free passage of gases through the header or by the installation of a by-pass fitted with a manually operated stop valve. A suitable means of relieving pressure shall be fitted in the header in order to prevent excess pressure being built up in the tanks, in the event of overfilling of the latter. The vent header system shall be provided with suitable connections for flushing and draining. The vent header system shall be of sufficient capacity as to be able to carry off all displaced air and vapors during loading of the cargo tanks without opening of ullage plates, cargo hatches, etc. See ยง 32.20-20 for liquid level gaging requirements.
