
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Tank Vessels
#### PART 34 - FIRE FIGHTING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 34.10 - Fire Main System, Details
###### ยง 34.10-5 Fire pumps - T/ALL.

(a) Tankships shall be equipped with independently driven fire pumps in accordance with table 34.10-5(a).

(b) Each pump shall be capable of delivering simultaneously the number of streams of water required by table 34.10-5(a) from the outlets having the greatest pressure drop between fire pump(s) and nozzles at a Pitot tube pressure of approximately 75 p.s.i. Where 1-inch hose is permitted in lieu of 2-inch hose by footnote 3 of table 34.10-5(a), the pump capacity shall be determined on the basis that both hoses are used.

(c) On tankships of 1,000 gross tons and over on an international voyage, each required fire pump, while delivering water through the fire main system at a pressure corresponding to that required by ยง 34.10-15(e), shall have a minimum capacity of at least two-thirds of that required for an independent bilge pump if no length correction is taken for the cargo tank space. However, in no case shall the capacity of each fire pump be less than that otherwise required by this section.

(d) Fire pumps shall be fitted on the discharge side with relief valves set to relieve at 25 p.s.i. in excess of the pressure necessary to maintain the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.

(e) Fire pumps shall be fitted with a pressure gage on the discharge side of the pumps.

(f) Fire pumps may be used for other purposes provided at least one of the required pumps is kept available for use on the fire system at all times. In no case shall a pump having connection to an oil line be used as a fire pump. Branch lines connected to the fire main for purposes other than fire and deck wash shall be arranged so that the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section and any other services installed on the fire main can be met simultaneously.

(g) On all vessels where two fire pumps are required, they shall be located in separate spaces, and the arrangement of pumps, sea connections, and sources of power shall be such as to insure that a fire in any one space will not put all of the fire pumps out of operation. However, where it is shown to the satisfaction of the Commandant that it is unreasonable or impracticable to meet this requirement due to the size, or arrangement of the vessel, or for other reasons, the installation of a total flooding carbon dioxide system may be accepted as an alternate method of extinguishing any fire which would affect the powering and operation of at least one of the required fire pumps.
