
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Tank Vessels
#### PART 34 - FIRE FIGHTING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 34.10 - Fire Main System, Details
###### ยง 34.10-10 Fire station hydrants, hose and nozzles - T/ALL.

(a) The size of fire station hydrants and hose required shall be as noted in table 34.10-5(a).

(b) Fire hydrants shall be of sufficient number and so located that any part of living quarters, storerooms, working spaces and weather decks accessible to crew while at sea may be reached with two effective spray patterns of water, one of which shall be from a single 50-foot length of hose. In main machinery spaces all portions of such spaces shall be capable of being reached by at least 2 effective spray patterns of water, each of which shall be from a single 50-foot length of hose from separate outlets.

(c) The outlets at the fire station hydrant shall be limited to any position from the horizontal to the vertical pointing downward so that hose will lead horizontally or downward to minimize possibility of kinking.

(d) All fire station hydrants shall be equipped with spanners suitable for use on the hose at that station.

(e) Each fire station hydrant must have at least 1 length of firehose. Each firehose on the hydrant must have a combination solid stream and water spray firehose nozzle that meets the requirements in subpart 162.027 of this chapter. Firehose nozzles previously approved under subpart 162.027 of this chapter may be retained so long as they are maintained in good condition to the satisfaction of the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection. A suitable hose rack or other device must be provided. Hose racks on weather decks must be located to afford protection from heavy seas. The hose must be stored in a location that is readily visible.

(f) Each combination firehose nozzle previously approved under subpart 162.027 of this chapter in the locations listed in table 34.10-10(E) must have a low-velocity water spray applicator also previously approved under subpart 162.027 of this chapter that is of the length listed in that table.

(g) The pipes and fire station hydrants shall be so placed that the fire hose may be easily coupled to them. All hydrants shall be so located as to be readily accessible. If deck cargo is carried, it shall not interfere with access to the fire station hydrants, and the pipes shall be arranged as far as practicable to avoid risk of damage by such cargo.

(h) Each fire station hydrant or "y" branch shall be equipped with a valve so that the hose may be removed while there is pressure on the fire main.

(i) Fire station hydrant connections shall be brass, bronze, or other equivalent metal. Couplings shall either:

(1) Use National Standard fire hose coupling threads for the 1inch (38 millimeter) and 2inch (64 millimeter) hose sizes, i.e. 9 threads per inch for 1inch hose, and 7threads per inch for 2inch hose; or

(2) Be a uniform design for each hose diameter throughout the vessel.

(j) Fire hose shall be 50 feet in length except on weather decks the hose shall be increased in length if necessary to enable a single length to be goose-necked over each side of the vessel. If two fire mains are installed on the weather decks, the length of hose shall be such that it may be goose-necked over the side from the nearest fire main.

(k) Fire hose when part of the fire equipment shall not be used for any other purpose than fire extinguishing, fire drills, and testing.

(l) Fire hose shall be connected to outlets at all times. However, in heavy weather on open decks where no protection is afforded the hose may be removed temporarily from the hydrant and stowed in an accessible location nearby. While in port, fire hose in way of cargo area shall be kept ready for immediate use. The fire hose may be temporarily removed when it will interfere with the handling of cargo.

(m) Each section of fire hose used after January 1, 1980 must be lined commercial fire hose that conforms to Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc. Standard 19 or Federal Specification ZZ-H-451E. Hose that bears the label of Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc. as lined fire hose is accepted as conforming to this requirement. Each section of replacement fire hose or any section of new fire hose placed aboard a vessel after January 1, 1977 must also conform to the specification required by this paragraph.

(n) Coupling shall conform to the requirements of paragraph (h) of this section.

(o) Each low-velocity water spray applicator under paragraph (f) of this section must have fixed brackets, hooks, or other means for stowing next to the hydrant.
