
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Tank Vessels
#### PART 34 - FIRE FIGHTING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 34.10 - Fire Main System, Details
###### ยง 34.10-15 Piping - T/ALL.

(a) All piping, valves and fittings shall meet the applicable requirements of subchapter F (Marine Engineering) of this chapter.

(b) An adequate number of valves shall be installed to isolate damaged sections of piping except on self-propelled vessels carrying bulk liquefied gases that must have stop valves:

(1) At cross connections;

(2) At the front of the after deck house; and

(3) In the cargo area spaced 40 m (131 ft.) or less between hydrants.

(c) All distribution valves shall be marked as required by ยง 35.40-10 of this subchapter.

(d) Tankships of 500 gross tons and over on an international voyage must be provided with at least one international shore connection which meets ASTM F 1121 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 34.01-15). Facilities must be available enabling such a connection to be used on either side of the vessel.

(e) For tankships on an international voyage, the diameter of the fire main shall be sufficient for the effective distribution of the maximum required discharge from two fire pumps operating simultaneously. This requirement is in addition to ยง 34.10-5(b). The discharge of this quantity of water through hoses and nozzles at a sufficient number of adjacent hydrants shall be at a minimum Pitot tube pressure of approximately 71 pounds per square inch on self-propelled vessels that carry bulk liquefied gases and approximately 50 pounds per square inch on other tankships.
