
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Tank Vessels
#### PART 34 - FIRE FIGHTING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 34.20 - Deck Foam System, Details
###### ยง 34.20-15 Piping - T/ALL.

(a) All piping, valves, and fittings shall meet the applicable requirements of subchapter F (Marine Engineering) of this chapter.

(b) All piping, valves, and fittings of ferrous materials shall be protected inside and outside against corrosion unless specifically approved otherwise by the Commandant.

(c) The piping and outlet arrangement shall allow the required rate of applications as contained in ยง 34.20-5(b), to any portion of the open deck of the cargo area through the use of the mounted and hand-held appliances that are provided. At least 50 percent of the required rate of application shall be from the mounted appliances. One or more hose outlets for hand-held appliances shall be provided at each foam station. For enclosed spaces, application of at least 1.6 gallons per minute water rate for each 10 square feet of the enclosed area for 5 minutes is acceptable. For the purpose of this paragraph, all piping is assumed to be damaged in way of the fire and an adequate number of valves shall be fitted to prevent loss of foam by closing valves to damaged piping.

(d) All piping, valves, and fittings shall be securely supported, and where necessary, protected against injury.

(e) Drains and dirt traps shall be fitted where necessary to prevent the accumulation of dirt or moisture.

(f) Piping shall not be used for any other purpose than firefighting, drills, and testing.

(g) Tankships of 100,000 or more DWT (metric) and combination carriers of 50,000 or more DWT (metric) that have a keel laying date on or after January 1, 1975, must have at least one foam station port and at least one foam station starboard that are separated from each other by a distance equal to at least one-half the beam of the vessel:

(1) At the housefront or aft of the cargo area in a location that is accessible to the crew for fighting a cargo and a pumproom fire; and

(2) If the tankship has a forward accommodations house, at the after boundary of that house.
