
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Tank Vessels
#### PART 34 - FIRE FIGHTING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 34.50 - Portable and Semiportable Extinguishers
###### ยง 34.50-10 Location, number, and installation of fire extinguishers - TB/ALL.

(a) Approved portable and semi-portable extinguishers must be installed in accordance with table 34.50-10(a) of this section. The location of the equipment must be, in the opinion of the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, convenient in case of emergency. Where special circumstances exist, not covered by table 34.50-10(a) of this section, the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, may require additional equipment as deemed necessary for the proper protection of the vessel.

(b) For additional portable extinguishers as a substitute for sand, see ยง 34.55-10.

(c) Semi-portable extinguishers must be located in the open so as to be readily seen.

(d) If portable extinguishers are not located in the open or behind glass so that they may be readily seen they may be placed in enclosures together with the firehose, provided such enclosures are marked as required by ยง 35.40-25 of this subchapter.

(e) Portable extinguishers and their stations must be numbered in accordance with ยง 35.40-25 of this subchapter.

(f) Portable or semi-portable extinguishers which are required by their nameplates to be protected from freezing must not be located where freezing temperatures may be expected.

(g) Semi-portable extinguishers must be fitted with a suitable hose and nozzle, or other practicable means, so that all portions of the space concerned can be protected.

(h) Table 34.50-10(a) of this section indicates the minimum required number and type for each space listed. Extinguishers with larger numerical ratings or multiple letter designations may be used if the extinguishers meet the requirements of the table.
