
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Tank Vessels
#### PART 35 - OPERATIONS
##### Subpart 35.35 - Cargo Handling
###### § 35.35-20 Inspection before transfer of cargo - TB/ALL.

Before the transfer of liquid cargo in bulk, the person in charge of the transfer shall inspect the vessel to ensure the following:

(a) Warnings are displayed as required.

(b) No repair work in way of cargo spaces is being carried on without his permission.

(c) Cargo connections have been made as described in § 35.35-15 and cargo valves are set.

(d) All cargo connections have been made to the vessel's pipeline, and not through an open end hose led through a hatch.

(e) In loading Grades A, B, and C cargoes, there are no fires or open flames present on the deck, or in any compartment which is located on, facing, open, and adjacent to that part of the deck on which cargo connections have been made.

(f) The shore terminal or the other tank vessel concerned has reported itself in readiness for transfer of cargo.

(g) All sea valves connected to the cargo piping system are closed.

(h) In loading Grades A, B, and C cargoes, that an inspection has been made to determine whether boiler fires can be maintained with reasonable safety.

(i) In loading Grades A, B, and C cargoes, that an inspection has been made to determine whether galley fires can be maintained with reasonable safety.

(j) In loading Grades A, B, or C cargoes, that an inspection has been made to determine whether smoking may be permitted with reasonable safety in areas other than the weather deck.

(k) On tankships the construction or conversion of which is started on or after July 1, 1951, which are to load or discharge Grade A cargo, all openings in the top of the tanks, except the branch vent lines and covers to ullage hole sounding pipes, are tightly closed. (See §§ 32.20-20 and 32.55-20 of this subchapter.)

(l) On tankships the construction or conversion of which is started on or after July 1, 1951, which are to load or discharge Grade A cargo, the method for determining the liquid level in the tank without opening ullage holes, cargo hatches or Butterworth plates is in proper order. (See § 32.20-20 of this subchapter.)

(m) When a transfer operation includes collection of cargo vapor to or from a vessel's cargo tanks through a vapor control system not located on the vessel:

(1) Each part of the vapor collection system is aligned to allow vapor to flow to or from a facility vapor control system, or if lightering, to the other vessel;

(2) Vapor collection hoses or arms are connected to the vessel vapor collection connection;

(3) The electrical insulation requirements of 33 CFR 154.810(g) or § 39.40-3(c) of this subchapter are provided between the vessel vapor connection and the facility or service vessel vapor connection;

(4) The maximum cargo transfer rate is determined in accordance with § 39.30-1(d) of this subchapter;

(5) The maximum and minimum operating pressures at the facility vapor connection, or vessel vapor connection if lightering, are determined;

(6) The overfill control system on a tank barge, if fitted in accordance with § 39.20-9(b) of this subchapter, is connected to the facility, tested and operating properly;

(7) Each alarm required by §§ 39.20-7, 39.20-9 and 39.40-3(a) of this subchapter has been tested not more than 24 hours prior to the start of the transfer operation and is operating properly;

(8) Each vapor recovery hose has no unrepaired loose covers, kinks, bulges, soft spots, or any other defect which would permit the discharge of vapors through the hose material, and no gouges, cuts, or slashes that penetrate the first layer of hose reinforcement; and

(9) The oxygen content in the vapor space of each of the vessel's inerted cargo tanks connected to the vapor collection system is-

(i) At or below 60 percent by volume of the cargo's minimum oxygen concentration for combustion at the start of cargo transfer; or

(ii) At or below 8 percent by volume, at the start of cargo transfer, for vapor of crude oil, gasoline blends, or benzene.
