
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Tank Vessels
#### PART 38 - LIQUEFIED FLAMMABLE GASES
##### Subpart 38.05 - Design and Installation
###### ยง 38.05-1 Design and construction of vessels - general - TB/ALL.

(a) Vessels designed for the carriage of liquefied gases shall comply with the applicable requirements of this subchapter.

(b) Access and ventilation intakes to the machinery, accommodation and working spaces should be so arranged as to prevent the flow of cargo vapor from the weather deck into such spaces. In this respect openings in the forward or after ends of poops, forecastles, and deckhouses adjacent the cargo area shall be at least 24 inches above the cargo handling deck.

(c) Materials used in the fabrication of cargo tanks and piping shall have adequate notch toughness at the service temperature. Where a secondary barrier is required, the material of that barrier and of contiguous hull structure shall have sufficient notch toughness at the lowest temperature which may result during the containment of leakage cargo within the secondary barrier. Materials used in the fabrication of the cargo containment and handling system shall satisfy the requirements for toughness specified in subchapter F (Marine Engineering) of this chapter.

(d) Cargo tank spaces are to be isolated from the remainder of the vessel by cofferdams in accordance with ยง 32.60-10 of this subchapter. In a nonpressure vessel configuration, the void between the primary and secondary barriers shall not be acceptable as the required cofferdam between the tank spaces and the main machinery spaces.

(e) Compartments containing cargo tanks or pipes shall be accessible from the weather deck only. No openings from these compartments to other parts of the vessel are permitted.

(f) Barges utilized for the carriage of liquefied gases shall be of Type II barge hull as defined in ยง 32.63-5(b)(2) of this subchapter. The Commandant may, based on the properties of the liquefied gas to be carried, require a Type I barge hull, as defined in ยง 32.63-5(b)(1) of this subchapter, to ensure the hull is consistent with the degree and nature of the hazard of the liquefied gas to be carried.
