
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Tank Vessels
#### PART 38 - LIQUEFIED FLAMMABLE GASES
##### Subpart 38.05 - Design and Installation
###### ยง 38.05-3 Design and construction of pressure vessel type cargo tanks - TB/ALL.

(a) Cargo tanks of pressure vessel configuration (e.g. cylindrical, spherical, etc.) shall be designed, fabricated, inspected, and tested in accordance with the applicable requirements of part 54 of subchapter F (Marine Engineering) of this chapter, except as otherwise provided for in this part.

(b) The requirements of this section anticipate that cargo tanks constructed as pressure vessels will, by themselves, constitute the cargo containment system and usually will not require a secondary barrier.

(c) In the design of the tank, consideration shall be given to the possibility of the tank being subjected to external loads. Consideration shall also be given to excessive loads that can be imposed on the tanks by their support due to static and dynamic forces under operating conditions or during testing. The design shall show the manner in which the tanks are to be installed, supported, and secured, and shall be approved prior to tank installation.

(d) Tanks with a service temperature of minus 20 &#xB0;F. or lower and fabricated of ferritic materials shall be stress relieved.

(e) Unlagged cargo tanks, where the cargo is transported, at or near ambient temperatures, shall be designed for the vapor pressure of the gas at 115 &#xB0;F. The design shall also be based on the minimum internal pressure (maximum vacuum), plus the maximum external static head to which the tank may be subjected. Whenever surrounding cargo is at a greater temperature than the maximum allowable temperature of the liquefied flammable gas tanks, the liquefied flammable gas cargo is to be such that the design pressure of the liquefied flammable gas tank is not exceeded.

(f) Where cargo tanks, in which the cargo is transported at or near ambient temperature, are lagged with an insulation material of a thickness to provide a thermal conductance of not more than 0.075 B.t.u. per square foot per degree Fahrenheit differential in temperature per hour, the tanks shall be designed for a pressure of not less than the vapor pressure of the gas at 105 &#xB0;F. The insulation material shall conform to the requirements of ยง 38.05-20. The design shall also be based on the minimum internal pressure (maximum vacuum) plus the maximum external static head to which the tank may be subjected.

(g) Cargo tanks in which the temperature is maintained below the normal atmospheric temperature by refrigeration or other acceptable means shall be designed for a pressure of not less than 110 percent of the vapor pressure corresponding to the temperature of the liquid at which the system is maintained, or the pressure corresponding to the greatest dynamic and static loads expected to be encountered either in service or during testing. For mechanically stress relieved cargo tanks, additional factors relating design pressure and maximum allowable pressure shall be as specified by the Commandant. The material of the tank shall satisfy the requirements of subchapter F (Marine Engineering) of this chapter for the service temperature, and this temperature shall be permanently marked on the tank as prescribed in ยง 38.05-5.

(h) Where applicable, the design shall investigate the thermal stresses induced in the cargo tank at the service temperature.

(i) The shell and head thickness of liquefied gas cargo tanks shall not be less than five-sixteenths inch.
