
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Tank Vessels
#### PART 38 - LIQUEFIED FLAMMABLE GASES
##### Subpart 38.05 - Design and Installation
###### ยง 38.05-4 Design and construction of nonpressure vessel type cargo tanks - TB/ALL.

(a) The requirements in this section anticipate a cargo containment system consisting of a primary tank which is structurally self-supporting and, where required, a secondary barrier. Other vessel or cargo tank configurations, such as membrane type liners externally supported, will be considered upon submission of substantiating data, and based upon such additional tests as the Commandant may direct.

(b) A secondary barrier is an arrangement or structure designed to contain the cargo temporarily if leakage develops in the primary container. A secondary barrier shall be provided where leakage from the primary container may cause lowering of the temperature of the ship's structure to an unsafe level. The secondary barrier shall be constructed of material suitable to contain the cargo at the service temperature.

(c) The design of the cargo containment systems shall be such that under normal service conditions, or upon failure of the primary tank, the hull structure shall not be cooled down to a temperature which is unsafe for the materials involved. Structural members not suitable for the service temperatures of the cargo shall be protected by a secondary barrier consisting of suitable structural containment together with necessary associated insulation. Heat transmission studies and tests may be required to demonstrate that the arrangement is feasible and that the final material temperatures are acceptable.

(d) The design and construction of the cargo tanks shall be at least equivalent to the standards established by the American Bureau of Shipping or other recognized classification society. For special tanks, or designs not contemplated by standards of the classification society, a detailed analysis of the entire tank, or designated parts thereof, shall be made and submitted to the Commandant for approval.

(e) The cargo tank shall be designed for a head of cargo at least equal to the highest level the liquid cargo may attain plus the maximum venting pressure. In no case shall a head of cargo less than 4 feet above the cargo hatch or expansion trunk be used.

(f) The design shall investigate the thermal stresses induced in the cargo tank during loading. Where necessary, devices for spray loading or other methods of precooling or cooling during loading shall be included in the design.

(g) All weld intersections or crossings in joints of primary tank shells shall be radiographed for a distance of 10 thicknesses from the intersection. All other welding in the primary tank and in the secondary barrier shall be spot radiographed in accordance with the requirements of part 54 of subchapter F (Marine Engineering) of this chapter.
