
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Tank Vessels
#### PART 38 - LIQUEFIED FLAMMABLE GASES
##### Subpart 38.05 - Design and Installation
###### ยง 38.05-10 Installation of cargo tanks - general - TB/ALL.

(a)(1) Cargo tanks shall be supported on foundations of steel or other suitable material and securely anchored in place to prevent the tanks from shifting when subjected to external forces. Each tank shall be so supported as to prevent the concentration of excessive loads on the supporting portions of the shell or head as prescribed under ยง 38.05-2(d).

(2) Cargo tanks installed in barges shall comply with the requirements of ยง 32.63-25 of this subchapter.

(b) Foundations, and stays where required, shall be designed for support and constraint of the weight of the full tank, and the dynamic loads imposed thereon. Thermal movement shall also be considered.

(c) Foundations and stays which may be exposed to the cargo shall be suitable for the temperatures involved and be impervious to the cargo.

(d) The design of the foundations and stays shall consider the resonance of the cargo tank, or parts thereof, and the vibratory forces, found in the tank vessel. If necessary, effective damping arrangements shall be provided.

(e) Independent containment systems shall be so arranged as to provide a minimum clearance of not less than 24 inches from the vessel's side and not less than 15 inches from the vessel's bottom to provide access for inspection of the hull. Clearances for collision protection, where required by other parts of the regulations in this subchapter, may increase the clearances specified here.

(1) For pressure vessel type tanks the distance between adjacent tanks and between tanks and vessel's structure shall be adequate to permit access for inspection and maintenance of all tank surfaces and hull structure as approved by the Commandant. Alternate provisions may be made for inspection and maintenance of the vessel's structure and tanks by moving such tanks or by providing equivalent acceptable means for remote inspection.

(2) For nonpressure vessel type containment systems, access shall be arranged to permit inspection of one side each of the primary tank and secondary barrier, under normal shipyard conditions. Containment systems which, because of their peculiar design, cannot be visually inspected to this degree, may be specially considered provided an equivalent degree of safety is attained.
