
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Tank Vessels
#### PART 38 - LIQUEFIED FLAMMABLE GASES
##### Subpart 38.05 - Design and Installation
###### ยง 38.05-10 Installation of cargo tanks - general - TB/ALL.
####### on deck, under deck,

(f) Cargo tanks may be installedor with the tanks protruding through the deck. All tanks shall be installed with the manhole openings located in the open above the weather deck. Provided an equivalent degree of safety is attained, the Commandant may approve cargo tanks installed with manhole openings located below the weather deck.

(g) For pressure vessel type cargo tanks, the following conditions apply:

(1) Liquefied flammable gas cargo tanks may be located in cargo tanks or in spaces which meet the requirements for cofferdams as defined in ยง 30.10-13 of this subchapter. When liquefied flammable gas cargo tanks are installed in cargo tanks, such cargo tanks may be used simultaneously or separately for the carriage of flammable or combustible liquids up to and including the grade for which the cargo tanks are otherwise certified in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter.

(2) Where the liquefied flammable gas tanks are installed in cargo tanks and a portion of the liquefied flammable gas tanks extend above the weather deck, the penetration shall be made gastight and watertight, and shall be such as to provide full compliance with the structural requirements including testing for the hull and integral tanks. In the application of the requirements for the hydrostatic test of the cargo tanks, the hydrostatic test shall in no case be less severe than the worst anticipated service condition of the cargo loading. In the design and testing of independent cargo tanks and integral cargo tanks consideration shall be given to the possibility of the independent tanks being subjected to external loads.

(3) Where the liquefied flammable gas tanks are installed in nontank hull spaces and a portion of the tank extends above the weather deck, provision shall be made to maintain the weathertightness of the deck, except that the weathertightness of the upper deck need not be maintained on:

(i) Vessels operating on restricted routes which are sufficiently protected; or,

(ii) Open hopper type barges of acceptable design.

(h) No strength welding employed in the attachment of supports, lugs, fittings, etc., shall be done on tanks that require and have been stress relieved, unless authorized by the Commandant.
