
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Tank Vessels
#### PART 38 - LIQUEFIED FLAMMABLE GASES
##### Subpart 38.15 - Special Requirements
###### ยง 38.15-10 Leak detection systems - T/ALL.

(a) A detection system shall be permanently installed to sense cargo leaks. The detectors shall be located within the space so as to permit the sensing of an initial leak and prevent an undetected gas accumulation. The sensitivity shall be in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. The detectors shall be fitted in the following compartments:

(1) Between the primary and secondary barriers for nonpressure vessel type tanks.

(2) Cargo handling rooms and spaces containing cargo piping or cargo handling systems.

(3) All enclosed spaces, except tanks and cofferdams, which are separated from the cargo tanks by only the secondary barrier.

(4) Other spaces where gas concentrations might be expected.

(5) Cargo holds, containing pressure vessel type tanks and no cargo piping, are exempt from the requirements of this paragraph.

(b) The indicating instruments for the detection system shall be located on the bridge or at the cargo control station. An audio and visual warning shall be given before any gas concentration reaches 30 percent of the lower explosive limit. The alarm shall indicate both on the bridge and at the cargo control station. Sampling of each detector shall be at least once every half hour.

(c) Means shall be provided to measure the full range of cargo gas concentration in the spaces.
