
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Tank Vessels
#### PART 38 - LIQUEFIED FLAMMABLE GASES
##### Subpart 38.25 - Periodic Tests and Inspections
###### ยง 38.25-1 Tests and inspections - TB/ALL.

(a) Each tank shall be subjected to the tests and inspections described in this section in the presence of a marine inspector, except as otherwise provided in this part.

(1) An internal inspection of the tank is conducted within-

(i) Ten years after the last internal inspection if the tank is a pressure vessel type cargo tank on an unmanned barge carrying cargo at temperatures of -67 &#xB0;F (-55 &#xB0;C) or warmer; or

(ii) Eight years after the last internal inspection if the tank is of a type other than that described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section.

(2) An external examination of unlagged tanks and the visible parts of lagged tanks shall be made at each inspection for certification and at such other times as considered necessary.

(3) The owner shall ensure that the amount of insulation deemed necessary by the marine inspector is removed from insulated tanks during each internal inspection to allow spot external examination of the tanks and insulation, or the thickness of the tanks may be gauged by a nondestructive means accepted by the marine inspector without the removal of insulation.

(4) If required by the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, the owner shall conduct nondestructive testing of each tank in accordance with ยง 38.25-3.

(5) If the tank is a pressure vessel type cargo tank with an internal inspection interval of 10 years, is 30 years old or older, determined from the date it was built, the owner shall conduct nondestructive testing of that tank, in accordance with ยง 38.25-3, during each internal inspection.

(b) If the marine inspector considers a hydrostatic test necessary to determine the condition of the tank, the owner shall perform the test at a pressure of 1times the tank's-

(1) Maximum allowable pressure, as determined by the safety relief valve setting; or

(2) Design pressure, when cargo tanks operate at maximum allowable pressures reduced below the design pressure in order to satisfy special mechanical stress relief requirements.

(c) For pressure vessels designed and/or supported such that they cannot safely be filled with water, the Commandant will consider a pneumatic test in lieu of the hydrostatic test. A leak test shall be performed in conjunction with the pneumatic test. Pneumatic testing shall be in accordance with subchapter F (Marine Engineering) of this chapter.

(d) Nonpressure vessel type tanks shall be tested to a pressure equal to the pressure on the bottom of the tank under the design conditions listed in ยง 38.05-4(e).

(e) In the application of the requirements for testing of the cargo tanks, the test shall in no case be less severe than the worst anticipated service condition of the cargo loading.

(f) In the design and testing of the independent cargo tanks, consideration shall be given to the possibility of the independent tanks being subjected to external loads.
