
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Tank Vessels
#### PART 39 - VAPOR CONTROL SYSTEMS
##### Subpart 39.5000 - Multi-breasted Loading Using a Single Facility Vapor Connection
###### ยง 39.5001 General requirements for multi-breasted loading - B/CLBR.

(a) Each barge must be owned or operated by the same entity and must have an approved vapor control system (VCS).

(b) There must be only one crossover vapor hose and it must-

(1) Comply with 46 CFR 39.2001(h) and (i);

(2) Have a diameter at least as that of the largest pipe in the outboard barge's VCS, and

(3) If it extends more than 25 feet (7.62 meters) between the two barges during the transfer operation, it must be as short as is practicable, safe for the conditions, supported off the vessels' decks, and its pressure drop calculations must be approved for its length by the Marine Safety Center (MSC), or reapproved by the MSC if existing approval was based on a 25-foot hose.

(c) The hazards associated with barge-to-barge or barge-to-shore electric currents must be controlled in accordance with sections 11.9 or 17.5 of OCIMF ISGOTT (incorporated by reference, see 46 CFR 39.1005).

(d) The cargo transfer procedures must reflect the procedures to align and disconnect a facility VCS to and from an inboard barge, and alternately, to and from an outboard barge through the vapor cross-over hose and the inboard barge's vapor header, or "dummy" header. This must include proper connections for the facility VCS's alarm/shutdown system to the alarm/shutdown system of the barge being loaded at the time.

(e) Calculations for multi-breasted loading must consider additional pressure drops across the barges' vapor collection systems and the cross vapor hose and must be reviewed and approved by the MSC per 46 CFR 39.1017(a).

(f) Barge owners and operators must comply with any additional operational requirements imposed by the local Captain of the Port (COTP) in whose zone the shore facility is located. These facilities' VCSs must be certified for conducting such an operation.
