
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - Tank Vessels
#### PART 39 - VAPOR CONTROL SYSTEMS
##### Subpart 39.6000 - Tank Barge Cleaning Operations with Vapor Collection
###### ยง 39.6001 Design and equipment of vapor collection and stripping systems - B/ALL.

(a) Each barge engaged in cleaning operations at an approved cleaning facility must have a conductive fixed stripping line installed in each cargo tank. The line must extend to the low point of each cargo tank, extend through and be welded to the top of the cargo tank, and terminate above deck with a full port valve plugged at the open end.

(b) An existing fixed stripping system may be used instead of the stripping line required in paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) Each stripping line must be labeled at an on-deck location with the words "Stripping Line-Tank" followed by the tank's number, name, or location.

(d) Vapors may be collected from the barge's cargo tanks through a common fixed vapor header, through the fixed liquid cargo header, or through flanged flexible hoses located at the top of each cargo tank.

(e) The vapor collection system must not interfere with the proper operation of the cargo tank venting system.

(f) A barge being gas-freed by a fluid displacement system must fulfill the following requirements:

(1) If the fluid medium is a compressible fluid, such as inert gas, it must be injected into the barge's cargo tanks through a common fixed vapor header, through the fixed liquid cargo header, or through a flexible hoses flanged to a connection located at the top of each cargo tank;

(2) If the fluid medium is a non-compressible fluid, such as water, it must be injected into the barge's cargo tanks through the fixed liquid cargo header only; and

(3) If the fluid medium is a non-compressible fluid, such as water, the barge must be equipped with a liquid overfill protection arrangement and fulfill the requirements for tank barge liquid overfill protection contained in 46 CFR 39.2009.

(g) The barge vapor connection must be electrically insulated from the facility vapor connection and the fluid injection connection must be electrically insulated from the fluid injection source, if fitted, in accordance with OCIMF ISGOTT section 17.5 (incorporated by reference, see 46 CFR 39.1005).

(h) Vapor collection piping must be electrically bonded to the barge hull and must be electrically continuous.

(i) All equipment used on the barge during cleaning operations must be electrically bonded to the barge and tested to ensure electrical continuity prior to each use.

(j) Hoses used for the transfer of vapors during cleaning operations must meet the requirements of 46 CFR 39.2001(i) and have markings as required in 46 CFR 39.2001(h).

(k) Hoses used for the transfer of liquids during cleaning operations must-

(1) Have a designed burst pressure of at least 600 pounds per square inch gauge (psig);

(2) Have a maximum allowable working pressure of at least 150 psig;

(3) Be capable of withstanding at least the maximum vacuum rating of the cleaning facility's vapor-moving device without collapsing or constricting;

(4) Be electrically continuous with a maximum resistance of 10,000 ohms;

(5) Have flanges with a bolthole arrangement complying with the requirements for 150 pound class ANSI B16.5 flanges (incorporated by reference, see 46 CFR 39.1005); and

(6) Be abrasion and kinking resistant and compatible with the liquids being transferred.

(l) If a hose is used to transfer either vapor or liquid from the barge during cleaning operations, hose saddles that provide adequate support to prevent the collapse or kinking of hoses must accompany hose handling equipment.
