
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter E - Load Lines
#### PART 42 - DOMESTIC AND FOREIGN VOYAGES BY SEA
##### Subpart 42.03 - Application
###### ยง 42.03-30 Exemptions for vessels.

(a) For an individual vessel or category of vessels, upon the specific recommendation of the assigning authority, the Commandant may authorize an exemption from one or more load line requirements. Such recommendation and authorization will depend upon provision of any additional features as deemed necessary by the authorities to ensure the vessel's safety in the services and under the conditions specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(b) Exemptions from specific load line requirements for vessels meeting requirements of paragraph (a) of this section are authorized, subject to certain conditions, including type of voyage engaged in, as follows:

(1) For vessels engaged on international voyages between the United States and near neighboring ports of its possessions or of foreign countries. The exemptions may be permitted because the requirements are deemed to be unreasonable or impracticable due to the sheltered nature of the waters on which the voyages occur or other conditions. These exemptions shall be valid only so long as such a vessel shall remain engaged on specific designated voyages. If the voyage involves a foreign country or countries, the United States will require an exemption agreement with such country or countries prior to the issuance of the appropriate load line certificate.

(2) For vessels engaged on international voyages which embody features of a novel kind, and where nonexemption may seriously impede research, development, and incorporation of novel features into vessels. If the voyage or voyages intended involve a foreign country or countries, then the United States will require an exemption agreement with such country or countries prior to the issuance of a Load Line Exemption Certificate. If the Commandant grants an exemption pursuant to this paragraph (b)(2) to a U.S. flag vessel that operates on the Great Lakes of North America, he may notify the Chairman of the Board of Steamship Inspection of Canada of the nature of the exemption, but no special exemption certificate is issued.

(3) For a vessel not normally engaged on international voyages but which is required to undertake a single international voyage under exceptional circumstances.

(4) For self-propelled hopper dredges engaged on international voyages or on limited service domestic voyages by sea. These vessels may be exempt from applicable hatch cover requirements of ยง 42.15-25 of this part by showing they meet the requirements in ยง 174.310 of this chapter. When a Load Line Exemption Certificate is issued for this exemption, it must have an endorsement that only seawater is allowed in the vessel's hoppers.

(c) A vessel given one or more exemptions from load line requirements under the provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section will be issued the appropriate load line certificate, using Form A1, A2, or A3. In each case the exemptions shall be specified on the load line certificate together with the Convention authority which authorizes such exemptions.

(d) A vessel given one or more exemptions under the provisions of paragraph (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section will be issued a Load Line Exemption Certificate, using Form E1. This certificate shall be in lieu of a regular load line certificate, and the vessel shall be considered as in compliance with applicable load line requirements.

(e) The Commandant may exempt from any of the requirements of this part a vessel that engages on a domestic voyage by sea or a voyage solely on the Great Lakes and embodies features of a novel kind, if the novel features and any additional safety measures required are described on the face of the issued certificate.

(f) A vessel that is not usually engaged on domestic voyages by sea or on voyages on the Great Lakes but that, in exceptional circumstances, is required to undertake a single such voyage between two specific ports is-

(1) Subject to 46 U.S.C. 5101-5116 and the applicable regulations of this subchapter; and

(2) Issued a single voyage load line authorization by the Commandant that states the conditions under which the voyage may be made and any additional safety measures required for a single voyage.
