
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter E - Load Lines
#### PART 42 - DOMESTIC AND FOREIGN VOYAGES BY SEA
##### Subpart 42.07 - Control, Enforcement, and Rights of Appeal
###### § 42.07-1 Load lines required.

(a) The vessels listed in §§ 42.03-5 and 42.03-10 as subject to the applicable requirements in this subchapter shall have load lines accurately marked amidships, port and starboard, as provided in this part 42 or the 1966 Convention, unless otherwise stated. Those vessels issued load line exemption certificates may not be required to have load line marks (see § 42.03-30).

(b) For vessels marked with international load lines and navigating the Great Lakes, such vessels are also subject to requirements in part 45 of this subchapter while on the Great Lakes. See § 45.9 of this subchapter for load line marks used by such vessels.

(c) For Great Lakes vessels operating solely on Great Lakes voyages, the requirements for the applicable load line marks are in part 45 of this subchapter. Great Lakes vessels when making other international or unlimited coastwise voyages shall comply with the applicable requirements in parts 42, 44, and 45 of this subchapter.

(d) For coastwise steam colliers, barges, and self-propelled barges in special services, the requirements for the applicable load line marks are in part 44 of this subchapter. These requirements also include certain regulations governing such vessels when they additionally engage in Great Lakes voyages, international voyages or unlimited coastwise voyages. Load line requirements in this part 42 also apply to such vessels when engaged on international or unlimited coastwise voyages.

(e) Existing U.S.-flag vessels, as defined in § 42.05-30(a) of this chapter, engaged in international or coastwise voyages, may retain the load line assigned under previous regulations, provided:

(1) The vessel has not been assigned a reduced freeboard under the regulations in this part 42, and

(2) The form of the load line certificate issued to and carried on board the vessel conforms to the requirements of subpart 42.50 of this part or § 44.05-35 or § 46.10-30 of this chapter.

(f) This part applies to foreign vessels of countries-

(1) Signatory to or adhering to the 1966 Convention;

(2) Adhering to the 1930 Convention and not acceding to the 1966 Convention, or;

(3) Not adhering to either the 1930 Convention or the 1966 Convention but subject to the load line acts.
