
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter E - Load Lines
#### PART 42 - DOMESTIC AND FOREIGN VOYAGES BY SEA
##### Subpart 42.07 - Control, Enforcement, and Rights of Appeal
###### ยง 42.07-10 Submergence of load line marks.

(a) Except as provided otherwise in this section, vessels of the types described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section shall not be so loaded as to submerge at any time when departing for a voyage by sea, or on the Great Lakes, or during the voyage, or on arrival, the applicable load lines marked on the sides of the vessel for the season of the year and the zone or area in which the vessel may be operating.

(1) Merchant vessels of 150 gross tons or over, as described in ยง 42.03-5 or ยง 42.03-10, and on voyages subject to 46 U.S.C. 5101-5116.

(2) All new vessels of 79 feet or over in length on voyages subject to the 1966 Convention.

(3) All vessels of 150 gross tons or over, other than merchant vessels covered by paragraph (a)(1) of this section, on voyages subject to the 1966 Convention.

(b) When loading a vessel in a favorable zone for a voyage on which the vessel will enter a less favorable zone, such allowances must be made that the vessel when crossing into the less favorable zone, will conform to the regulations and freeboard for the less favorable zone.

(c) When a vessel is in fresh water of unit density, the appropriate load line may be submerged by the amount of the fresh water allowance shown on the applicable load line certificate. Where the density is other than unity, an allowance shall be made proportional to the difference between 1.025 and the actual density. This paragraph does not apply to vessels when navigating the Great Lakes.

(d) When a vessel departs from a port situated on a river or inland waters, deeper loading shall be permitted corresponding to the weight of fuel and all other materials required for consumption between the port of departure and the sea. This paragraph does not apply to vessels when navigating the Great Lakes.
