
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter E - Load Lines
#### PART 42 - DOMESTIC AND FOREIGN VOYAGES BY SEA
##### Subpart 42.07 - Control, Enforcement, and Rights of Appeal
###### ยง 42.07-55 Cancellation of load line certificates or exemption certificates.

(a) Since vessels described in ยง 42.03-5 or ยง 42.03-10 when found qualified are issued appropriate load line certificates or load line exemption certificates, under U.S. responsibility as indicated in ยง 42.07-45 such certificates may be canceled by proper U.S. authority for due cause, including one or more of the causes listed in paragraph (b) of this section. Such action may occur prior to the expiration date on the certificate and normal certificate surrender. The cancellation of such certificate means that the correctness of load line marks and compliance with conditions of assignment for the named vessel no longer are recognized by the United States and that the existing assigned load line marks are voided.

(b) Certain causes for automatic cancellation of certificates are:

(1) The conditions of assignment have not been maintained as required by this subchapter.

(2) Material alterations have taken place in the hull or superstructure of the vessel, which will necessitate the assignment of an increased freeboard.

(3) The fittings and appliances have not been maintained in an effective condition for the protection of openings, guardrails, freeing ports, and means of access to crew's quarters.

(4) The structural strength of the vessel is lowered to such an extent that the vessel is unsafe.

(5) The load line certificate or International Load Line Exemption Certificate is not endorsed to show the vessel has been surveyed annually or periodically by the issuing authority as required by this part or the 1966 Convention.

(6) Issuance of a new load line certificate for the same vessel.

(7) Surrender of a certificate for cancellation when required.

(8) The owner, master, or agent of the vessel has furnished false or fraudulent information in or with the application for a certificate.
