
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter E - Load Lines
#### PART 42 - DOMESTIC AND FOREIGN VOYAGES BY SEA
##### Subpart 42.09 - Load Line Assignments and Surveys - General Requirements
###### ยง 42.09-15 Surveys by the American Bureau of Shipping or assigning authority.
####### Periodical survey.

(c)A periodical survey shall be made at intervals not exceeding five (5) years from an initial or previous periodic survey. The survey shall be similar to the initial survey insofar as extent and purpose are concerned.

(1) If the load line marks are found to be correct for the condition the vessel is then in, the assigning and issuing authority shall issue a new load line certificate, valid for such time as the condition of the vessel then warrants but in no case for a period of longer than 5 years. If, after a survey has been passed, a loadline certificate can not be issued before the current certificate expires, the current certificate may be extended by an endorsement in accordance with the requirements contained in ยง 42.07-45(d). This endorsement of the assigning authority shall be placed on the back of the certificate, as shown on the forms in subpart 42.50. However, if there have been alterations which affect the vessel's freeboards, such extension shall not be granted. This prohibition is the same as in Article 19(2) of the 1966 Convention.

(2) The periodical survey, including certificate extension or reissue, for a vessel holding an international load line exemption certificate for more than one voyage, shall be the same as for any other vessel covered by this section except for load line marks. However, other conditions specified in the exemption certificate shall be verified.
