
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter E - Load Lines
#### PART 42 - DOMESTIC AND FOREIGN VOYAGES BY SEA
##### Subpart 42.15 - Conditions of Assignment of Freeboard
###### ยง 42.15-25 Hatchways closed by portable covers and secured weathertight by tarpaulins and battening devices.
####### Hatchway covers.

(b)(1) The width of each bearing surface for hatchway covers shall be at least 2inches.

(2) Where covers are made of wood, the finished thickness shall be at least 2inches in association with a span of not more than 4.9 feet.

(3) Where covers are made of mild steel, the strength shall be calculated with assumed loads not less than 358 pounds per square foot on hatchways in position 1, and not less than 266 pounds per square foot on hatchways in position 2, and the product of the maximum stress thus calculated and the factor 4.25 shall not exceed the minimum ultimate strength of the material. They shall be so designed as to limit the deflection to not more than 0.0028 times the span under these loads.

(4) The assumed loads on hatchways in position 1 may be reduced to 205 pounds per square foot for vessels of 79 feet in length and shall be not less than 358 pounds per square foot for vessels of 328 feet in length. The corresponding loads on hatchways in position 2 may be reduced to 154 pounds per square foot and 266 pounds per square foot respectively. In all cases values at intermediate lengths shall be obtained by linear interpolation.
