
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter E - Load Lines
#### PART 42 - DOMESTIC AND FOREIGN VOYAGES BY SEA
##### Subpart 42.15 - Conditions of Assignment of Freeboard
###### ยง 42.15-45 Ventilators.

(a) Ventilators in position 1 or 2 to spaces below the freeboard decks or decks of enclosed superstructures shall have coamings of steel or other equivalent material, substantially constructed and efficiently connected to the deck. Where the coaming of any ventilator exceeds 35inches in height it shall be specially supported.

(b) Ventilators passing through superstructures other than enclosed superstructures shall have substantially constructed coamings of steel or other equivalent material at the freeboard deck.

(c) Ventilators in position 1 the coamings of which extend to more than 14.8 feet above the deck, and in position 2 the coamings of which extend to more than 7.5 feet above the deck, need not be fitted with closing arrangements unless specifically required by the assigning authority.

(d) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section ventilator openings shall be provided with efficient weathertight closing appliances. In vessels of not more than 328 feet in length the closing appliances shall be permanently attached; where not so provided in other vessels, they shall be conveniently stowed near the ventilators to which they are to be fitted. Ventilators in position 1 shall have coamings of a height of at least 35inches above the deck; in position 2 the coamings shall be of a height at least 30 inches above the deck.

(e) In exposed positions, the height of coamings may be required to be increased to the satisfaction of the assigning authority.
