
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter E - Load Lines
#### PART 42 - DOMESTIC AND FOREIGN VOYAGES BY SEA
##### Subpart 42.20 - Freeboards
###### § 42.20-9 Initial conditions of loading.

When doing the calculations required in §§ 42.20-6(a), 42.20-7(a) and 42.20-8(a), the initial condition of loading before flooding must be assumed to be as specified in this section:

(a) The vessel is assumed to be loaded to its summer load waterline with no trim.

(b) When calculating the vertical center of gravity, the following assumptions apply:

(1) The cargo is assumed to be homogeneous.

(2) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, all cargo compartments are assumed to be fully loaded. This includes compartments intended to be only partially filled. In the case of liquid cargoes, fully loaded means 98 percent full.

(3) If the vessel is intended to operate at its summer load waterline with empty compartments, these empty compartments are assumed to be empty rather than fully loaded if the resulting height of the vertical center of gravity is not less than the height determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(4) Fifty percent of the total capacity of all tanks and spaces fitted to contain consumable liquids or stores must be assumed to be distributed to accomplish the following:

(i) Each tank and space fitted to contain consumable liquids or stores must be assumed either completely empty or completely filled.

(ii) The consumables must be distributed so as to produce the greatest possible height above the keel for the center of gravity.

(5) Weights are calculated using the following values for specific gravities:
