
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter E - Load Lines
#### PART 42 - DOMESTIC AND FOREIGN VOYAGES BY SEA
##### Subpart 42.20 - Freeboards
###### § 42.20-11 Extent of damage.

When doing the calculations required by §§ 42.20-6(a), 42.20-7(a) and 42.20-8(a), the following must be assumed:

(a) The vertical extent of damage in all cases must be assumed to be from the baseline upward without limit.

(b) The transverse extent of damage is assumed to be equal to B/5 or 11.5 meters (37.7 feet), whichever is less. The transverse extent is measured inboard from the side of the ship perpendicularly to the center line at the level of the summer load waterline.

(c) If damage of a lesser extent than that specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section results in a more severe condition, the lesser extent must be assumed.

(d) The following assumptions apply to the transverse damage specified in paragraph (b) of this section for a stepped or recessed bulkhead:

(1) A transverse watertight bulkhead that has a step or recess located within the transverse extent of assumed damage may be considered intact if the step or recess is not more than 3.05 meters (10 feet) in length.

(2) If a transverse watertight bulkhead has a step or recess of more than 3.05 meters (10 feet) in length, within the transverse extent of assumed damage, the two compartments adjacent to this bulkhead must be considered as flooded.

(3) If within the transverse extent of damage, a transverse bulkhead has a step or recess more than 3.05 meters (10 feet) in length that coincides with the double bottom tank top or the inner boundary of a wing tank, respectively, all adjacent compartments within the transverse extent of assumed damage must be considered to be flooded simultaneously.

(e) If a wing tank has openings into adjacent compartments, the wing tank and adjacent compartments must be considered as one compartment. This provision applies even where these openings are fitted with closing appliances except:

(1) Valves fitted in bulkheads between tanks which are controlled from above the bulkhead deck.

(2) Secured manhole covers fitted with closely spaced bolts.

(f) Only transverse watertight bulkheads that are spaced apart at least(L)or 14.5 meters (0.495(L)or 47.6 feet), whichever is less, may be considered effective. If transverse bulkheads are closer together, then one or more of these bulkheads must be assumed to be non-existent in order to achieve the minimum spacing between bulkheads.
