
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter E - Load Lines
#### PART 42 - DOMESTIC AND FOREIGN VOYAGES BY SEA
##### Subpart 42.20 - Freeboards
###### ยง 42.20-65 Sheer.
####### Measurement of variation from standard sheer profile.

(c)(1) Where the sheer profile differs from the standard, the four ordinates of each profile in the forward or after half shall be multiplied by the appropriate factors given in the table of ordinates. The difference between the sums of the respective products and those of the standard divided by 8 measures the deficiency or excess of sheer in the forward or after half. The arithmetical mean of the excess or deficiency in the forward and after halves measures the excess or deficiency of sheer.

(2) Where the after half of the sheer has an excess and the forward half of the sheer has a deficiency, no credit shall be allowed for the part in excess and deficiency only shall be measured.

(3) Where the forward half of the sheer profile exceeds the standard, and the after portion of the sheer profile is not less than 75 percent of the standard, credit shall be allowed for the part in excess; where the after part is less than 50 percent of the standard, no credit shall be given for the excess sheer forward. Where the after sheer is between 50 percent and 75 percent of the standard, intermediate allowances may be granted for excess sheer forward.

(4) Where sheer credit is given for a poop or forecastle, the following formula shall be used:

(i) The formula in this paragraph (c)(4) of this section provides a curve in the form of a parabola tangent to the actual sheer curve at the freeboard deck and intersecting the end ordinate at a point below the superstructure deck a distance equal to the standard height of a superstructure. The superstructure deck shall not be less than standard height above this curve at any point. This curve shall be used in determining the sheer profile for forward and after halves of the vessel.
