
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter E - Load Lines
#### PART 44 - SPECIAL SERVICE LIMITED DOMESTIC VOYAGES
##### Subpart A - Administration
###### ยง 44.01-12 Voyage limits; special service.

(a) Special service load lines may be assigned for operation not more than a specified limited distance offshore which shall not exceed 20 nautical miles. The offshore distance shall be measured from the coastline except where a line of inland waters has been otherwise established.

(b) For continental United States ports, special service load lines may be issued for operation between but not to exceed the extreme port limits specified below, or for operation between intermediate ports within the extreme limits specified:

(1) Central and Northern Atlantic Coast-From Norfolk, Virginia, to Eastport, Maine.

(2) Southeast Atlantic Coast-from Key West, Florida, to Jacksonville, Florida, except that the special service load line is not valid for manned vessels during the hurricane season, i.e., July 1st to November 15th, both dates inclusive, unless the vessel is operated in accordance with a Coast Guard approved heavy weather plan.

(3) Gulf of Mexico Coast-from the mouth of the Rio Grande River, Texas, to Key West, Florida, except that the special service load line is not valid for manned vessels during the hurricane season, i.e., July 1st to November 15th, both dates inclusive, unless the vessel is operated in accordance with a Coast Guard approved heavy weather plan.

(4) Pacific Coast-From San Francisco, California, to San Diego, California.

(c) Assignment of special service load lines for voyage limits between the islands of a group over which the United States has jurisdiction shall be made only upon authorization by the Commandant, U.S. Coast Guard, after submittal to him of the information called for by ยง 44.01-5(b).
