
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter E - Load Lines
#### PART 45 - GREAT LAKES LOAD LINES
##### Subpart E - Unmanned River Barges on Lake Michigan Routes
###### ยง 45.181 Load line exemption requirements for the Burns Harbor and Milwaukee routes.
####### Registration.

(a)Before the barge's first voyage onto Lake Michigan, the owner or operator must register the barge in writing with the Commanding Officer, Marine Safety Unit Chicago, 555A Plainfield Road, Willowbrook, IL, 60527. The registration may be faxed to MSU Chicago in advance at (630) 986-2120, with the original following by mail. The registration may be in any form, but must be signed by the owner or operator. No load line exemption certificate will be returned. However, the registration will be kept on file.

(b) The registration must include the following information:

(1) Barge name and official documentation number;

(2) Owner and operator (points-of-contact, company addresses and telephone numbers);

(3) Service route (Milwaukee and/or Burns Harbor);

(4) Design type (covered/uncovered hopper, deck, etc.);

(5) External dimensions;

(6) Types of cargo; and

(7) Place built and original delivery date.

(c) The registration must include a statement certifying that:

(1) The barge has been designed and built to at least the minimum scantlings of the ABS River Rules which were in effect at the time of construction; and

(2) The owner or operator agrees to maintain the barge in serviceable condition and comply with the applicable provisions of 46 CFR part 45, subpart E.
