
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - Procedures Applicable to the Public
#### PART 4 - MARINE CASUALTIES AND INVESTIGATIONS
##### Subpart 4.40 - Coast Guard - National Transportation Safety Board Marine Casualty Investigations
###### ยง 4.40-30 Procedures for Coast Guard investigation.

(a) The Coast Guard conducts an investigation under ยง 4.40-25 using the procedures in 46 CFR 4.01-1 through 4.23-1.

(b) The Board may designate a person or persons to participate in every phase of an investigation, including an on scene investigation, that is conducted under the provisions of subpart 4.40-25 of this part.

(c) Consistent with Coast Guard responsibility to direct the course of the investigation, the person or persons designated by the Board under paragraph (b) of this section may:

(1) Make recommendations about the scope of the investigations.

(2) Call and examine witnesses.

(3) Submit or request additional evidence.

(d) The Commandant provides a record of the proceedings to the Board of an investigation of a major marine casualty under paragraph (a) of this section.

(e) The Board, under the Act, makes its determination of the facts, conditions, circumstances, and the cause or probable cause of a major marine casualty using the record of the proceedings provided by the Commandant under paragraph (d) of this section, and any additional evidence the Board may acquire under its own authority.

(f) An investigation by the Coast Guard under this section is both an investigation under the Act and under 46 U.S.C. Chapter 63.
