
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter E - Load Lines
#### PART 45 - GREAT LAKES LOAD LINES
##### Appendix A to Part 45 - Load Line Certificate Form

Issued under the authority of the Commandant, U.S. Coast Guard, United States of America, under the provisions of the Act of August 27, 1935, as amended to establish load lines on the Great Lakes of North America and the Load Line regulations in force on ____________________________, 19____, By ________________________, duly authorized by the Commandant to issue said load line certificate.

Increase for salt water for all freeboards ____ inches.

The upper edge of the deck line from which these freeboards are measured is ____ inches above or below the top of the ________ deck at side.

This is to certify that this ship has been surveyed and the freeboards and load lines shown above have been found to be correctly marked upon the vessel in manner and location as provided by the load line regulations of the Commandant, U.S. Coast Guard, applicable to the Great Lakes.

This certificateremains in force until ______________. Issued at __________ on the ______________ day of __________________, 19____. (Here follows the signature, seal, if any, and the name of the authority issuing the certificate.)

(1) In accordance with the Great Lakes Load Line Regulations the diamond and lines must be permanently marked. The "MS" loadline shall be assigned only to those particular vessels that qualify under the regulations.

(2) The "SW" marks need only be assigned to Great Lakes vessels loading in salt water of the St. Lawrence River west of a straight line from Cap de Rosiers to West Point Anticosti Island, and west of a line along longitude 63 degrees west from Anticosti Island to the north shore of the St. Lawrence River. In such cases these limits shall be indicated on the certificate.

(3) The load line assignment given by this certificate necessarily assumes that the nature and stowage of cargo, ballast, etc., are such as to secure sufficient stability for the vessel. Accordingly, it is the owner's responsibility to furnish the Master of the vessel with stability information and instructions when this is necessary to maintenance of sufficient stability.

(On the reverse side of the load line certificate, or on a separate sheet, attached and forming part of the certificate, provision is to be made for annual inspection and renewal endorsements.)
