
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 50 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart 50.25 - Acceptance of Material and Piping Components
###### § 50.25-1 General.

(a) Materials and piping components used in the construction of boilers, pressure vessels, pressure piping systems, and related components are accepted by review of manufacturer or mill certificates under § 50.25-3 of this part, product marking in accordance with an adopted industry standard, or technical information indicating their compliance with the requirements of this subchapter.

(b) Plate, bar stock, pipe, tube, pipe joining fittings (tees, elbows, reducers, etc.), bolting, castings, forgings, and flanges, are accepted by review of manufacturer or mill certificates under §§ 50.25-3, 50.25-5, and 50.25-7 of this part.

(c) Valves, fluid conditioner fittings, and special purpose fittings complying with an adopted industry standard and marked in accordance with the standard are accepted through review of the marking indicating compliance with the adopted industry standard.

(d) Valves, fluid conditioner fittings, special purpose fittings, and pipe joining fittings not complying with an adopted industry standard are accepted for use on a case-by-case basis. Acceptance is granted by the Marine Safety Center or the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, having cognizance over the installation of the product. To obtain acceptance of a product, the manufacturer must submit, via the vessel owner or representative, the information described in § 50.25-10 of this part to the Marine Safety Center or the cognizant Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection.

(e) Components designed for hydraulic service which require shock testing under § 58.30-15(f) of this chapter and nonmetallic flexible hose assemblies must be accepted by the Commandant (CG-ENG). Manufacturers desiring acceptance of these products must submit information necessary to show compliance with §§ 56.60-25(c) or 58.30-15 of this chapter, as applicable. Acceptance of specific installations of acceptable nonmetallic flexible hose assemblies and shock tested hydraulic components is granted by the Marine Safety Center or the cognizant Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, as described in paragraph (d) of this section.

(f) The vessel owner or representative shall make available to the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, the manufacturer or mill certificates, specific letters of acceptance, or approved plans necessary to verify that piping components comply with the requirements of this subchapter.
