
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 50 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart 50.25 - Acceptance of Material and Piping Components
###### ยง 50.25-10 Acceptance of piping components by specific letter or approved plan.

(a) A manufacturer of a piping component which does not comply with an adopted industry standard and requires acceptance by specific letter or approved plan must do the following:

(1) Submit an engineering type catalog or representative drawings of the component which includes the pressure and temperature ratings of the component and identify the service for which it is intended.

(2) Identify materials used to fabricate the component. Materials must meet the requirements of subpart 56.60 of this chapter. If the component is not manufactured to accepted material specifications, the manufacturer must prove equivalency to accepted material specifications by comparing details of the materials' chemical composition, mechanical properties, method of manufacture, and complete chemical and mechanical test results with an accepted material specification.

(3) Identify the industry standard, if any, to which the component is manufactured.

(4) Submit a description of nondestructive testing performed on the component.

(5) Submit a description of the marking applied to the component.

(6) Submit information showing compliance with the requirements of part 56, subparts 56.15, 56.20, 56.25, 56.30, or 56.35 of this chapter, as applicable.

(7) Submit any additional information necessary to evaluate the component's acceptability for its intended application.

(b) If the component is found to comply with the requirements of this subchapter, the component is designated as acceptable for its intended installation. This acceptance is in the form of a specific letter relating directly to the particular component or in the form of an approved piping system plan in which the component is identified as an integral part.
