
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 52 - POWER BOILERS
##### Subpart 52.01 - General Requirements
###### ยง 52.01-50 Fusible plugs (modifies A-19 through A-21).

(a) All boilers, except watertube boilers, with a maximum allowable working pressure in excess of 206 kPa gauge (30 psig), if fired with solid fuel not in suspension, or if not equipped for unattended waterbed operation, must be fitted with fusible plugs. Fusible plugs must comply with only the requirements of A19 and A20 of section I of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code (incorporated by reference; see 46 CFR 52.01-1) and be stamped on the casing with the name of the manufacturer, and on the water end of the fusible metal "ASME Std." Fusible plugs are not permitted where the maximum steam temperature to which they are exposed exceeds 218 &#xB0;C (425 &#xB0;F).

(b) Vertical boilers shall be fitted with one fusible plug located in a tube not more than 2 inches below the lowest gage cock.

(c) Externally fired cylindrical boilers with flues shall have one plug fitted to the shell immediately below the fire line not less than 4 feet from the front end.

(d) Firebox, Scotch, and other types of shell boilers not specifically provided for, having a combustion chamber common to all furnaces, shall have one plug fitted at or near the center of the crown sheet of the combustion chamber.

(e) Double-ended boilers, having individual combustion chambers for each end, in which combustion chambers are common to all the furnaces in one end of the boiler, shall have one plug fitted at or near the center of the crown sheet of each combustion chamber.

(f) Boilers constructed with a separate combustion chamber for each individual furnace shall be fitted with a fusible plug in the center of the crown sheet of each combustion chamber.

(g) Boilers of types not provided for in this section shall be fitted with at least one fusible plug of such dimensions and located in a part of the boiler as will best meet the purposes for which it is intended.

(h) Fusible plugs shall be so fitted that the smaller end of the filling is in direct contact with the radiant heat of the fire, and shall be at least 1 inch higher on the water side than the plate or flue in which they are fitted, and in no case more than 1 inch below the lowest permissible water level.

(i) The lowest permissible water level shall be determined as follows:

(1) Vertical firetube boilers, one-half of the length of the tubes above the lower tube sheets.

(2) Vertical submerged tube boilers 1 inch above the upper tube sheet.

(3) Internally fired firetube boilers with combustion chambers integral with the boiler, 2 inches above the highest part of the combustion chamber.

(4) Horizontal-return tubular and dry back Scotch boilers, 2 inches above the top row of tubes.

(j) [Reserved]

(k)(1) Fusible plugs shall be cleaned and will be examined by the marine inspector at each inspection for certification, periodic inspection, and oftener if necessary. If in the marine inspector's opinion the condition of any plug is satisfactory, it may be continued in use.

(2) When fusible plugs are renewed at other than the inspection for certification and no marine inspector is in attendance, the Chief Engineer shall submit a written report to the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, who issued the certificate of inspection informing him of the renewal. This letter report shall contain the following information:

(i) Name and official number of vessel.

(ii) Date of renewal of fusible plugs.

(iii) Number and location of fusible plugs renewed in each boiler.

(iv) Manufacturer and heat number of each plug.

(v) Reason for renewal.
