
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 52 - POWER BOILERS
##### Subpart 52.01 - General Requirements
###### ยง 52.01-95 Design (modifies PG-16 through PG-31 and PG-100).
####### Superheater.

(b)(1) The design pressure of a superheater integral with the boiler shall not be less than the lowest setting of the drum safety valve.

(2) Controls shall be provided to insure that the maximum temperature at the superheater outlets does not exceed the allowable temperature limit of the material used in the superheater outlet, in the steam piping, and in the associated machinery under all operating conditions including boiler overload. Controls need not be provided if the operating superheater characteristic is demonstrated to be such that the temperature limits of the material will not be exceeded. Visible and audible alarms indicating excessive superheat shall be provided in any installation in which the superheater outlet temperature exceeds 454 &#xB0;C (850 &#xB0;F). The setting of the excessive superheat alarms must not exceed the maximum allowable temperature of the superheater outlet, which may be limited by the boiler design, the main steam piping design, or the temperature limits of other equipment subjected to the temperature of the steam.

(3) Arrangement shall be made for venting and draining the superheater in order to permit steam circulation through the superheater when starting the boiler.
