
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 52 - POWER BOILERS
##### Subpart 52.01 - General Requirements
###### ยง 52.01-110 Water-level indicators, water columns, gauge-glass connections, gauge cocks, and pressure gauges (modifies PG-60).
####### Water level indicators.,Modifies PG-60.1.

(b)() (1) Each boiler, except those of the forced circulation type with no fixed water line and steam line, shall have two independent means of indicating the water level in the boiler connected directly to the head or shell. One shall be a gage lighted by the emergency electrical system (See subpart 112.15 of subchapter J (Electrical Engineering) of this chapter) which will insure illumination of the gages under all normal and emergency conditions. The secondary indicator may consist of a gage glass, or other acceptable device. Where the allowance pressure exceeds 1724 kPa (250 psi), the gage glasses shall be of the flat type instead of the common tubular type.

(2) Gage glasses shall be in continuous operation while the boiler is steaming.

(3) Double-ended firetube boilers shall be equipped as specified in this paragraph and paragraph (e) of this section except that the required water level indicators shall be installed on each end of the boiler.

(4) Externally fired flue boilers, such as are used on central western river vessels, shall be equipped as specified in paragraphs (b) (1) through (3) of this section except that float gages may be substituted for gage glasses.
