
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 52 - POWER BOILERS
##### Subpart 52.01 - General Requirements
###### ยง 52.01-120 Safety valves and safety relief valves (modifies PG-67 through PG-73).
####### Modifies PG-67.

(6) () Drum safety valves shall be set to relieve at a pressure not in excess of that allowed by the Certificate of Inspection. Where for any reason this is lower than the pressure for which the boiler was originally designed and the revised safety valve capacity cannot be recomputed and certified by the valve manufacturer, one of the tests described in PG-70(3) of section I of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code shall be conducted in the presence of the Inspector to insure that the relieving capacity is sufficient at the lower pressure.

(7) On new installations the safety valve nominal size for propulsion boilers and superheaters must not be less than 38mm (1in.) nor more than 102mm (4 in.). Safety valves 38mm (1in.) to 114mm (4in.) may be used for replacements on existing boilers. The safety valve size for auxiliary boilers must be between 19mm (in.) and 102mm (4 in.) NPS. The nominal size of a safety valve is the nominal diameter (as defined in 56.07-5(b)) of the inlet opening.

(8) Lever or weighted safety valves now installed may be continued in use and may be repaired, but when renewals are necessary, lever or weighted safety valves shall not be used. All such replacements shall conform to the requirements of this section.

(9) Gags or clamps for holding the safety valve disk on its seat shall be carried on board the vessel at all times.
