
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 52 - POWER BOILERS
##### Subpart 52.01 - General Requirements
###### ยง 52.01-140 Certification by stamping (modifies PG-104 through PG-113).

(a) All boilers built in accordance with this part must be stamped with the appropriate ASME Code symbol as required by PG-104 through PG-113 of section I of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code (incorporated by reference; see 46 CFR 52.01-1).

(b)(1) Upon satisfactory completion of the tests and Coast Guard inspections, boilers must be stamped with the following:

(i) Manufacturer's name and serial number;

(ii) ASME Code Symbol;

(iii) Coast Guard symbol, which is affixed only by marine inspector (see ยง 50.10-15 of this subchapter);

(iv) Maximum allowable working pressure ______ at ______ &#xB0;C (&#xB0;F): and

(v) Boiler rated steaming capacity in kilograms (pounds) per hour (rated joules (B.T.U.) per hour output for high temperature water boilers).

(2) The information required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must be located on:

(i) The front head or shell near the normal waterline and within 610 mm (24 inches) of the front of firetube boilers; and

(ii) The drum head of water tube boilers.

(3) Those heating boilers which are built to section I of section I of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code (incorporated by reference; see 46 CFR 52.01-1), as permitted by ยง 53.01-10(e) of this subchapter, do not require Coast Guard stamping and must receive full ASME stamping including the appropriate code symbol.

(c) The data shall be legibly stamped and shall not be obliterated during the life of the boiler. In the event that the portion of the boiler upon which the data is stamped is to be insulated or otherwise covered, a metal nameplate as described in PG-106.6 of section I of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code (incorporated by reference; see 46 CFR 52.01-1) shall be furnished and mounted. The nameplate is to be maintained in a legible condition so that the data may be easily read.

(d) Safety valves shall be stamped as indicated in PG-110 of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code.
