
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 53 - HEATING BOILERS
##### Subpart 53.01 - General Requirements
###### ยง 53.01-3 Adoption of section IV of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code.

(a) Heating boilers shall be designed, constructed, inspected, tested, and stamped in accordance with section IV of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code (incorporated by reference; see 46 CFR 53.01-1) as limited, modified, or replaced by specific requirements in this part. The provisions in the appendices to section IV of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code are adopted and shall be followed when the requirements in section IV make them mandatory. For general information, table 53.01-3(a) lists the various paragraphs in section IV of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code that are limited, modified, or replaced by regulations in this part.

(b) References to the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, such as paragraph HG-307, indicate:

H = Section IV of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code.

G = Part containing general requirements.

3 = Article in part.

307 = Paragraph within Article 3.

(c) When a paragraph or a section of the regulations in this part relates to material in section IV of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, the relationship with the code will be shown immediately following the heading of the section or at the beginning of the paragraph, as follows:

(1) (Modifies H______.) This indicates that the material in H______ is generally applicable but is being altered, amplified or augmented.

(2) (Replaces H______.) This indicates that H______ does not apply.

(3) (Reproduces H______.) This indicates that H______ is being identically reproduced for convenience, not for emphasis.
