
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 54 - PRESSURE VESSELS
##### Subpart 54.01 - General Requirements
###### ยง 54.01-2 Adoption of division 1 of section VIII of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code.

(a) Pressure vessels shall be designed, constructed, and inspected in accordance with section VIII of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code (incorporated by reference, see 46 CFR 54.01-1), as limited, modified, or replaced by specific requirements in this part. The provisions in the appendices to section VIII of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code are adopted and shall be followed when the requirements in section VIII make them mandatory. For general information, table 54.01-2(a) lists the various paragraphs in section VIII of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code that are limited, modified, or replaced by regulations in this part.

(b) References to the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, such as paragraph UG-125, indicate:

U = Division 1 of section VIII of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code.

G = Part containing general requirements.

125 = Paragraph within part.

(c) When a paragraph or a section of the regulations in this part relates to material in section VIII of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, the relationship with the code will be shown immediately following the heading of the section or at the beginning of the paragraph, as follows:

(1) (Modifies U______.) This indicates that the material in U______ is generally applicable but is being altered, amplified or augmented.

(2) (Replaces U______.) This indicates that U______ does not apply.

(3) (Reproduces U______.) This indicates that U______ is being identically reproduced for convenience, not for emphasis.
