
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 54 - PRESSURE VESSELS
##### Subpart 54.01 - General Requirements
###### ยง 54.01-15 Exemptions from shop inspection and plan approval (modifiesU-1(c)(2)).

(a) The following classifications are exempt from shop inspection and plan approval requirements of this part:

(1) Vessels containing water at a pressure not greater than 689 kPa (100 pounds per square inch gauge or "psig"), and at a temperature not above 93 &#xB0;C (200 &#xB0;F) including those containing air, the compression of which serves only as a cushion. Air-charging lines may be permanently attached if the air pressure does not exceed 103 kPa (15 psig).

(2) Hot water supply storage tanks heated by steam or any other indirect means when none of the following limitations is exceeded:

(i) A heat input of 58 kW (200,000 B.t.u. per hour);

(ii) A water temperature of 93 &#xB0;C (200 &#xB0;F);

(iii) A nominal water-containing capacity of 454 liters (120 gallons); or

(iv) A pressure of 689 kPa (100 psig).

(3)(i) Vessels having an internal operating pressure not exceeding 103 kPa (15 psig) with no limitation on size. (See UG-28(f) of section VIII of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code (incorporated by reference; see 46 CFR 54.01-1.)

(ii) Cargo tanks of pressure vessel configuration are not included in the exemption in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section.

(4) Class I, II, and III pressure vessels that meet the requirements of ยง 54.01-5(c)(3) and (c)(4).

(5) Condensers and heat exchangers, regardless of size, when the design is such that the liquid phase is not greater than 689 kPa (100 psig) and 200 &#xB0;F (93 &#xB0;C) and the vapor phase is not greater than 103 kPa (15 psig) provided that the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection is satisfied that system overpressure conditions are addressed by the owner or operator.

(b) For fluid conditioner fittings see ยง 56.15-1 of this subchapter.
