
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 54 - PRESSURE VESSELS
##### Subpart 54.05 - Toughness Tests
###### ยง 54.05-5 Toughness test specimens.
####### Charpy V-notch impact tests.

(a)Where required, Charpy V-notch tests shall be conducted in accordance with ASTM Specification E 23 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 54.01-1), "Notched Bar Impact Testing of Metallic Materials", using the Type A specimen shown in Figure 4 of the specification. Special attention is drawn to the fact that the Charpy Keyhole and U-notch specimens are not acceptable substitutes for the Charpy V-notch specimen and shall not be used to qualify materials within the scope of this subpart. Each set of Charpy impact tests shall consist of three specimens. For materials-inch thick or less, the largest possible Charpy specimens for that thickness shall be cut centered at the material's mid-thickness. For materials thicker than-inch, full size Charpy specimens shall be cut centered at a location as near as practicable to a point midway between the material's surface and half-thickness. Except where otherwise specified, transversely oriented specimens must be used. When longitudinal specimens are used, the required energy values may not be less than 1.5 times the values required for transversely oriented specimens. In all cases the notch shall be cut normal to the material's surface. Test specimens shall be taken at least one "t" from any heat treated edge (where "t" is the material's nominal thickness).
