
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 54 - PRESSURE VESSELS
##### Subpart 54.05 - Toughness Tests
###### ยง 54.05-5 Toughness test specimens.
####### Retest procedures.

(c)(1) When Charpy V-notch impact specimens are used and the average value of the three initial specimens fails to meet the stated requirements by an amount not exceeding 15 percent, or the value for more than one specimen is below the required average value of when the value for one specimen is below the minimum value permitted for a single specimen by an amount not exceeding 15 percent, three additional specimens from the same material may be tested and the results combined with those previously obtained to form a new average. This new average of six specimens must exceed the specified minimum average. In the event the Charpy retests fail, the material may still be qualified by exhibiting a no-break performance when tested in accordance with the drop weight procedure, if applicable. Two drop weight specimens shall be tested for each Charpy V-notch set of three initial specimens which failed to qualify. Failure of either or both of these drop weight specimens will constitute rejection of the material or weldments represented, except as outlined in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(2) When drop weight specimens are used, retests shall be permitted only within the limits prescribed in ASTM Specification E 208 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 54.01-1), except as outlined in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(3) If, for heat treated base material, the required toughness results are not obtained in the initial test or in the retest, the material may be reheat treated one time and tested again in accordance with the initial requirements for the material.
