
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 54 - PRESSURE VESSELS
##### Subpart 54.05 - Toughness Tests
###### ยง 54.05-10 Certification of material toughness tests.
####### Pipe or tube material.

(b)(1) The manufacturer of pipe, tube, or welded fittings formed from pipe or tube may certify such material by reporting the results of tests of one set of Charpy impact specimens, provided the requirement for production in this paragraph (b)(1) or paragraph (b)(2) of this section, as well as the requirement for sampling in paragraph (b)(3) of this section are met. The specimens shall have the major axis parallel to the length of pipe or tube. In the case of welding fittings, the specimens may be taken from the tubing prior to forming provided the fittings are normalized after forming. Such specimens shall be normalized before testing.

(2) One set of specimens may represent each five (5) short tons, or less, of the pipe, tubes, or welding fittings produced from one heat of steel poured from a single melting furnace charge and subsequently processed in the same manner, provided all are given a normalizing heat-treatment in a continuous treating furnace in which the temperature is automatically controlled and checked by recording pyrometer.

(3) One set of specimens may represent each five (5) short tons, or less, of the pipe, tubes, or welding fittings that have been given a normalizing heat-treatment as a single charge in a batch-treating furnace equipped with recording pyrometer provided all have been produced from a single melting furnace heat and are subsequently processed in the same manner. If more than one melting furnace heat is present in the batch heat-treating furnace, means of identification shall be provided and one set of specimens shall be taken from each heat.

(4) One set of impact specimens shall be taken from one pipe or tube picked at random from each heat or furnace batch or portion thereof to be certified.
