
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 54 - PRESSURE VESSELS
##### Subpart 54.05 - Toughness Tests
###### ยง 54.05-10 Certification of material toughness tests.
####### Forgings and forged or rolled fittings.

(c)(1) The manufacturer of forgings for any purpose may certify them by reporting the results of tests of one set of Charpy impact specimens or two drop-weight specimens, as applicable, taken from each 5 short tons of product from each melting heat provided the requirements in this paragraph for production and sampling are met.

(2) One or more test blocks shall be cut from billets or blooms selected at random from each heat of material. Each test block shall be forge-reduced in thickness to the thickness of the finished forgings to be certified, within the limitations set below. After forging to the reduced thickness, the test block shall be heat-treated in the same manner as the finished forgings represented, which heat-treatment of test blocks may be carried out in the furnace with the forgings, or separately. If carried out separately, both heat-treatments shall be done in automatically controlled furnaces equipped with calibrated recording pyrometers, the certified records of which shall be made available to the inspector.

(3) One set of Charpy impact specimens or two drop-weight specimens, as applicable, shall be cut from each such test block and these specimens shall represent all forgings (up to 5 short tons) that are from the same heat of material and given the same heat-treatment as the test block, and the thickness of which does not differ from that of the test block by more than plus or minus 50 percent of 1inches, whichever is less, except that forged flanges and tube sheets thicker than 5inches may be qualified from a 4-inch test block.

(4) As many test blocks shall be made as are required under the foregoing rule in paragraph (c)(3) of this section to cover the weight of product and range of thickness found in the forgings represented. The major axis of the test specimens shall be parallel to the length of the test block.
