
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 54 - PRESSURE VESSELS
##### Subpart 54.05 - Toughness Tests
###### ยง 54.05-15 Weldment toughness tests - procedure qualifications.

(a) Plate for which Charpy V-notch impact testing is required in the parent material and for which V-notch minima are specified shall similarly have welding procedures qualified for toughness by Charpy V-notch testing. For these tests, the test plates shall be oriented with their final rolling direction parallel to the weld axis (i.e., so that transverse impact specimens result), and with the V-notch normal to the plate surface. The sample weld joint preparation shall be the same as that used in production. The number of test specimens and the location of their notches shall be as shown in Figure 54.05-15(a) and as described in paragraphs (a) (1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Three specimens with the notch centered in the weld metal.

(2) Three specimens with the notch centered on the fusion line between parent plate and weld. (The fusion line may be identified by etching the specimen with a mild reagent.)

(3) Three specimens with the notch centered in the heat affected zone, 1 mm from the fusion line.

(4) Same as paragraph (a)(3) of this section, but 3 mm from the fusion line.

(5) Same as paragraph (a)(3) of this section, but 5 mm from the fusion line.

(b) Plate materials for which Charpy V-notch minimums are not specified, or for which a Charpy V-notch correlation with NDT is not known, and which are themselves tested for toughness by the drop-weight procedure, shall have welding procedures similarly qualified by the drop-weight test. For such qualifications, two drop-weight specimens are to be tested, with the notch positioned directly above and parallel to the centerline of the weld.

(c) Piping welding toughness tests shall be qualified, by making Charpy V-notch impact tests as prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section.

(d) Materials which are specially approved based on toughness criteria or tests, other than those discussed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, shall have welding procedures tested and qualified for toughness as deemed appropriate and necessary by the Commandant.

(e) In the case of stainless steels, weld procedure toughness tests may be limited to weld metal only if this is all that is required by ยง 54.25-15.
