
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 54 - PRESSURE VESSELS
##### Subpart 54.05 - Toughness Tests
###### ยง 54.05-16 Production toughness testing.

(a) For vessels of welded construction, production toughness test plates shall be prepared for each 50 feet of longitudinal and circumferential butt weld in each Class I-L vessel, or for each 150 feet in each Class II-L vessel, except for material other than stainless steel that is exempted from impact test requirements by this subchapter. In the case of stainless steels, weld production toughness tests may be limited to weld metal only if this is all that is required be ยง 54.25-15. The test-plate thickness shall be the same as that of the vessel wall at the location of the production weld being sampled. The test plates shall be prepared, wherever possible, as run-off tabs attached at the ends of weld butts or seams. The rolling direction of the run-off tabs should be oriented parallel to the rolling direction of the adjacent production material. The test-plate material shall be taken from one of the heats of material used in the vessel, and both the electrodes and welding procedures shall be the same as used in the fabrication of the vessel. From each test plate, one set of three Charpy impact bars or two drop-weight specimens, as applicable according to the test used in procedure qualification, shall be taken transverse to the weld axis. For Charpy V-notch specimens, the notch shall be normal to the material surface and its location alternated (approximately) on successive tests between the weld metal and heat affected zone. Thus, approximately half of all weld production impact tests will be of weld metal and half of heat affected zone material. For the weld metal tests, the V-notch is to be centered between the fusion lines. For the heat affected zone tests, the notch is to be centered so as to sample, as nearly as practicable, the most critical location for toughness observed in the weld procedure qualification tests. Where the drop weight specimen is used in production weld testing, it shall be prepared in the same manner as specified for procedure qualification testing, ยง 54.05-15(b).

(b) For vessels not exceeding 5 cubic feet in volume, one set of impact specimens, or two drop-weight specimens, as applicable according to the test used in procedure qualification, may represent all vessels from the same heat of material not in excess of 100 vessels, or one heat-treatment furnace batch. In addition, when such vessels are welded, one weld test plate made from one of the heats of material used, and two sets of impact specimens or two drop-weight specimens, as applicable, cut therefrom, may represent the weld metal in the smallest of: One lot of 100 vessels or less; or each heat-treatment furnace batch; or each 50 feet of welding for Class I-L vessels; or each 150 feet of welding for Class II-L vessels.

(c) For several vessels or parts of vessels being welded in succession, the plate thickness of which does not vary by more than one-fourth inch, and which are made of the same grade of material, a test plate shall be furnished for each 50 feet of welding for Class I-L vessels or 150 feet of welding for Class II-L vessels. For each 50- or 150-foot increment of weld, as applicable, the test plates shall be prepared at the time of fabrication of the first vessel involving that increment.

(d) The test plates and any other test material from which toughness test specimens are cut shall be given the same heat-treatment as the production material they represent. Test specimens representing other material than the weld toughness test plates shall preferably be cut from a part of the vessel material but may be cut from like material that has been heat-treated within the temperature range specified by the producer in treating the actual vessel material.

(e) For nonpressure vessel type tanks and associated secondary barriers, as defined in ยง 38.05-4, subchapter D (Tank Vessels) of this chapter, production toughness test plates shall be prepared in accordance with paragraphs (a) and (d) of this section. One set of toughness test plates shall be prepared for each 165 feet (50 meters) of production butt type welds.
