
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 54 - PRESSURE VESSELS
##### Subpart 54.10 - Inspection, Reports, and Stamping
###### ยง 54.10-15 Pneumatic test (modifies UG-100).

(a) Pneumatic testing of welded pressure vessels shall be permitted only for those units which are so designed and/or supported that they cannot be safely filled with water, or for those units which cannot be dried and are to be used in a service where traces of the testing medium cannot be tolerated.

(b) Proposals to pneumatically test shall be submitted to the cognizant Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, for approval.

(c) Except for enameled vessels, for which the pneumatic test pressure shall be at least equal to, but need not exceed, the maximum allowable working pressure to be marked on the vessel, the pneumatic test pressure shall be at least equal to one and one-tenth (1.10) times the maximum allowable working pressure to be stamped on the vessel multiplied by the lowest ratio (for the materials of which the vessel is constructed) of the stress value "S" for the test temperature of the vessel to the stress value "S" for the design temperature (see UG-21 of section VIII of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code (incorporated by reference; see 46 CFR 54.01-1)). In no case shall the pneumatic test pressure exceed one and one-tenth (1.10) times the basis for calculated test pressure as defined in UA-60(e) of section VIII of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code.

(d) The pneumatic test of pressure vessels shall be accomplished as follows:

(1) The pressure on the vessel shall be gradually increased to not more than half the test pressure.

(2) The pressure will then be increased at steps of approximately one-tenth the test pressure until the test pressure has been reached.

(3) The pressure will then be reduced to the maximum allowable working pressure of the vessel to permit examination.

(e) Pressure vessels pneumatically tested shall also be leak tested. The test shall be capable of detecting leakage consistent with the design requirements of the pressure vessel. Details of the leak test shall be submitted to the Commandant for approval.

(f) After satisfactory completion of the pneumatic pressure test, the vessel may be stamped in accordance with ยง 54.10-20. A marine inspector shall observe the pressure vessel in a loaded condition at the first opportunity following the pneumatic test. The tank supports and saddles, connecting piping, and insulation if provided shall be examined to determine if they are satisfactory and that no leaks are evident.

(g) The pneumatic test is inherently more hazardous than a hydrostatic test, and suitable precautions shall be taken to protect personnel and adjacent property.
