
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 54 - PRESSURE VESSELS
##### Subpart 54.15 - Pressure-Relief Devices
###### ยง 54.15-10 Safety and relief valves (modifies UG-126).

(a) All safety and relief valves for use on pressure vessels or piping systems shall be designed to meet the protection and service requirements for which they are intended and shall be set to relieve at a pressure which does not exceed the "maximum allowable working pressure" of the pressure vessel or piping system. Relief valves are not required to have huddling chambers for other than steam service. In addition, safety valves used on vessels in which steam is generated shall meet ยง 52.01-120 of this subchapter except ยง 52.01-120(a)(9). For steam service below 206 kPa (30 psig), bodies of safety valves may be made of cast iron. Safety relief valves used in liquefied compressed gas service shall meet subpart 162.017 or 162.018 in subchapter Q (Specifications) of this chapter as appropriate.

(b) Pilot-valve control or other indirect operation of safety valves is not permitted unless the design is such that the main unloading valve will open automatically at not over the set pressure and will discharge its full rated capacity if some essential part of the pilot or auxiliary device should fail. All other safety and relief valves shall be of the direct spring loaded type.

(c) Safety and relief valves for steam or air service shall be provided with a substantial lifting device so that the disk can be lifted from its seat when the pressure in the vessel is 75 percent of that at which the valve is set to blow.

(d) Safety and relief valves for service other than steam and air need not be provided with a lifting device although a lifting device is desirable if the vapors are such that their release will not create a hazard.

(e) If the design of a safety or relief valve is such that liquid can collect on the discharge side of the disk, the valve shall be equipped with a drain at the lowest point where liquid can collect (for installation, see UG-134 of section VIII of section VIII of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code (incorporated by reference; see 46 CFR 54.01-1).

(f) Cast iron may be employed in the construction of relief valves for pressures not exceeding 125 pounds per square inch and temperatures not exceeding 450 &#xB0;F. Seats or disks of cast iron are prohibited.

(g) The spring in a relief valve in service for pressures up to and including 250 pounds per square inch shall not be reset for any pressure more than 10 percent above or 10 percent below that for which the relief valve is marked. For higher pressures, the spring shall not be reset for any pressure more than 5 percent above or 5 percent below that for which the relief valve is marked.

(h) The rated relieving capacity of safety and relief valves for use on pressure vessels shall be based on actual flow test data and the capacity shall be certified by the manufacturer in accordance with one of the following:

(1) 120 percent of the valve set pressure for valves rated in accordance with CGA S-1.2 (incorporated by reference; see 46 CFR 54.01-1).

(2) 110 percent of the valve set pressure for valves rated in accordance with UG-131 of section VIII of section VIII of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code.

(3) 103 percent of the valve set pressure for steam in accordance with PG-69 of section VIII of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code.
