
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 54 - PRESSURE VESSELS
##### Subpart 54.20 - Fabrication by Welding
###### ยง 54.20-3 Design (modifies UW-9, UW-11(a), UW-13, and UW-16).

(a) Fabrication by welding shall be in accordance with the provisions of this part and with part 57 of this subchapter.

(b) Welding subject to UW-11(a) of section VIII of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code (incorporated by reference; see 46 CFR 54.01-1) shall be modified as described in ยง 54.25-8 for radiographic examination.

(c) A butt welded joint with one plate edge offset, as shown in Figure UW-13.1(k) of section VIII of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, may only be used for circumferential joints of Class II and Class III pressure vessels.

(d) Attachment welds for nozzles and other connections shall be in accordance with UW-16 of section VIII of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code. When nozzles or connections are made to pressure vessels, as shown in Figure UW-16.1 (a) and (c) of the ASME Code, and are welded from one side only, backing strips shall be used unless it can be determined visually that a full penetration weld has been achieved.

(e) When fabricating by welding the minimum joint requirements shall be as specified under the column headed "minimum joint requirements" in table 54.01-5(b) for various classes of pressure vessels.

(f) Joints in Class II or III pressure vessel cargo tanks must meet the following:

(1) Category A and B joints must be type (1) or (2).

(2) Category C and D joints must have full penetration welds extending through the entire thickness of the vessel wall or nozzle wall.
