
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 54 - PRESSURE VESSELS
##### Subpart 54.25 - Construction With Carbon, Alloy, and Heat Treated Steels
###### § 54.25-10 Low temperature operation - ferritic steels (replaces UCS-65 through UCS-67).
####### Specifications.

(b)Materials used in the construction of vessels to operate below 0 &#xB0;F. (but not below the designated minimum service temperature) shall conform to a specification given in table UCS-23 in section VIII of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code (incorporated by reference; see 46 CFR 54.01-1) and the following additional requirements:

(1)(i) For minimum service temperatures not lower than -67 &#xB0;F., ferritic steels shall be made with fine grain practice and shall have an austenitic grain size of 5 or finer, and shall be normalized. Consideration will be given to other heat treatments. Refer to § 57.03-1(d) of this subchapter. Plate for pressure vessel applications shall conform to the requirements of ASTM A 20 (incorporated by reference, see § 54.01-1). It may be produced by the open hearth, basic oxygen or electric furnace process and shall conform to the requirements of table 54.25-10(b)(1). (Other alloying elements may only be present in trace amounts.)

(ii) Mechanical properties shall be within the following limits:

(2) For minimum service temperature below -67 &#xB0;F., but not below the designated minimum service temperature, ferritic steels shall be normalized, low carbon, fully killed, fine grain, nickel alloy type, conforming to any one of the specifications in table 54.25-10(b)(2). Consideration will be given to other heat treatments. Refer to § 57.03-1(d) of this subchapter for quenched and tempered steels. The ultimate and yield strengths shall be as shown in the applicable specification and shall be suitable to the design stress levels adopted. The service temperature shall not be colder than the minimum specified in table 54.25-10(b)(2) for each steel.

(3) The materials permitted under paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section shall be tested for toughness in accordance with and shall satisfy the applicable requirements of subpart 54.05.

(4) Welded pressure vessels or nonpressure vessel type tanks and associated secondary barriers, as defined in § 38.05-4 of subchapter D (Tank Vessels) of this chapter shall meet the toughness requirements of subparts 57.03 and 57.06 of this subchapter with regard to weld procedure qualifications and production testing.

(5) The material manufacturer's identification marking required by the material specification shall not be die-stamped on plate material less than one-fourth inch in thickness.
