
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 54 - PRESSURE VESSELS
##### Subpart 54.25 - Construction With Carbon, Alloy, and Heat Treated Steels
###### ยง 54.25-10 Low temperature operation - ferritic steels (replaces UCS-65 through UCS-67).
####### Design.

(c)Pressure vessels must meet the requirements for Class I-L and II-L construction. (See table 54.01-5(b) for applicable requirements). Except as permitted by ยง 54.05-30, the allowable stress values used in the design of low temperature pressure vessels may not exceed those given in table UCS-23 of section VIII of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code for temperatures of 0 &#xB0;F. to 650 &#xB0;F. For materials not listed in this table allowable stress values are determined in accordance with appendix P of section VIII of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code.

(d) Weldments and all materials used in pressure vessel type cargo tanks operating at ambient temperatures and constructed of materials listed in table UCS-23 must pass Charpy impact tests in accordance with UG-84 at a temperature of -20 &#xB0;F or colder, except as provided by paragraphs (d)(1), (d)(2), and (d)(3) of this section.

(1) Charpy impact tests are not required for any of the following ASTM materials if the thickness for each isinch or less, unless otherwise indicated:

(i) A-182, normalized and tempered.

(ii) A-302, Grades C and D.

(iii) A-336, Grades F21 and F22 that are normalized and tempered.

(iv) A-387, Grades 21 and 22 that are normalized and tempered.

(v) A-516, Grades 55 and 60.

(vi) A-533, Grades B and C.

(vii) All other plates, structural shapes and bars, and other product forms, except for bolting, if produced to a fine grain practice and normalized.

(2) Charpy impact tests are not required for any of the following ASTM materials if the thickness for each is 1inch or less:

(i) A-203.

(ii) A-508, Class 1.

(iii) A-516, normalized.

(iv) A-524.

(v) A-537.

(vi) A-612, normalized.

(vii) A-662, normalized.

(viii) A-724, normalized.

(3) Charpy impact tests are not required for any of the following bolt materials:

(i) A-193, Grades B5, B7, B7M, and B16.

(ii) A-307, Grade B

(iii) A-325, Type 1.

(iv) A-449.
