
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 56 - PIPING SYSTEMS AND APPURTENANCES
##### Subpart 56.15 - Fittings
###### § 56.15-5 Fluid-conditioner fittings.

(a) Fluid conditioner fittings certified in accordance with subpart 50.25 of this subchapter are acceptable for use in piping systems.

(b) Fluid conditioner fittings, not containing hazardous materials as defined in § 150.115 of this chapter, which are made in accordance with the applicable standards listed in table 56.60-1(b) of this part and of materials complying with subpart 56.60 of this part, may be used within the material, size, pressure, and temperature limitations of those standards and within any further limitations specified in this subchapter.

(c) The following requirements apply to nonstandard fluid conditioner fittings which do not contain hazardous materials as defined in § 150.115 of this chapter:

(1) The following nonstandard fluid conditioner fittings must meet the applicable requirements in § 54.01-5 (c)(3), (c)(4), and (d) of this chapter or the remaining provisions in part 54 of this chapter, except that Coast Guard shop inspection is not required:

(i) Nonstandard fluid conditioner fittings that have a net internal volume greater than 0.04 cubic meters (1.5 cubic feet) and that are rated for temperatures and pressures exceeding those specified as minimums for Class I piping systems.

(ii) Nonstandard fluid-conditioner fittings that have an internal diameter exceeding 15 centimeters (6 inches) and that are rated for temperatures and pressures exceeding those specified as minimums for Class I piping systems.

(2) All other nonstandard fluid conditioner fittings must meet the following:

(i) All pressure-containing materials must be accepted in accordance with § 56.60-1 of this part.

(ii) Nonstandard fluid conditioner fittings must be designed so that the maximum allowable working pressure does not exceed one-fourth of the burst pressure or produce a primary stress greater than one-fourth of the ultimate tensile strength of the material for Class II systems and for all Class I, I-L, and II-L systems receiving ship motion dynamic analysis and nondestructive examination. For Class I, I-L, or II-L systems not receiving ship motion dynamic analysis and nondestructive examination under § 56.07-10(c) of this part, the maximum allowable working pressure must not exceed one-fifth of the burst pressure or produce a primary stress greater than one-fifth of the ultimate tensile strength of the material. The maximum allowable working pressure may be determined by-

(A) Calculations comparable to those of ASME B31.1 (incorporated by reference; see 46 CFR 56.01-2) or section VIII of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code (incorporated by reference; see 46 CFR 56.01-2);

(B) Subjecting a representative model to a proof test or experimental stress analysis described in paragraph A-22 of section I of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code (incorporated by reference, see 46 CFR 56.01-2); or

(C) Other means specifically accepted by the Marine Safety Center.

(iii) Nonstandard fluid conditioner fittings must be tested in accordance with § 56.97-5 of this part.

(iv) If welded, nonstandard fluid conditioner fittings must be welded in accordance with subpart 56.70 of this part and part 57 of this chapter or by other processes specifically approved by the Marine Safety Center.

(d) All fluid conditioner fittings that contain hazardous materials as defined in § 150.115 of this chapter must meet the applicable requirements of part 54 of this chapter, except subpart 54.10.

(e) Heat exchangers having headers and tubes and brazed boiler steam air heaters are not considered fluid conditioner fittings and must meet the requirements in part 54 of this chapter regardless of size. For brazed boiler steam air heaters, see also § 56.30-30(b)(1) of this part.
