
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - Procedures Applicable to the Public
#### PART 5 - MARINE INVESTIGATION REGULATIONS - PERSONNEL ACTION
##### Subpart J - Appeals
###### ยง 5.707 Stay of effect of decision and order of Administrative Law Judge on appeal to the Commandant; temporary credential or endorsement.

(a) A person who has appealed from a decision suspending outright or revoking a credential or endorsement, except for revocation resulting from an offense enumerated in ยง 5.59, may file a written request for a temporary credential or endorsement. This request must be submitted to the Administrative Law Judge who presided over the case, or to any Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection for forwarding to the Administrative Law Judge.

(b) Action on the request is taken by the ALJ unless the hearing transcript has been forwarded to the Commandant, in which case, the Commandant will make the final action.

(c) A determination as to the request will take into consideration whether the service of the individual is compatible with the requirements for safety at sea and consistent with applicable laws. If one of the offenses enumerated in ยง 5.61(a) has been found proved, the continued service of the appellant will be presumed not compatible with safety at sea, subject to rebuttal by the appellant. A temporary credential or endorsement may be denied for that reason alone.

(d) All temporary credentials or endorsements will provide that they expire not more than six months after issuance or upon service of the Commandant's decision on appeal, whichever occurs first. If a temporary credential or endorsement expires before the Commandant's decision is rendered, it may be renewed, if authorized by the Commandant.

(e) If the request for a temporary credential or endorsement is denied by the Administrative Law Judge, the individual may appeal the denial, in writing, to the Commandant within 30 days after notification of such denial. Any decision by the Commandant to deny is the final agency action.

(f) Copies of the temporary credential issued become a part of the record on appeal.
