
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 56 - PIPING SYSTEMS AND APPURTENANCES
##### Subpart 56.30 - Selection and Limitations of Piping Joints
###### ยง 56.30-10 Flanged joints (modifies 104.5.1(a)).
####### Figure 56.30-10 (b), Method 7.

(7)Lap joint flanges (Van Stone) may be used for Class I and Class II piping. The Van Stone equipment must be operated by competent personnel. The ends of the pipe must be heated from 1,650&#xB0; to 1,900 &#xB0;F. dependent on the size of the pipe prior to the flanging operation. The foregoing temperatures must be carefully adhered to in order to prevent excess scaling of the pipe. The extra thickness of metal built up in the end of the pipe during the forming operation must be machined to restore the pipe to its original diameter. The machined surface must be free from surface defects and the back of the Van Stone lap must be machined to a fine tool finish to furnish a line contact with the mating surface on the flange for the full circumference as close as possible to the fillet of the flange. The number of heats to be used in forming a flange must be determined by the size of the pipe and not more than two pushups per heat are permitted. The width of the lap flange must be at least three times the thickness of the pipe wall and the end of the pipe must be properly stress relieved after the flanging operation is completed. Manufacturers desiring to produce this type of joint must demonstrate to a marine inspector that they have the proper equipment and personnel to produce an acceptable joint.
