
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 56 - PIPING SYSTEMS AND APPURTENANCES
##### Subpart 56.50 - Design Requirements Pertaining to Specific Systems
###### ยง 56.50-15 Steam and exhaust piping.

(a) The design pressures of the steam piping connected to the boiler drum or to the superheater inlet header shall not be less than the lowest pressure setting of any drum safety valve. The value of allowable stress for the material shall not exceed that corresponding to the saturated steam temperature at drum pressure and shall be selected as described in ยง 56.07-10(e).

(b) Main superheater outlet piping systems, desuperheated piping systems, and other auxiliary superheated piping systems led directly from the boiler superheater shall be designed for a pressure not less than the pressure at which the superheater safety valve is set. In the case of a superheated safety valve which is drum pilot actuated, the design pressure of such piping systems shall not be less than the pressure setting of the actuator valve on the drum. Where it can be shown that the limitations set forth in 102.2.4 of ASME B31.1 (incorporated by reference; see 46 CFR 56.01-2) will not be exceeded, the design pressure of such piping systems may be reduced but shall not be less than the pressure setting of the actuator valve on the drum less the pressure drop through the superheater, including associated piping and a control desuperheater if fitted, at the normal rated operating condition. In both cases, the value of allowable stress shall be selected using a temperature not less than that of the steam at the superheater outlet at the normal rated operating conditions in accordance with ยง 56.07-10(e). Valves and fittings shall be selected for the above temperature and pressure from the accepted standards in 46 CFR 56.60-1, Table 56.60-1(b), using the pressure-temperature rating in the standard.

(c) Steam stop valves in sizes exceeding 6 inches shall be fitted with bypasses for heating the line and equalizing the pressure before the valve is opened.

(d) In multiple boiler installations each boiler's main, auxiliary and desuperheated steam lines shall be fitted with two valves, one a stop valve and one a stop check valve.

(e) Main and auxiliary steam stop valves must be readily accessible, operable by one person and arranged to seat against boiler pressure.

(f) The auxiliary steam piping of each vessel equipped with more than one boiler must be so arranged that steam for the whistle and other vital auxiliary systems, such as the electrical-generation plant, may be supplied from any power boiler.

(g) Steam and exhaust pipes shall not be led through coal bunkers or dry cargo spaces unless approved by the Commandant.

(h)(1) Steam piping, with the exception of the steam heating system, must not be led through passageways, accommodation spaces, or public spaces unless the arrangement is specifically approved by the Marine Safety Center.

(2) Steam pressure in steam heating systems must not exceed 150 pounds per square inch gage, except that steam pressure for accommodation and public space heating must not exceed 45 pounds per square inch gage.

(3) Steam lines and registers in non-accommodation and non-public spaces must be suitably located and/or shielded to minimize hazards to any personnel within the space. Where hazards in a space cannot be sufficiently minimized, the pressure in the steam line to that space must be reduced to a maximum of 45 pounds per square inch gage.

(4) High temperature hot water for heating systems may not exceed 375 &#xB0;F.

(i) Where positive shutoff valves are fitted in the exhaust lines of machinery, and the exhaust side, including engine steam cylinders and chests, turbine casings, exhaust piping and shutoff valves, is not designed for the full inlet pressure, the exhaust side must be protected from over pressure by one of the following means:

(1) A full flow relief valve in the exhaust side so set and of sufficient capacity to prevent the exhaust side from being accidentally or otherwise subjected to a pressure in excess of its maximum allowable pressure.

(2) A sentinel relief valve or other warning device fitted on the exhaust side together with a back pressure trip device which will close the inlet valve prior to the exhaust side pressure exceeding the maximum allowable pressure. A device that will throttle the inlet valve, so that the exhaust side does not exceed the maximum allowable pressure, may be substituted for the back pressure trip.

(j) Shore steam connections shall be fitted with a relief valve set at a pressure not exceeding the design pressure of the piping.

(k) Means must be provided for draining every steam pipe in which dangerous water hammer might otherwise occur.
