
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 56 - PIPING SYSTEMS AND APPURTENANCES
##### Subpart 56.50 - Design Requirements Pertaining to Specific Systems
###### ยง 56.50-30 Boiler feed piping.
####### General requirements.

(a)(1) Steam vessels, and motor vessels fitted with steam driven electrical generators shall have at least two separate means of supplying feed water for the boilers. All feed pumps shall be fitted with the necessary connections for this purpose. The arrangement of feed pumps shall be in accordance with paragraph (d) or (e) of this section.

(2) Feed pump supply to power boilers may utilize the group feed system or the unit feed system.

(3) Feed discharge piping from the pump up to, but not including the required stop and stop-check valves, shall be designed for either the feed pump relief valve setting or the shutoff head of the pump if a relief valve is not fitted. (Refer to ยง 56.07-10(b) for specific requirements.) Feed piping from the boiler, to and including the required stop and stop-check valves (see paragraph (b) of this section), shall have a design pressure which exceeds the maximum allowable working pressure of the boiler by either 25 percent or 225 pounds per square inch whichever is less. The value of allowable stress for design purposes shall be selected as described in ยง 56.07-10(e) at a temperature not below that for saturated steam at the maximum allowable working pressure of the boiler.

(4) Feed pumps for water tube boilers shall have fresh water connections only. Care shall be taken to prevent the accidental contamination of feed water from salt water or oil systems.
