
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 56 - PIPING SYSTEMS AND APPURTENANCES
##### Subpart 56.50 - Design Requirements Pertaining to Specific Systems
###### ยง 56.50-30 Boiler feed piping.
####### Feed valves.

(b)(1) Stop and stop-check valves must be fitted in the main feed line and must be attached as closely as possible to drum inlets or to the economizer inlet on boilers fitted with integral economizers.

(2) Where the installation will not permit the feed stop valve to be attached directly to the drum inlet nozzle on boilers not fitted with economizers, a distance piece may be installed between the stop valve and the inlet nozzle.

(3) Feed stop or stop-check valves may be located near the operating platform on boilers fitted with economizers provided the piping between the valves and the economizer, exclusive of the feed valves and the economizer inlet nozzles, is installed with a minimum of intervening flanged connections.

(4) Auxiliary feed lines shall be fitted with stop valves and stop-check valves. Boilers not having auxiliary feed water nozzles, or where independent auxiliary feed lines are not installed, shall have the auxiliary feed line to the drum or economizer connected to the main feed line as close as possible to the main feed stop valves; and the valves in the auxiliary feed line shall be fitted as close as possible to the junction point.

(5) Boilers fitted with economizers shall have a check valve fitted in the economizer discharge and located as close as possible to the drum fed inlet nozzle. When economizer bypasses are fitted, a stop-check valve shall be installed in lieu of the aforementioned check valve.

(6) A sentinel valve is not required for vessels constructed after September 30, 1997, and for other vessels to which it has been shown to the satisfaction of the cognizant Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection or the Coast Guard Marine Safety Center, that a sentinel valve is not necessary for the safe operation of the particular boiler.
