
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 56 - PIPING SYSTEMS AND APPURTENANCES
##### Subpart 56.50 - Design Requirements Pertaining to Specific Systems
###### ยง 56.50-30 Boiler feed piping.
####### Group feed system.

(d)Group feed systems shall be provided with pumps and piping as follows:

(1) Oceangoing and Great Lakes steam vessels, having a feed pump attached to the main propelling unit, shall be provided with at least one independently driven feed pump. Each of these pumps shall be used exclusively for feed purposes and shall be capable of supplying the operating boilers at their normal capacity. In addition, a second independently driven pump, capable of supplying such boilers at 75 percent of their normal capacity, shall be provided for emergency use. This second pump may be used for other purposes.

(2) If two independently driven pumps are provided, each capable of supplying the boilers at their normal required operating capacity, and neither of which is used for other purposes, the third or emergency feed pump is not required. Where more than two independently driven feed pumps are provided, their aggregate capacity shall not be less than 200 percent of that demanded by the boilers at their required normal operating capacity.

(3) River or harbor steam vessels shall have at least two means for feeding the boilers; one of which shall be an independently driven pump, the other may be an attached pump, an additional independently driven pump, or an injector.
