
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 56 - PIPING SYSTEMS AND APPURTENANCES
##### Subpart 56.50 - Design Requirements Pertaining to Specific Systems
###### ยง 56.50-40 Blowoff piping (replaces 122.1.4).

(a)(1) The owner or operator of a vessel must follow the requirements for blowoff piping in this section instead of the requirements in 122.1.4 of ASME B31.1 (incorporated by reference; see 46 CFR 56.01-2).

(2) Where blowoff valves are connected to a common discharge from two or more boilers, a nonreturn valve shall be provided in the line from each boiler to prevent accidental blowback in the event the boiler blowoff valve is left open.

(b) Blowoff piping external to the boiler shall be designed for not less than 125 percent of the maximum allowable working pressure of the boiler, or the maximum allowable working pressure of the boiler plus 225 pounds per square inch, whichever is less. When the required blowoff piping design pressure exceeds 100 pounds per square inch gage, the wall thickness of the piping shall not be less than Schedule 80. The value of allowable stress for design purposes shall be selected as described in ยง 56.07-10(e) at a temperature not below that of saturated steam at the maximum allowable working pressure of the boiler.

(c) Boiler blowoff piping which discharges above the lightest loadline of a vessel shall be arranged so that the discharge is deflected downward.

(d) Valves such as the globe type so designed as to form pockets in which sediment may collect shall not be used for blowoff service.
