
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 56 - PIPING SYSTEMS AND APPURTENANCES
##### Subpart 56.50 - Design Requirements Pertaining to Specific Systems
###### ยง 56.50-80 Lubricating-oil systems.

(a) The lubricating oil system shall be designed to function satisfactorily when the vessel has a permanent 15&#xB0; list and a permanent 5&#xB0; trim.

(b) When pressure or gravity-forced lubrication is employed for the steam driven main propelling machinery, an independent auxiliary lubricating pump shall be provided.

(c) Oil coolers on steam driven machinery shall be provided with two separate means of circulating water through the coolers.

(d) For internal combustion engine installations, the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section shall be met, but they do not apply to vessels in river and harbor service, nor to any vessel below 300 gross tons. Where the size and design of an engine is such that lubrication before starting is not necessary and an attached pump is normally used, the independent auxiliary pump is not required if a duplicate of the attached pump is carried as spare. In meeting the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section in the case of internal combustion engines, two separate means are to be provided for circulating coolant on those engines on which oil coolers are fitted. One of those means must be independently driven and may consist of a connection from a pump of adequate size normally used for other purposes utilizing the required coolant. Where the design of an engine will not readily accommodate an independent pump connection, the independent auxiliary pump will not be required if a duplicate of the attached pump is carried as a spare. Oil filters shall be provided on all internal combustion engine installations. On main propulsion engines which are fitted with full-flow type filters, the arrangement shall be such that the filters may be cleaned without interrupting the oil supply except that such an arrangement is not required on vessels having more than a single main propulsion engine.

(e) The lubricating oil piping shall be independent of other piping systems and shall be provided with necessary coolers, heaters, filters, etc., for proper operation. Oil heaters shall be fitted with bypasses.

(f) Diesel engine lubrication systems shall be so arranged that vapors from the sump tank may not be discharged back into the engine crank case of engines of the dry sump type.

(g) Steam turbine driven propulsion and auxiliary generating machinery depending on forced lubrication shall be arranged to shut down automatically upon failure of the lubricating system.

(h) Sight-flow glasses may be used in lubricating-oil systems provided it has been demonstrated, to the satisfaction of the Commanding Officer, Marine Safety Center, that they can withstand exposure to a flame at a temperature of 927 &#xB0;C (1700 &#xB0;F) for one hour, without failure or appreciable leakage.

(i) Steam driven propulsion machinery must be provided with an emergency supply of lubricating oil that must operate automatically upon failure of the lubricating oil system. The emergency oil supply must be adequate to provide lubrication until the equipment comes to rest during automatic shutdown.
