
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 56 - PIPING SYSTEMS AND APPURTENANCES
##### Subpart 56.50 - Design Requirements Pertaining to Specific Systems
###### ยง 56.50-105 Low-temperature piping.
####### Materials.

(1)All materials used in low temperature piping systems shall be selected from among those specifications listed in Table 56.50-105 and shall satisfy all of the requirements of the specifications, except that:

(i) The minimum service temperature as defined in ยง 54.25-10(a)(2) of this subchapter shall not be colder than that shown in Table 56.50-105; and

(ii) The material shall be tested for low temperature toughness using the Charpy V-notch specimen of ASTM E 23 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 56.01-2), "Notched Bar Impact Testing of Metallic Materials", Type A, Figure 4. The toughness testing requirements of subpart 54.05 of this subchapter shall be satisfied for each particular product form. Charpy V-notch tests shall be conducted at temperatures not warmer than 10 &#xB0;F. below the minimum service temperature of the design, except that for service temperatures of -320 &#xB0;F. and below, the impact test may be conducted at the service temperature. The minimum average energy shall not be less than that shown in Table 56.50-105. In the case of steels conforming to the specifications of Table 54.25-20(a) of this subchapter the minimum lateral expansion shall not be less than that required in ยง 54.25-20 of this subchapter. The minimum energy permitted for a single specimen and the minimum subsize energies shall be those obtained by multiplying the average energy shown in Table 56.50-105 by the applicable fraction shown in Table 56.50-105(a).

(iii) Steels equivalent to those listed in Table 56.50-105 of this part, but not produced according to a particular ASTM specification, may be used only with the prior consent of the Marine Safety Center. Steels differing in chemical composition, mechanical properties or heat treatments from those specified may be specially approved by the Marine Safety Center. Similarly, aluminum alloys and other nonferrous materials not covered in Table 56.50-105 of this part may be specifically approved by the Marine Safety Center for service at any low temperature. There are restrictions on the use of certain materials in this part and in subchapter O of this chapter.
