
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 56 - PIPING SYSTEMS AND APPURTENANCES
##### Subpart 56.50 - Design Requirements Pertaining to Specific Systems
###### ยง 56.50-105 Low-temperature piping.
####### Class II-L.

(b)Piping systems designed to operate at temperatures below 0 &#xB0;F. and pressures not higher than 150 pounds per square inch gage shall be of Class II-L. Exceptions to this rule may be found in the individual requirements for specific commodities in subchapter D (Tank Vessels) and I (Cargo and Miscellaneous Vessels) of this chapter. The following requirements for Class II-L piping systems shall be satisfied:

(1) Materials must be the same as those required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section except that pipe and tubing of appropriate grades welded without the addition of a filler metal may be used. The Commandant may give special consideration to tubular products welded with the addition of filler metal.

(2) Piping weldments shall be fabricated to satisfy the requirements of ยง 57.03-1(b) of this subchapter in addition to subpart 56.70. Toughness testing of production weldments for low temperature piping systems and assemblies is not required.

(3) All piping weldments shall be postweld heat treated for stress relief in accordance with the procedures of subpart 56.85. The only exceptions to this requirement are for materials which do not require postweld heat treatment as shown in Table 56.85-10 and for socket weld joints and slip-on flange weld attachments where the weld thickness does not exceed that exempted by this table. Otherwise, relief from post-weld heat treatment shall not be dependent upon pipe thickness or weld joint type.

(4) Socket welds in nominal sizes above 3 inches, slip-on flanges in nominal sizes above 4 inches, and threaded joints in sizes above 1 inch shall not be used.

(5) Pressure testing must comply with subpart 56.97, and nondestructive testing of welded joints must comply with ยง 56.95-10.

(6) All other requirements contained in this part for Class II piping shall be applicable to Class II-L systems, except that ยง 56.70-15(b)(3)(iv) shall not apply.
