
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 56 - PIPING SYSTEMS AND APPURTENANCES
##### Subpart 56.60 - Materials
###### ยง 56.60-25 Nonmetallic materials.
####### Nonmetallic flexible hose.

(b)(1) Nonmetallic flexible hose must be in accordance with SAE J1942 (incorporated by reference; see 46 CFR 56.01-2) and may be installed only in vital and nonvital fresh and salt water systems, nonvital pneumatic systems, lube oil and fuel systems, and fluid power systems.

(2) Nonmetallic flexible hose may be used in vital fresh and salt water systems at a maximum service pressure of 1,034 kPa (150 psi). Nonmetallic flexible hose may be used in lengths not exceeding 76 cm (30 inches) where flexibility is required, subject to the limits in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section. Nonmetallic flexible hose may be used for plastic pipe in duplicate installations in accordance with this paragraph (b).

(3) Nonmetallic flexible hose may be used for plastic pipe in non-vital fresh and salt water systems and non-vital pneumatic systems, subject to the limits of paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section. Unreinforced hoses are limited to a maximum service pressure of 345 kPa (50 psi); reinforced hoses are limited to a maximum service pressure of 1,034 kPa (150 psi).

(4) Nonmetallic flexible hose may be used in lube oil, fuel oil and fluid power systems only where flexibility is required and in lengths not exceeding 30 inches.

(5) Nonmetallic flexible hose must have factory-assembled end fittings requiring no further adjustment or field attachable fittings. Hose end fittings must comply with SAE J1475 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 56.01-2). Field attachable fittings must be installed following the manufacturer's recommended practice. If special equipment is required, such as crimping machines, it must be of the type and design specified by the manufacturer. A hydrostatic test of each hose assembly must be conducted in accordance with ยง 56.97-5.

(6) The fire-test procedures of ISO 15540 (incorporated by reference; see 46 CFR 56.01-2) are an acceptable alternative to those procedures of SAE J1942. All other tests of SAE J1942 are still required.

(c) Plastic valves, fittings, and flanges may be used in systems employing plastic pipe. Such valves, fittings, and flanges must be designed, fabricated, tested, and installed so as to satisfy the intent of the requirements for plastic pipe contained in this section.

(d) If it is desired to use nonmetallic materials other than those specified in this section, a request furnishing the chemical and physical properties of the material must be submitted to the Commandant for consideration.
