
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 56 - PIPING SYSTEMS AND APPURTENANCES
##### Subpart 56.65 - Fabrication, Assembly and Erection
###### § 56.70-15 Procedure.
####### Girth butt welds.

(b)(1) Girth butt welds must be complete penetration welds and may be made with a single vee, double vee, or other suitable type of groove, with or without backing rings or consumable inserts.

(2) Girth butt welds in Class I, I-L, and II-L piping systems shall be double welded butt joints or equivalent single welded butt joints for pipe diameters exceeding three-fourth inch nominal pipe size. The use of a single welded butt joint employing a backing ring (note restrictions in paragraph (b)(3)(iv) of this section) on the inside of the pipe is an acceptable equivalent for Class I and Class II-L applications, but not permitted for Class I-L applications. Single welded butt joints employing either an inert gas for first pass backup or a consumable insert ring may be considered the equivalent of a double welded butt joint for all classes of piping and is preferable for Class I-L and II-L systems where double butt welds cannot be used. Appropriate welding procedure qualification tests shall be conducted as specified in part 57 of this subchapter. A first pass inert gas backup is intended to mean that the inside of the pipe is purged with inert gas and that the root is welded with the inert gas metal arc (mig) or inert gas tungsten arc (tig) processes. Classes I, I-L, and II-L piping are required to have the inside of the pipe machined for good fit up if the misalignment exceeds that specified in § 56.70-10(a)(3). In the case of Class II piping the machining of the inside of the pipe may be omitted. For single welded joints, where possible, the inside of the joint shall be examined visually to assure full penetration. Radiographic examination of at least 20 percent of single welded joints to check for penetration is required for all Class I and Class I-L systems regardless of size following the requirements of § 56.95-10. Ultrasonic testing may be utilized in lieu of radiographic examination if the procedures are approved.

(3) For Class II piping, the type of joints shall be similar to Class I piping, with the following exceptions:

(i) Single-welded butt joints may be employed without the use of backing rings in all sizes provided that the weld is chipped or ground flush on the root side of the weld.

(ii) For services such as vents, overflows, and gravity drains, the backing ring may be eliminated and the root of the weld need not be ground.

(iii) Square-groove welds without edge preparation may be employed for butt joints in vents, overflows, and gravity drains where the pipe wall thickness does not exceed three-sixteenth inch.

(iv) The crimped or forged backing ring with continuous projection around the outside of the ring is acceptable only for Class II piping. The projection must be completely fused.

(4) Tack welds which become part of the finished weld, shall be made by a qualified welder. Tack welds made by an unqualified welder shall be removed. Tack welds which are not removed shall be made with an electrode which is the same as or equivalent to the electrode to be used for the first pass. Their stopping and starting ends must be properly prepared by grinding or other suitable means so that they may be satisfactorily incorporated into the final weld. Tack welds which have cracked shall be removed.

(5) When components of different outside diameters are welded together, the weld joint must be filled to the outside surface of the component having the larger diameter. There must be a gradual transition, not exceeding a slope of 1:3, in the weld between the two surfaces. To avoid unnecessary weld deposit, the outside surface of the component having the larger diameter must be tapered at an angle not to exceed 30 degrees with the axis of the pipe. (See Fig. 127.4.2 of ASME B31.1 (incorporated by reference; see 46 CFR 56.01-2).)

(6) As-welded surfaces are permitted; however, the surface of the welds must be sufficiently free from coarse ripple, grooves, overlaps, abrupt ridges and valleys to meet the following:

(i) The surface condition of the finished welds must be suitable for the proper interpretation of radiographic and other nondestructive examinations when nondestructive examinations are required by § 56.95-10. In those cases where there is a question regarding the surface condition on the interpretation of a radiographic film, the film must be compared to the actual weld surface for interpretation and determination of acceptability.

(ii) Reinforcements are permitted in accordance with Table 56.70-15.

(iii) Undercuts must not exceed-inch and must not encroach on the minimum required section thickness.

(iv) If the surface of the weld requires grinding to meet the above criteria, care must be taken to avoid reducing the weld or base material below the minimum required thickness.

(7) The type and extent of examination required for girth butt welds is specified in § 56.95-10.

(8) Sections of welds that are shown by radiography or other examination to have any of the following type of imperfections shall be judged unacceptable and shall be repaired as provided in paragraph (f) of this section:

(i) Any type of crack or zone of incomplete fusion or penetration.

(ii) Any slag inclusion or porosity greater in extent than those specified as acceptable set forth in PW-51 of section I of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code (incorporated by reference; see 46 CFR 56.01-2).

(iii) Undercuts in the external surfaces of butt welds which are more than-inch deep.

(iv) Concavity on the root side of full penetration girth butt welds where the resulting weld thickness is less than the minimum pipe wall thickness required by this subchapter. Weld reinforcement up to a maximum of-inch thickness may be considered as pipe wall thickness in such cases.
