
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 56 - PIPING SYSTEMS AND APPURTENANCES
##### Subpart 56.65 - Fabrication, Assembly and Erection
###### ยง 56.70-15 Procedure.
####### Welded branch connections.

(g)(1) Figure 127.4.8A, Figure 127.4.8B, and Figure 127.4.8C of ASME B31.1 show typical details of branch connections with and without added reinforcement. However, no attempt has been made to show all acceptable types of construction and the fact that a certain type of construction is illustrated does not indicate that it is recommended over other types not illustrated. See also Figure 56.70-15(g) for additional pipe connections.

(2) Figure 127.4.8D of ASME B31.1 shows basic types of weld attachments used in the fabrication of branch connections. The location and minimum size of these attachment welds shall conform to the requirements of this paragraph. Weld sizes shall be calculated in accordance with 104.3.1 of ASME B31.1, but shall not be less than the sizes shown in Figure 127.4.8D and F of ASME B31.1.

(3) The notations and symbols used in this paragraph and in Figure 127.4.8D and F of ASME B31.1 are as follows:

(4) Branch connections (including specially made, integrally reinforced branch connection fittings) that abut the outside surface of the run wall, or that are inserted through an opening cut in the run wall, shall have opening and branch contour to provide a good fit and shall be attached by means of full penetration groove welds except as otherwise permitted in paragraph (g)(7) of this section. The full penetration groove welds shall be finished with cover fillet welds having a minimum throat dimension not less than 2t. The limitation as to imperfection of these groove welds shall be as set forth in 127.4.2(C) of ASME B31.1 for girth welds.

(5) In branch connections having reinforcement pads or saddles, the reinforcement shall be attached by welds at the outer edge and at the branch periphery as follows:

(i) If the weld joining the added reinforcement to the branch is a full penetration groove weld, it shall be finished with a cover fillet weld having a minimum throat dimension not less than tthe weld at the outer edge, joining the added reinforcement to the run, shall be a fillet weld with a minimum throat dimension of 0.5 t.

(ii) If the weld joining the added reinforcement to the branch is a fillet weld, the throat dimension shall not be less than 0.7 t. The weld at the outer edge joining the outer reinforcement to the run shall also be a fillet weld with a minimum throat dimension of 0.5 t.

(6) When rings or saddles are used, a vent hole shall be provided (at the side and not at the crotch) in the ring or saddle to reveal leakage in the weld between branch and main run and to provide venting during welding and heat treating operations. Rings or saddles may be made in more than one piece if the joints between the pieces have strength equivalent to ring or saddle parent metal and if each piece is provided with a vent hole. A good fit shall be provided between reinforcing rings or saddles and the parts to which they are attached.

(7) Branch connections 2 in. NPS and smaller that do not require reinforcement may be constructed as shown in Fig. 127.4.8F of ASME B31.1. This construction is limited to use in Class I and II piping systems at a maximum design temperature of 750 &#xB0;F. or a maximum pressure of 1025 psi.
