
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 58 - MAIN AND AUXILIARY MACHINERY AND RELATED SYSTEMS
##### Subpart 58.10 - Internal Combustion Engine Installations
###### ยง 58.10-5 Gasoline engine installations.
####### Carburetors.

(b)(1) Drip collectors shall be fitted under all carburetors, except the down-draft type, to prevent fuel leakage from reaching the bilges and so arranged as to permit ready removal of such fuel leakage. Drip collectors shall be covered with flame screens.

(2) All gasoline engines must be equipped with an acceptable means of backfire flame control. Installations of backfire flame arresters bearing basic Approval Nos. 162.015 or 162.041 or engine air and fuel induction systems bearing basic Approval Nos. 162.015 or 162.042 may be continued in use as long as they are serviceable and in good condition. New installations or replacements must meet the applicable requirements of this section.

(3) The following are acceptable means of backfire flame control for gasoline engines:

(i) A backfire flame arrester complying with SAE J-1928 (incorporated by reference; see 46 CFR 58.03-1) or UL 1111 (incorporated by reference; see 46 CFR 58.03-1) and marked accordingly. The flame arrester must be suitably secured to the air intake with a flametight connection.

(ii) An engine air and fuel induction system which provides adequate protection from propagation of backfire flame to the atmosphere equivalent to that provided by an acceptable backfire flame arrester. A gasoline engine utilizing an air and fuel induction system, and operated without an approved backfire flame arrester, must either include a reed valve assembly or be installed in accordance with SAE J-1928.

(iii) An arrangement of the carburetor or engine air induction system that will disperse any flames caused by engine backfire. The flames must be dispersed to the atmosphere outside the vessel in such a manner that the flames will not endanger the vessel, persons, on board, or nearby vessels and structures. Flame dispersion may be achieved by attachments to the carburetor or location of the engine air induction system. All attachments must be of metallic construction with flametight connections and firmly secured to withstand vibration, shock, and engine backfire. Such installations do not require formal approval and labeling but must comply with this subpart.
