
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - Procedures Applicable to the Public
#### PART 7 - BOUNDARY LINES
##### Atlantic Coast
###### ยง 7.35 Sandy Hook, NJ to Cape May, NJ.

(a) A line drawn from Shark River Inlet North Breakwater Light "2" to Shark River Inlet South Breakwater Light "1".

(b) A line drawn from Manasquan Inlet North Breakwater Light to Manasquan Inlet South Breakwater Light.

(c) A line drawn along the submerged Barnegat Inlet North Breakwater to Barnegat Inlet North Breakwater Light "2"; thence to Barnegat Inlet Light "5"; thence along the submerged Barnegat Inlet South Breakwater to shore.

(d) A line drawn from the seaward tangent of Long Beach Island to the seaward tangent of Pullen Island across Beach Haven and Little Egg Inlets.

(e) A line drawn from the seaward tangent of Pullen Island to the seaward tangent of Brigantine Island across Brigantine Inlet.

(f) A line drawn from the seaward extremity of Absecon Inlet North Jetty to Atlantic City Light.

(g) A line drawn from the southernmost point of Longport at latitude 39&#xB0;18.2&#x2032; N. longitude 74&#xB0;32.2&#x2032; W. to the northeasternmost point of Ocean City at latitude 39&#xB0;17.6&#x2032; N. longitude 74&#xB0;33.1&#x2032; W. across Great Egg Harbor Inlet.

(h) A line drawn parallel with the general trend of the seaward, highwater shoreline across Corson Inlet.

(i) A line formed by the centerline of the Townsend Inlet Highway Bridge.

(j) A line formed by the shoreline of Seven Mile Beach and Hereford Inlet Light.
