
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 58 - MAIN AND AUXILIARY MACHINERY AND RELATED SYSTEMS
##### Subpart 58.16 - Liquefied Petroleum Gases for Cooking and Heating
###### ยง 58.16-10 Approvals.
####### Gas appliances.

(a)(1) All gas-consuming appliances used for cooking and heating shall be of a type approved by the Commandant, and shall be tested, listed and labeled by an acceptable laboratory, such as:

(i) The American Gas Association Testing Laboratories.

(ii) The Marine Department, Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc. (formerly Yacht Safety Bureau).

(2) Continuous-burning pilot flames are prohibited for use on gas appliances when installed below the weather deck.

(3) Printed instructions for proper installation, operation, and maintenance of each gas-consuming appliance shall be furnished by the manufacturer.

(1) Cylinders in which liquefied petroleum gas is stored and handled must be constructed, tested, marked, maintained, and retested in accordance with 49 CFR part 178.

(2) All liquefied petroleum gas cylinders in service shall bear a test date marking indicating that they have been retested in accordance with the regulations of the Department of Transportation.

(3) Regardless of the date of the previous test, a cylinder shall be rejected for further service when it leaks; when it is weakened appreciably by corrosion, denting, bulging or other evidence of rough usage; when it has lost more than 5 percent of its tare weight; or when it has been involved in a fire.
