
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 58 - MAIN AND AUXILIARY MACHINERY AND RELATED SYSTEMS
##### Subpart 58.16 - Liquefied Petroleum Gases for Cooking and Heating
###### ยง 58.16-18 Installation.
####### Cylinders, regulating and safety equipment.

(a)(1) Cylinders, regulating and safety equipment shall be installed in a substantially constructed and firmly fixed metal enclosure located on or above the weather deck. The cylinder enclosure shall have access from the weather deck only. The enclosure shall be provided with top and bottom ventilation consisting of a fresh air inlet pipe and an exhaust pipe both entering through the top of the cylinder housing. The enclosure shall be constructed so that when the access opening is closed, no gas can escape except through the ventilation system.

(2) Cylinders, regulating and safety devices shall be securely fastened and supported within the metal enclosure. The cylinders and high pressure equipment shall be so mounted as to be readily accessible and capable of easy removal for refilling and inspection. The stowage of high pressure equipment in the housing shall be such that the cylinder valves can be readily operated and the pressure gage dial be easily visible. Where possible cylinders shall be mounted in an upright position.

(3) Stowage of unconnected spare cylinders, filled or empty, shall comply with the requirements for cylinders.

(4) All valves, manifolds and regulators shall be securely mounted in locations readily accessible for inspection, maintenance and testing, and shall be adequately protected.

(5) Discharge of the safety relief valves shall be vented away from the cylinder, and insofar as practicable, upward into the open atmosphere, but in all cases so as to prevent impingement of the escaping gas onto a cylinder.
