
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 58 - MAIN AND AUXILIARY MACHINERY AND RELATED SYSTEMS
##### Subpart 58.25 - Steering Gear
###### ยง 58.25-5 General.
####### Tank vessel,

as used in this subpart, means a self-propelled vessel, including a chemical tanker or a gas carrier, defined either as a tanker by 46 U.S.C. 2101(38) or as a tank vessel by 46 U.S.C. 2101(39).

(b) Unless it otherwise complies with this subpart, each self-propelled vessel must be provided with a main steering gear and an auxiliary steering gear. These gear must be arranged so that-

(1) The failure of one will not render the other inoperative; and

(2) Transfer from the main to the auxiliary can be effected quickly.

(c) Each substantial replacement of steering-gear components or reconfiguration of steering-gear arrangements on an existing vessel must comply with the requirements of this subpart for new installations to the satisfaction of the cognizant Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection.

(d) Each non-pressure-containing steering-gear component and each rudder stock must be of sound and reliable construction, meet the minimum material requirements of ยง 58.25-75, and be designed to standards at least equal to those established by the ABS Steel Vessel Rules (incorporated by reference, see 46 CFR 58.03-1).

(e) The suitability of any essential steering-gear component not duplicated must be specifically approved by the Commanding Officer, Marine Safety Center. Where a steering-gear component is shared by-

(1) A control system (e.g., a control-system transfer switch located in the steering-gear compartment);

(2) The main and auxiliary steering gear (e.g., an isolation valve); or

(3) A power actuating system and its control system (e.g., a directional control valve)-the requirements for both systems apply, to provide the safest and most reliable arrangement.

(f) Steering gear must be separate and independent of all other shipboard systems, except-

(1) Electrical switchboards from which they are powered;

(2) Automatic pilots and similar navigational equipment; and

(3) Propulsion machinery for an integrated system of propulsion and steering.

(g) Except on a vessel with an integrated system of propulsion and steering, no thruster may count as part of a vessel's required steering capability.

(h) Except for a tank vessel subject to ยง 58.25-85(e), each oceangoing vessel required to have power-operated steering gear must be provided with arrangements for steadying the rudder both in an emergency and during a shift from one steering gear to another. On hydraulic steering gear, a suitable arrangement of stop valves in the main piping is an acceptable means of steadying the rudder.

(i) General arrangement plans for the main and auxiliary steering gear and their piping must be submitted for approval in accordance with subpart 50.20 of this subchapter.
