
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 58 - MAIN AND AUXILIARY MACHINERY AND RELATED SYSTEMS
##### Subpart 58.25 - Steering Gear
###### § 58.25-25 Indicating and alarm systems.

(a) Indication of the rudder angle must be provided both at the main steering station in the pilothouse and in the steering-gear compartment. The rudder-angle indicator must be independent of control systems for steering gear.

(b) Each electric-type rudder-angle indicator must comply with § 113.40-10 of this chapter and, in accordance with § 112.15-5(h) of this chapter, draw its power from the source of emergency power.

(c) On each vessel of 1,600 gross tons or over, a steering-failure alarm must be provided in the pilothouse in accordance with §§ 113.43-3 and 113.43-5 of this chapter.

(d) An audible and a visible alarm must activate in the pilothouse upon-

(1) Failure of the electric power to the control system of any steering gear;

(2) Failure of that power to the power unit of any steering gear; or

(3) Occurrence of a low oil level in any oil reservoir of a hydraulic, power-operated steering-gear system.

(e) An audible and a visible alarm must activate in the machinery space upon-

(1) Failure of any phase of a three-phase power supply;

(2) Overload of any motor described by § 58.25-55(c); or

(3) Occurrence of a low oil level in any oil reservoir of a hydraulic, power-operated steering-gear system.

(f) Each power motor for the main and auxiliary steering gear must have a "motor running" indicator light in the pilothouse, and in the machinery space, that activates when the motor is energized.
