
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 58 - MAIN AND AUXILIARY MACHINERY AND RELATED SYSTEMS
##### Subpart 58.30 - Fluid Power and Control Systems
###### ยง 58.30-1 Scope.

(a) This subpart contains requirements for fluid power transmission and control systems and appurtenances. Except as otherwise provided for in this section, these requirements are applicable to the following fluid power and control systems:

(1) Steering apparatus, main and auxiliary, including bow thruster systems.

(2) Cargo hatch operating systems unless fitted with an alternate mechanical means of operation and approved by the Commandant as hydraulically or pneumatically fail-safe. A system is considered to be fail-safe if a component failure will result in a slow and controlled release of the loading so as not to endanger personnel.

(3) Watertight door operating system.

(4) Automatic propulsion boiler system.

(5) Starting systems for internal combustion engines used for main propulsion, main or auxiliary power, as the prime mover for any required emergency apparatus, or as the source of propulsion power in ship maneuvering thruster systems.

(6) Centralized control system of main propulsion and auxiliary machinery.

(7) Lifeboat handling equipment.

(8) Controllable pitch propeller system.

(9) Installations used to remotely control components of piping systems listed in ยง 56.01-10(c)(1) of this subchapter.

(10) All systems containing a pneumatic or hydropneumatic accumulator. In the case of hydropneumatic accumulators where it can be shown to the satisfaction of the Commandant that due to friction losses, constriction, or other design features, the hazard of explosive rupture does not exist downstream of a certain point in the hydraulic system, the requirements of this subpart will apply only to the accumulator and the system upstream of this point.

(11) Materials and/or personnel handling equipment systems, i.e. cranes, hydraulic elevators, etc., not approved by the Commandant as fail-safe as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(12) Any fluid power or control system installed in the cargo area of pump rooms on a tank vessel, or in spaces in which cargo is handled on a liquefied flammable gas carrier.

(13) All pneumatic power and control systems having a maximum allowable working pressure in excess of 150 pounds per square inch.

(14) Any other hydraulic or pneumatic system on board that, in the judgment of the Commandant, constitutes a hazard to the seaworthiness of the ship or the safety of personnel either in normal operation or in case of failure.

(b) Other fluid power and control systems do not have to comply with the detailed requirements of this subpart but must meet the requirements of ยง 58.30-50.
