
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 58 - MAIN AND AUXILIARY MACHINERY AND RELATED SYSTEMS
##### Subpart 58.30 - Fluid Power and Control Systems
###### § 58.30-15 Pipe, tubing, valves, fittings, pumps, and motors.

(a) The requirements of this section are applicable to those hydraulic and pneumatic systems listed in § 58.30-1.

(b) Materials used in the manufacture of tubing, pipes, valves, flanges, and fittings shall be selected from those specifications that appear in 46 CFR 56.60-1, Table 56.60-1(a) or 46 CFR 56.60-2, Table 56.60-2(a); or they may be selected from the material specifications of section I or section VIII of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code (both incorporated by reference; see 46 CFR 58.03-1) if not prohibited by the section of this subchapter dealing with the particular section of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code. Materials designated by other specifications shall be evaluated on the basis of physical and chemical properties. To assure these properties, the specifications shall specify and require such physical and chemical testing as considered necessary by the Commandant. All tubing and pipe materials shall be suitable for handling the hydraulic fluid used and shall be of such chemical and physical properties as to remain ductile at the lowest operating temperature.

(c) Bolting shall meet the requirements of 46 CFR 56.25-20 except that regular hexagon bolts conforming to SAE J429, grades 2 through 8 (incorporated by reference, see 46 CFR 58.03-1), or ASTM A 193 (incorporated by reference, see 46 CFR 58.03-1) may be used in sizes not exceeding 1inches.

(d) The maximum allowable working pressure and minimum thickness shall be calculated as required by § 56.07-10(e) of this subchapter when the outside diameter to wall thickness ratio is greater than 6. Where the ratio is less than 6, the wall thickness may be established on the basis of an applicable thick-wall cylinder equation acceptable to the Commandant using the allowable stress values specified in § 56.07-10(e) of this subchapter.

(e) All flared, flareless and compression type joints shall be in accordance with § 56.30-25 of this subchapter.

(f) Fluid power motors and pumps installed on vessels subject to inspection shall be certified by the manufacturer as suitable for the intended use. Such suitability shall be demonstrated by operational tests conducted aboard the vessel which shall be witnessed by a marine inspector.
