
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 58 - MAIN AND AUXILIARY MACHINERY AND RELATED SYSTEMS
##### Subpart 58.30 - Fluid Power and Control Systems
###### ยง 58.30-35 Testing.

(a) All fluid power and control systems and components thereof shall be tested as required by this section.

(b) Accumulators constructed as pressure vessels under the provisions of part 54 of this subchapter shall be tested and retested as required by parts 54 and 61 of this subchapter.

(c) Fluid power and control systems and piping assemblies shall be given an installation test as follows:

(1) Fluid power and control systems and piping assemblies and associated equipment components, including hydraulic steering gear, in lieu of being tested at the time of installation, may be shop tested by the manufacturer to 1times the maximum allowable pressure of the system. The required test pressure shall be maintained for a sufficient amount of time to check all components for strength and porosity and to permit an inspection to be made of all connections.

(2) Fluid power and control systems and associated hydraulic equipment components which have been tested in conformance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section and so certified by the manufacturer, may be tested after installation as a complete assembly by stalling the driven unit in a safe and satisfactory manner and by blowing the relief valves. Otherwise, these systems shall be hydrostatically tested in the presence of a marine inspector at a pressure of 1times the maximum allowable pressure.

(3) Fluid power and control systems incorporating hydropneumatic accumulators containing rupture discs may be tested at the maximum allowable working pressure of the system in lieu of 1times this value as prescribed in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section provided the accumulators have been previously tested in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section and welded or brazed piping joints are not employed in the system. If welded or brazed joints are employed, the system shall be tested in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section except that the accumulators may be isolated from the remainder of the system.

(d) Fluid power and control systems shall be purged with an inert gas or with the working fluid and all trapped air bled from the system prior to any shipboard testing. In no case shall air, oxygen, any flammable gas, or any flammable mixture of gases be used for testing fluid power systems.

(e) Fluid control systems, such as boiler combustion controls, containing components with internal parts, such as bellows or other sensing elements, which would be damaged by the test pressure prescribed in paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of this section may be tested at the maximum allowable working pressure of the system. In addition, all fluid control systems may be tested using the system working fluid.
