
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 58 - MAIN AND AUXILIARY MACHINERY AND RELATED SYSTEMS
##### Subpart 58.50 - Independent Fuel Tanks
###### ยง 58.50-10 Diesel fuel tanks.
####### Construction.

(a)(1) Tanks may be of either cylindrical or rectangular form.

(2) The materials used and the minimum thickness allowed in the construction of independent fuel tanks shall be as indicated in Table 1 to ยง 58.50-10(a), except that consideration will be given to other materials which provide equivalent safety as indicated in ยง 58.50-15.

(3) Tanks with flanged-up top edges, that may trap and hold moisture, shall not be used.

(4) Openings for fill and vent pipes must be on the topmost surface of a tank. There must be no openings in the bottom, sides, or ends of a tank except as follows:

(i) The opening for the fuel supply piping is not restricted to the top of the tank.

(ii) An opening fitted with threaded plug or cap may be used on the bottom of the tank for tank cleaning purposes.

(iii) Liquid level gages must penetrate at a point that is more than 2 inches from the bottom of the tank.

(5) All tank joints shall be welded.

(6) Nozzles, flanges, or other fittings for pipe connections shall be welded or brazed to the tank. The tank opening in way of pipe connections shall be properly reinforced where necessary. Where liquid level indicating devices are attached to the tank, they shall be of heat resistant materials adequately protected from mechanical damage and provided at the tank connections with devices which will automatically close in the event of rupture of the gage or gage lines.

(7) All tanks exceeding 30 inches in any horizontal dimension shall be fitted with vertical baffle plates where necessary for strength or for control of excessive surge. In general, baffle plates installed at intervals not exceeding 30 inches will be considered as meeting this requirement.

(8) Baffle plates, where required, shall be of the same material and not less than the minimum thickness required in the tank walls and shall be connected to the tank walls by welding or brazing. Limber holes at the bottom and air holes at the top of all baffle plates shall be provided.

(9) Iron or steel tanks shall not be galvanized on the interior. Galvanizing paint or other suitable coating shall be used to protect the outside of iron and steel tanks.
