
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 59 - REPAIRS TO BOILERS, PRESSURE VESSELS AND APPURTENANCES
##### Subpart 59.10 - Welding Repairs to Boilers and Pressure Vessels in Service
###### ยง 59.10-1 Scope.

(a) Repairs to boilers or pressure vessels in service may be performed by welding provided the welding meets the applicable requirements of part 57 of this subchapter.

(b) No repairs by welding shall be made except temporary emergency repairs without prior approval of the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection. Emergency repairs shall be replaced with permanent repairs meeting the requirements of this subchapter when the vessel returns to a port in which an Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, is located except in the case of minor repairs which in the opinion of the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, do not materially affect the safety of the boiler or pressure vessel.

(c) Repair welding of power boilers, not meeting the requirements of subpart 52.05 of this subchapter, is prohibited unless the stress is carried by such other type(s) of construction complying with the requirements of this subchapter, and where the adequacy of the boiler design is not solely dependent upon the strength of the welds.

(d) Only welded repairs as specified in this subchapter are permitted on boilers and pressure vessels. The welding repairs allowed by this subpart apply only to boilers and pressure vessels fabricated of carbon steel. Welding repairs to boilers and pressure vessels fabricated of alloy steel will be given special consideration by the Commandant. Such other method of repairs by means of welding not covered in this subchapter shall be referred to the Commandant and may be authorized by him, if in his opinion, it meets the intent of this subchapter.
