
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 59 - REPAIRS TO BOILERS, PRESSURE VESSELS AND APPURTENANCES
##### Subpart 59.10 - Welding Repairs to Boilers and Pressure Vessels in Service
###### ยง 59.10-5 Cracks.

(a) Cracks extending from the calking edge of plates to the rivet holes of circumferential joints may be welded provided the cracks are veed out so that complete penetration of the weld metal is secured.

(b) Circumferential cracks from rivet hole to rivet hole in girth joints may be welded provided there are not more than three consecutive cracked ligaments nor more than a total of six cracked ligaments in any one girth joint.

(c) Cracks in staybolted plates may be welded provided they are located entirely within staybolted areas and the total length of any crack or series of consecutive cracks does not exceed two staybolt pitches.

(d) Cracks in plain, circular or Adamson ring or similar type furnaces may be welded provided any one crack does not exceed 12 inches in length and after completion the weld is stress-relieved. Cracks in corrugated furnaces may be repaired by welding provided any one crack does not exceed 20 inches in length.

(e) Fire cracks may be welded at riveted door openings extending from the edge of the plate, but not more than 2 inches beyond the centerline of the rivet holes.

(f) Cracks may be welded between tube holes in the shell of water tube boiler drums, provided there are not more than two cracks in any one row in any direction, nor more than a total of four cracks in a drum, and further provided the welding meets the requirements of this subchapter for Class I welded pressure vessels and is approved by the Commandant.

(g) Cracks that occur in superheater manifolds, water wallheaders, water drums, sectional headers, and other appurtenances including steam manifolds of water tube boilers may be repaired in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section if the repair is approved.

(h) All cracks permitted to be repaired under this subpart shall be excavated to sound metal by grinding, flame or arc gouging or chipping out the defective metal to form a clean welding groove. The first two methods of excavation are preferable. Either a V groove or U groove wherein complete penetration of the weld metal is secured may be used. After excavation is completed and prior to welding, the excavated area shall be examined by magnetic particle, dye penetrant, or other acceptable test method. When the reverse side of the weld is accessible the root of the weld shall be chipped or ground out to insure a clean surface of the originally deposited metal and the resultant groove welded to obtain a sound weld having complete penetration. When the weld cannot be back chipped because the reverse side is inaccessible, a backing strip or other approved means of assuring full penetration shall be employed.

(i) During welding of cracks a preheat shall be maintained by controlled temperatures. The degree of preheat shall be determined by the rules listed in accordance with the materials P-number groupings of PW-38, section I, appendix R, section VIII and Table Q. 11.1, section IX of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code (all incorporated by reference; see 46 CFR 59.01-2). For thicknesses exceeding three-fourths inch, suitable U grooves should be employed. A welding sequence shall be used so as to equalize welding stresses.

(j) Postweld heat treatment of repaired cracks shall be performed in accordance with the rules specified in PW-39, section I and UW-40, section VIII of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code for boilers and pressure vessels respectively.

(k) Welded repairs of cracks shall be nondestructively tested in accordance with the rules specified in PW-40, section I, and UW-51, section VIII of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code for boilers and pressure vessels respectively.

(l) After cracks originating in tube or rivet holes are repaired by welding, the holes shall be properly reamed and the weld reinforcing ground flush with the plate in way of rivet heads.

(m) Flat tube sheets in fire-tube boilers which have corroded or where cracks exist in the ligaments may be repaired by welding.

(n) Welding repairs to drums of power boilers, except as otherwise permitted in this subpart, are prohibited.
