
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 61 - PERIODIC TESTS AND INSPECTIONS
##### Subpart 61.05 - Tests and Inspections of Boilers
###### ยง 61.05-15 Boiler mountings and attachments.

(a) Each valve shall be opened and examined by the marine inspector at the interval specified in Table 61.05-10.

(b) Each stud or bolt for each boiler mounting that paragraph (c) of this section requires to be removed may be examined by the marine inspector.

(c)(1) Each boiler mounting may be removed from the boiler and be examined by the marine inspector at the interval specified by Table 61.05-10 when any of the following conditions exist:

(2) Where boiler mountings or valves are attached to boiler nozzles and a satisfactory internal examination of these mountings or valves and their attaching studs, bolts, or other means of attachment, can be performed by opening up the valves, such mountings or valves need not be removed from the boiler unless in the opinion of the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, such action is necessary.

(d) The Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, may require the examinations prescribed in this section to be made at more frequent intervals, if in his opinion such action is necessary to be assured of the safety of the boiler and its attachments.

(e) Water columns, gage glasses, and gage cocks shall be examined to determine that they are in satisfactory working order.

(f) Each steam gauge for a boiler or a main steam line may be examined and checked for accuracy by the marine inspector at the interval specified by Table 61.05-10.

(g) Each fusible plug may be examined by the marine inspector at the interval specified by Table 61.05-10.
