
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - Procedures Applicable to the Public
#### PART 7 - BOUNDARY LINES
##### Atlantic Coast
###### ยง 7.95 St. Johns Point, FL to Miami Beach, FL.

(a) A line drawn from the seaward extremity of St. Augustine Inlet north jetty to latitude 29&#xB0;55&#x2032; N. longitude 81&#xB0;15.3&#x2032; W. (St. Augustine Lighted Whistle Buoy "ST. A."); thence to the seaward extremity of St. Augustine Inlet south jetty.

(b) A line formed by the centerline of the highway bridge over Matanzas Inlet.

(c) A line drawn from the seaward extremity of Ponce de Leon Inlet north jetty to latitude 29&#xB0;04.7&#x2032; N. longitude 80&#xB0;54&#x2032; W. (Ponce de Leon Inlet Lighted Bell Buoy "2"); thence to Ponce de Leon Inlet Approach Light.

(d) A line drawn from Canaveral Harbor Approach Channel Range Front Light to latitude 28&#xB0;23.7&#x2032; N. longitude 80&#xB0;32.2&#x2032; W. (Canaveral Bight Wreck Lighted Buoy "WR6"); thence to the radio tower on Canaveral Peninsula in approximate position latitude 28&#xB0;22.9&#x2032; N. longitude 80&#xB0;36.6&#x2032; W.

(e) A line drawn across the seaward extremity of the Sebastian Inlet Jetties.

(f) A line drawn from the seaward extremity of the Fort Pierce Inlet North Jetty to latitude 27&#xB0;28.5&#x2032; N. longitude 80&#xB0;16.2&#x2032; W. (Fort Pierce Inlet Lighted Whistle Buoy "2"); thence to the tank located in approximate position latitude 27&#xB0;27.2&#x2032; N. longitude 80&#xB0;17.2&#x2032; W.

(g) A line drawn from the seaward extremity of St. Lucie Inlet north jetty to latitude 27&#xB0;10&#x2032; N. longitude 80&#xB0;08.4&#x2032; W. (St. Lucie Inlet Entrance Lighted Whistle Buoy "2"); thence to Jupiter Island bearing approximately 180&#xB0; true.

(h) A line drawn from the seaward extremity of Jupiter Inlet North Jetty to the northeast extremity of the concrete apron on the south side of Jupiter Inlet.

(i) A line drawn from the seaward extremity of Lake Worth Inlet North Jetty to latitude 26&#xB0;46.4&#x2032; N. longitude 80&#xB0;01.5&#x2032; W. (Lake Worth Inlet Lighted Bell Buoy "2LW"); thence to Lake Worth Inlet Lighted Buoy "3"; thence to the seaward extremity of Lake Worth Inlet South Jetty.

(j) A line drawn across the seaward extremity of the Boynton Inlet Jetties.

(k) A line drawn from Boca Raton Inlet North Jetty Light "2" to Boca Raton Inlet South Jetty Light "1".

(l) A line drawn from Hillsboro Inlet Light to Hillsboro Inlet Entrance Light "2"; thence to Hillsboro Inlet Entrance Light "1"; thence west to the shoreline.

(m) A line drawn from the tower located in approximate position latitude 26&#xB0;06.9&#x2032; N. longitude 80&#xB0;06.4&#x2032; W. to latitude 26&#xB0;05.5&#x2032; N. longitude 80&#xB0;04.8&#x2032; W. (Port Everglades Lighted Whistle Buoy "1"); thence to the signal tower located in approximate position latitude 26&#xB0;05.5&#x2032; N. longitude 80&#xB0;06.5&#x2032; W.

(n) A line drawn from the seaward extremity of Bakers Haulover Inlet north jetty 090&#xB0; true to longitude 80&#xB0;07.2&#x2032; W.; thence to the seaward extremity of Bakers Haulover Inlet south jetty.
