
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 62 - VITAL SYSTEM AUTOMATION
##### Subpart 62.30 - Reliability and Safety Criteria, All Automated Vital Systems
###### ยง 62.30-5 Independence.

(a) Single non-concurrent failures in control, alarm, or instrumentation systems, and their logical consequences, must not prevent sustained or restored operation of any vital system or systems.

(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section, primary control, alternate control, safety control, and alarm and instrumentation systems for any vital system must be independent of each other.

(2) Independent sensors are not required except that sensors for primary speed, pitch, or direction of rotation control in closed loop propulsion control systems must be independent and physically separate from required safety control, alarm, or instrumentation sensors.

(3) The safety trip control of ยง 62.35-5(b)(2) must be independent and physically separate from all other systems.

(c) Two independent sources of power must be provided for all primary control, safety control, instrumentation and alarm systems. Failure of the normal source of power must actuate an alarm in the machinery spaces. One source must be from the emergency power source (see part 112 of this chapter, Emergency Lighting and Power Systems) unless one of the sources is-

(1) Derived from the power supply of the system being controlled or monitored;

(2) A power take-off of that system; of

(3) An independent power source equivalent to the emergency power source.
