
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Marine Engineering
#### PART 62 - VITAL SYSTEM AUTOMATION
##### Subpart 62.35 - Requirements for Specific Types of Automated Vital Systems
###### ยง 62.35-20 Oil-fired main boilers.
####### General.

(a)(1) All main boilers, regardless of intended mode of operation, must be provided with the automatic safety trip control system(s) of paragraphs (h)(1), (h)(2)(i), (h)(2) (ii), and (i) of this section to prevent unsafe conditions after light off.

(2) Manual alternate control of boilers must be located at the boiler front.

(3) A fully automatic main boiler must include-

(i) Automatic combustion control;

(ii) Programming control;

(iii) Automatic feedwater control;

(iv) Safety controls; and

(v) An alarm system.

(4) Following system line-up and starting of auxiliaries, fully automatic main boilers must only require the operator to initiate the following sequences:

(i) Boiler pre-purge.

(ii) Trial for ignition of burners subsequent to successful initial burner light-off.

(iii) Normal shutdown.

(iv) Manual safety trip control operation.

(v) Adjustment of primary control setpoints.

(5) All requirements for programming control subsystems and safety control systems must be met when a boiler-

(i) Automatically sequences burners;

(ii) Is operated from a location remote from the boiler front; or

(iii) Is fully automatic.

(6) Where light oil pilots are used, the programming control and burner safety trip controls must be provided for the light oil system. Trial for ignition must not exceed 15 seconds and the main burner trial for ignition must not proceed until the pilot flame is proven.
