
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter G - Documentation and Measurement of Vessels
#### PART 67 - DOCUMENTATION OF VESSELS
##### Subpart D - Title Requirements for Vessel Documentation
###### § 67.57 Extent of title evidence required for initial documentation.

(a) Vessels never registered under any system:

(1) Where a coastwise endorsement is sought, the only title evidence required for a vessel being documented by the owner for whom it was built is the certification of the builder (form CG-1261) described in § 67.99. Any other applicant must present title evidence in accordance with § 67.53(d).

(2) Where a fishery endorsement is sought, the only title evidence required for a vessel being documented by the owner for whom it was built is the certification of the builder (form CG-1261) described in § 67.99. Any other applicant must present title evidence in accordance with either paragraph (c) or (d) of § 67.53.

(3) Where a registry or recreational endorsement is sought, the only title evidence required for a vessel being documented by the first owner of the vessel is the certification of the builder (form CG-1261) described in § 67.99, or a Manufacturer's Certificate of Origin. Any other applicant must also present title evidence in accordance with either paragraph (c)(2) or (d)(2) of § 67.53.

(b) Vessels previously registered under the laws of a State or a foreign government:

(1) Where a coastwise endorsement is sought, title evidence must be presented in accordance with § 67.53(d).

(2) Where a fishery endorsement is sought, title evidence must be presented in accordance with paragraph (b), (c), or (d) of § 67.53.

(3) Where a registry or recreational endorsement is sought, title evidence must be presented in accordance with paragraph (a), (b), (c), or (d) of § 67.53.
