
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter G - Documentation and Measurement of Vessels
#### PART 67 - DOCUMENTATION OF VESSELS
##### Subpart H - Assignments and Designations Required for Vessel Documentation
###### ยง 67.113 Managing owner designation; address; requirement to report change of address.

The owner of each vessel must designate a managing owner on the Application for Initial Issue, Exchange, or Replacement of Certificate of Documentation; or Redocumentation (CG-1258).

(a) The managing owner of a vessel owned by one person is the owner of the vessel.

(b) The managing owner of a vessel owned by more than one person must be one of the owners. The person designated as managing owner must have an address in the United States except where no owner of the vessel has an address in the United States.

(c) The managing owner of a vessel owned in a trust arrangement must be one of the trustees.

(d) The address of the managing owner must be as follows:

(1) For an individual, any residence of the managing owner.

(2) For a partnership, its address:

(i) In the State under whose laws it is organized; or

(ii) Of its principal place of business.

(3) For a corporation, its address:

(i) For service of process within the State of incorporation; or

(ii) Of its principal place of business.

(e) Whenever the address of the managing owner changes, the managing owner shall notify the Director, National Vessel Documentation Center within 10 days.
