
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - Procedures Applicable to the Public
#### PART 8 - VESSEL INSPECTION ALTERNATIVES
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 8.120 Reciprocity.

(a) The Commandant may delegate authority to a classification society that has its headquarters in a country other than the United States only to the extent that the flag state administration of that country delegates authority and provides access to the American Bureau of Shipping to inspect, certify and provide related services to vessels flagged by that country. The Commandant will determine reciprocity on a "case-by-case" basis.

(b) In order to demonstrate that the conditions described in paragraph (a) of this section are satisfied, a classification society must provide to the Coast Guard an affidavit, from the government of the country that the classification society is headquartered in, listing the authorities delegated by the flag state administration of that country to the American Bureau of Shipping, and indicating any conditions related to the delegated authority.

(c) The Commandant will not consider an application for authorization to perform a delegated function submitted under this part until the conditions described in paragraph (a) of this section are satisfied. Where simultaneous authorization by a foreign government for ABS is involved, this requirement may be waived.

(d) The Commandant will not evaluate a classification society for recognition until the conditions described in paragraph (a) of this section are satisfied for at least one of the authorized delegations being sought. Where simultaneous recognition by a foreign government for ABS is involved, this requirement may be waived.

(e) The Commandant may make a delegation regarding load lines under 46 U.S.C. 5107 or measurement of vessels under 46 U.S.C. 14103 without regard to the conditions described in paragraph (a) of this section.
