
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - Procedures Applicable to the Public
#### PART 8 - VESSEL INSPECTION ALTERNATIVES
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 8.130 Agreement conditions.

(a) Delegated functions performed by, and statutory certificates issued by, an authorized classification society will be accepted as functions performed by, or certificates issued by, the Coast Guard, provided that the classification society maintains compliance with all provisions of its agreement with the Commandant. Any agreement between the Commandant and a recognized classification society authorizing the performance of delegated functions will be written and will require the classification society to comply with each of the following:

(1) Issue any certificates related to a delegated function in the English language.

(2) Maintain a corporate office in the United States that has adequate resources and staff to support all delegated functions and to maintain required associated records.

(3) Maintain all records in the United States related to delegated functions conducted on behalf of the Coast Guard.

(4) Make available to appropriate Coast Guard representatives vessel status information and records, including outstanding vessel deficiencies or classification society recommendations, in the English language, on all vessels for which the classification society has performed any delegated function on behalf of the Coast Guard.

(5) Report to the Commandant (CG-CVC) the names and official numbers of any vessels removed from class for which the classification society has performed any delegated function on behalf of the Coast Guard and include a description of the reason for the removal.

(6) Report to the Commandant (CG-CVC) all port state detentions on all vessels for which the classification society has performed any delegated function on behalf of the Coast Guard when aware of such detention.

(7) Annually provide the Commandant (CG-CVC) with its register of classed vessels.

(8) Ensure vessels meet all requirements for class of the accepting classification society prior to accepting vessels transferred from another classification society.

(9) Suspend class for vessels that are overdue for special renewal or annual survey.

(10) Attend any vessel for which the classification society has performed any delegated function on behalf of the Coast Guard at the request of the appropriate Coast Guard officials, without regard to the vessel's location-unless prohibited to do so under the laws of the United States, the laws of the jurisdiction in which the vessel is located, the classification society's home country domestic law, or where the classification society considers an unacceptable hazard to life and/or property exists.

(11) Honor appeal decisions made by the Commandant (CG-ENG) or Commandant (CG-CVC) on issues related to delegated functions.

(12) Apply U.S. flag administration interpretations, when they exist, to international conventions for which the classification society has been delegated authority to certificate or perform other functions on behalf of the Coast Guard.

(13) Obtain approval from the Commandant (CG-CVC) prior to granting exemptions from the requirements of international conventions, class rules, and the U.S. supplement to class rules.

(14) Make available to the Coast Guard all records, in the English language, related to equivalency determinations or approvals made in the course of delegated functions conducted on behalf of the Coast Guard.

(15) Report to the Coast Guard all information specified in the agreement at the specified frequency and to the specified Coast Guard office or official.

(16) Grant the Coast Guard access to all plans and documents, including reports on surveys, on the basis of which certificates are issued or endorsed by the classification society.

(17) Identify a liaison representative to the Coast Guard.

(18) Provide regulations, rules, instructions and report forms in the English language.

(19) Allow the Commandant (CG-DCO-D) to participate in the development of class rules.

(20) Inform the Commandant (CG-5PS) of all proposed changes to class rules.

(21) Provide the Commandant (CG-DCO-D) the opportunity to comment on any proposed changes to class rules and to respond to the classification society's disposition of the comments made by the Coast Guard.

(22) Furnish information and required access to the Coast Guard to conduct oversight of the classification society's activities related to delegated functions conducted on behalf of the Coast Guard.

(23) Allow the Coast Guard to accompany them on internal and external quality audits and provide written results of such audits to appropriate Coast Guard representatives.

(24) Provide the Coast Guard access necessary to audit the authorized classification society to ensure that it continues to comply with the minimum standards for a recognized classification society.

(25) Use only exclusive surveyors of that classification society to accomplish all work done on behalf of, or under any delegation from, the Coast Guard. For tonnage-related measurement service only, however, classification societies may use part-time employees or independent contractors in place of exclusive surveyors.

(26) Allow its surveyors to participate in training with the Coast Guard regarding delegated functions.

(b) Amendments to an agreement between the Coast Guard and an authorized classification society will become effective only after consultation and written agreement between parties.

(c) Agreements may be terminated by one party only upon written notice to the other party. Termination will occur sixty days after written notice is given.
