
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - Procedures Applicable to the Public
#### PART 2 - VESSEL INSPECTIONS
##### Subpart 2.01 - Inspecting and Certificating of Vessels
###### ยง 2.01-7 Classes of vessels (including motorboats) examined or inspected and certificated.

(a) The regulations in this chapter concerning inspecting and certificating vessels are applicable to vessels (including motorboats) either as indicated in the following table 2.01-7(a) or, if the vessel is a towing vessel, as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.

(b)(1) A U.S.-flag towing vessel is subject to inspection and certifying regulations in subchapter M of this chapter except:

(i) A vessel less than 26 feet (7.92 meters) in length measured from end to end over the deck (excluding the sheer), unless that vessel is pushing, pulling, or hauling a barge that is carrying oil or hazardous material in bulk;

(ii) A vessel engaged in one or more of the following:

(A) Assistance towing as defined in ยง 136.110 of this chapter;

(B) Towing recreational vessels for salvage; or

(C) Transporting or assisting the navigation of recreational vessels within and between marinas and marina facilities, within a limited geographic area, as determined by the local Captain of the Port;

(iii) A workboat operating exclusively within a worksite and performing intermittent towing within the worksite;

(iv) A seagoing towing vessel of 300 gross tons or more subject to the provisions of subchapter I of this chapter;

(v) A vessel inspected under other subchapters of this chapter that may perform occasional towing;

(vi) A public vessel as defined in 46 U.S.C. 2101;

(vii) A vessel which has surrendered its Certificate of Inspection and is laid up, dismantled, or otherwise out of service; and

(viii) A propulsion unit used for the purpose of propelling or controlling the direction of a barge where the unit is controlled from the barge, is not normally manned, and is not utilized as an independent vessel.

(2) A towing vessel not subject to subchapter M of this chapter should refer to table 2.01-7 of this section.

(c) The specific application of regulations concerning inspecting and certificating vessels is set forth in the specific subchapter governing a particular class of vessels.

(1) For passenger vessels see part 70 of subchapter H (Passenger Vessels) of this chapter.

(2) For cargo and miscellaneous vessels see part 90 of subchapter I (Cargo and Miscellaneous Vessels) of this chapter.

(3) For tank vessels see part 30 of subchapter D (Tank Vessels) of this chapter.

(4) For small passenger vessels see part 114 of subchapter K (Small Passenger Vessels Carrying More Than 150 Passengers or with Overnight Accommodations for More Than 49 Passengers) and part 175 of subchapter T (Small Passenger Vessels) of this chapter.

(5) For uninspected vessels see part 24 of subchapter C (Uninspected Vessels) of this chapter.

(6) For vessels carrying certain bulk dangerous cargoes see subchapter O of this chapter.

(7) For towing vessels, see part 136 of subchapter M of this chapter.
