
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter G - Documentation and Measurement of Vessels
#### PART 68 - DOCUMENTATION OF VESSELS: EXCEPTIONS TO COASTWISE QUALIFICATION
##### Subpart B - Documentation of Certain Vessels for Oil Spill Cleanup
###### ยง 68.29 Citizenship requirements for limited coastwise endorsement.

(a) Notwithstanding the citizenship requirements set out in part 67 of this chapter, a Certificate of Documentation with a coastwise endorsement for the limited purposes provided in ยง 68.33 may be issued to a vessel owned by-

(1) A not-for-profit oil spill response cooperative if the vessel meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section; or

(2) A member or members of a not-for-profit oil spill response cooperative if the vessel meets the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.

(b) The vessel must be at least 50 percent owned by one or more of the following entities:

(1) An individual who is a native-born, naturalized or derivative citizen of the United States or otherwise qualifies as a United States citizen.

(2) A corporation incorporated under the laws of the United States or of a State where-

(i) The president and, if the president is not the chief executive officer, the chief executive officer, by whatever title, is a citizen;

(ii) The chairman of the board of directors is a citizen; and

(iii) No more of the directors are non-citizens than a minority of the number necessary to constitute a quorum.

(3) A partnership where all the general partners are citizens and at least 50 percent of the equity interest is owned by citizens.

(4) An association or joint venture where all the members are citizens.

(5) A trust where all the trustees and all the beneficiaries with an enforceable interest in the trust are citizens.

(c) The vessel must be owned by a member or members of a not-for-profit oil spill response cooperative who dedicate the vessel to the use of a not-for-profit oil spill response cooperative.

(d) A vessel which meets the criteria of this section is considered to be owned exclusively by citizens of the United States for the purposes of subsequent transfer and documentation under part 67 of this chapter.
