
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter G - Documentation and Measurement of Vessels
#### PART 68 - DOCUMENTATION OF VESSELS: EXCEPTIONS TO COASTWISE QUALIFICATION
##### Subpart B - Documentation of Certain Vessels for Oil Spill Cleanup
###### ยง 68.35 Application to document a vessel under this subpart.

(a) To qualify to document a vessel or to accept the dedication of a vessel by a member or members under this subpart, a not-for-profit oil spill response cooperative shall file with the Director, National Vessel Documentation Center the certificate under oath as set forth in appendix A to this subpart.

(b) Upon the filing of the certificate under paragraph (a) of this section, the Director, National Vessel Documentation Center will furnish the not-for-profit oil spill response cooperative with a letter of qualification. The letter of qualification is valid for a period of three years from the date of its issuance, unless there is a change in membership or structure of the not-for-profit oil spill response cooperative or a change in the citizenship status of any of its members requiring a report under ยง 68.37. In order to renew the letter of qualification, a new certificate under oath must be filed with the Commandant at least 30 days before the date of expiration of the letter of qualification.

(c) A not-for-profit oil spill response cooperative seeking to document a vessel for a limited coastwise endorsement under this subpart, in addition to complying with the requirements of ยง 68.31(a), shall supply to the National Vessel Documentation Center, a copy of the letter of qualification issued under paragraph (b) of this section.

(d) A member or members of a not-for-profit oil spill response cooperative seeking to document a vessel under this subpart shall supply to the National Vessel Documentation Center, a copy of the letter of qualification issued under paragraph (b) of this section to the not-for-profit oil spill response cooperative to which the vessel is dedicated. In addition, the not-for-profit oil spill response cooperative and the vessel owners shall all certify under oath that the vessel for which application is made is dedicated to use by the not-for-profit oil spill response cooperative. This certification must use the format and content described in appendix B to this subpart. If there is a change in the dedicated status of the vessel or its ownership, a report under ยง 68.37 must be filed.
