
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter G - Documentation and Measurement of Vessels
#### PART 68 - DOCUMENTATION OF VESSELS: EXCEPTIONS TO COASTWISE QUALIFICATION
##### Subpart C - Vessels With a Coastwise Endorsement Issued on or After August 9, 2004, That Are Demised Chartered to Coastwise Qualified Citizens
###### ยง 68.70 Application procedure for vessels other than barges to be operated in coastwise trade without being documented.
####### pro hac vice

(7) A copy of the charter, which must provide that the charterer is deemed to be the ownerfor the term of the charter.

(b) The charterer must submit the following to the National Vessel Documentation Center:

(1) A certificate certifying that the charterer is a citizen of the United States for the purpose of engaging in the coastwise trade under 46 U.S.C. app. 802.

(2) Detailed citizenship information in the format of form CG-1258, Application for Documentation, section G, citizenship. The citizenship information may be attached to the form CG-1258 that is submitted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section and must be signed by, or on behalf of, the charterer.

(c) Whenever a charter submitted under paragraph (a)(7) of this section is amended, the vessel owner must file a copy of the amendment with the Director, National Vessel Documentation Center, within 10 days after the effective date of the amendment.

(d) Whenever the charterer of a vessel under paragraph (a) of this section enters into a sub-charter that is a demise charter with another person for the use of the vessel, the charterer must file a copy of the sub-charter and amendments to the sub-charter with the Director, National Vessel Documentation Center, within 10 days after the effective date of the sub-charter and the sub-charterer must provide detailed citizenship information in the format of form CG-1258, Application for Documentation, section G, citizenship.

(e) Whenever the charterer of a vessel under paragraph (a) of this section enters into a sub-charter other than a demise charter with another person for the use of the vessel, the charterer must file a copy of the sub-charter and amendments to the sub-charter with the Director, National Vessel Documentation Center, within 10 days after a request by the Director to do so.

(f) A person that submits a false certification under this section is subject to penalty under 46 U.S.C. 12122 and 18 U.S.C. 1001.
