
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter G - Documentation and Measurement of Vessels
#### PART 69 - MEASUREMENT OF VESSELS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 69.19 Remeasurement.

(a) If a vessel that is already measured is to undergo a structural alteration, a change to its service, or if the use of its space is to be changed, a remeasurement may be required. For vessels measured under a Formal Measurement System, owners must report immediately to an authorized measurement organization any intent to structurally alter the vessel or to change its service or the use of its space. The measurement organization advises the owner if remeasurement is necessary. For all other vessels, owners must report the intent to structurally alter the vessel to Commanding Officer, Marine Safety Center (MSC-4), for a remeasurement determination. Remeasurement is initiated by completing and submitting, where applicable, the appropriate application for measurement services. Spaces not affected by the alteration or change need not be remeasured.

(b) Remeasurement must also be performed as follows:

(1) When there is a perceived error in the application of this part, the vessel owner should contact the responsible measurement organization, or Commanding Officer, Marine Safety Center (MSC-4), as appropriate. Remeasurement is performed to the extent necessary to verify and correct the error.

(2) At the vessel owner's option, to reflect the latest tonnage measurement rules and associated interpretations under this part.

(c) For vessels measured under a Formal Measurement System, if a remeasurement or adjustment of tonnage is required, the authorized measurement organization will issue a new tonnage certificate. For all other vessels, Commanding Officer, Marine Safety Center (MSC-4) will take action, as appropriate.

(d) A vessel of less than 79 feet in overall length measured under a Formal Measurement System may be remeasured at the owner's request under the Simplified Regulatory Measurement System.
