
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter G - Documentation and Measurement of Vessels
#### PART 69 - MEASUREMENT OF VESSELS
##### Subpart B - Convention Measurement System
###### § 69.61 Excluded spaces.
####### Excluded space

(a)means an enclosed space which is excluded from the total volume of all enclosed spaces (V) in calculating gross tonnage ITC. Spaces that are below the upper deck and open to the sea, as well as those spaces listed in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section, are excluded spaces, except as under paragraph (g) of this section.

(b) A space that is within a structure and that is opposite an end opening extending from deck to deck (except for a curtain plate of a height not exceeding by more than one inch the depth of the adjoining deck beams) and having a breadth equal to or greater than 90 percent of the breadth of the deck at the line of the opening is an excluded space, subject to the following:

(1) Only the space between the actual end opening and a line drawn parallel to the line or face of the opening at a distance from the opening equal to one-half of the breadth of the deck at the line of the opening is excluded. (See § 69.75, figure 1.)

(2) If, because of any arrangement (except convergence of the outside plating as shown in § 69.75, figure 3), the breadth of the space is less than 90 percent of the breadth of the deck, only the space between the line of the opening and a parallel line drawn through the point where the athwartship breadth of the space is equal to 90 percent or less of the breadth of the deck is excluded. (See § 69.75, figures 2 and 4.)

(3) When any two spaces, either of which is excluded under paragraphs (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section, are separated by an area that is completely open except for bulwarks or open rails, these two spaces must not be excluded if the separation between the two spaces is less than the least half breadth of the deck in way of the separation. (See § 69.75, figures 5 and 6.)

(4) When the deck at the line of an opening has rounded gunwales, the breadth of the deck is the distance between the tangent points indicated in § 69.75, figure 11.

(c) A space that is open to the weather and that is under an overhead deck covering with no connection on the space's exposed sides between the covering and the deck other than the stanchions necessary for the covering's support is an excluded space. An open rail or bulwark fitted at the vessel's side does not disqualify the space from being an excluded space if the height between the top of the rail or bulwark and the overhead structure or curtain plate (if fitted) is not less than 2.5 feet or one-third of the height of the space, whichever is greater. (See § 69.75, figure 7.)

(d) A space in a side-to-side structure directly in way of opposite side openings not less than 2.5 feet in height or one-third of the height of the structure, whichever is greater, is an excluded space. If the opening is only on one side of the structure, the space to be excluded is limited inboard from the opening to a maximum of one-half of the breadth of the deck in way of the opening. (See § 69.75, figure 8.)

(e) A space in a structure immediately below an uncovered opening in the deck overhead is an excluded space, if the opening is exposed to the weather and the space to be excluded is limited to the area of the opening. (See § 69.75, figure 9.)

(f) A recess in the boundary bulkhead of a structure which is exposed to the weather and which has an opening that extends from deck to deck without a means of closing is an excluded space, if the interior width of the space is not greater than the width of the opening and extension of the space into the structure is not greater than twice the width of the opening. (See § 69.75, figure 10.)

(g) Any space described in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section which fulfills at least one of the following conditions is not an excluded space:

(1) The space is fitted with shelves or other means designed for securing cargo or stores.

(2) The opening that would otherwise permit the space to be excluded space is fitted with a means of closure.

(3) Other features of the space make it possible for the space to be closed.
