
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter G - Documentation and Measurement of Vessels
#### PART 69 - MEASUREMENT OF VESSELS
##### Subpart C - Standard Regulatory Measurement System
###### ยง 69.109 Under-deck tonnage.
####### Depths of transverse sections.

(h)(1) Transverse section depths are measured at each point of division of the tonnage length at the centerline of the vessel from a point below the line of the tonnage deck equal to one-third of the camber or to one-half of the pitch of the beam down to the upper side of the ordinary frames, floors, longitudinals, or tank top of a double bottom for water ballast, as the case may be.

(2) When a depth falls at a point where the tank top of a double bottom for water ballast has a straight fall from centerline to the wings, the depth terminates at one-half of the height of fall. (See ยง 69.123 figure 8.)

(3) When a depth falls at a point where the tank top of a double bottom for water ballast rises from the centerline to the wings, the depth terminates at one-half the dead rise. (See ยง 69.123, figure 9.)

(4) The depth at the midpoint of the tonnage length or, when a vessel is measured in parts, the depth at the midpoint of each part determines the number of equal parts into which each depth is divided, as follows:

(i) If the midpoint depth is 16 feet or less, each depth is divided into four equal parts. If the midpoint depth exceeds 16 feet, each depth is divided into six equal parts. (See ยง 69.123, figure 7.)

(ii) The interval between the points of division of a depth and one-third intervals are carried to the nearest hundredth of a foot.
