
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter G - Documentation and Measurement of Vessels
#### PART 69 - MEASUREMENT OF VESSELS
##### Subpart C - Standard Regulatory Measurement System
###### § 69.109 Under-deck tonnage.
####### Breadths of transverse sections.

(i)(1) Transverse section breadths are measured horizontally at each point of division of each depth and also at the upper and lower points of each depth. Breadths are measured to the inboard face of the ordinary frames or to the line of the ordinary frames. Breadths are measured parallel to each other and at right angle to the vessel's centerline. (See § 69.123, figure 7.)

(2) Upper breadths are not reduced by measuring to deck-beam brackets. In cases of camber when an upper breadth passes through the deck (see § 69.123, figure 7), the breadth is measured to the line of the side frames at the under side of the deck projected vertically up to the height of the upper breadth.

(3) Bottom breadths are measured only as far as the flat of the floor extends. (See § 69.123, figures 7 and 10.) When bottom frames rise immediately from the flat keel, bottom breadths are equal to the breadth of the flat keel. Where there is no double bottom for water ballast and where there is dead rise of the bottom out to the sides of the vessel, bottom breadths are equal to the part of the bottom plating not affected by dead rise.

(4) Bottom breadths falling in way of a double bottom, the top of which rises or falls from centerline to the wings, are measured between the inboard faces of the frame brackets which connect the double bottom with the frames. (See § 69.123, figures 8 and 9.)
