
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter G - Documentation and Measurement of Vessels
#### PART 69 - MEASUREMENT OF VESSELS
##### Subpart C - Standard Regulatory Measurement System
###### ยง 69.117 Spaces exempt from inclusion in tonnage.
####### Spaces on or above the line of the uppermost complete deck.

(b)The following spaces or portions of spaces on or above the line of the uppermost complete deck are exempt if the spaces or portions are reasonable in extent and adapted and used exclusively for the purpose indicated:

(1) Spaces for anchor gear, including capstan, windlass, and chain locker, are exempt.

(2) Companions and booby-hatches protecting stairways or ladderways leading to spaces below are exempt, whether or not the spaces below are exempt.

(3) Galley or other spaces fitted with a range or oven for cooking food to be consumed on board the vessel are exempt.

(4) Spaces designed to provide light or air to propelling machinery are exempt, as follows:

(i) When propelling machinery is located entirely on or above the line of the uppermost complete deck, the entire propelling machinery space and all fuel bunker spaces that are also located above that line are exempt as light or air spaces. (See exception in ยง 69.121(d)(1) for framed-in spaces.)

(ii) When part of the propelling machinery projects above the line of the uppermost complete deck into a space used exclusively to provide light or air to the propelling machinery, the entire space is exempt as light or air space. When any portion of this space is used for purposes other than providing light or air, only the portion of the space used for light or air, the space occupied by the propelling machinery itself, and a propelling machinery working space allowance under ยง 69.121 limited to two feet, if available, on each side of the propelling machinery are exempt.

(iii) Any part of an escape shaft, or a companion sheltering an escape shaft, above the line of the uppermost complete deck is exempt as light or air space.

(iv) Space that would otherwise be exempt as a light or air space is not exempt when propelling machinery is boxed-in and does not extend above the line of the uppermost complete deck. Any portion of the boxed-in space above the line of the uppermost complete deck is exempt.

(5) Skylights affording light or air to a space below, other than to propelling machinery spaces. Space immediately below the line of the deck on which a skylight is located is exempt only when there is an opening in the next lower deck directly below the skylight to permit light or air to an even lower deck.

(6) Machinery spaces, other than for propelling machinery under ยง 169.121.

(7) Spaces for steering gear.

(8) Water closet spaces that are fitted with at least a toilet and are intended for use by more than one person.

(9) The space in a wheelhouse necessary for controlling the vessel.
