
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter G - Documentation and Measurement of Vessels
#### PART 69 - MEASUREMENT OF VESSELS
##### Subpart C - Standard Regulatory Measurement System
###### ยง 69.117 Spaces exempt from inclusion in tonnage.
####### Open structures.

(d)(1) Structures that are located on or above the line of the uppermost complete deck that are under cover (sheltered), but open to the weather are exempt from tonnage as open space. The following additional requirements apply:

(i) If a structure is divided into compartments, only those compartments which are open to the weather are exempt from tonnage under the provisions of this section.

(ii) Open space cannot progress vertically through openings in a deck within the structure.

(iii) A space that is outside a structure's boundary bulkhead as defined in ยง 69.53 is considered open to the weather provided the space is eligible to be treated as an excluded space under the provisions of ยง 69.61, regardless of whether or not the space is fitted with means designed for securing cargo or stores.

(2) A structure is considered open to the weather when an exterior end bulkhead of the structure is open and, except as provided in paragraphs (d)(4), (5), and (6) of this section, is not fitted with any means of closing. To be considered open to the weather, the end bulkhead must not have a coaming height of more than two feet in way of any required opening nor any permanent obstruction within two and one-half feet of the opening, it must be fitted with a deck or platform that is a minimum of two and one-half feet wide on the exterior side of the opening, and it must have one of the following:

(i) Two openings, each at least three feet wide and at least four feet high in the clear, one on each side of the centerline of the structure. If the openings lead to two separate interior compartments, there must be circulation of open space between the two compartments via a single such opening, or series of such openings, in the intermediate bulkhead(s).

(ii) One opening at least four feet wide and at least five feet high in the clear.

(iii) One opening at least 20 square feet in the clear with a breadth in excess of four feet and a height of not less than three feet.

(3) A compartment within an open structure is considered open to the weather only when an interior bulkhead of that compartment has an opening or openings that meet the requirements for end bulkheads under paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (iii) of this section. Other compartments within the structure are not considered open to the weather. The following additional requirements apply:

(i) For the interior compartment to be considered open to the weather, any compartment or series of compartments from which the open space progresses must have an opening or openings meeting the requirements for end bulkhead openings, except that the opening(s) need not be located in the forward or after end of the compartment.

(ii) Open space may not progress from a space that is open under the provisions of paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section unless the space may also be considered open under another provision of this section.

(4) An interior or exterior opening that is temporarily closed by shifting boards dropped into channel sections at the sides of the opening is considered open to the weather if battening, caulking, or gaskets of any material are not used.

(5) An interior or exterior opening that is temporarily closed by cover plates or boards held in place only by hook bolts (see ยง 69.123, Figure 12) is considered open to the weather-

(i) If hook bolts used to secure cover plates or boards are spaced at least one foot apart and hook over a stiffener installed around the perimeter of the opening;

(ii) If the cover plates or boards fit tightly against the weather side of the bulkhead; and

(iii) If battening, caulking, or gaskets of any material are not used.

(6) An interior or exterior opening that is temporarily closed by cover plates or boards held in place only by bolts and crosspieces is considered open to the weather-

(i) If the bolts are not installed through the bulkhead;

(ii) If the bolts and crosspieces are not held in place by cleats or other attachments to or through the bulkhead;

(iii) If the cover plates or boards fit tightly against the weather side of the bulkhead; and

(iv) If battening, caulking, or gaskets of any material are not used.

(7) Notwithstanding the opening size requirements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section, a structure with its aft end entirely open from the under side of its overhead stiffeners down to the deck, to the line of the deck, or to a coaming not exceeding three inches in height and open athwartship between the inboard faces of the side stiffeners is considered open to the weather. The opening may be covered by a wire mesh screen or temporarily closed by canvas secured at the top and lashed or buttoned in place.

(8) A structure is considered open to the weather if:

(i) Both sides of the structure are open and not fitted with any means of closing other than temporary covers meeting the requirements of paragraphs (d)(4), (5), and (6) of this section;

(ii) The openings are directly across from each other, are not separated by a bulkhead or bulkheads, and do not have any permanent obstruction within two and one-half feet of either opening; and

(iii) The openings have a continuous height of at least three feet, or the full height of the structure, whichever is less, and either extend the full length of the structure or each have an area of 60 square feet.
