
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter G - Documentation and Measurement of Vessels
#### PART 69 - MEASUREMENT OF VESSELS
##### Subpart C - Standard Regulatory Measurement System
###### ยง 69.117 Spaces exempt from inclusion in tonnage.
####### Open space between the shelter deck and the uppermost complete deck.

(e)(1) Space that is between the shelter deck and the uppermost complete deck and that is under cover (sheltered) but open to the weather is exempt from tonnage when all openings in the uppermost complete deck are provided with a watertight means of closing.

(2) A space is considered "open to the weather" under paragraph (e)(1) of this section when the shelter deck above the space has a middle line opening which conforms to the following:

(i) The middle line opening must be at least four feet long in the clear and at least as wide as the after cargo hatch on the shelter deck, but not less than one-half the width of the vessel at the midpoint of the length of the opening. The opening may have rounded corners not exceeding a nine inch radius. When a greater radius is required by the Coast Guard or a Coast Guard recognized classification society under ยง 42.05-60 of this chapter, notification of that requirement must be submitted to the Commandant.

(ii) The middle line opening must be located so that the distance between the aft edge of the middle line opening and the vessel's stern is not less than one-twentieth of the tonnage length of the vessel and the distance between the fore edge of the opening and the vessel's stem is not less than one-fifth of the tonnage length of the vessel.

(iii) The middle line opening must not be within a structure of any type.

(iv) If the middle line opening is guarded by rails or stanchions, the rails and stanchions must not be used to secure or assist in securing a cover over the opening.

(v) The coaming of the middle line opening must not exceed one foot mean height above the shelter deck. Bolts must not pass through the stiffeners or flanges on the coaming, nor may there be any other attachments on the coaming for fastening a cover. Portable wood covers may be fitted over the middle line opening if held in place only by lashings fitted to the under side of the covers. Metal covers may be fitted if held in place only by hook bolts spaced not less than 18 inches apart that pass through the cover and hook over angle stiffeners or flanges fitted to the outside of the coaming. Battening, caulking, seals, or gaskets of any material may not be used in association with any middle line opening cover.

(vi) The space below the middle line opening must have a minimum length of four feet throughout its entire breadth and height and be in the clear at all times.

(vii) A scupper having a five inch minimum inside diameter and fitted with a screw down non-return valve geared to and operated from the shelter deck must be fitted on each side of the upper deck in way of the middle line opening.

(3) When the shelter deck space forward or aft of the middle line opening is divided by interior bulkheads, only those compartments with at least two openings that progress to the middle line opening are considered "open to the weather" under paragraph (e)(1) of this section. Each required opening must be at least three feet wide and at least four feet high in the clear, must not have a coaming height of more than two feet, and must not be fitted (except as provided in paragraphs (d)(4), (d)(5), and (d)(6) of this section) with any means of closing. Other compartments within the shelter deck space are not considered "open to the weather" under paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
