
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter G - Documentation and Measurement of Vessels
#### PART 69 - MEASUREMENT OF VESSELS
##### Subpart C - Standard Regulatory Measurement System
###### ยง 69.117 Spaces exempt from inclusion in tonnage.
####### Water ballast spaces.

(f)A space, regardless of location, adapted only for water ballast and not available for stores, supplies, fuel, or cargo (other than water to be used for underwater drilling, mining, and related purposes, including production), upon request, may be exempt from tonnage if the following are met:

(1) The space must be available at all times only for water ballast that is piped through a system independent of other systems (except fire fighting and bilge suction systems). Pumps, pipes, and other equipment for loading and unloading water ballast must be of a size suitable for the efficient handling of the water ballast within a reasonable time frame. All manholes providing access to a water ballast space must be oval or circular and not greater than 34 inches in diameter. Except for those on a deck exposed to the weather, the manholes may have a coaming not exceeding six inches in height. Existing hatches over spaces being converted to water ballast spaces must have a watertight cover plate welded to the hatch and a manhole, as described in this paragraph, fitted in the plating.

(2) The primary purpose of the water ballast must be to afford a means of maintaining the vessel's stability, immersion, trim, pre-loading conditions, or seakeeping capabilities.

(3) If the space is in a vessel that is subject to inspection under 46 U.S.C. 3301, the space must be considered when determining the adequacy of the vessel's stability under 46 CFR chapter I.

(4) If the total of all water ballast spaces to be exempted from tonnage exceeds 30 percent of the vessel's gross register tonnage (as calculated under this subpart without any allowance for water ballast), a justification of the operating conditions that require the water ballast must be submitted to the measuring organization for approval. Although a single condition may justify all water ballast spaces, several conditions may be necessary in other cases. However, a particular tank is not justified by a condition if another tank already justified by another condition could be used as effectively. The justification must-

(i) Designate the vessel's service;

(ii) Explain for what purpose under paragraph (f)(2) of this section the water ballast is being used;

(iii) Include the capacity, tank arrangement, and piping plans for the vessel;

(iv) Include a statement certifying that the space will be used exclusively for water ballast as prescribed by this section;

(v) If water ballast is used for stability, describe each loading condition and the resultant metacentric height (GM) and include calculations;

(vi) If water ballast is used for immersion or trim, describe those conditions and include loading and trim calculations;

(vii) If water ballast is used for pre-loading, describe how it is used and include strength and weight calculations; and

(viii) If water ballast is used for seakeeping, describe each loading condition, GM, period of roll, and, if speed is involved, speed versus trim and draft and include calculations.

(5) If the water ballast space or its use, purpose, or piping are changed, the vessel owner or operator must report the change promptly to a measurement organization listed in ยง 69.15 for a determination as to whether a tonnage remeasurement is required. Changes in vessel service must also be reported if a water ballast justification was required to be submitted for the vessel.
