
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter G - Documentation and Measurement of Vessels
#### PART 69 - MEASUREMENT OF VESSELS
##### Subpart C - Standard Regulatory Measurement System
###### ยง 69.121 Engine room deduction.
####### Propelling machinery spaces.

(b)(1) Propelling machinery spaces are the spaces occupied by the main propelling machinery and auxiliary machinery and spaces reasonably necessary for the operation and maintenance of the machinery. Propelling machinery spaces do not include spaces for fuel tanks, spaces exempt from tonnage under ยง 69.117, and spaces not used or not available for use in connection with the propelling machinery.

(2) Propelling machinery spaces are-

(i) Space below the crown. The crown is the top of the main space of the engine room to which the heights of the main space are taken. The crown is either the underside of a deck or, if the side bulkheads are sloping, the uppermost point at which the slope terminates. (See ยง 69.123, figures 13 and 14.)

(ii) Framed-in space located between the crown and the uppermost complete deck and used for propelling machinery or for the admission of light or air to propelling machinery spaces. (See ยง 69.123, figures 13 and 14.)

(iii) Shaft tunnel space and thrust block recess space.

(iv) Space below the uppermost complete deck used for escape shafts or trunked ladderways leading from the aft end of the shaft tunnel to the deck above.

(v) Space containing a fuel oil transfer pump located in a separate space and not used for bunkering the vessel. When the pump serves both ballast and fuel oil, only one-half of the pump's space is considered a propelling machinery space.

(vi) Spaces containing fuel oil settling tanks used solely for the main boilers. The space must not exceed one percent of the vessel's gross tonnage.

(vii) Spaces for engineers' stores and workshops located below the uppermost complete deck and either open to a propelling machinery space or separated from a propelling machinery space only by a screen bulkhead. The space must not exceed three-quarters of one percent of the vessel's gross register tonnage.

(viii) Framed-in space located above the line of the uppermost complete deck and used for propelling machinery or for the admission of light or air to a propelling machinery space, when requested under paragraph (d) of this section.

(ix) If the propelling machinery is boxed-in below the tonnage deck, the boxed-in space plus the spaces outside of the boxing for the shaft, auxiliary engines, and related propelling machinery. If a portion of the boxed-in space extends above a platform or partial deck that is below the uppermost complete deck, that portion is also considered part of the propelling machinery space.
