
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter G - Documentation and Measurement of Vessels
#### PART 69 - MEASUREMENT OF VESSELS
##### Subpart C - Standard Regulatory Measurement System
###### ยง 69.121 Engine room deduction.
####### Methods for measuring propelling machinery spaces.

(c)(1) If the propelling machinery space is bulkheaded off or is not larger than necessary for the safe operation and maintenance of the propelling machinery, the entire space, or, if bulkheaded off, the portion bulkheaded off, is measured for the engine room deduction.

(2) If the propelling machinery space is not bulkheaded off or is larger than necessary for the safe operation and maintenance of the propelling machinery, only the space occupied by the propelling machinery itself plus a working space of two feet, if available, on each side of the propelling machinery is measured for the engine room deduction. If the working space overlaps another working space not related to the propelling machinery, only one-half of the overlapping working space is included in the propelling machinery space. The height of the working space is measured as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.

(3) If the propelling machinery is located in more than one space, each space must be measured separately.

(4) If the propelling machinery is located in a space with a step in the bottom or side lines, each stepped portion of the space must be measured separately.

(5) The length of a space under paragraph (c)(1) of this section is measured from the bulkhead just forward of the propelling machinery to the bulkhead just aft of the propelling machinery. The length of a space under paragraph (c)(2) of this section is measured from the forward edge of the working space to the aft edge of the working space.

(6) If the boundaries of the propelling machinery space form a rectangle, the product of the length, breadth, and height, divided by 100, is the tonnage of the space.

(7) If the boundaries of the propelling machinery space are continuous fair lines, heights are measured at the fore and aft ends and at the center of the space from the bottom frames, floors, or tank top of a double bottom up to the line of the crown. A breadth is measured at half-height of each height. The product of the length, mean breadth, and mean height, divided by 100, is the tonnage of the space.

(8) If the propelling machinery space is in the aft end of the hull, extends from side to side of the hull, and has a continuous bottom line, the length of the space is divided into the even number of equal parts most nearly equal to the number of parts that the tonnage length under ยง 69.109(g) was divided. The tonnage is then calculated by the same method used for calculating the under-deck tonnage in ยง 69.109(l).

(9) The tonnage of a framed-in space located between the crown and the uppermost complete deck and used for propelling machinery or for the admission of light or air to the propelling machinery space, is the product of its length, breadth, and height, divided by 100.

(10) The tonnage of a shaft tunnel, or a thrust block recess, having a flat top is the product of its length, breadth, and height, divided by 100. If the shaft tunnel or thrust block recess top is not flat, the space above must be calculated by using the appropriate geometrical formula. If the space aft of the shaft tunnel extends from side to side of the vessel, the tonnage of the space is found by the formula for measuring peak tanks in ยง 69.109(l).

(11) The length and breadth of the space for a shaft tunnel, or a thrust block recess, when not cased is that which is necessary for maintenance of the shaft. The height allowed for thrust block recess space must not exceed seven feet. The mean height allowed for the shaft tunnel space must not exceed six feet. In a multi-screw vessel where the shaft tunnel or thrust block recess space is open from side to side, measure only the space used for purposes of propelling the vessel.

(12) When the propelling machinery is on a bed at the vessel's bottom, the height of the propelling machinery space is measured from the top of the bottom frames or floors.
