
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter G - Documentation and Measurement of Vessels
#### PART 69 - MEASUREMENT OF VESSELS
##### Subpart C - Standard Regulatory Measurement System
###### ยง 69.121 Engine room deduction.
####### Request to treat certain framed-in engine room spaces as part of a propelling machinery space.

(d)(1) Under ยง 69.117(b)(4), framed-in spaces located above the line of the uppermost complete deck and used for propelling machinery or for admitting light or air to a propelling machinery space are exempt from inclusion in tonnage. However, upon written request to a measurement organization listed in ยง 69.15, the vessel owner may elect to have these spaces included in calculating the gross register tonnage, then deducted from the gross register tonnage as propelling machinery spaces under paragraph (b)(2)(viii) of this section when calculating the net register tonnage.

(2) The framed-in space must be safe, seaworthy, and used only for propelling machinery or for the admission of light or air to the propelling machinery space. The length of the space must not exceed the length of the propelling machinery space and the breadth must not exceed one-half of the extreme inside midship breadth of the vessel. Portions of the framed-in space that are plated over are not included in the propelling machinery space.

(3) To exercise the option in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, all of the framed-in space need not be treated as propelling machinery space, but only that portion required to entitle the vessel to have 32 percent of its gross register tonnage deducted as an engine room deduction under paragraph (e) of this section.
