
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter G - Documentation and Measurement of Vessels
#### PART 69 - MEASUREMENT OF VESSELS
##### Subpart D - Dual Regulatory Measurements System
###### § 69.177 Markings.
####### Tonnage mark.

(a)(1) All vessels with a second deck that are measured under this subpart must have, on each side of the vessel, a tonnage mark, and an inverted triangle identifying the tonnage mark, as described and located under this section. (See the figure in § 69.183(a).) Vessels with only one deck are not assigned markings under this section.

(2) The tonnage mark is a horizontal line 15 inches long and one inch wide. The tonnage mark must be designated by a welded bead or other permanent mark 15 inches long placed along the top edge of the tonnage mark.

(3) Above the tonnage mark is placed an inverted equilateral triangle, each side of which is 12 inches long and one inch wide, with its apex touching the upper edge of the center of the tonnage mark.

(4) If the vessel has a load line mark, the longitudinal location of the center of the tonnage mark must be between 21 inches and six feet six inches aft of the vertical centerline of the load line ring. (See the figures in § 69.183 (b) and (c).) If the vessel does not have a load line mark, the center of the tonnage mark must be located amidships.

(5) Except as under paragraph (a)(6) of this section, the upper edge of the tonnage mark must be located below the line of the second deck at the distance indicated in Table 69.177(a)(5). (See the figure in § 69.183(b).)

(6) For the following vessels with a load line mark, the upper edge of the tonnage mark must be located at the level of the uppermost part of the load line grid:

(i) Vessels assigned only one gross and one net register tonnage under § 69.175(c).

(ii) Vessels for which a load line assigning authority certifies that the vessel's load line mark was located as though the second deck were the freeboard deck.
