
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter G - Documentation and Measurement of Vessels
#### PART 69 - MEASUREMENT OF VESSELS
##### Subpart E - Simplified Regulatory Measurement System
###### ยง 69.205 Application for measurement services.

(a) Except as noted under paragraph (c) of this section, to apply for measurement under this subpart, the vessel owner must complete an Application for Simplified Measurement (form CG-5397). If the vessel is documented, or intended to be documented, as a vessel of the United States under part 67 of this chapter, the vessel owner must submit the application form to the National Vessel Documentation Center. Otherwise, the form is not further processed, but may be retained, at the vessel owner's option, as evidence of the tonnage measurement under this part.

(b) The Application for Simplified Measurement (form CG-5397) must include the following information:

(1) Vessel's name and number (e.g., official number, International Maritime Organization (IMO) number, or Coast Guard number).

(2) Vessel hull identification number or other number assigned by builder.

(3) Hull material.

(4) Hull shape.

(5) Overall length, breadth, and depth of vessel and each of the vessel's individual hulls.

(6) Location of any propelling machinery (e.g., inside or outside of the hull).

(7) Dimensions of the principal deck structure, if its volume exceeds the volume of the hull.

(c) At the vessel owner's option, a Builder's Certification and First Transfer of Title (form CG-1261), which includes the same information specified in paragraph (b) of this section may be submitted to the National Vessel Documentation Center instead of the Application for Simplified Measurement for a vessel that is documented, or intended to be documented, as a vessel of the United States under part 67 of this chapter.
