
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter H - Passenger Vessels
#### PART 71 - INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart 71.25 - Annual Inspection
###### ยง 71.25-20 Fire detection and extinguishing equipment.

(a) At each annual inspection, the inspector must ensure that the following tests and inspections of fire detection and extinguishing equipment have been conducted:

(1) All portable fire extinguishers and semi-portable fire extinguishing systems must be maintained in accordance with NFPA 10, chapter 7 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 71.25-3). Chapter 7 requires persons performing annual and periodic maintenance, and recharging to be certified. The Coast Guard requires that the servicing persons be properly licensed to perform fire extinguisher maintenance as required by local authorities having jurisdiction. Monthly inspections required by NFPA 10 may be conducted by the owner, operator, person-in-charge, or a designated member of the crew.

(2) Fixed fire extinguishing systems must be checked as noted in table 71.25-20(a)(2). In addition all parts of the fixed fire extinguishing systems must be examined for excessive corrosion and general conditions.

(3) All fire detection and extinguishing systems, all piping controls, valves, and alarms must be checked to ascertain that the system is in operating condition. In this respect, automatic sprinkling systems must be checked by means of test stations or opening heads, smoke detection systems must be checked by introducing smoke into the accumulators, fire detection and manual alarm systems must be checked by test stations or actuating detectors or pull boxes, and steam smothering lines must be checked with at least a 50 p.s.i. air pressure with the ends capped or by blowing steam through the lines at the designed pressure.

(4) The fire main system must be operated and the pressure checked at the most remote and highest outlets. All firehose must be subjected to a test pressure equivalent to the maximum pressure to which they may be subjected in service, but not less than 100 p.s.i.

(b) [Reserved]
