
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - Procedures Applicable to the Public
#### PART 2 - VESSEL INSPECTIONS
##### Subpart 2.01 - Inspecting and Certificating of Vessels
###### § 2.01-15 Vessel repairs.

(a) No repairs or alterations affecting the safety of the vessel or its machinery shall be made unless applicable requirements in this chapter are met. The procedures to be followed in notifying the Coast Guard about vessel repairs vary according to the type of vessel and service in which engaged. The requirements are set forth in the subchapter governing a particular class of vessels or in a subchapter governing a particular subject as follows:

(1) For passenger vessels that are 100 gross tons or more, see §§ 71.55-1 and 71.60-1 of subchapter H (Passenger Vessels) of this chapter.

(2) For small passenger vessels under 100 gross tons, see either § 176.700 of subchapter T (Small Passenger Vessels) or § 115.700 of subchapter K (Small Passenger Vessels Carrying More than 150 Passengers or with Overnight Accommodations for more than 49 Passengers) of this chapter.

(3) For cargo and miscellaneous vessels, see §§ 91.45-1 and 91.50-1 of subchapter I (Cargo and Miscellaneous Vessels) of this chapter.

(4) For tank vessels, see §§ 31.10-25 and 35.01-1 of subchapter D (Tank Vessels) of this chapter.

(5) For public nautical schoolships, see §§ 167.30-1 and 167.30-10 of subchapter R (Nautical Schools) of this chapter.

(6) For oceanographic vessels, see §§ 189.45-1 and 189.50-1 of subchapter U (Oceanographic Vessels) of this chapter.

(7) For repairs to a vessel after it has been surveyed, see § 42.09-50 of subchapter E (Load Lines) of this chapter.

(8) For repairs to boilers, pressure vessels, and appurtenances, see part 59 of subchapter F (Marine Engineering) of this chapter.

(9) For repairs to electrical installations or equipment, see §§ 111.05-5(e), 111.05-10(e), and 111.90-5 of subchapter J (Electrical Engineering) of this chapter.

(10) For vessels carrying compressed gases regulated by subchapter O (Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes), see § 151.50 30(c) of this chapter.

(11) For repairs to a vessel that affects its subdivision or stability, see § 170.005 of this chapter.

(b) If repairs to a vessel are necessary, such a vessel may be permitted to proceed to another port for repairs, if, in the opinion of the marine inspector, it can be done with safety. The permit is granted by the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, upon request in writing by the master or owner of the vessel and is issued on Coast Guard Form CG-948, Permit to Proceed to Another Port for Repairs. The requirements for such permits are set forth in the subchapter governing a particular class of vessels as follows:

(1) For passenger vessels that are 100 gross tons or more, see subpart 71.05 of subchapter H (Passenger Vessels) of this chapter.

(2) For small passenger vessels under 100 gross tons, see subpart B of subchapter T (Small Passenger Vessels) of this chapter.

(3) For cargo and miscellaneous vessels, see subpart 91.05 of subchapter I (Cargo and Miscellaneous Vessels) of this chapter.

(4) For tank vessels, see § 31.10-35 of subchapter D (Tank Vessels) of this chapter.

(5) For public nautical schoolships, see § 167.30-5 of subchapter R (Nautical Schools) of this chapter.

(6) For oceanographic vessels, see subpart 189.05 of subchapter U (Oceanographic Vessels) of this chapter.
