
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter H - Passenger Vessels
#### PART 71 - INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart 71.60 - Special Operating Requirements
###### ยง 71.60-1 Inspection and testing required when making alterations, repairs, or other such operations involving riveting, welding, burning or like fire-producing actions.

(a) The provisions of "Standard for the Control of Gas Hazards on Vessels to be Repaired," NFPA No. 306, published by National Fire Protection Association, 1 Batterymarch Park, Quincy, MA 02269, shall be used as a guide in conducting the inspections and issuance of certificates required by this section.

(b) Until an inspection has been made to determine that such operation can be undertaken with safety, no alterations, repairs, or other such operations involving riveting, welding, burning, or like fire-producing actions shall be made:

(1) Within or on the boundaries of cargo tanks which have been used to carry combustible liquid or chemicals in bulk; or,

(2) Within or on the boundaries of fuel tanks; or,

(3) To pipe lines, heating coils, pumps, fittings, or other appurtenances connected to such cargo or fuel tanks.

(c) Such inspections shall be made and evidenced as follows:

(1) In ports or places in the United States or its territories and possessions the inspection shall be made by a marine chemist certificated by the National Fire Protection Association; however, if the services of such certified marine chemist are not reasonably available, the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, upon the recommendation of the vessel owner and his contractor or their representative, shall select a person who, in the case of an individual vessel, shall be authorized to make such inspection. If the inspection indicated that such operations can be undertaken with safety, a certificate setting forth the fact in writing and qualified as may be required, shall be issued by the certified marine chemist or the authorized person before the work is started. Such qualifications shall include any requirements as may be deemed necessary to maintain, insofar as can reasonably be done, the safe conditions in the spaces certified throughout the operation and shall include such additional tests and certifications as considered required. Such qualifications and requirements shall include precautions necessary to eliminate or minimize hazards that may be present from protective coatings or residues from cargoes.

(2) When not in such a port or place, and a marine chemist or such person authorized by the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, is not reasonably available, the inspection shall be made by the senior officer present and a proper entry shall be made in the vessel's logbook.

(d) It shall be the responsibility of the senior officer present to secure copies of certificates issued by the certified marine chemist or such person authorized by the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection. It shall be the responsibility of the senior officer present, insofar as the persons under his control are concerned, to maintain a safe condition on the vessel by full observance of all qualifications and requirements listed by the marine chemist in the certificate.
