
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter H - Passenger Vessels
#### PART 72 - CONSTRUCTION AND ARRANGEMENT
##### Subpart 72.01 - Hull Structure
###### ยง 72.01-25 Additional structural requirements.

(a) Vessels required by part 171 of this chapter to have subdivision bulkheads, double bottoms, etc. must comply with the following structural requirements:

(1) Each watertight subdivision bulkhead, whether transverse or longitudinal, shall be constructed in such a manner that it shall be capable of supporting, with a proper margin of resistance, the pressure due to the maximum head of water which it might have to sustain in the event of damage to the vessel, but at least the pressure due to a head of water up to the margin line. The construction of the bulkheads shall be to the satisfaction of the Commandant.

(2) Steps and recesses in subdivision bulkheads shall be watertight and as strong as the bulkhead at the place where each occurs. Decks, trunks, tunnels, duct keels, ventilators, etc., that are made watertight to maintain the subdivision requirements for a vessel shall be of the same strength as the bulkhead at the corresponding levels. The means used for making them watertight and the arrangements adopted for closing openings in them shall be to the satisfaction of the Commandant. Watertight ventilators and trunks shall be carried at least up to the bulkhead deck.

(3) Where frames or beams pass through a watertight bulkhead or deck, such bulkhead or deck shall be made structurally watertight without the use of wood, cement, or similar materials.

(4) Subdivision bulkheads, including steps, recesses, trunks, tunnels, ventilators, etc., which might form part of such bulkheads, shall be thoroughly examined and hose tested upon completion of construction. The water pressure for such tests shall be at least 30 p.s.i. Testing of main compartments by filling them with water is not compulsory.

(5) The forepeak, double bottoms (including duct keels), and inner skins shall be tested with water to-a-head corresponding to the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section upon completion of construction.

(6) The watertight space enclosing the stern tube shall be tested by filling with water to-a-head up to the deepest subdivision load line.

(7) Tanks which are intended to hold liquids, and which form part of the subdivision of the vessel, shall be tested for tightness upon completion of construction with water to-a-head up to the deepest subdivision load line or to-a-head corresponding toof the depth from the top of the keel to the margin line in way of the tanks, whichever is greater; but in no case shall the test-head be less than 3 feet above the top of the tank.

(8) The tests referred to in the preceding paragraphs (a) (5), (6), and (7) of this section are for the purpose of insuring that the subdivision structural arrangements are watertight and are not regarded as a test of the fitness of any compartment for the storage of oil, fuel or for other specific purposes for which a test of a superior character may be required depending upon the height to which the liquid has access in the tank or its connections.

(b) [Reserved]
