
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter H - Passenger Vessels
#### PART 72 - CONSTRUCTION AND ARRANGEMENT
##### Subpart 72.05 - Structural Fire Protection
###### ยง 72.05-5 Definitions.
####### steel or other equivalent metal

(i) Where the termis used in this part, it is intended to require a material which, by itself or due to insulation provided, has structural and integrity qualities equivalent to steel at the end of the applicable fire exposure.

(j) Working spaces will be considered as only those service and machinery spaces where personnel are normally employed as contrasted to those where personnel may occasionally visit or be employed for short periods of time.

(k) Passenger or crew corridors over 8 feet in width will be considered as public spaces for the purpose of this subpart.

(l) Spaces which might be considered as open decks due to the presence of permanent openings to the weather in one or more sides, or where any or all sides may be completely open to the weather, will be considered as interior or enclosed spaces for the purpose of this subpart if any spot on the overhead is more than 15 feet from the nearest opening to the weather. This requirement shall only apply to those portions of the space as are under a deck or canopy, but it shall not be considered as a restriction against permanent opening or a restriction against the materials used for a canopy. This paragraph shall not apply to open or enclosed promenades having a nominal width of 15 feet or less.

(m) Where balconies are installed opening into a space, the following general requirements shall be met:

(1) For the purpose of meeting main vertical zone bulkhead spacing, the length of the space to which the balcony is open will be considered as being increased by an amount equal to the gross area of the balcony divided by the average width of the space.

(2) Where balconies are formed by penetrating one or more decks, the bulkheads in the upper portion of the space are, in effect, part of a stepped or recessed deck and should be treated as such for fire control purposes. In this regard, particular attention should be given to the protection of openings with proper doors of the type indicated in ยง 72.05-25(b)(9).

(3) Two means of escape shall be provided for each balcony, at least one of which shall be independent of the space to which the balcony is open.
