
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter H - Passenger Vessels
#### PART 72 - CONSTRUCTION AND ARRANGEMENT
##### Subpart 72.05 - Structural Fire Protection
###### ยง 72.05-15 Ceilings, linings, trim, and decorations in accommodation spaces and safety areas.

(a) Ceilings and linings and any furring incidental to their erection shall be of approved incombustible materials. Where such ceilings or linings are given credit for their insulating value in obtaining a bulkhead or deck classification they shall be of Class B-15 bulkhead panel material, and the construction shall be as required by ยง 72.05-10(j).

(b) Bulkheads, linings, and ceilings may have a combustible veneer within a room not to exceedof an inch in thickness. However, combustible veneers shall not be used in passageways or stairway enclosures, or in spaces specifically restricted by tables 72.05-10 (d) through (g).

(c) The total volume of combustible face trim, moldings, and decorations, including veneers, in any compartment shall not exceed a volume equivalent toinch veneer on the combined area of the walls of the compartment. Such trim, molding, or decorations shall not perform any structural function, and shall not be used in corridors or stairway enclosures.

(d) Combustible veneers, trim, decorations, etc., shall not be used in or extend into hidden spaces such as behind linings or ceilings or in the matter of double bulkheads.

(e) Nothing in this subpart shall be construed as prohibiting the covering of any surface with a reasonable number of coats of paint or with a Marine Finish meeting the requirements of subpart 164.012 of subchapter Q (Specifications) of this chapter. This includes corridors, stairway enclosures, and hidden spaces.

(f) Partial bulkheads or decks used to subdivide a space for artistic treatment, privacy, etc., shall meet the requirements of Class C bulkheads.
