
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter H - Passenger Vessels
#### PART 72 - CONSTRUCTION AND ARRANGEMENT
##### Subpart 72.05 - Structural Fire Protection
###### ยง 72.05-30 Windows and airports.

(a) For the purpose of this subpart, all glass in windows or airports shall be at leastinch thick. However, greater thickness may be required for strength purposes in certain locations. All glass shall be fitted in steel or equivalent metal frames and shall be retained by steel or equivalent metal glazing beads or angles.

(b) Where wire-inserted glass is required, and the single wire type is employed, the strands shall run horizontally and shall be not more than 2 inches apart.

(c) Windows in Class B-0 bulkheads shall be fitted with wire inserted glass. Such windows opening onto passageways may not extend below the normal height of the storm rails.

(d) Windows in Class B-15 bulkheads shall be fitted with wire inserted glass. In addition, such windows shall be fitted with a suitable steel or equivalent metal shutter capable of being operated manually as well as automatically by means of a fusible link.

(e) Windows in interior "A" Class bulkheads shall be fitted with suitable steel or equivalent metal shutter capable of being operated manually as well as automatically from the control station by the same system used for the fire doors as noted in ยง 72.05-25(b)(9)(ii). The metal shutter shall be insulated to meet the applicable bulkhead requirements.

(f) Windows or air ports opening onto lifeboat embarkation or lowering spaces from service, cargo, or machinery spaces, or from control or accommodation spaces other than those containing only incombustible veneers and trim and fire resistant furnishings, shall be fitted with wire inserted glass. Other windows or air ports opening onto open decks or enclosed promenades need not have wire inserted glass.

(g) Skylights to spaces containing auxiliary internal combustion machinery having an aggregate horsepower of 1,000 or more, and to boiler and main enginerooms, shall be capable of being closed from outside the space. If glass is fitted in such skylights, it shall be of the wire inserted type. The glass panels shall be fitted with permanently attached shutters of steel or equivalent metal.
