
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter H - Passenger Vessels
#### PART 72 - CONSTRUCTION AND ARRANGEMENT
##### Subpart 72.05 - Structural Fire Protection
###### ยง 72.05-50 Ventilation.
####### duct

(a) Where the termis used in this section, it shall include trunks, plenums, and any other type of ventilation piping, chambers, or duct work.

(b) Where automatic fire dampers are required, they shall be designed to operate at approximately 165 degrees F. for normal locations, and approximately 212 degrees F. for locations such as galleys. The dampers shall be so designed as to close against the anticipated draft in the duct. The damper shall be made accessible for periodic inspection by means of a hinged or bolted plate in the duct. The damper and the portion of duct containing the damper shall be constructed of at leastinch steel plate suitably stiffened. No insulation need be applied to the damper blade.

(c) Where ventilation ducts are required to meet bulkhead requirements, the space within the duct shall be considered to be the same as the space served by the ventilator, and the duct shall be insulated to meet the applicable requirements of tables 72.05-10(d) and 72.05-10(e).

(d) All ventilation systems shall be designed, where practicable, so that all ducts leading to the various enclosures are kept within the main vertical zones. No duct may serve spaces in more than one main vertical zone.

(e) Where of necessity, ducts pass through main vertical zone bulkheads, automatic fire dampers shall be fitted adjacent to the bulkhead. The duct between the bulkhead and the damper shall meet the applicable bulkhead requirements. The damper shall be fitted on at least one side of the bulkhead with a visible indicator showing whether the damper is in the open or closed position. The indicator may be connected to the manual operating device rather than the damper blade so that it might show as being open when it had automatically closed, but could never be open if the indicator showed it to be closed. The damper shall be capable of being manually closed from both sides of the bulkhead. The operating positions for the damper shall be marked as required by ยง 78.47-53 of this subchapter.

(f) Vent ducts serving stairway enclosures shall serve no other spaces.

(g) Ventilation ducts serving cargo or main machinery spaces which pass through accommodation spaces or safety areas shall be fitted with an automatic fire damper adjacent to the point of entry. Between the bulkhead or deck and the damper, and in addition, on vertical ducts for a distance of 6 feet above the damper, the duct shall meet the applicable bulkhead requirements.

(h) Exhausts from galleys shall meet the applicable bulkhead requirements. In addition, an automatic damper shall be installed in exhaust ducts over frying vats, etc.

(i) In all ventilation systems, manually operated dampers or other suitable means shall be provided in accessible locations, outside the spaces served by the system, for shutting off the passage of air in the event of fire; however, no dampers shall be placed in exhaust ducts from film lockers or projection rooms.

(j) For information regarding controls of electrically powered ventilation systems, see subchapter J (Electrical Engineering) of this chapter.
