
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter H - Passenger Vessels
#### PART 72 - CONSTRUCTION AND ARRANGEMENT
##### Subpart 72.05 - Structural Fire Protection
###### § 72.05-90 Vessels contracted for prior to May 26, 1965.

(a) Vessels of 100 gross tons and over, contracted for prior to May 26, 1965, on an international voyage; and vessels of 100 gross tons and over, contracted for on or after May 28, 1936, and prior to May 26, 1965, not on an international voyage; shall meet the following requirements:

(1) Existing structure, arrangements, and materials previously approved will be considered satisfactory so long as they meet the minimum requirements of this paragraph and are maintained in good condition to the satisfaction of the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection. Minor repairs and alterations may be made to the same standards as the original construction.

(2) The details shall be in general agreement with §§ 72.05-5 through 72.05-60.

(b) Vessels of 100 gross tons and over, contracted for prior to May 28, 1936, not on an international voyage, shall meet the following requirements:

(1) Existing structure, arrangements, and materials previously approved will be considered satisfactory so long as they meet the minimum requirements of this paragraph and are maintained in good condition to the satisfaction of the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection. Minor repairs and alterations may be made to the same standards as the original construction.

(2) All vessels in ocean or coastwise service shall be fitted above the bulkhead deck with fire-resisting bulkheads and doors spaced not more than 131 feet apart which are capable of resisting the passage of flame for a period of at least 1 hour.

(3) All vessels with berth or stateroom accommodations for 50 or more passengers shall be fitted with an approved automatic sprinkling system unless deemed unnecessary by the Commandant. This system shall be so installed as to protect all enclosed parts of the vessel accessible to passengers or crew while the vessel is being navigated, except cargo holds, machinery spaces, and when of fire-resisting construction, toilets, bathrooms, and spaces of similar construction. Where, in the case of a particular vessel, the Commandant does not consider the installation of an automatic water-sprinkling system necessary, such vessel shall be protected in such enclosed parts of the vessel as the Commandant shall deem necessary, with an automatic electric or pneumatic fire-detecting and alarm system, used singly or in combination, of a type approved by the Commandant.

(c) Vessels of less than 100 gross tons, contracted for prior to May 26, 1965, which carry more than 150 passengers, shall meet the following requirements:

(1) Existing structure, arrangements, and materials previously approved will be considered satisfactory so long as they meet the minimum requirements of this paragraph and are maintained in good condition to the satisfaction of the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection. Minor repairs and alterations may be made to the same standards as the original construction.

(2) For such vessels, contracted for on or after November 19, 1952, and prior to May 26, 1965, on an international voyage, the details shall be in general agreement with §§ 72.05-5 through 72.05-60.
