
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter H - Passenger Vessels
#### PART 72 - CONSTRUCTION AND ARRANGEMENT
##### Subpart 72.20 - Accommodations for Officers and Crew
###### § 72.20-90 Vessels contracted for prior to November 19, 1952.

(a) Vessels of 100 gross tons and over, contracted for prior to March 4, 1915, must meet the requirements of this paragraph.

(1) Existing structure, arrangements, materials, and facilities, previously approved will be considered satisfactory so long as they are maintained in a suitable condition to the satisfaction of the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection.

(2) Minor repairs and alterations may be made to the same standard as the original construction provided that in no case will a greater departure from the standards of §§ 72.20-5 through 72.20-55 be permitted than presently exists.

(b) Vessels of 100 gross tons and over, contracted for on or after March 4, 1915, but prior to January 1, 1941, must meet the following requirements:

(1) Existing structure, arrangements, materials, and facilities, previously accepted or approved will be considered satisfactory so long as they are maintained in good condition to the satisfaction of the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection. Minor repairs and alterations may be made to the same standard as the original construction.

(2) Where reasonable and practicable, a minimum of 1 toilet, shower, and washbasin must be provided for each 10 members of the crew or fraction thereof.

(3) Crew spaces must have a volume of at least 3.4 cubic meters (120 cubic feet) and a deck area of at least 1.5 square meters (16 square feet) for each person accommodated.

(4) Each crewmember shall have a separate berth, and berths may not be placed more than 2 high.

(5) Each vessel, which in the ordinary course of its trade makes a voyage of more than 3 days duration between ports and which carries a crew of 12 or more persons, must be provided with a suitable hospital space for the exclusive use of the sick or injured. Berths must be provided in the ratio of 1 berth for each 12 members of the crew or fraction thereof, but the number of berths need not exceed 6.

(6) The crew spaces must be securely constructed, properly lighted, heated, drained, ventilated, equipped, located, and arranged, and, practicable, must be insulated from undue noise and odors.

(c) Vessels of 100 gross tons and over, contracted for on or after January 1, 1941, but prior to November 19, 1952, must meet the requirements of this paragraph.

(1) Existing structure, arrangements, materials, and facilities, previously accepted or approved will be considered satisfactory so long as they are maintained in a good condition to the satisfaction of the Office in Charge, Marine Inspection. Minor repairs and alterations may be made to the same standard as the original construction.

(2) There must be a minimum of 1 toilet, 1 shower, and 1 washbasin for each 8 members of the crew or fraction thereof who are not accommodated in rooms having attached private or semi-private facilities. Washbasins, showers, and bathtubs, if substituted for showers, must be equipped with adequate plumbing, including hot and cold running water.

(3) Crew spaces must have a volume of at least 3.4 cubic meters (120 cubic feet) and a deck of at least 1.5 square meters (16 square feet) for each person accommodated.

(4) Each crewmember shall have a separate berth, and berths may not be placed more than two high.

(5) Each vessel, which in the ordinary course of its trade makes a voyage of more than 3 days duration between ports and which carries a crew of 12 or more persons, must be provided with a suitable hospital space for the exclusive use of the sick or injured. Berths must be provided in the ratio of 1 berth for each 12 members of the crew or fraction thereof, but the member of berths need not exceed 6.

(6) The crew spaces must be securely constructed, properly lighted, heated, drained, ventilated, equipped, located, and arranged, and, where practicable, must be insulated from undue noise heat, and odors.
