
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter H - Passenger Vessels
#### PART 72 - CONSTRUCTION AND ARRANGEMENT
##### Subpart 72.40 - Rails and Guards
###### ยง 72.40-5 Where rails required.

(a) All passenger vessels shall have efficient guard rails or bulwarks on decks and bridges as follows: The height of rails or bulwarks shall be at least 39inches from the deck. At the peripheries of the freeboard and superstructure decks and at the peripheries of all decks accessible to passengers, rails shall be in at least three courses including the top. The opening below the lowest course shall not be more than 9 inches. The courses shall not be more than 15 inches apart. In the case of ships with rounded gunwales the guard rail supports shall be placed on the flat of the deck. On other decks and bridges the rails shall be in at least two courses, including the top, approximately evenly spaced.

(b) Where the height of the rails interferes with the business of the vessel, as in the case of a sport fishing vessel, other arrangements may be specifically approved by the Commandant. However, in general, the effective rail or bulwark height above the deck on which the passengers stand shall be at least 30 inches.

(c) On the passenger decks of ferryboats, excursion vessels, and vessels of a similar type, the space below the top of the rail shall be fitted with suitable wire mesh or the equivalent. Depending upon the type of construction, the lower rail courses may not be required.

(d) Where it can be shown to the satisfaction of the Commandant that a vessel is engaged exclusively in voyages of a sheltered nature, the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section may be relaxed.
