
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter H - Passenger Vessels
#### PART 76 - FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 76.10 - Fire Main System, Details
###### ยง 76.10-10 Fire station hydrants, hose and nozzles

(a) The size of fire hydrants, hoses, and nozzles, and the length of hose required, must be as specified in Table 76.10-5(a) of this subpart.

(b) On vessels of more than 1,500 gross tons, the 2-inch hose and hydrants specified in Table 76.10-5(a) may be replaced with 1-inch hose and hydrants as follows:

(1) The hydrants in interior locations may have wye connections for 1-inch hose. In these cases, the hose must be 75 feet (22.86 meters) in length, and only one hose will be required at each fire station; however, if every interior space can be reached by a 50-foot hose then 50-foot hoses may be installed at each interior fire hydrant; and

(2) The hydrants for external locations may consist of two 1-inch outlets, each with a 1-inch hose, supplied through a wye connection as a substitute.

(c) On vessels of 500 gross tons or more, there must be at least one shore connection to the fire main available to each side of the vessel in an accessible location. Suitable cut-out valves and check valves must be provided. Suitable adaptors also must be provided for furnishing the vessel's shore connections with couplings mating those on the shoreside fire lines. Vessels of 500 gross tons or more on an international voyage must be provided with at least one international shore connection complying with ASTM F 1121 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 76.01-2). Facilities must be available that enable an international shore connection to be used on either side of the vessel.

(d) Fire hydrants must be of sufficient number and so located that any part of the vessel accessible to the passengers or crew while the vessel is being navigated, other than main machinery spaces and cargo holds, may be reached with at least two streams of water from separate outlets, at least one of which must be from a single length of hose. All areas of the main machinery spaces and cargo holds must be capable of being reached by at least two streams of water, each of which must be from a single length of hose from separate outlets. This requirement need not apply to shaft alleys containing no assigned space for the stowage of combustibles. Fire hydrants must be numbered as required by ยง 78.47-20 of this subchapter.

(e) All parts of the fire main located on exposed decks must either be protected against freezing or be fitted with cut-out valves and drain valves so that the entire exposed parts of such piping may be shut off and drained in freezing weather. Except when closed to prevent freezing, such valves must be sealed open.

(f) The outlet at each fire hydrant must be provided with a cock or valve fitted in such a position that the firehose may be removed while the fire main is under pressure. In addition, the outlet must be limited to any position from the horizontal to the vertical pointing downward, so that the hose will lead horizontally or downward to minimize the possibility of kinking.

(g) Each fire hydrant must have at least one length of firehose, a spanner wrench, and a hose rack or other device for stowing the hose.

(h) Firehoses must be connected to the outlets at all times. However, on open decks where no protection is afforded to the hose in heavy weather, or where the hose may be liable to damage from the handling of cargo, the hose may be temporarily removed from the hydrant and stowed in an accessible nearby location.

(i) A firehose must not be used for any purpose other than fire extinguishing and fire drills.

(j) Each firehose on each hydrant must have a combination solid stream and water spray firehose nozzle that meets the requirements in 46 CFR 162.027. Firehose nozzles previously approved under subpart 162.027 of this chapter may be retained so long as they are maintained in good condition to the satisfaction of the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection.

(k) Straight stream firehose nozzles approved under 46 CFR 162.027 must have low-velocity water spray applicators for-

(1) Two firehoses within the accommodation and service areas; and

(2) Each firehose within propulsion machinery spaces containing an oil-fired boiler, internal combustion machinery, or an oil fuel unit on a vessel on an international voyage or on any vessel of 1,000 gross tons or more. The length of each applicator must be not more than 1.8 meters (6 feet).

(l) Fixed brackets, hooks, or other means for stowing an applicator must be next to each fire hydrant that has an applicator under paragraph (k) of this section.

(m) Fire hydrants, nozzles, and other fittings must have threads to accommodate the hose connections noted in paragraph (l) of this section.

(n) Firehose and couplings must be as follows:

(1) Fire station hydrant connections must be brass, bronze, or other equivalent metal. Couplings must either-
