
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter H - Passenger Vessels
#### PART 76 - FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 76.10 - Fire Main System, Details
###### § 76.10-90 Installations contracted for prior to May 26, 1965.

(a) Installations contracted for prior to May 26, 1965, shall meet the following requirements:

(1) Except as specifically modified by this paragraph, the requirements of §§ 76.10-5 through 76.10-15 shall be complied with insofar as the number and general type of equipment is concerned. Existing equipment, except firehose nozzles and low-velocity water spray applicators, previously approved but not meeting the applicable requirements of §§ 76.10-5 through 76.10-15 may be continued in service so long as they are maintained in good condition to the satisfaction of the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection. Minor repairs, alterations, and replacements may be permitted to the same standards as the original installation. However, all new installations or major replacements shall meet the applicable requirements in this part.

(2) All vessels contracted for prior to November 19, 1952, shall be fitted with fire pumps, hoses, and nozzles in accordance with table 76.10-90(a)(2).

(3) When reasonable and practicable, where two or more fire pumps are required, they shall not all be located in the same space. Vessels on an international voyage shall, however, comply with the requirements of § 76.10-5(h).

(4) The general requirements of § 76.10-5(c) through (h), § 76.10-10(d) through (i), and § 76.10-15, shall be complied with insofar as is reasonable and practicable. In addition, vessels on an international voyage shall comply with the requirements of § 76.10-5(b).

(5) Vessels on an international voyage shall comply with the requirements of § 76.10-3.

(6) Firehose nozzles and low-velocity spray applicators must meet the requirements of §§ 76.10-10(j), 76.10-10(k), and 76.10-10(l)

(b) [Reserved]
