
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter H - Passenger Vessels
#### PART 76 - FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 76.15 - Carbon Dioxide Extinguishing Systems, Details
###### § 76.15-90 Installations contracted for prior to November 19, 1952.

(a) Installations contracted for prior to November 19, 1952, shall meet the following requirements:

(1) Existing arrangements, materials, and facilities previously approved shall be considered satisfactory so long as they meet the minimum requirements of this paragraph and they are maintained in good condition to the satisfaction of the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection. Minor repairs and alterations may be made to the same standards as the original installation.

(2) The details of the systems shall be in general agreement with §§ 76.15-5 through 76.15-40 insofar as is reasonable and practicable, with the exception of § 76.15-5(d) (1) through (3) covering spaces other than cargo spaces, which systems may be installed in accordance with paragraphs (a) (3) through (6) of this section. However, the foregoing exception shall not be permitted for vessels on an international voyage.

(3) In boilerrooms, the bilges shall be protected by a system discharging principally below the floor plates. Perforated pipe may be used in lieu of discharge nozzles for such systems. The number of pounds of carbon dioxide shall be equal to the gross volume of the boiler room taken to the top of the boilers divided by 36. In the event of an elevated boilerroom which drains to the machinery space, the system shall be installed in the engine room bilge and the gross volume shall be taken to the flat on which the boilers are installed.

(4) In machinery spaces where main propulsion internal combustion machinery is installed, the number of pounds of carbon dioxide required shall be equal to the gross volume of the space taken to the underside of the deck forming the hatch opening divided by 22.

(5) In miscellaneous spaces other than cargo or main machinery spaces, the number of pounds of carbon dioxide required shall be equal to the gross volume of the space divided by 22.

(6) Branch lines to the various spaces other than cargo and similar spaces, shall be as noted in table 76.15-90(a)(6). This table is based on cylinders having discharge outlets and siphon tubes of-inch diameter.

(b) [Reserved]
