
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter H - Passenger Vessels
#### PART 76 - FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 76.27 - Fire Detection and Alarm System, Details
###### § 76.27-70 Application of SOLAS and FSS Code.

When the design, manufacture, installation, and operation of a fire detection and alarm system is to be in accordance with SOLAS Chapter II-2, Part C, Regulation 7 and FSS Code Chapter 9 (both incorporated by reference, see § 76.01-2) as allowed by § 76.27-1(b)(2), the following requirements apply:

(a) The periodic testing of fire detection and alarm systems required in SOLAS Chapter II-2, Regulation 7.3.2 must be conducted as part of the annual inspection mandated in subpart 71.25 of this subchapter.

(b) Control stations must be included among the spaces to be protected by a fire detection and alarm system under SOLAS Chapter II-2, Regulation 7.5.3.

(c) The Commanding Officer of the U.S. Coast Guard Marine Safety Center will determine whether a cargo space in a passenger vessel is inaccessible and whether or not it is reasonable to provide fire detection for the space under SOLAS Chapter II-2, Regulation 7.6.

(d) The Commanding Officer of the U.S. Coast Guard Marine Safety Center will determine whether or not there is risk of fire originating in concealed and inaccessible places that otherwise would require access of a fire patrol under SOLAS Chapter II-2, Regulation 7.8.2.

(e) Any detectors operated by factors other than heat, smoke, or other products of combustion, or flame as addressed in FSS Code Chapter 9.2.3.1.1, may be used if they are approved types.

(f) Notwithstanding the provisions of FSS Code Chapter 9.2.3.1.2, the required sensitivity and other performance criteria of smoke detectors must be as set forth in 46 CFR 161.002.

(g) Notwithstanding the provisions of FSS Code Chapter 9.2.3.1.3, the required sensitivity and other performance criteria of heat detectors must be as set forth in 46 CFR 161.002.

(h) As addressed in FSS Code Chapter 9.2.4.1.3, when a fire detection and alarm system does not include means for identifying each detector individually, no section of detectors and manually operated call points may include more than 25 enclosed spaces.

(i) Notwithstanding the spacing set forth in FSS Code Chapter 9, Table 9.1, fire detectors must be placed in accordance with spacing requirements as tested and approved.

(j) Footnotes to SOLAS Chapter II-2, Regulation 7.9 and FSS Code Chapter 9.2.51 refer to the Code on Alarms and Indicators, 2009, as adopted by IMO Resolution A.1021(26) (incorporated by reference, see § 76.01-2). The provisions of the Code on Alarms and Indicators are recommended but not required under the option in § 76.27-1(b)(2).
