
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter H - Passenger Vessels
#### PART 76 - FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 76.27 - Fire Detection and Alarm System, Details
###### ยง 76.27-80 Installations contracted for on or after November 19, 1952 and prior to July 22, 2021.
####### Operation and installation.

(b)(1) The system must be so arranged and installed that the presence of a fire in any of the protected spaces will be automatically registered visibly and audibly in the pilothouse or fire control station. The visible notice must indicate the zone in which the alarm originated. On vessels of more than 150 feet (45.72 meters) in length, there must also be an audible alarm in the engine room.

(2) The detectors, the fire detection cabinet, and alarms must be of an approved type.

(3) In general, the detectors must be rated not lower than 135 &#xB0;F and not higher than 165 &#xB0;F. However, in spaces where a high ambient temperature may be expected, detectors must be rated not lower than 175 &#xB0;F and not higher than 225 &#xB0;F.

(4) The fire detection system must be used for no other purpose, except that it may be integrated with the manual alarm system.

(5) All wiring and electrical circuits and equipment must meet the applicable requirements of 46 CFR chapter I, subchapter J (Electrical Engineering) of this chapter.

(6) A framed chart or diagram must be installed in the wheelhouse or control station adjacent to the detecting cabinet indicating the location of the various detecting zones and giving instructions for the operation, maintenance, and testing of the system. This chart, or a separate card or booklet to be kept near the chart, must have tabulated spaces for the date and signature of the licensed officer of the vessel who must witness or conduct the periodic tests.

(7) The audible alarms must be identified as required by ยง 78.47-13 of this subchapter.
