
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter H - Passenger Vessels
#### PART 76 - FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 76.30 - Pneumatic Fire Detection System, Details
###### ยง 76.30-15 Operation and installation.

(a) The system must be so arranged and installed that the presence of a fire in any of the protected spaces will automatically be registered visibly and audibly in the pilothouse or fire control station. The visible notice must automatically indicate the zone in which the alarm originated. On vessels greater than 150 feet in length, there must also be an audible alarm in the engine room.

(b) The tubing or detecting devices, pneumatic-electric converting units, detecting cabinets, and alarms must be of an approved type.

(c) In general, the system must be adjusted to operate at a temperature rise of approximately 40 &#xB0;F . per minute at the center of the circuit.

(d) The fire detection system must be used for no other purpose except that it may be incorporated with the manual alarm system.

(e) All wiring and electrical circuits and equipment must meet the applicable requirements of subchapter J (Electrical Engineering) of this chapter.

(f) A framed chart or diagram must be installed in the wheelhouse or control station adjacent to the detecting cabinet indicating the location of the various detecting zones and giving instructions for the operation, maintenance, and testing of the system. This chart, or a separate card or booklet to be kept near the chart, must have tabulated spaces for the date and signature of the licensed officer of the vessel who must witness or conduct the periodic tests.

(g) The audible alarms must be identified as required by ยง 78.47-13 of this subchapter.
