
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter H - Passenger Vessels
#### PART 76 - FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 76.33 - Smoke Detection System, Details
###### ยง 76.33-20 Operation and installation.

(a) The system must be so arranged and installed that the presence of smoke in any of the protected spaces will automatically be indicated visually to an observer directly in front of the detection cabinet. The visible notice must automatically indicate the zone in which the smoke originated. The detection cabinet must normally be located in the pilothouse or fire control station. On vessels greater than 5,000 gross tons, there must also be an automatic audible alarm in the wheelhouse together with an auxiliary audible alarm in the engine room.

(b) If the detection cabinet is not located in the pilothouse or fire control station, it must be located in convenient proximity to the valve control station of the extinguishing system. In this case, there must be in the pilothouse or fire control station automatic visual alarms, one for each zone in which an alarm may originate, as well as an automatic audible alarm. There must also be an auxiliary audible alarm in the engine room. For installations contracted for on or after January 1, 1962, where detection cabinets are not located in the pilothouse or an adjacent fire control station having direct access to the pilothouse, an efficient means of direct communication must be provided between the pilothouse and the stations where the detection cabinets are located.

(c) No exhaust from the detection cabinet may be discharged in the vicinity of the cabinet to permit the detection of fire by odor. Instead, the exhaust must be directed to the outside. Vessels must comply with this requirement not later than July 22, 2021.

(d) The smoke detection system must be used for no other purpose except that it may be incorporated with the fire extinguishing system to the spaces covered by the smoke detection system.

(e) The accumulators, detection cabinet, interconnecting valves with the fire extinguishing system, alarms, and indicating devices must be of an approved type.

(f) All wiring and electrical circuits and equipment must meet the applicable requirements of subchapter J (Electrical Engineering) of this chapter.

(g) A framed chart or diagram must be installed adjacent to the detection cabinet and auxiliary panel indicating the location of the various zones and giving instructions for the operation, maintenance, and testing of the system. The chart at the cabinet location or a separate card or booklet to be kept near the chart, must have tabulated spaces for the date and signature of the licensed officer of the vessel who must witness or conduct the periodic tests.

(h) The audible smoke detection alarms must be identified as required by ยง 78.47-13 of this subchapter.
