
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter H - Passenger Vessels
#### PART 76 - FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 76.35 - Manual Alarm System, Details
###### ยง 76.35-15 Operation and installation.

(a) The system must be so arranged and installed that the presence of a fire may be reported from any of the protected spaces and be automatically registered visibly and audibly in the pilothouse or fire control station. The visible notice must indicate the zone in which the alarm originated. There must also be an audible alarm in the engine room.

(b) The manual alarm stations, cabinet, and alarms must be of an approved type.

(c) The manual alarm system must be used for no other purpose, except that it may be incorporated with the fire detection system.

(d) All wiring and electrical circuits and equipment must meet the applicable requirements of subchapter J (Electrical Engineering) of this chapter.

(e) A framed chart or diagram must be installed in the wheelhouse or control station adjacent to the detection cabinet indicating the location of the various detection zones and giving instructions for the operation, maintenance, and testing of the system. This chart, or a separate booklet to be kept near the chart, must have tabulated spaces for the date and signature of the licensed officer of the vessel who must witness or conduct the periodic tests.

(f) The manual alarm stations and bells must be identified as required by ยง 78.47-10 of this subchapter.
