
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter H - Passenger Vessels
#### PART 78 - OPERATIONS
##### Subpart 78.17 - Tests, Drills, and Inspections
###### ยง 78.17-35 Hatches and other openings.

(a) It shall be the responsibility of the master to assure himself before leaving protected waters that all exposed cargo hatches of his vessel are closed and made properly tight.

(b) The following doors, portable plates, ports, and other openings shall be kept closed while the vessel is being navigated, and shall be closed before the vessel commences a voyage:

(1) Watertight doors between cargo spaces prescribed in ยง 170.275 of this chapter.

(2) Portable plates in watertight bulkheads prescribed in ยง 171.111(b) of this chapter.

(3) Gangway, cargo, and coaling ports fitted below the margin line that is determined in accordance with ยง 171.015 of this chapter.

(4) On ocean, coastwise, or Great Lakes vessels of 150 gross tons and over, all opening type port lights in a 'tween deck, if the sill of any port light in that 'tween deck, is below a line drawn parallel to the bulkhead deck at side and having its lowest point 4feet plus 2percent of the breadth of the vessel above the water when the vessel departs from port. The Commandant may indicate the limiting mean draft which would allow such port lights to be opened at sea.

(5) Port lights that are not accessible during navigation. Dead covers on such port lights shall also be secured.

(6) Port lights in spaces appropriated alternately to the carriage of cargo and passengers, when cargo is carried. Dead covers on such port lights shall also be secured.

(c) The time of opening and closing of hatches and other openings noted in this section shall be entered in the official logbook. In the event that the master at his discretion does not secure the hatches, a notation of this fact shall be made in the official logbook. If it becomes essential for the safety of the vessel to open any of the fittings noted in this section while at sea, the circumstances and the time of opening and closing shall be entered in the official logbook.

(d) The time of opening, closing, and securing, at sea, of watertight doors fitted between bunkers for the purpose of trimming coal, shall be entered in the official logbook.
