
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter H - Passenger Vessels
#### PART 78 - OPERATIONS
##### Subpart 78.30 - Lookouts, Pilothouse Watch, Patrolmen, and Watchmen
###### § 78.30-10 Supervised patrol.

(a) The provisions of this section shall apply to all vessels on an international voyage, and to all other vessels having berthed or stateroom accommodations for passengers. This section shall be applicable at all times when passengers are on board.

(b) Between the hours of 10 p.m. and 6 a.m., a supervised patrol shall be maintained so as to completely cover all parts of the vessel accessible to passengers or crew, excepting occupied sleeping accommodations and machinery spaces and similar spaces where a regular watch is maintained.

(c) Clocks, keys, and recording apparatus shall be of an approved type. The station boxes shall have seals placed over the securing screws in order to leave evidence of removal or tampering.

(d) Clocks or key stations shall be so arranged throughout the vessel so as to assure complete coverage of all accessible spaces required by paragraph (b) of this section. The number and location of recording stations, the order in which they are visited, and the number undertaken by one patrolman shall be specifically approved. The stations shall be numbered as required by § 78.47-23. Sufficient watchmen shall be available so that each space will be covered at least once in every hour except as follows:

(1) On existing vessels not constructed in general agreement with §§ 72.05-5 through 72.05-60, of this subchapter, the supervised patrol shall cover all spaces required by paragraph (b) of this section at least once in every 20 minutes.

(2) Public spaces constructed in general agreement with §§ 72.05-5 through 72.05-60, of this subchapter, shall have either an approved fire detecting system installed in such spaces or the supervised patrol shall cover these spaces at least once in every 20 minutes.

(e) The patrolman shall report to the bridge at least once an hour on vessels where the supervised patrol system is not equipped with a recording apparatus in the control station. In vessels requiring more than one patrol route, one patrolman may contact others and make a joint report to the bridge. Failure of a patrolman to follow a prescribed route, or to record each station within the specified time, shall be entered on the record along with the reason for the irregularity.

(f) The patrolman while on duty shall wear a distinctive uniform or badge, and shall have in his possession at all times an efficient flashlight.

(g) A patrolman on duty shall have no other tasks assigned to him.
