
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter H - Passenger Vessels
#### PART 78 - OPERATIONS
##### Subpart 78.37 - Logbook Entries
###### § 78.37-5 Actions required to be logged.

The actions and observations noted in this section shall be entered in the official log book. This section contains no requirements which are not made in other portions of this subchapter, the items being merely grouped together for convenience.

(a) Onboard training, musters, and drills: held in accordance with subchapter W (Lifesaving Appliances and Arrangements) of this chapter.

(b) Watertight door operation: Daily and Weekly. See § 78.17-3.

(c) Valve and closing appliance operation: Weekly. See § 78.17-5.

(d) Loudspeaker system: Weekly. See § 78.17-10.

(e) Steering gear, whistle, and means of communication: Prior to departure. See § 78.17-15.

(f) Drafts and load line markings: Prior to leaving port, ocean, coastwise, and Great Lakes services only. See § 78.17-20.

(g) Verification of vessel compliance with applicable stability requirements. After loading and prior to departure and at all other time necessary to assure the safety of the vessel. See § 78.17-22.

(h) Loading doors. Where applicable, every closing and any opening when not docked. See § 78.17-33.

(i) Hatches and other openings: All openings and closings, or leaving port without closing, except vessels on protected waters. See § 78.17-35.

(j) Emergency lighting and power systems: Weekly and semiannually. See § 78.17-45.

(k) Smoke Detecting System: Once every three months. See § 78.17-65.

(l) Fuel oil data: Upon receipt of fuel oil on board. See § 78.17-75.

(m) Cargo gear inspections: At least once a month. See § 71.47-70 of this subchapter.
