
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter H - Passenger Vessels
#### PART 78 - OPERATIONS
##### Subpart 78.45 - Display of Plans
###### ยง 78.45-1 When required.

(a) Vessels of 1,000 gross tons and over, and vessels of any tonnage on an international voyage shall have permanently exhibited for the guidance of the officer in charge of the vessel the following plans:

(1) General arrangement plans showing for each deck the fire control stations, the various sections enclosed by fire-resisting bulkheads, together with particulars of the fire alarms, detecting systems, the sprinkler installation (if any), the fire extinguishing appliances, means of access to different compartments, decks, etc., and the ventilating systems including particulars of the master fan controls, the positions of dampers, the location of the remote means of stopping fans, and identification numbers of the ventilating fans serving each section. If cargo compartments are "specially suitable for vehicles," they shall be so indicated on the plan. Alternatively, at the discretion of the Commandant, the listed details may be set out in a different medium, such as a booklet or on computer software, provided that the details are available to each officer and a written copy is retained on board at all times and is accessible during emergencies.

(2) For vessels constructed on or after September 30, 1997, and for existing vessels which have their plans redrawn, the symbols used to identify the aforementioned details shall be in accordance with IMO Assembly resolution A.654(16). The identical symbols can be found in ASTM Adjunct F 1626.

(3) Plans showing clearly for each deck and hold the boundaries of the watertight compartments, the openings therein with the means of closure and position of any controls thereof, and the arrangements for the correction of any list due to flooding.

(4) The aforementioned information required for this section shall be kept up-to-date, any alteration being recorded in the applicable medium as soon as practicable.
