
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Cargo and Miscellaneous Vessels
#### PART 91 - INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart 91.01 - General Provisions; Certificate of Inspection
###### ยง 91.01-10 Period of validity for a Certificate of Inspection.

(a) Certificates of inspection will be issued for a period of 5 years. Application may be made by the master, owner, or agent for inspection and issuance of a new certificate of inspection at any time during the period of validity of the current certificate.

(b) Certificates of inspection may be revoked or suspended by the Coast Guard where such process is authorized by law. This may occur if the vessel does not meet the requirements of law or regulations in this chapter or if there is a failure to maintain the safety requirements requisite to the issuance of a certificate of inspection.

(c) The master or owner of a seagoing barge for which inspection and certification is required by 46 CFR 90.05-25(a), or the master or owner's agent, may apply for a certificate of inspection that is valid for a specific period less than 5 years, or for a specific voyage. The certificate will describe the conditions under which it is issued, and will be endorsed as applying to an unmanned seagoing barge. Paragraph (c) of this section applies if the seagoing barge-

(1) Makes a voyage beyond the Boundary Line for the sole purpose of changing employment; or

(2) Makes a voyage beyond the Boundary Line only infrequently and after doing so returns to its port of departure.
