
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Cargo and Miscellaneous Vessels
#### PART 91 - INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart 91.25 - Inspection for Certification
###### ยง 91.25-25 Hull equipment.

(a) At each inspection for certification and periodic inspection, the inspectors shall conduct the following tests and inspections of hull equipment:

(1) All watertight doors shall be operated locally by manual power and also by hydraulic or electric power if so fitted. Where remote control is fitted, the doors shall also be operated by the remote control apparatus.

(2) The remote controls of all valves shall be operated.

(3) The owner, operator or master shall provide the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection with all current valid certificates and registers of cargo gear issued by an organization recognized by the Commandant under ยง 31.10-16.

(b) Every acceptable cargo gear certificate and/or register shall be properly executed by a person authorized to do so and shall:

(1) Certify as to the tests and examinations conducted;

(2) Show the dates on which the tests and examinations were conducted; and

(3) Indicate that the cargo gear described in the certificate or register complies with the standards of the organization or association authorized to issue the certificate or register.

(c) Competent persons for the purposes of this section are defined as-

(1) Surveyors of a classification society recognized by the Commandant under 46 U.S.C. 3316.

(2) Surveyors of a cargo gear organization recognized by the Commandant under ยง 31.10-16.

(3) Responsible officials or employees of the testing laboratories, companies, or organizations who conduct tests of pieces of loose cargo gear, wire rope, or the annealing of gear as may be required by the standards of the organization or association authorized to issue the certificate or register.

(d) The registers issued in connection with cargo gear certification must have all required entries fully completed as of the dates indicated, shall be kept current, and shall include the following:

(1) A register of the cargo handling machinery and the gear accessory thereto carried on the vessel named therein;

(2) Certification of the testing and examination of winches, derricks, and their accessory gear;

(3) Certification of the testing and examination of cranes, hoists, and their accessory gear;

(4) Certification of the testing and examination of chains, rings, hooks, shackles, swivels, and blocks;

(5) Certification of the testing and examination of wire rope;

(6) Certification of the heat-treatment of chains, rings, hooks, shackles, and swivels which require such treatment; and,

(7) Certification of the annual thorough examinations of gear not required to be periodically heat-treated.
