
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Cargo and Miscellaneous Vessels
#### PART 91 - INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart 91.27 - Annual and Periodic Inspections
###### ยง 91.27-1 Annual and periodic inspections.
####### Periodic inspection.

(b)Your vessel must undergo a periodic inspection within 3 months before or after the second or third anniversary of the date of your vessel's Certificate of Inspection. This periodic inspection will take the place of an annual inspection.

(1) You must contact the cognizant Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection to schedule an inspection at a time and place which he or she approves. No written application is required.

(2) The scope of the periodic inspection is the same as that for the inspection for certification, as specified in ยง 91.25-10. The Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection will insure that the vessel is in satisfactory condition and fit for the service for which it is intended. If your vessel passes the periodic inspection, the marine inspector will endorse your current Certificate of Inspection.

(3) If the periodic inspection reveals deficiencies in your vessel's maintenance, you must make any or all repairs or improvements within the time period specified by the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection.

(4) Nothing in this subpart limits the marine inspector from conducting such tests or inspections he or she deems necessary to be assured of the vessel's seaworthiness.
