
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Cargo and Miscellaneous Vessels
#### PART 91 - INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart 91.27 - Annual and Periodic Inspections
###### § 91.27-13 Alternative annual inspection for offshore supply vessels less than 400 gross tons in foreign ports.

(a) The owner or operator of an offshore supply vessel of less than 400 gross tons, except liftboats as defined in § 90.10-20 of this chapter, may request authorization to conduct an alternative annual inspection in place of the annual inspection described in § 91.27-1(a) of this chapter. You must submit your request to the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection responsible for conducting inspections in the country in which the vessel is operating and will be examined. To qualify for the alternative annual inspection, you must meet the following requirements:

(1) The request for authorization must be in writing and received by the cognizant Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection before the end of the twelfth month of each COI anniversary year.

(2) The vessel is expected to be continuously employed outside of the United States during the 3 months before and after each anniversary date of the issuance of the COI.

(b) In determining whether to grant authorization for the alternative annual inspection, the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection will consider the following:

(1) Information contained in previous inspection and drydock examination reports, including the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection's recommendation for participation in the alternative midperiod examination program, and the alternative annual inspection program.

(2) The nature, number, and severity of any marine casualties or accidents, as defined in § 4.03-1 of this chapter, which the vessel has experienced in the last 3 years.

(3) The nature, number, and severity of any outstanding inspection requirements for the vessel.

(4) The owner or operator's history of compliance and cooperation in the alternative midperiod examination program and the alternative annual inspection program, which includes-

(i) The prompt correction of deficiencies;

(ii) The reliability of previously submitted alternative examination and annual inspection reports; and

(iii) The reliability of representations that the vessel under consideration will be, and other vessels previously examined under this section were, employed outside of the United States for the 3 month period before and after each anniversary date.

(c) If authorization is granted, the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection must provide the applicant written authorization to proceed with the alternative annual inspection, including special instructions when appropriate.

(d) The following conditions must be met for the alternative annual inspection to be accepted by the Coast Guard in lieu of conducting an annual inspection in accordance with § 91.27-1(a) of this subpart.

(1) The alternative annual inspection must be conducted within 3 months before and after each anniversary date.

(2) The alternative annual inspection must be of the scope detailed in § 91.27-1(a) of this subpart and must be conducted by the vessel's master, operator, or a designated representative of the owner or operator.

(3) Upon completion of the alternative annual inspection, the person or persons conducting the inspection must prepare a comprehensive report describing the conditions found. This inspection report must contain sufficient detail to allow an evaluation to be made by the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection to whom the report is submitted that the vessel is fit for the service and route specified on the Certificate of Inspection. The report must include reports and receipts documenting the servicing of lifesaving and fire protection equipment, and any photographs or sketches necessary to clarify unusual circumstances. Each person preparing the report must sign it and certify that the information contained therein is complete and accurate.

(4) Unless the vessel's master participated in the alternative annual inspection and the preparation of the inspection report, the master must review the report for completeness and accuracy. The master must sign the report to indicate review and forward it to the vessel's owner or operator who requested authorization to conduct the inspection.

(5) The owner or operator of an offshore supply vessel inspected under this subpart must review and submit the report required by paragraph (d)(3) of this section to the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection who authorized the owner or operator to conduct the alternative annual inspection. The inspection report must be received by the cognizant Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection before the first day of the fifth month following the anniversary date. The forwarding letter or endorsement must be certified and contain the following information-

(i) That the person or persons who conducted the inspection acted on behalf of the vessel's owner or operator;

(ii) That the inspection report was reviewed by the owner or operator;

(iii) That the discrepancies noted during the inspection have been corrected or will be corrected within a stated time frame; and

(iv) That the owner or operator has sufficient personal knowledge of conditions aboard the vessel at the time of the inspection or has made necessary inquiries to justify forming a belief that the inspection report is true and correct.

(e) The form of certification required under this subpart is as follows:

(f) Deficiencies and hazards discovered during an alternative annual inspection conducted pursuant to this section must be corrected or eliminated, if practical, before the inspection report is submitted to the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection in accordance with paragraph (d)(5) of this section. Deficiencies and hazards that are not corrected or eliminated by the time the inspection report is submitted must be listed in the report as "outstanding." Upon receipt of an inspection report indicating outstanding deficiencies or hazards, the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection will inform the owner or operator of the vessel in writing of the time period in which to correct or eliminate the deficiencies or hazards and the method for establishing that the corrections have been accomplished. Where a deficiency or hazard remains uncorrected or uneliminated after the expiration of the time specified for correction or elimination, the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection will initiate appropriate enforcement measures.

(g) Upon receipt of the report required by paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection must evaluate it and make the following determination:

(1) Whether the alternative annual inspection is accepted in lieu of the annual inspection required by § 91.27-1(a) of this subpart.

(2) Whether the vessel is in satisfactory condition.

(3) Whether the vessel continues to be reasonably fit for its intended service and route. The Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection may request any additional information needed to make the determinations required by this section. The Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection will inform the owner or operator in writing of the determinations required by this section.

(h) If the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection determines, in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section, that the alternative annual inspection is not accepted in lieu of the annual inspection required by § 91.27-1(a) of this subpart, the vessel must be reinspected by the cognizant Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection as soon as practical.

(i) If the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection determines, in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section, that the alternative annual inspection is accepted in lieu of the annual inspection required by § 91.27-1(a) of this subpart, the master must complete the applicable COI endorsement.
