
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Cargo and Miscellaneous Vessels
#### PART 92 - CONSTRUCTION AND ARRANGEMENT
##### Subpart 92.20 - Accommodations for Officers and Crew
###### ยง 92.20-35 Hospital space.

(a) Each vessel which in the ordinary course of its trade makes voyages of more than 3 days duration between ports and which carries a crew of 12 or more, must be provided with a hospital space. This space must be situated with due regard to the comfort of the sick so that they may receive proper attention in all weathers.

(b) The hospital must be suitably separated from other spaces and must be used for the care of the sick and for no other purpose.

(c) The hospital must be fitted with berths in the ratio of 1 berth to every 12 members of the crew or portion thereof who are not berthed in single occupancy rooms, but the number of berths need not exceed 6.

(d) The hospital must have a toilet, washbasin, and bathtub or shower conveniently situated. Other necessary suitable equipment such as a clothes locker, a table, and a seat shall be provided.

(e) On vessels in which the crew is berthed in single occupancy rooms, a hospital space will not be required, provided that one room is designated and fitted for use as a treatment or isolation room. This room must meet the following standards:

(1) The room must be available for immediate medical use; and

(2) A washbasin with hot and cold running water must be installed either in or immediately adjacent to the space and other required sanitary facilities must be conveniently located.
