
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Cargo and Miscellaneous Vessels
#### PART 92 - CONSTRUCTION AND ARRANGEMENT
##### Subpart 92.20 - Accommodations for Officers and Crew
###### § 92.20-90 Vessels contracted for prior to November 19, 1952.

(a) Vessels of less than 100 gross tons, contracted for prior to November 19, 1952, must meet the general intent of § 92.20-5 and in addition must meet the following requirements:

(1) Existing structure, arrangements, materials, and facilities, previously accepted or approved will be considered satisfactory so long as they are maintained in a suitable condition to the satisfaction of the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection.

(2) Minor repairs and alterations may be made to the same standard as the original construction.

(b) Vessels of 100 gross tons and over, contracted for prior to March 4, 1915, must meet the following requirements:

(1) Existing structure, arrangements, materials, and facilities, previously approved will be considered satisfactory so long as they are maintained in good condition to the satisfaction of the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection.

(2) Minor repairs and alterations may be made to the same standard as the original construction, provided that in no case will a greater departure from the standards of §§ 92.20-5 through 92.20-55 be permitted than presently exists.

(c) Vessels of 100 gross tons and over, contracted for on or after March 4, 1915, but prior to January 1, 1941, must meet the following requirements:

(1) Existing structure, arrangements, materials, and facilities, previously approved will be considered satisfactory so long as they are maintained in a suitable condition to the satisfaction of the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection. Minor repairs and alterations may be made to the same standard as the original construction.

(2) Each vessel, which in the ordinary course of its trade makes a voyage of more than 3 days duration between ports and which carries a crew of 12 or more persons, must be provided with a suitable hospital space for the exclusive use of the sick or injured.

(3) The crew spaces must be securely constructed, properly lighted, heated, drained, ventilated, equipped, located, arranged, and insulated from undue noise, heat, and odors.

(d) Vessels of 100 gross tons and over, contracted for on or after January 1, 1941, but prior to November 19, 1952, must meet the following requirements:

(1) Existing structure, arrangements, materials, and facilities, previously approved will be considered satisfactory so long as they are maintained in a suitable condition to the satisfaction of the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection. Minor repairs and alterations may be made to the same standard as the original construction.

(2) Washbasins, showers, and bathtubs if substituted for showers, must be equipped with adequate plumbing including hot and cold running water.

(3) Each crewmember must have a separate berth, and berths may not be placed more than 2 high.

(4) Each vessel, which in the ordinary course of its trade makes a voyage of more than 3 days duration between ports and which carries a crew of 12 or more persons, must be provided with a suitable hospital space for the exclusive use of the sick or injured. Berths shall be provided in the ratio of 1 berth for each 12 members of the crew or fraction thereof, but the number of berths need not exceed 6.

(5) The crew spaces must be securely constructed, properly lighted, heated, drained, ventilated, equipped, located, arranged, and insulated from undue noise, heat, and odors.
