
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Cargo and Miscellaneous Vessels
#### PART 95 - FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 95.05 - Fire Detection and Extinguishing Equipment
###### ยง 95.05-10 Fixed fire extinguishing systems.

(a) Approved fire extinguishing systems may be used or required in locations delineated in this section on the following vessels. Previously approved installations may be retained as long as they are maintained in good condition to the satisfaction of the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection.

(1) On all self-propelled vessels other than yachts and fishing vessels.

(2) On all barges with sleeping accommodations for more than 12 persons.

(b) A fixed carbon dioxide or other approved system must be installed in all cargo compartments and tanks for combustible cargo, except for vessels engaged exclusively in the carriage of coal or grain in bulk. For cargo compartments and tanks fitted with a fixed carbon dioxide or other approved system a deck foam system is not required, instead of the carbon dioxide system or other approved system, the following systems may be used or required in special cases:

(1) A fixed foam system may be used in cargo tanks.

(2) A water sprinkling system may be required, and the details of such system will be subject to special approval, in cases where a cargo is normally accessible and is considered to be a part of the working or living quarters.

(3) Spaces "specially suitable for vehicles" must be fitted with an approved carbon dioxide system. Alternately, the Commandant may permit the installation of an approved water sprinkler system or other suitable system.

(c) On vessels other than motorboats, a fixed carbon dioxide or other approved system must be installed in all lamp and paint lockers, oil rooms, and similar spaces.

(d) On vessels of 1,000 gross tons and over, contracted for on or after November 19, 1952, or where conversion from coal to oil is contracted for on or after November 19, 1952, a fixed carbon dioxide, foam, or water spray system shall be installed in all spaces containing oil fired boilers, either main or auxiliary, or their fuel oil units, valves, or manifolds in the line between the settling tanks and the boilers.

(e) Fire extinguishing systems shall be provided for internal combustion installations in accordance with the following:

(1) If a fixed fire-extinguishing system is installed to protect an internal combustion propelling machinery installation, the system shall be of the carbon dioxide type.

(2) On vessels of 1,000 gross tons and over on an international voyage, the construction or conversion of which is contracted for on or after May 26, 1965, a fixed carbon dioxide system shall be installed in all spaces containing internal combustion or gas turbine main propulsion machinery, auxiliaries with an aggregate power of 1,000 b. hp. or greater, or their fuel oil units, including purifiers, valves, and manifolds.

(3) On vessels, the construction, conversion or automation of which is contracted for on or after July 1, 1968, the systems shall be in accordance with the following:

(i) A fixed carbon dioxide system shall be installed in any space containing machinery using fuel having a flashpoint of less than 110 &#xB0;F.

(ii) On vessels of 1,000 gross tons and greater, a fixed carbon dioxide or clean agent system as described in 46 CFR subpart 95.16 must be installed in any space that contains internal combustion or gas turbine main propulsion machinery, or auxiliary machinery with an aggregate power of 1,000 b.h.p. or greater, or the fuel oil units of such machinery, including purifiers, valves, and manifolds.

(f) On vessels contracted for on or after November 19, 1952, where an enclosed ventilating system is installed for electric propulsion motors or generators, a fixed carbon dioxide extinguishing system must be installed in such a system.
