
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Cargo and Miscellaneous Vessels
#### PART 95 - FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 95.10 - Fire Main System, Details
###### § 95.10-90 Installations contracted for prior to May 26, 1965.

Installations contracted for prior to May 26, 1965, shall meet the following requirements:

(a) Except as specifically modified by this paragraph, the requirements of §§ 95.10-5 through 95.10-15 shall be complied with insofar as the number and general type of equipment is concerned. Existing equipment, except firehose nozzles and low-velocity water spray applicators, previously approved, but not meeting the applicable requirements of §§ 95.10-5 through 95.10-15 may be continued in service so long as they are maintained in good condition to the satisfaction of the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection. Minor repairs, alterations, and replacements may be permitted to the same standards as the original installations. However, all new installations or major replacements shall meet the applicable requirements in this subpart.

(b) All vessels contracted for prior to November 19, 1952, other than motorboats, shall be fitted with fire pumps, hoses, and nozzles in accordance with Table 95.10-90(a)(2).

(c) Vessels contracted for prior to July 1, 1935, need not meet the requirements of § 95.10-5(h), and vessels contracted for on or after July 1, 1935, but prior to November 19, 1952, may have a carbon dioxide "bilge" in lieu of "total flooding" system. However, in vessels of both categories where a conversion from coal to oil is contracted for on or after November 19, 1952, the provisions of § 95.10-5(h) shall apply.

(d) The general requirements of § 95.10-5(c) through (g), § 95.10-10(d) through (i), and § 95.10-15 shall be complied with insofar as is reasonable and practicable.

(e) Firehose nozzles and low-velocity spray applicators must meet the requirements of 95.10-10(i), 95.10-10(j), and 95.10-10(k).
