
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Cargo and Miscellaneous Vessels
#### PART 95 - FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 95.16 - Fixed Clean Agent Gas Extinguishing Systems, Details
###### ยง 95.16-20 Extinguishing agent: Cylinder storage.

(a) Unless installed as required in paragraph (b) of this section, the agent must be stored outside of the protected space. Common bulkheads and decks located between the cylinder storage room and the protected spaces must meet the insulation criteria for Class A-60, as defined in 46 CFR 72.05-10.

(b) The cylinders may be stored inside the protected space, if:

(1) The space does not exceed 6,000 cubic feet gross volume; and

(2) The system can be automatically operated by a pneumatic heat actuator as well as a remote manual control.

(c) The cylinder storage space must be properly ventilated and designed to preclude an anticipated ambient temperature in excess of 130 &#xB0;Fahrenheit.

(d) The cylinders must be securely fastened and supported as directed in the manufacturer's approved design, installation, operation, and maintenance manual, and where necessary protected against damage.

(e) The cylinders must be mounted so they are readily accessible and capable of easy removal for recharging and inspection and for weighing in the case of halocarbon system cylinders.

(f) The cylinders must be installed to provide a space of at least 2 inches between the deck and the bottom of the cylinders. A tray or other bottom support located 2 inches above the deck is an acceptable arrangement.

(g) The cylinders must be mounted upright, unless otherwise specified in the instruction manual.

(h) All cylinder storage room doors must open outward.
