
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Cargo and Miscellaneous Vessels
#### PART 95 - FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 95.50 - Hand Portable Fire Extinguishers and Semiportable Fire Extinguishing Systems, Arrangements and Details
###### ยง 95.50-10 Location.

(a) Approved portable fire extinguishers and semi-portable fire extinguishing systems must be installed in accordance with Table 95.50-10(a) of this section. The location of the equipment must be to the satisfaction of the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection. Nothing in this paragraph should be construed as limiting the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, from requiring such additional equipment as he or she deems necessary for the proper protection of the vessel.

(b) Table 95.50-10(a) indicates the minimum required number and type of extinguisher for each space listed. Extinguishers with larger numerical ratings or multiple letter designations may be used if the extinguishers meet the requirements of the table.

(c) Semi-portable fire extinguishing systems must be located in the open so as to be readily seen.

(d) If portable fire extinguishers are not located in the open or behind glass so that they may be readily seen, they may be placed in enclosures together with the firehose, provided such enclosures are marked as required by ยง 97.37-15 of this subchapter.

(e) Portable fire extinguishers and their stations must be numbered in accordance with ยง 97.37-23 of this subchapter.

(f) Portable or semi-portable extinguishers, which are required on their nameplates to be protected from freezing, must not be located where freezing temperatures may be expected.
