
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Cargo and Miscellaneous Vessels
#### PART 97 - OPERATIONS
##### Subpart 97.19 - Maneuvering Characteristics
###### ยง 97.19-1 Data required.

For each ocean and coastwise vessel of 1,600 gross tons or over, the following apply:

(a) The following maneuvering information must be prominently displayed in the pilothouse on a fact sheet:

(1) For full and half speed, a turning circle diagram to port and starboard that shows the time and the distance of advance and transfer required to alter the course 90 degrees with maximum rudder angle and constant power settings.

(2) The time and distance to stop the vessel from full and half speed while maintaining approximately the initial heading with minimum application of rudder.

(3) For each vessel with a fixed propeller, a table of shaft revolutions per minute for a representative range of speeds.

(4) For each vessel with a controllable pitch propeller a table of control settings or a representative range of speeds.

(5) For each vessel that is fitted with an auxiliary device to assist in maneuvering, such as a bow thruster, a table of vessel speeds at which the auxiliary device is effective in maneuvering the vessel.

(b) The maneuvering information must be provided in the normal load and normal light condition with normal trim for a particular condition of loading assuming the following-

(1) Calm weather-wind 10 knots or less, calm sea;

(2) No current;

(3) Deep water conditions-water depth twice the vessel's draft or greater; and

(4) Clean hull.

(c) At the bottom of the fact sheet, the following statement must appear:

(d) The information on the fact sheet must be:

(1) Verified six months after the vessel is placed in service; or

(2) Modified six months after the vessel is placed into service and verified within three months thereafter.

(e) The information that appears on the fact sheet may be obtained from:

(1) Trial trip observations;

(2) Model tests;

(3) Analytical calculations;

(4) Simulations;

(5) Information established from another vessel of similar hull form, power, rudder and propeller; or

(6) Any combination of the above.

(f) The requirements for information for fact sheets for specialized craft such as semi-submersibles, hydrofoils, hovercraft and other vessels of unusual design will be specified on a case by case basis.
