
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Cargo and Miscellaneous Vessels
#### PART 97 - OPERATIONS
##### Subpart 97.36 - Display of Plans
###### ยง 97.36-1 When required.

Barges with sleeping accommodations for more than six persons and all self-propelled vessels shall have permanently exhibited for the guidance of the officer in charge of the vessel the following plans:

(a) General arrangement plans showing for each deck the fire control stations, the various sections enclosed by fire-resisting bulkheads, together with particulars of the fire alarms, detecting systems, the sprinkler installation (if any), the fire extinguishing appliances, means of access to different compartments, decks, etc., and the ventilating systems including particulars of the master fan controls, the positions of dampers, the location of the remote means of stopping fans, and identification numbers of the ventilating fans serving each section. If cargo compartments are "specially suitable for vehicles," they shall be so indicated on the plan. Alternatively, at the discretion of the Commandant, the aforementioned details may be set out in any other medium, such as a booklet or on computer software, provided that the aforementioned details are available to each officer and a copy is retained on board at all times and is accessible during emergencies. For vessels constructed on or after September 30, 1997 or for existing vessels which have their plans redrawn, the symbols used to identify the aforementioned details shall be in accordance with IMO Assembly resolution A.654(16). These identical symbols can also be found in ASTM Adjunct F 1626 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 97.01-2).

(b) Plans showing clearly for each deck and hold the boundaries of the watertight compartments, the openings therein with the means of closure and position of any controls thereof, and the arrangements for the correction of any list due to flooding.

(c) The aforementioned information shall be kept up-to-date, any alteration being recorded in the applicable medium as soon as practicable.
