
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Cargo and Miscellaneous Vessels
#### PART 98 - SPECIAL CONSTRUCTION, ARRANGEMENT, AND OTHER PROVISIONS FOR CERTAIN DANGEROUS CARGOES IN BULK
##### Subpart 98.25 - Anhydrous Ammonia in Bulk
###### ยง 98.25-20 Installation of cargo tanks.

(a) Independent tanks shall be arranged in the vessel so as to provide a minimum clearance of not less than 24 inches from the vessel's side and not less than 15 inches from the vessel's bottom. Where more than one tank is installed in a vessel, the distance between such tanks shall be not less than 15 inches, unless otherwise approved by the Commandant. Alternate provisions may be made for moving such tanks to provide for adequate inspection and maintenance of the vessel's structure and the tanks.

(b) The design shall show the manner in which the tanks are to be installed, supported, and secured in the vessel and shall be approved prior to installation. Tanks shall be supported in steel saddles and securely anchored in place. If the tanks are required to be stress-relieved no appendages shall be welded to the tanks after they have been stress-relieved unless authorized by the Commandant.

(c) Tanks may be located in dry cargo holds or in liquid cargo tanks or may be installed "on deck" or "under deck" with the tank protruding above deck. On installations where a portion of the tank extends above the weather deck, provision shall be made to maintain the weathertightness of the deck, except that vessels operating on protected inland waters may have tanks located in the holds of hopper type barges without the watertightness of the deck being maintained. All tanks shall be installed with the manhole opening and fittings located above the weather deck.

(d) The anhydrous ammonia tanks may be installed in the bulk liquid cargo tanks provided the liquid surrounding the enclosed anhydrous ammonia tanks complies with the following chemical and physical properties:

(1) Boiling point above 125 &#xB0;F. at atmospheric pressure.

(2) Inert to ammonia at 100 &#xB0;F. at atmospheric pressure.

(3) Noncorrosive in the liquid and vapor phase to the ammonia tanks and piping.
