
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Cargo and Miscellaneous Vessels
#### PART 98 - SPECIAL CONSTRUCTION, ARRANGEMENT, AND OTHER PROVISIONS FOR CERTAIN DANGEROUS CARGOES IN BULK
##### Subpart 98.25 - Anhydrous Ammonia in Bulk
###### ยง 98.25-40 Valves, fittings, and accessories.

(a) All valves, flanges, fittings and accessory equipment shall be of a type suitable for use with anhydrous ammonia and shall be made of steel, or malleable or nodular iron meeting the requirements of ยง 56.60-1 of subchapter F (Marine Engineering) of this chapter. Valves shall be fitted with noncorrosive material suitable for ammonia service. Valves, flanges, and pipe fittings shall be of the square or round tongue and groove type or raised-face, United States of America Standard 300-pound standard minimum, fitted with suitable soft gasket material. Welded fittings shall be used wherever possible and the number of pipe joints shall be held to a minimum. Screwed joints are not permitted for pipe diameters exceeding 2 inches. Nonferrous materials, such as copper, copper alloys and aluminum alloys, shall not be used in the construction of valves, fittings or accessory equipment. Brazed joints are prohibited.

(b) Each tank shall be provided with the necessary fill and discharge liquid and vapor shut-off valves, safety relief valves, liquid level gaging devices, thermometer well and pressure gage, and shall be provided with suitable access for convenient operation. Connections to tanks installed below the weather deck shall be made to a trunk or dome extending above the weather deck. Connections to the tanks shall be protected against mechanical damage and tampering. Other openings in the tanks, except as specifically permitted by this part, are prohibited.

(c) All connections to the tanks, except safety devices and liquid level gaging devices, shall have manually operated shut-off valves located as close to the tank as possible.

(d) Excess flow valves where required by this section shall close automatically at the rated flow of vapor or liquid as specified by the manufacturer. The piping, including valves, fittings and appurtenances, protected by an excess flow valve, shall have a greater capacity than the rated flow of the excess flow valve.

(e) Liquid level gaging devices which are so constructed that outward flow of tank contents shall not exceed that passed by a No. 54 drill size opening, need not be equipped with excess flow valves.

(f) Pressure gage connections need not be equipped with excess flow valves if the openings are not larger than No. 54 drill size.

(g) Excess flow valves may be designed with a bypass, not to exceed a No. 60 drill size opening, to allow equalization of pressure.

(h) Prior to disconnecting shore lines, the pressure in the liquid and vapor lines shall be relieved through suitable valves installed at the loading header.

(i) Relief valves shall be fitted in liquid lines which may be subject to excessive pressure caused by liquid full condition, and the escape from the relief valves shall be piped to the venting system.

(j) The pressure gage shall be located at the highest practical point. The thermometer well shall terminate in the liquid space and be attached to the shell by welding with the end of the fitting being provided with a gas-tight screwed plug or bolted cover.
