
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Cargo and Miscellaneous Vessels
#### PART 98 - SPECIAL CONSTRUCTION, ARRANGEMENT, AND OTHER PROVISIONS FOR CERTAIN DANGEROUS CARGOES IN BULK
##### Subpart 98.25 - Anhydrous Ammonia in Bulk
###### ยง 98.25-60 Safety relief valves.

(a) Each tank shall be fitted with two or more approved safety relief valves, designed, constructed, and flow-tested for capacity in conformance with subpart 162.018 of subchapter Q (Specifications) of this chapter.

(b) Each safety relief valve shall start to discharge at a pressure not in excess of the design pressure of the tank.

(c) Safety relief valves shall be attached to the tank near the highest point of the vapor space. Shutoff valves shall not be installed between the tanks and the safety relief valves, except manifolds for mounting multiple safety relief valves may be fitted with acceptable interlocking three-way valves so arranged at all times as to permit at any position of the three-way valve, an unrestricted flow of vapors through at least one port. When two safety relief valves are mounted in parallel on both the upper outlets of the three-way valve, the arrangement shall be such as to permit at least one safety relief valve to be operative at all times.

(d) Each safety valve shall be tested in the presence of a marine inspector at the site of installation before or after mounting prior to being placed in service. The tests shall prove that the safety relief valve will start to discharge at a pressure not in excess of the maximum allowable pressure of the tank.
