
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Cargo and Miscellaneous Vessels
#### PART 98 - SPECIAL CONSTRUCTION, ARRANGEMENT, AND OTHER PROVISIONS FOR CERTAIN DANGEROUS CARGOES IN BULK
##### Subpart 98.25 - Anhydrous Ammonia in Bulk
###### ยง 98.25-90 Special operating requirements.

(a) Repairs involving welding or burning shall not be undertaken on the cargo tanks or piping while anhydrous ammonia in either the liquid or vapor state is present in the system.

(b) During the time anhydrous ammonia is laden in the tanks the vessel shall be under constant surveillance.

(c) Authorization from the Commandant (CG-OES) shall be obtained to transport lading other than anhydrous ammonia in the cargo tanks.

(d) Sufficient hose stations shall be installed with adequate water supply so that if leakage of anhydrous ammonia occurs the vapors may be removed by use of a stream of water.

(e)(1) At least two units of approved self-contained breathing apparatus, one stowed forward of the cargo tanks and one stowed aft of the cargo tanks, shall be carried on board the vessel at all times.

(2) All approved self-contained breathing apparatus, masks and respiratory protective devices shall be of types suitable for starting and operating at the temperatures encountered, and shall be maintained in good operating condition.

(3) Personnel involved in the filling or discharge operations shall be adequately trained in the use of the equipment.

(4) For all self-propelled cargo vessels, during filling or discharge operations every person on the vessel shall carry on his person or have close at hand at all times a canister mask approved for ammonia; or each person shall carry on his person a respiratory protective device which will protect the wearer against ammonia vapors and provide respiratory protection for emergency escape from a contaminated area which would result from cargo leakage. This respiratory protective equipment shall be of such size and weight that the person wearing it will not be restricted in movement or in the wearing of lifesaving device.

(f) While fast to a dock, a vessel during transfer of bulk cargo shall display a red flag by day or a red light by night, which signal shall be so placed that it will be visible on all sides. When at anchor, a vessel during transfer of bulk cargo shall display a red flag by day, which signal shall be so placed that it will be visible on all sides.
