
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Cargo and Miscellaneous Vessels
#### PART 98 - SPECIAL CONSTRUCTION, ARRANGEMENT, AND OTHER PROVISIONS FOR CERTAIN DANGEROUS CARGOES IN BULK
##### Subpart 98.25 - Anhydrous Ammonia in Bulk
###### ยง 98.25-95 Tests and inspections.

(a) Each tank shall be subjected to the tests and inspections described in this section in the presence of a marine inspector, except as otherwise provided in this part.

(1) An internal inspection of the tank is conducted within-

(i) Ten years after the last internal inspection if the tank is a pressure-vessel type cargo tank on an unmanned barge described under ยง 151.01-25(c) of this chapter and carrying cargo at temperatures of -67 &#xB0;F (-55 &#xB0;C) or warmer; or

(ii) Eight years after the last internal inspection if the tank is of a type other than that described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section.

(2) An external examination of unlagged tanks and the visible parts of lagged tanks is made at each inspection for certification and periodic inspection. The owner shall ensure that the amount of insulation deemed necessary by the marine inspector is removed from insulated tanks during each internal inspection to allow spot external examination of the tanks and insulation, or the thickness of the tanks may be gauged by a nondestructive means accepted by the marine inspector without the removal of insulation.

(3) If required by the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection the owner shall conduct nondestructive testing of each tank in accordance with ยง 98.25-97.

(4) If the tank is a pressure vessel type cargo tank with an internal inspection interval of 10 years, and is 30 years old or older, determined from the date it was built, the owner shall conduct nondestructive testing of each tank in accordance with ยง 98.25-97, during each internal inspection.

(b) A hydrostatic test of 1times the maximum allowable pressure as determined by the safety relief valve setting shall be made at any time that the inspector considers such hydrostatic test necessary to determine the condition of the tank. If the jacket and lagging are not removed during the hydrostatic tests prescribed in this paragraph, the tank shall hold the hydrostatic test pressure for at least 20 minutes without a pressure drop.

(c) The safety relief valves shall be popped in the presence of a marine inspector by either liquid, gas or vapor pressure at least once every four years to determine the accuracy of adjustment and, if necessary, shall be reset.
