
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Cargo and Miscellaneous Vessels
#### PART 105 - COMMERCIAL FISHING VESSELS DISPENSING PETROLEUM PRODUCTS
##### ยง 105.12 Cargo tank and pumping system requirements.
###### Cargo tanks installed below decks-additional requirements.

(h)(1) Compartments or areas containing tanks or pumping systems must be closed off from the remainder of the vessel by gastight bulkheads. Such gastight bulkheads may be pierced for a drive shaft and pump engine control rods if the openings are fitted with stuffing boxes or other acceptable gland arrangements.

(2) Each compartment must be provided with a mechanical exhaust system capable of ventilating the compartment with a complete change of air every 3 minutes. The intake duct or ducts must be of a sufficient size to permit the required air change. The exhaust duct or ducts must be located so as to remove vapors from the lower portion of the space or bilges.

(3) The ventilation outlets must terminate more than 10 feet from any opening to the interior of the vessel that normally contains sources of vapor ignition. The ventilation fan must be explosion-proof and unable to act as a source of ignition.

(4) Cargo pumps must not be installed in the cargo tank compartment unless the drive system is outside the compartment. Suction pipelines from cargo tanks must be run directly to the pump, but not through working or crew spaces of the vessel.

(5) Tanks must be located so as to provide at least 15 inches of space around the tank, including top and bottom, to permit external examination.

(6) Shutoff valves must be provided in the suction lines as close to the tanks as possible. Valves must be installed so as to shut off against the flow. Remote control of the shutoff valve must be provided where the examiner deems necessary.
