
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I-A - Mobile Offshore Drilling Units
#### PART 107 - INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart B - Inspection and Certification
###### § 107.231 Inspection for certification.

A unit is issued a Certificate of Inspection under § 107.211 or § 107.215(c) if the inspector finds the following:

(a) The unit and its equipment comply with-

(1) Part 108 of this subchapter;

(2) Subchapter J of this chapter, Electrical Engineering;

(3) Subchapter F of this chapter, Marine Engineering;

(4) Subchapter E of this chapter, Load Lines;

(5) Part 64 or Part 98 of this chapter, or both, if the unit carries marine portable tanks or portable tanks;

(6) The vessel design and equipment requirements of the oil pollution regulations (33 CFR Part 155, Subpart B);

(7) The Rules of the Road requirements for the waters in which the unit navigates, contained in-

(i) 33 U.S.C. Chapters 3, 4, 5, or 21; and

(ii) 33 CFR Parts 80, 85, or 86.

(8) Subchapter S of this chapter.

(b) The survival craft and rescue boat launching appliances are in proper condition and operating properly at loads ranging from light load to full load.

(c) The lifeboats and rescue boats, including engines and release mechanisms are in proper condition and operating properly.

(d) The flotation equipment such as lifebuoys, lifejackets, immersion suits, work vests, lifefloats, buoyant apparatus, and associated equipment are in proper condition.

(e) Each inflatable liferaft and inflatable lifejacket has been serviced as required under this chapter;

(f) Each hydrostatic release unit, other than a disposable hydrostatic release unit, has been serviced as required under this chapter.

(g) The crew has the ability to effectively carry out abandonment and fire fighting procedures.

(h) Each hand portable fire extinguisher and each semiportable fire extinguisher is inspected, and serviced if required, in accordance with § 107.235(a).

(i) Each fixed fire-extinguishing system is inspected, and serviced if required, in accordance with § 107.235(b).

(j) Each fire main system meets the testing requirements in § 107.251.

(k) Each fire hose meets the testing requirements in § 107.257.

(l) The rated load test for cranes in § 107.260 is met.

(m) Each crane is inspected and tested in accordance with § 107.258.

(n) Each watertight door is operative.

(o) Each valve with a remote control is operative.

(p) Each means of escape on the unit is safe for the intended service.

(q) There is not an accumulation of oil which might create a fire hazard on tank tops, decks, in drip pans, machinery spaces, and pumproom bilges.

(r) Each accommodation space is sanitary.

(s) The unit meet the drydocking requirement in § 107.261 or the special examination in § 107.265.

(t) The unit meets the equipment and data information requirements on its certificate of inspection.

(u) Each record in Subpart D of Part 109 is maintained as prescribed.

(v) Tests and inspections of the lifesaving equipment shall be carried out during the initial inspection for certification, and whenever any new item of lifesaving equipment is installed on the unit. The tests and inspections shall determine that the installation of each item of lifesaving equipment is consistent with each condition of its approval, as listed on its Coast Guard Certificate of Approval. The tests and inspections shall also demonstrate, as applicable,-

(1) The proper condition and operation of the survival craft and rescue boat launching appliances at loads ranging from light load to 10 percent overload;

(2) The proper condition and operation of lifeboats and rescue boats, including engines and release mechanisms;

(3) The proper condition of flotation equipment such as lifebuoys, lifejackets, immersion suits, work vests, and associated equipment;

(4) The proper condition of distress signaling equipment, including EPIRB's, SART's, and pyrotechnic signaling devices;

(5) The proper condition of line-throwing appliances;

(6) The proper condition and operation of embarkation and debarkation appliances, including embarkation-debarkation ladders, and alternate means of escape;

(7) The ability of the crew to effectively carry out abandonment and firefighting procedures; and

(8) The ability to meet the egress and survival craft launching requirements of this part.

(w) Piping for each halocarbon and inert gas extinguishing system must be tested in accordance with 46 CFR 95.16-60.

(x) Piping for each carbon dioxide extinguishing system meets the installation test in § 108.449 of this chapter.

(y) Each sliding watertight door meets the installation tests in § 163.001-6(b) of this chapter.

(z) The unit and its equipment meet any other test or inspection deemed necessary by the inspector to determine if they are suitable for the service in which they are to be employed.
