
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I-A - Mobile Offshore Drilling Units
#### PART 107 - INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart B - Inspection and Certification
###### ยง 107.235 Servicing of portable fire extinguishers, semi-portable fire extinguishers and fixed fire extinguishing systems.
####### http://www.nfpa.org,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html

(a) Except as provided in the following paragraphs, portable and semi-portable extinguishers must be inspected and maintained in accordance with NFPA 10, Standard for Portable Fire Extinguishers, 2010 Edition, effective December 5, 2009. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy from National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), 1 Batterymarch Park, Quincy, MA 02169, 617-770-3000,. You may inspect a copy at the U.S. Coast Guard, Office of Design and Engineering Standards (CG-ENG), 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Stop 7509, Washington, DC 20593; or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030 or go to.

(1) Certification or licensing by a state or local jurisdiction as a fire extinguisher servicing agency will be accepted by the Coast Guard as meeting the personnel certification requirements of NFPA 10 for annual maintenance and recharging of extinguishers.

(2) Monthly inspections required by NFPA 10 may be conducted by the owner, operator, person-in-charge, or a designated member of the crew.

(3) Non-rechargeable or non-refillable extinguishers must be inspected and maintained in accordance with NFPA 10; however, the annual maintenance need not be conducted by a certified person and can be conducted by the owner, operator, person-in-charge, or a designated member of the crew.

(4) The owner or managing operator must provide satisfactory evidence of the required servicing to the marine inspector. If any of the equipment or records has not been properly maintained, a qualified servicing facility must perform the required inspections, maintenance procedures, and hydrostatic pressure tests. A tag issued by a qualified servicing organization, and attached to each extinguisher, may be accepted as evidence that the necessary maintenance procedures were conducted.

(b) Each fixed fire extinguishing system must be examined for excessive corrosion and general condition and checked and serviced as indicated, depending on the extinguishing agent used by the system.
