
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I-A - Mobile Offshore Drilling Units
#### PART 107 - INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart B - Inspection and Certification
###### ยง 107.269 Annual inspection.

(a) Your mobile offshore drilling unit (MODU) must undergo an annual inspection within the 3 months before or after each anniversary date, except as specified in ยง 107.270.

(b) You must contact the cognizant OCMI to schedule an inspection at a time and place which he or she approves. No written application is required.

(c) The scope of the annual inspection is the same as the inspection for certification as specified in ยง 107.231, except ยง 107.231(x) and (y), but in less detail unless the cognizant OCMI finds deficiencies or determines that a major change has occurred since the last inspection. If deficiencies are found or a major change to the MODU has occurred, the OCMI will conduct an inspection more detailed in scope to ensure that the MODU is in satisfactory condition and fit for the service for which it is intended. If your MODU passes the annual inspection, the OCMI will endorse your current Certificate of Inspection.

(d) If the annual inspection reveals deficiencies in your MODU's maintenance, you must make any or all repairs or improvements within the time period specified by the OCMI.

(e) Nothing in this subpart limits the marine inspector from conducting such tests or inspections he or she deems necessary to be assured of the vessel's seaworthiness.
