
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I-A - Mobile Offshore Drilling Units
#### PART 107 - INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart C - Plan Approval
###### ยง 107.305 Plans and information.

Each applicant for approval of plans must submit three copies of each of the following described plans, specifications, and structural calculations concerning the construction, arrangement, required equipment, and safety features of the unit:

(a) Specifications.

(b) General arrangement plan of decks, holds, inner bottoms, etc. including inboard and outboard profile.

(c) *Inner bottom plating and framing.

(d) *Midship section.

(e) *Shell plating and framing.

(f) *Stern, stern frame, and rudder.

(g) *Structural deck plans for strength decks.

(h) *Pillars and girders.

(i) *Watertight and oiltight bulkheads.

(j) *Foundations for main machinery and boilers.

(k) *Arrangement of ports, doors, and airports in shell plating.

(l) *Hatch coamings and covers in weather and watertight decks.

(m) *Details of hinged subdivision watertight doors and operating gear.

(n) *Scuppers and drains penetrating shell plating.

(o) Arrangement of cranes.

(p) For self-elevating units, column stabilized units, and units with special hull configuration, structural calculations and plans showing special structural features.

(q) The plans and information required by Subchapter S of this chapter.

(r) For vessels of 100 meters (328 feet) or more in length contracted for on or after September 7, 1990, a plan must be included which shows how visibility from the navigation bridge will meet the standards contained in ยง 108.801 of this subchapter.

(s)-(u) [Reserved]

(v) General arrangement plans showing, for each deck, the control stations, fire sections enclosed by fire resisting bulkheads, alarm and extinguishing systems, fire extinguishers, means of access to compartments and other decks, and the ventilation system, including location of ventilation shutdowns, positions of dampers, and the numbers identifying each system.

(w) Ventilation diagram, including dampers and other fire control features.

(x) Details of fire alarm systems.

(y) Details of fixed fire extinguishing systems.

(z) Plans required for marine engineering equipment and systems by Subchapter F of this chapter.

(aa) Plans required for electrical engineering equipment and systems by Subchapter J of this chapter.

(bb) The location and arrangement of each lifesaving system including each embarkation deck, showing each overboard discharge and clearances from projections and obstructions in the way of launching lifeboats, rescue boats, and liferafts throughout the range of list and trim angles required under part 108, subpart E of this chapter.

(cc) The design weight of each lifeboat, rescue boat, and davit-launched liferaft when fully equipped and loaded.

(dd) Working loads of davits and winches.

(ee) Types and sizes of falls.

(ff) Manufacturer's name and identification of each item of equipment.

(gg) Arrangement plans showing each accommodation space, ventilation, and means of escape.

(hh) A construction portfolio must be prepared for each unit and must be approved by the Coast Guard. The portfolio must document the location and extent of application of different grades and strengths of materials and include a description of the materials and welding procedures employed and any other relevant construction information. The portfolio must contain the following:

(1) Structural plans showing areas incorporating different grades and strengths of materials. A simplified plan may be included in the portfolio if it adequately defines the different areas of application.

(2) A list of different grades or strengths of material that conform to American Bureau of Shipping (ABS) or American Society of Testing and Materials (ASTM) specifications. For materials that do not conform to ABS or ASTM specifications, complete specifications, including chemical and physical properties, special testing and any heat treatment.

(3) Each approved weld procedure for the fabrication of each structure using different grades or strengths of material and each approved weld test procedure.

(4) Information, restrictions or prohibitions regarding repairs or modifications.

(ii) The operating manual required in ยง 109.121. If an approved manual is changed, only the pages affected by the change need be submitted if the manual is bound in such a way as to allow old pages to be removed easily and new ones inserted and if the manual has a record of page changes.
