
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I-A - Mobile Offshore Drilling Units
#### PART 108 - DESIGN AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Construction and Arrangement
###### Accommodation Spaces
####### ยง 108.205 Wash spaces; toilet spaces; and shower spaces.

(a) For the purposes of this section-

(1) "Private facility" means a toilet, washing, or shower space that is accessible only from one single or double occupancy sleeping space;

(2) "Semi-private facility" means a toilet, washing or shower space that is accessible from either of two one-to-four person occupancy sleeping spaces; and

(3) "Public facility" means a toilet, washing, or shower space that is not private or semi-private.

(b) Each private facility must have one toilet, one shower, and one washbasin, all of which may be in a single space.

(c) Each semi-private facility must have at least one toilet and one shower, which may be in a single space.

(d) Each room adjoining a semi-private facility must have a washbasin if a washbasin is not installed in a semi-private facility.

(e) Each unit must have enough public facilities to provide at least one toilet, one shower, and one washbasin for each eight persons who occupy sleeping spaces that do not have private or semi-private facilities.

(f) Urinals may be installed in toilet rooms, but no toilet required in this section may be replaced by a urinal.

(g) Each public toilet space and washing space must be convenient to the sleeping space that it serves.

(h) No public facility may open into any sleeping space.

(i) Each washbasin, shower, and bathtub must have hot and cold running water.

(j) Adjacent toilets must be separated by a partition that is open at the top and bottom for ventilation and cleaning.

(k) Public toilet facilities and shower facilities must be separated.

(l) Each public facility that is a toilet space must have at least one washbasin unless the only access to the toilet space is through a washing space.

(m) Each toilet must have an open front seat.

(n) Each washing space and toilet space must be so constructed and arranged that it can be kept in a clean and sanitary condition and the plumbing and mechanical appliances kept in good working order.

(o) Washbasins may be located in sleeping spaces.
