
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I-A - Mobile Offshore Drilling Units
#### PART 108 - DESIGN AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart D - Fire Extinguishing Systems
###### Fire Main System
####### ยง 108.417 Fire pump components and associated equipment.

(a) Each fire pump in a fire main system must have a relief valve on its discharge side that is set to relieve at 1.75 kilograms per square centimeter (approximately 25 pounds per square inch) in excess of the pump discharge pressure necessary to meet the pressure required in ยง 108.415 for the pump or 8.6 kilograms per square centimeters (approximately 125 pounds per square inch), whichever is greater. A relief valve may be omitted if the pump operating under shut off condition is not capable of developing the pressure described in ยง 108.415 plus 1.75 kilograms per square centimeter (25 pounds per square inch).

(b) Each fire pump in a fire main system must have a pressure gauge on its discharge side.

(c) Fire pumps may be used for other purposes. One of the required pumps must be kept available for use on the fire system at all times. If a fire pump is used in a system other than the fire main system, except for branch lines connected to the fire main for deck washing, each pipe connecting the other system must be connected to the pump discharge through a shut off valve at a manifold near the pump. If the fire pump exceeds the pressure in ยง 108.417(a), the pipe leading from the discharge manifold to other portions of the fire main system must have a reducing station and a pressure gauge in addition to the pressure gauge required by paragraph (b) of this section.

(d) If a fire pump has a reducing station, the relief valve required by paragraph (a) of this section for the pump and the additional pressure gauge required in paragraph (c) of this section must not be located on the discharge side of the reducing station.

(e) An oil line must not be connected to a fire pump.
