
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I-A - Mobile Offshore Drilling Units
#### PART 108 - DESIGN AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart D - Fire Extinguishing Systems
###### Fixed Carbon Dioxide Fire Extinguishing Systems
####### ยง 108.443 Controls and valves.

(a) At least one control for operating a COsystem must be outside the space or spaces that the system protects and in a location that would be accessible if a fire occurred in any space that the system protects. Control valves must not be located in a protected space unless the COcylinders are also in the protected space.

(b) A COsystem that protects more than one space must have a manifold with a stop valve, the normal position of which is closed, that directs the flow of COto each protected space.

(c) A COsystem that protects only one space must have a stop valve installed between the cylinders and the discharge outlets in the system, except on a system that has a COsupply of 136 kilograms (300 pounds) or less.

(d) At least one of the control stations in a COsystem that protects a machinery space must be as near as practicable to one of the main escapes from that space.

(e) All distribution valves and controls must be of an approved type.

(f) Each COsystem that has a stop valve must have a remote control that operates only the stop valve and must have a separate remote control for releasing the required amount of COinto the space protected by the system.

(g) Each COsystem that does not have a stop valve must be operated by a remote control that releases the required amount of COinto the space protected by the system.

(h) Remote controls to each space must be in an enclosure.

(i) Each system must have a manual control at its cylinders for releasing COfrom the cylinders, except that if the system has pilot cylinders, a manual control is not required for other than pilot cylinders.

(j) If gas pressure is used to release COfrom a system having more than 2 cylinders, the system must have at least 2 pilot cylinders to release the COfrom the remaining cylinders.

(k) If the entrance to a space containing the COsupply or controls of a COsystem has a lock, the space must have a key to the lock in a break-glass type box that is next to and visible from the entrance.
