
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I-A - Mobile Offshore Drilling Units
#### PART 108 - DESIGN AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart D - Fire Extinguishing Systems
###### Fixed Carbon Dioxide Fire Extinguishing Systems
####### ยง 108.447 Piping.

(a) Each pipe, valve, and fitting in a COsystem must have a bursting pressure of at least 420 kilograms per square centimeter (6,000 pounds per square inch).

(b) All piping for a COsystem of nominal size of 19.05 millimeters (inch) inside diameter or less must be at least Schedule 40 (standard weight) and all piping of nominal size over 19.05 millimeters (inch) inside diameter must be at least Schedule 80 (extra heavy).

(c) Each pipe, valve, and fitting made of ferrous materials in a COsystem must be protected inside and outside from corrosion.

(d) Each COsystem must have a pressure relief valve set to relieve between 168 and 196 kilograms per square centimeter (2,400 and 2,800 pounds per square inch) in the distribution manifold or other location that protects the piping when all branch line shut off valves are closed.

(e) The end of each branch line in a COsystem must extend at least 50 millimeters (2 inches) beyond the last discharge outlet and be closed with a cap or plug.

(f) Piping, valves, and fittings in a COsystem must be securely supported and protected from damage.

(g) Each COsystem must have drains and dirt traps located where dirt or moisture can accumulate in the system.

(h) Discharge piping in a COsystem may not be used for any other purpose except as part of a fire detection system.

(i) Piping in a COsystem that passes through accommodation spaces must not have drains or other openings within these spaces.
