
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I-A - Mobile Offshore Drilling Units
#### PART 108 - DESIGN AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart D - Fire Extinguishing Systems
###### Fixed Carbon Dioxide Fire Extinguishing Systems
####### ยง 108.449 Piping tests.
############### ยง 108.451 COstorage.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each cylinder of a COsystem must be outside each space protected by the system and in a location that would be accessible if a fire occurred in any space protected by the system.

(b) A COsystem that has a COsupply of 136 kilograms (300 pounds) or less may have one or more cylinders in the space protected by the system if the space has a heat detection system to activate the system automatically in addition to the remote and manual controls required by this subpart.

(c) Each space that contains cylinders of a COsystem must be ventilated and designed to prevent an ambient temperature of more than 54 &#xB0;C. (130 &#xB0;F.)

(d) Each cylinder in a COsystem must be securely fastened, supported, protected from damage, in an accessible location, and capable of removal from that location.

(e) Each unit must have a means for weighing cylinders of a COsystem.

(f) A cylinder in a COsystem may not be mounted in a position that is inclined more than 30&#xB0; from a vertical position, except that a cylinder having flexible or bent siphon tubes may be mounted in a position that is inclined up to 80&#xB0; from the vertical. The bottom of each cylinder when mounted must be at least 5 centimeters (2 inches) from the deck.

(g) If a cylinder does not have a check valve on its independent cylinder discharge, it must have a plug or cap to close the outlet when the cylinder is moved.
