
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I-A - Mobile Offshore Drilling Units
#### PART 108 - DESIGN AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart E - Lifesaving Equipment
###### § 108.503 Relationship to international standards.

For the purposes of this part, any unit carrying a valid IMO MODU Safety Certificate, including a listing of lifesaving equipment as required by the 1989 IMO MODU Code, is considered to have met the requirements of this subpart if, in addition to the requirements of the 1989 IMO MODU Code, it meets the following requirements:

(a) Each new lifeboat and launching appliance may be of aluminum construction only if its stowage location is protected with a water spray system in accordance with § 108.550(d) of this chapter.

(b) Each lifejacket, immersion suit, and emergency position indicating radiobeacon (EPIRB) must be marked with the unit's name in accordance with §§ 108.649 and 108.650.

(c) Inflatable lifejackets, if carried, must be of the same or similar design as required by § 108.580(b).

(d) Containers for lifejackets, immersions suits, and anti-exposure suits must be marked as specified in § 108.649(g).

(e) Each liferaft must be arranged to permit it to drop into the water from the deck on which it is stowed as required in § 108.530(c)(3).

(f) Survival craft must be arranged to allow safe disembarkation onto the unit after a drill in accordance with § 108.540(f).

(g) The requirements for guarding of falls in §§ 108.553 (d) and (f) must be met.

(h) The winch drum requirements described in § 108.553(e) must be met for all survival craft winches, not just multiple drum winches.

(i) The maximum lowering speed requirements from §§ 108.553 (h) and (i) must be met.

(j) An auxiliary line must be kept with each line-throwing appliance in accordance with § 108.597(c)(2).

(k) Immersion suits are required on all units, except those operating between the 32 degrees north and 32 degrees south latitude in accordance with § 108.580(c).

(l) All abandonment drills conducted on units carrying immersion suits must include immersion suits.
