
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I-A - Mobile Offshore Drilling Units
#### PART 108 - DESIGN AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart E - Lifesaving Equipment
###### ยง 108.515 Requirements for units built before October 1, 1996.

(a) Units which were constructed prior to October 1, 1996, must-

(1) By October 1, 1997, have either-

(i) Lifeboats and liferafts that meet ยง 108.525; or

(ii) Totally enclosed fire-protected lifeboats of sufficient capacity to accommodate 100 percent of the persons permitted on board, plus additional totally enclosed lifeboats or davit-launched liferafts of sufficient capacity to accommodate 100 percent of the persons permitted on board the unit. The following exceptions apply:

(A) An open lifeboat may be used instead of davit-launched liferafts as long as it is in good working order. An open lifeboat requiring extensive repairs must be replaced with either a totally enclosed fire-protected lifeboat, or davit-launched liferafts.

(B) A submersible unit constructed before January 3, 1979, may continue to use the lifesaving arrangements described on the units Certificate of Inspection in effect on October 1, 1996.

(2) By October 1, 1997, fit retro-reflective material on all floating appliances, lifejackets, and immersion suits.

(3) Except for the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, units may retain the arrangement of lifesaving appliances previously required and approved for the unit, as long as the arrangement or appliance is maintained in good condition to the satisfaction of the OCMI.

(b) When any lifesaving appliance or arrangement on a unit subject to this part is replaced, or when the unit undergoes repairs, alterations or modifications of a major character involving replacement of, or any addition to, the existing lifesaving appliances or arrangements, each new lifesaving appliance and arrangement must meet the requirements of this part, unless the OCMI determines that the unit cannot accommodate the new appliance or arrangement, except that-

(1) A survival craft is not required to meet the requirements of this part if it is replaced without replacing its davit and winch; and

(2) A davit and its winch are not required to meet the requirements of this part if one or both are replaced without replacing the survival craft.
