
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I-A - Mobile Offshore Drilling Units
#### PART 108 - DESIGN AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart E - Lifesaving Equipment
###### ยง 108.545 Marine evacuation system launching arrangements.
####### Arrangements.

(a)Each marine evacuation system must have the following arrangements:

(1) Each marine evacuation system must be capable of being deployed by one person.

(2) Each marine evacuation system must enable the total number of persons for which it is designed, to be transferred from the unit into the inflated liferafts within a period of 10 minutes from the time the signal to abandon the unit is given.

(3) Each marine evacuation system must be arranged so that liferafts may be securely attached to the platform and released from the platform by a person either in the liferaft or on the platform.

(4) Each marine evacuation system must be capable of being deployed from the unit under unfavorable conditions of list of up to 20 degrees.

(5) If the marine evacuation system has an inclined slide, the angle of the slide from horizontal must be within a range of 30 to 35 degrees when the unit is upright and in the lightest seagoing condition.

(6) Each marine evacuation system platform must be capable of being restrained by a bowsing line or other positioning system that is designed to deploy automatically, and if necessary, be capable of being adjusted to the position required for evacuation.
