
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I-A - Mobile Offshore Drilling Units
#### PART 108 - DESIGN AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart G - Equipment Markings and Instructions
###### ยง 108.649 Lifejackets, immersion suits, and lifebuoys.

(a) Each lifejacket must be marked-

(1) In block capital letters with the name of the unit; and

(2) With type I retro-reflective material approved under approval series 164.018. The arrangement of the retro-reflective material must meet IMO Resolution A.658(16).

(b) The stowage positions for lifejackets, other than lifejackets stowed in staterooms, must be marked with either the word "LIFEJACKET" or with the appropriate symbol from IMO Resolution A.760(18).

(c) Each immersion suit or anti-exposure suit must be marked to identify the person or unit to which it belongs.

(d) Immersion suits or anti-exposure suits must be stowed so they are readily accessible, and the stowage positions must be marked with either the words "IMMERSION SUITS" or "ANTI-EXPOSURE SUITS", or with the appropriate symbol from IMO Resolution A.760(18).

(e) Each lifebuoy must be marked-

(1) In block capital letters with the unit's name and with the name of the port required to be marked on the unit under subpart 67.123 of this chapter; and

(2) With type II retro-reflective material approved under part 164, subpart 164.018 of this chapter. The arrangement of the retro-reflective material must meet IMO Resolution A.658(16).

(f) Each lifebuoy stowage position must be marked with either the words "LIFEBUOY" or "LIFE BUOY", or with the appropriate symbol from IMO Resolution A.760(18).

(g) Each lifejacket, immersion suit, and anti-exposure suit container must be marked in block capital letters and numbers with the minimum quantity, identity, and if sizes other than adult or universal sizes are used on the unit, the size of the equipment stowed inside the container. The equipment may be identified in words or with the appropriate symbol from IMO Resolution A.760(18).
