
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I-A - Mobile Offshore Drilling Units
#### PART 108 - DESIGN AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart J - Muster List
###### ยง 108.901 Muster list and emergency instructions.
####### Muster list.

(b)Copies of the muster list must be posted in conspicuous places throughout the unit including on the navigating bridge, in the control room, and in accommodation spaces. The muster list must be posted at all times while the unit is in service. After the muster list has been prepared, if any change takes place that necessitates an alteration in the muster list, the person in charge must either revise the muster list or prepare a new one. Muster lists must provide the following information:

(1) Each muster list must specify instructions for operating the general emergency alarm system.

(2) Each muster list must specify the emergency signals.

(3) Each muster list must specify the actions to be taken by the crew and industrial personnel when each signal is sounded.

(4) Each muster list must specify how the order to abandon the unit will be given.

(5) Each muster list must specify the persons that are assigned to make sure that lifesaving and firefighting appliances are maintained in good condition and ready for immediate use.

(6) The muster list must specify the duties assigned to the different industrial personnel and members of the crew that include-

(i) Closing the watertight doors, fire doors, valves, scuppers, sidescuttles, skylights, portholes, and other similar openings in the unit's hull;

(ii) Equipping the survival craft and other lifesaving appliances;

(iii) Preparing and launching the survival craft;

(iv) Preparing other lifesaving appliances;

(v) Mustering the visitors and other persons in addition to the crew and industrial personnel;

(vi) Using communication equipment;

(vii) Manning the emergency squad assigned to deal with fires and other emergencies;

(viii) Special duties assigned with respect to the use of firefighting equipment and installations;

(ix) Cover the duties of the crew and industrial personnel in case of collisions or other serious casualties; and

(x) Cover the duties of the crew and industrial personnel in case of severe storms.

(7) Each muster list must specify the duties assigned to industrial personnel and members of the crew in relation to visitors and other persons on board in case of an emergency that include-

(i) Warning visitors and other persons on board;

(ii) Seeing that visitors and other persons on board are suitably dressed and have donned their lifejackets or immersion suits correctly;

(iii) Assembling visitors and other persons on board at muster stations; and

(iv) Keeping order in the passageways and on the stairways and generally controlling the movements of the visitors and other persons on board;

(8) Each muster list must specify substitutes for key persons if they are disabled, taking into account that different emergencies require different actions.
