
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I-A - Mobile Offshore Drilling Units
#### PART 109 - OPERATIONS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 109.121 Operating manual.

(a) Each unit must have on board an operating manual approved by the Coast Guard as meeting the requirements of this section.

(b) The operating manual must be available to, and written in a manner that is easily understood by, the unit's operating personnel and include the following:

(1) A table of contents and general index.

(2) A general description of the unit, including major dimensions, tonnages, dry bulk capacities, damage stability standard to which designed, hook load capacity, rotary table capacity, set back load capacity, drilling derrick capacity, and the identification, the maximum deadweight in pounds and kilograms, and the rotor size in feet and meters of the helicopter used for the design of the helicopter deck.

(3) Limiting design data for each mode of operation, including draft, air gap, wave height, wave period, wind, current, temperature, and other environmental factors.

(4) Instructions on the use of the stability data.

(5) Lightweight data with a comprehensive listing of the inclusions and exclusions of semi-permanent equipment, together with guidance for the routine recording of lightweight alterations.

(6) Information identifying the type, location, and quantities of permanent ballast.

(7) Hydrostatic curves or tables.

(8) The maximum allowable deck loadings either listed or shown on a plan.

(9) A capacity plan showing the capacities and the vertical, longitudinal, and transverse centers of gravity of tanks and bulk material stowage spaces.

(10) Tank sounding tables or curves showing capacities, the vertical, longitudinal, and transverse centers of gravity in graduated intervals, and the free surface data of each tank.

(11) Stability information setting forth the maximum allowable height of the center of gravity in relation to draft data, displacement, and other applicable parameters unique to the design of the unit to determine compliance with the intact and damage stability criteria.

(12) Examples of loading conditions for each mode of operation and instructions for developing other acceptable loading conditions.

(13) Information concerning the use of any special crossflooding fitting for each operating condition which, if damage occurs, may require crossflooding for survival (surface units only) and the location of any valve that may require closure to prevent progressive flooding (all units).

(14) Guidance for preparing the unit for the passage of a severe storm and the specific actions and approximate length of time to complete them or to attain a designated level of preparedness.

(15) Guidance for operating the unit while changing its mode of operation and for preparing the unit to make a move and, for self-elevating units in the transit mode, information for preparing the unit to avoid structural damage during heavy weather, including the positioning and securing of legs, cantilever structures, and heavy cargo or large equipment which might shift position.

(16) A description of any inherent operational limitations for each mode of operation and for each change in mode of operation.

(17) Guidance for the person in charge to determine the cause of unexpected list and trim before taking corrective action.

(18) For column stabilized units, a description, a schematic diagram, and guidance for the operation of the ballast system and of the alternate means of ballast system operation, together with a description of their limitations, such as pump capacities at various angles of heel and trim.

(19) A description, a schematic diagram, and guidance for the operation of the bilge system and of the alternate means of bilge system operation, together with a description of their limitations, such as spaces not connected to the bilge system.

(20) General arrangement plans showing the location of: Watertight and weathertight compartments, and openings in the hull and structure; vents, closures, and mechanical, ventilating, and electrical emergency shutdowns; flooding alarms and fire and gas detectors; and access to different compartments and decks.

(21) A list of emergency shutdowns and guidance on restarting all mechanical, ventilating, and electrical equipment after activation of the emergency shutdowns.

(22) Procedures for evacuating personnel from the unit.

(23) A plan showing the hazardous locations described in ยง 111.105-33 of this chapter.

(24) A schematic diagram of the emergency power system.
