
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I-A - Mobile Offshore Drilling Units
#### PART 109 - OPERATIONS
##### Subpart B - Tests, Drills, and Inspections
###### ยง 109.213 Emergency training and drills.
####### Abandonment drills.

(d)(1) Abandonment drills must include the following:

(i) Each drill must include summoning of industrial personnel and crew to muster stations with the general alarm, followed by drill announcements on the public address or other communication system, and ensuring that all on board are made aware of the order to abandon ship.

(ii) Each drill must include reporting to stations and preparing for the duties described in the muster list.

(iii) Each drill must include checking that industrial personnel and crew are suitably dressed.

(iv) Each drill must include checking that lifejackets or immersion suits are correctly donned.

(v) Each drill must include lowering of at least one lifeboat after any necessary preparation for launching.

(vi) Each drill must include starting and operating the lifeboat engine.

(vii) Each drill must include operating davits used for launching the liferafts.

(2) Different lifeboats must, as far as practicable, be lowered in compliance with the requirements of paragraph (d)(1)(v) of this section at successive drills.

(3) Each lifeboat must be launched with its assigned operating crew aboard, and maneuvered in the water at least once every 3 months, during an abandonment drill.

(4) As far as is reasonable and practicable, rescue boats other than lifeboats which are also rescue boats, must be launched each month with their assigned crew aboard and maneuvered in the water. In all cases this requirement must be complied with at least once every 3 months.

(5) If a unit is fitted with marine evacuation systems, drills must include an exercising of the procedures required for the deployment of such a system up to the point immediately preceding actual deployment of the system. This aspect of drills should be augmented by regular instruction using the on board training aids. Additionally, members of the crew or industrial personnel assigned to duties involving the marine evacuation system must be further trained by participation in a full deployment of a similar system into water, either on board a unit or ashore, at intervals normally not longer than 2 years, but in no case longer than 3 years.

(6) Emergency lighting for mustering and abandonment must be tested at each abandonment drill.

(7) On a unit carrying immersion suits or anti-exposure suits, immersion suits or anti-exposure suits must be worn by crew members and industrial personnel in at least one abandonment drill in any three-month period. If wearing the suit is impracticable due to warm weather, the crew members must be instructed on its donning and use.
