
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I-A - Mobile Offshore Drilling Units
#### PART 109 - OPERATIONS
##### Subpart C - Operation and Stowage of Safety Equipment
###### ยง 109.323 Manning of survival craft and supervision.

(a) There must be a sufficient number of trained persons on board the survival craft for mustering and assisting untrained persons.

(b) There must be a sufficient number of deck officers, able seamen, or certificated persons on board to operate the survival craft and launching arrangements required for abandonment by the total number of persons on board.

(c) There must be one person placed in charge of each survival craft to be used. The person in charge must-

(1) Be a deck officer, able seaman, or certificated person. The OCMI, considering the number of persons permitted on board, and the characteristics of the unit, may permit persons practiced in the handling and operation of liferafts or inflatable buoyant apparatus to be placed in charge of liferafts or inflatable buoyant apparatus;

(2) Have another person designated second-in-command of each lifeboat permitted to carry more than 40 persons. This person should be a deck officer, able seaman, or certificated person; and

(3) Have a list of the survival craft crew and must see that the crewmembers are acquainted with their duties. The second-in-command of a lifeboat must also have a list of the lifeboat crew.

(d) There must be a person assigned to each motorized survival craft who is capable of operating the engine and carrying out minor adjustments.

(e) The person in charge must make sure that the persons required under paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section are equitably distributed among the unit's survival craft.
