
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I-A - Mobile Offshore Drilling Units
#### PART 109 - OPERATIONS
##### Subpart C - Operation and Stowage of Safety Equipment
###### ยง 109.347 Pilot boarding equipment.

(a) The master or person in charge shall ensure that pilot boarding equipment is maintained as follows:

(1) The equipment must be kept clean and in good working order.

(2) Each damaged step or spreader step on a pilot ladder must be replaced in kind with an approved replacement step or spreader step, prior to further use of the ladder. The replacement step or spreader step must be secured by the method used in the original construction of the ladder, and in accordance with manufacturer instructions.

(b) The master or person in charge shall ensure compliance with the following during pilot boarding operations:

(1) Only approved pilot boarding equipment may be used.

(2) The pilot boarding equipment must rest firmly against the hull of the vessel and be clear of overboard discharges.

(3) Two man ropes, a safety line and an approved lifebuoy with an approved water light must be at the point of access and be immediately available for use during boarding operations.

(4) Rigging of the equipment and embarkation/debarkation of a pilot must be supervised in person by a deck officer.

(5) Both the equipment over the side and the point of access must be adequately lit during night operations.

(6) If a pilot hoist is used, a pilot ladder must be kept on deck adjacent to the hoist and available for immediate use.
