
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I-A - Mobile Offshore Drilling Units
#### PART 109 - OPERATIONS
##### Subpart D - Reports, Notifications, and Records
###### Records
####### § 109.431 Logbook.
############### § 109.433 Logbook entries.

The master or person in charge shall insure that the following applicable entries are made in the logbook required by this subpart:

(a) The date of each test of the steering gear, whistle, general alarm, and communications equipment and the condition of the equipment.

(b) The time and date of each opening and closing, while the unit is afloat, of each required appliance for watertight integrity not fitted with a remote operating control or alarm system and the reasons for the action.

(c) The date of each test of emergency lighting and power systems and the condition and performance of the equipment.

(d) The logbook must include information on emergency training drills required in § 109.213(h).

(e) Prior to getting underway, the fore and aft drafts, the position of the loadline marks in relation to the surface of the water, and the density of the water in which the vessel is floating, if in fresh or brackish water.

(f) After loading and prior to getting underway and at all other times necessary to assure the safety of the vessel, a statement verifying vessel compliance with applicable stability requirements as required by § 109.227.

(g) The date of each inspection of each accommodation space.

(h) The date of each inspection required in § 109.573 if performed by the master or person in charge.
