
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I-A - Mobile Offshore Drilling Units
#### PART 109 - OPERATIONS
##### Appendix A to Part 109 - Navigation and Vessel Inspection Circular No. 4-78 - Inspection and Certification of Existing Mobile Offshore Drilling Units
###### Stability.

(4)(a) The stability of each existing unit will be reviewed by the Coast Guard. The plans indicated in 46 CFR Subchapter IA § 107.305(q) through (u-l) must be submitted to the cognizant OCMI or Merchant Marine Technical Office.

(b) Lightship data from a Coast Guard witnessed and approved stability test is required for each existing, uncertificated unit. Alternatively other evidence of lightship values will be considered on a case by case basis.

(c) In general, compliance with the intact stability standards of 46 CFR Subchapter IA, §§ 108.303 through 108.309 is required. Where existing units were designed to a lesser standard of stability than that specified in §§ 108.303 through 108.309, some relaxation based on proven past performance may be granted at the discretion of the OCMI and limiting conditions, if any, set forth in the operating manual. In no case will the minimum wind speed for adequate stability be reduced below 50 knots.

(d) An operating manual shall be prepared for each unit. Each operating manual must contain the information indicated in 46 CFR Subchapter IA, § 109.121(d) and be submitted to the cognizant OCMI or Merchant Marine Technical Office for review.
