
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I-A - Mobile Offshore Drilling Units
#### PART 109 - OPERATIONS
##### Appendix A to Part 109 - Navigation and Vessel Inspection Circular No. 4-78 - Inspection and Certification of Existing Mobile Offshore Drilling Units
###### Load Line.

(5)(a) All units are required to obtain and maintain a valid Load Line Certificate. The structure and stability of the unit must be proven adequate for the voyages and areas of operation intended.

(b) The American Bureau of Shipping or other recognized classification society will issue Load Line Certificates and conduct initial and annual load line surveys. Coast Guard and the American Bureau of Shipping inspections may be conducted simultaneously, but it is the owner's responsibility to arrange coordinated inspection schedules.

(c) The structural review conducted by the American Bureau of Shipping or other recognized classification society for load line assignment may be accepted by the Coast Guard as proof of structural adequacy of the hull.

(d) The stability review must be completed prior to issuance of a Load Line Certificate. The Coast Guard will inform the American Bureau of Shipping or other recognized classification society of the results of the stability review, and will indicate any stability limitations to be placed on the Load Line Certificate.

(e) Freeboard calculations for self-elevating units with barge type hulls will be made in accordance with 46 CFR, Part 42. The bow height requirements of 46 CFR 42.20-70 may be relaxed to approximately 33% of the normal requirement for barge shapes moving at speeds less than 6 knots. No relaxation of the addition to freeboard for deficiency in sheer is allowed. The freeboard for units other than self-elevating units with barge type hulls will be based upon compliance with the intact and damage stability standards applicable at the time the unit was contracted for.
