
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I-A - Mobile Offshore Drilling Units
#### PART 109 - OPERATIONS
##### Appendix A to Part 109 - Navigation and Vessel Inspection Circular No. 4-78 - Inspection and Certification of Existing Mobile Offshore Drilling Units
###### Lifesaving Equipment.

(8)(a) Each unit must have lifesaving equipment (lifeboats and davit launched liferafts) for 200 percent of the total persons allowed on board. Except for submersible type units, the installation of lifeboats for 100 percent of the persons (on board) is required in accordance with 46 CFR 108.503 of Subchapter IA. Consideration will be given to those units where existing arrangement and structure do not provide sufficient room for installation of the lifeboats or where the added weight of the lifeboats, davits and winches will materially reduce the variable load capacity of the unit. In such cases, davit launched inflatable liferafts with a combined personnel capacity of the required lifeboats, and a rescue boat approved by the OCMI may be acceptable equivalents. Submersible type units may substitute Coast Guard approved throw over type inflatable liferafts and an approved rescue boat for the required lifeboats.

(b) For the second part of the total 200 percent primary lifesaving requirement, lifeboats installed in accordance with 33 CFR, Subchapter "N" Part 144 or Coast Guard approved life floats may be retained as provided for in 3.d(1)(b) of this Circular. They will be considered collectively with the Coast Guard approved liferafts for calculating the amount of equipment to provide for 100 percent of personnel on board.

(c) Adequate access to all lifesaving equipment must be provided.
