
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I-A - Mobile Offshore Drilling Units
#### PART 109 - OPERATIONS
##### Appendix A to Part 109 - Navigation and Vessel Inspection Circular No. 4-78 - Inspection and Certification of Existing Mobile Offshore Drilling Units
###### Application for Original Inspection for Certification.,existing uncertificated units,

b.Not later than sixty days from January 3, 1979, application for original inspection for certification of allshall be submitted to the appropriate OCMI. The plans or descriptive data specified in paragraph 3.d(2) of this NVIC along with a proposed plan to bring the unit into compliance should, if possible, be submitted with the application for inspection. If not feasible to assemble all required information in this time frame, an estimated date of submittal shall be indicated on the application. Arrangements should be made to commence the original inspection for certification with due consideration for the unit's operating situation.

c. To the extent possible the same inspection team will conduct the inspection of all existing uncertificated units in a geographical area. It may be advantageous to conduct the original inspection in conjunction with an impending special or periodic survey, drydocking or availability period. Units under construction will receive primary consideration by the OCMI for the allocation of time and personnel so that any problems can be identified while the unit is in the most advantageous situation to apply corrections.

d. The variety of designs and arrangements presented by existing uninspected MODU's makes it impractical to prescribe detailed standards for all existing units. The procedures followed to implement this NVC must provide the necessary flexibility. Items which must be taken into consideration in applying this NVIC are listed below. Categorizing units into groups to which the same items apply will be of value during the inspection process. These items are:

- Type

- Builder

- Model

- Date build

- Classed by ABS or other classification society

- Load Line assignment

- Operating history (including geographical areas)

- Present location
