
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Electrical Engineering
#### PART 110 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart 110.25 - Plan Submittal
###### § 110.25-1 Plans and information required for new construction.

The following plans, if applicable to the particular vessel, must be submitted for Coast Guard review in accordance with § 110.25-3:

(a) Elementary one-line wiring diagram of the power system, supported, by cable lists, panelboard summaries, and other information including-

(1) Type and size of generators and prime movers;

(2) Type and size of generator cables, bus-tie cables, feeders, and branch circuit cables;

(3) Power, lighting, and interior communication panelboards with number of circuits and rating of energy consuming devices;

(4) Type and capacity of storage batteries;

(5) Rating of circuit breakers and switches, interrupting capacity of circuit breakers, and rating or setting of overcurrent devices;

(6) Computations of short circuit currents in accordance with Subpart 111.52; and

(7) Overcurrent protective device coordination analysis for each generator distribution system of 1500 kilowatts or above that includes selectivity and shows that each overcurrent device has an interrupting capacity sufficient to interrupt the maximum asymmetrical short-circuit current available at the point of application.

(b) Electrical plant load analysis including connected loads and computed operating loads for each condition of operation.

(c) Elementary and isometric or deck wiring plans, including the location of each cable splice, a list of symbols, and the manufacturer's name and identification of each item of electrical equipment, of each-

(1) Steering gear circuit and steering motor controller;

(2) General emergency alarm system;

(3) Sound-powered telephone or other fixed communication system;

(4) Power-operated boat winch;

(5) Fire detecting and alarm system;

(6) Smoke detecting system;

(7) Electric watertight door system;

(8) Fire door holding systems;

(9) Public address system;

(10) Manual alarm system; and

(11) Supervised patrol system.

(d) Deck wiring or schematic plans of power systems and lighting systems, including symbol lists, with manufacturer's name and identification of each item of electric equipment, and showing:

(1) Locations of cables;

(2) Cable sizes and types;

(3) Locations of each item of electric equipment;

(4) Locations of cable splices.

(e) Switchboard wiring diagram.

(f) Switchboard material and nameplate list.

(g) Elementary wiring diagram of metering and automatic switchgear.

(h) Description of operation of propulsion control and bus transfer switchgear.

(i) For vessels with hazardous locations for which part 111, subpart 111.105, is applicable, plans showing the extent and classification of all hazardous locations, including information on-

(1) Equipment identification by manufacturer's name and model number;

(2) Equipment use within the system;

(3) Cable parameters;

(4) Equipment locations;

(5) Installation details; and

(6) A certificate of testing, and listing or certification, by an independent laboratory, where required by the respective standard.

(j) Plans and installation instructions for each approved component of an intrinsically safe system listed or certified by an independent laboratory (see § 111.105-11 of this chapter).

(k) Motor starter elementary wiring diagram, enclosure drawing, and starter application.

(l) Plans and information sufficient to evaluate equipment to be considered for equivalency under § 110.20-1.

(m) Plans and information sufficient to evaluate equipment or systems required to meet the specifications of this Subchapter but not to be approved by the Commandant.

(n) Plans and information sufficient to evaluate equipment required by this subchapter to meet a reference standard or military specification.

(o) Detailed analysis showing compliance with the MC cable requirements in § 111.60-23(b) of this chapter.

(p) For an OSV with hazardous locations to which subpart 111.106 of this part applies, plans showing the extent and classification of all hazardous locations, including information on-

(1) Equipment identification by manufacturer's name and model number;

(2) Equipment use within the system;

(3) Parameters of intrinsically safe systems, including cables;

(4) Equipment locations;

(5) Installation details and/or approved control drawings; and

(6) A certificate of testing, and listing or certification, by an independent laboratory, as defined by 46 CFR 159.001-3, or an IECEx Certificate of Conformity under the IECEx System, where required by the respective standard in § 111.106-3(b)(1), (2), or (3) of this subchapter.

(q) For vessels with hazardous locations to which subpart 111.108 of this chapter applies, plans showing the extent and classification of all hazardous locations, including information on-

(1) Equipment identification by manufacturer's name and model number;

(2) Equipment use within the system;

(3) Parameters of intrinsically safe systems, including cables;

(4) Equipment locations;

(5) Installation details and/or approved control drawings; and

(6) A certificate of testing, and listing or certification, by an independent laboratory or an IECEx Certificate of Conformity under the IECEx System, where required by the respective standard in § 111.108-3(b)(1), (2), or (3) of this chapter.
