
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Electrical Engineering
#### PART 111 - ELECTRIC SYSTEMS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart 111.10 - Power Supply
###### ยง 111.10-4 Power requirements, generating sources.

(a) The aggregate capacity of the electric ship's service generating sources required in ยง 111.10-3 must be sufficient for the ship's service loads.

(b) With the ship's service generating source of the largest capacity stopped, the combined capacity of the remaining electric ship's service generating source or sources must be sufficient to supply those services necessary to provide normal operational conditions of propulsion and safety, and minimum comfortable conditions of habitability. Habitability services include cooking, heating, air conditioning (where installed), domestic refrigeration, mechanical ventilation, sanitation, and fresh water.

(c) The capacity of the ship's service generating sources must be sufficient for supplying the ship's service loads without the use of a generating source which is dependent upon the speed or direction of the main propelling engines or shafting.

(d) Operating generators must provide a continuous and uninterrupted source of power for the ship's service load under normal operational conditions. Any vessel speed change or throttle movement must not cause a ship's service load power interruption.

(e) Vessels with electric propulsion that have two or more constant-voltage generators which supply both ship's service and propulsion power do not need additional ship's service generators provided that with any one propulsion/ship's service generator out of service the capacity of the remaining generator(s) is sufficient for the electrical loads necessary to provide normal operational conditions of propulsion and safety, and minimum comfortable conditions of habitability.

(f) A generator driven by a main propulsion unit (such as a shaft generator) which is capable of providing electrical power continuously, regardless of the speed and direction of the propulsion shaft, may be considered one of the ship's service generating sets required by ยง 111.10-3. A main-engine-dependent generator which is not capable of providing continuous electrical power may be utilized as a supplemental generator provided that a required ship's service generator or generators having sufficient capacity to supply the ship's service loads can be automatically brought on line prior to the main-engine-dependent generator tripping off-line due to a change in the speed or direction of the main propulsion unit.
