
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Electrical Engineering
#### PART 111 - ELECTRIC SYSTEMS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart 111.30 - Switchboards
###### ยง 111.30-27 Direct current ship's service switchboards.

(a) Each direct current ship's service switchboard must have the equipment required by paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section.

(b) For each connected generator, each switchboard must have the following:

(1) A circuit breaker that meets ยง 111.12-11 and ยง 111.50-5.

(2) A disconnect switch or link for each generator conductor, except a switchboard having a draw-out or plug-in type generator circuit breaker that disconnects-

(i) Each conductor; or

(ii) If there is a switch in the generator neutral, each ungrounded conductor.

(3) A field rheostat.

(4) A pilot lamp connected between the generator and circuit breaker.

(c) For each two-wire generator, each switchboard must have:

(1) An ammeter; and

(2) A voltmeter with a selector switch that connects the voltmeter to show:

(i) Generator voltage; and

(ii) Bus voltage.

(d) For each three-wire generator, each switchboard must have the following:

(1) An ammeter for:

(i) The positive lead; and

(ii) The negative lead.

(2) A center zero type ammeter for the neutral ground connection.

(3) A voltmeter with a selector switch that connects the voltmeter to show generator and bus voltage:

(i) Positive to negative;

(ii) Positive to neutral; and

(iii) Neutral to negative.

(e) Each switchboard must have ground detection that meets Subpart 111.05 for the:

(1) Main power system;

(2) Main lighting system; and

(3) Emergency lighting system.

(f) For each shore power connection, each switchboard must have:

(1) A circuit breaker or fused switch; and

(2) A pilot light connected to the shore side.

(g) One of the voltmeters under paragraph (c)(2) or (d)(3) of this section must be connected to show:

(1) For each two-wire system, shore connection voltage; and

(2) For each three-wire system, shore connection voltage:

(i) Positive to negative;

(ii) Positive to neutral; and

(iii) Neutral to negative.
