
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Electrical Engineering
#### PART 111 - ELECTRIC SYSTEMS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart 111.30 - Switchboards
###### ยง 111.30-29 Emergency switchboards.

(a) Each emergency generator must have an emergency switchboard.

(b) There must be a test switch at the emergency switchboard to simulate a failure of the normal power source and cause the emergency loads to be supplied from the emergency power source.

(c) The emergency switchboard must be as near as practicable to the emergency power source but not in the same space as a battery emergency power source.

(d) Each alternating-current emergency switchboard must have the equipment required by paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section.

(e) For each connected emergency generator, each emergency switchboard must have:

(1) A circuit breaker that meets ยง 111.12-11;

(2) A disconnect switch or link for each emergency generator conductor, except for a switchboard with a draw out or plug-in type generator circuit breaker that disconnects:

(i) Each generator conductor; and

(ii) If there is a switch in the generator neutral, each ungrounded conductor; and

(3) A pilot lamp connected between the generator and circuit breaker.

(f) For each emergency generator that is not excited from a variable voltage or rotary amplifier exciter that is controlled by a voltage regulator unit acting on the exciter field, each emergency switchboard must have:

(1) A generator field rheostat;

(2) A double pole field switch;

(3) Discharge clips; and

(4) A discharge resistor.

(g) Each emergency switchboard must have the following:

(1) An ammeter with a selector switch that connects the ammeter to show the current for each phase.

(2) A voltmeter with a selector switch that connects the voltmeter to show:

(i) Generator voltage of each phase; and

(ii) Bus voltage of one phase.

(3) Ground detection that meets subpart 111.05 for the emergency lighting system.

(4) A frequency meter.

(5) An exciter field rheostat.

(6) A voltage regulator and a voltage regulator functional cut-out switch.

(h) Each direct-current emergency switchboard must have the:

(1) Equipment under ยง 111.30-27 (b) through (d); and

(2) Ground detection under subpart 111.05 for the emergency lighting system.
