
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Electrical Engineering
#### PART 111 - ELECTRIC SYSTEMS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart 111.70 - Motor Circuits, Controllers, and Protection
###### ยง 111.70-7 Remote control, interlock, and indicator circuits.
####### Switching.

(d)In the design of a control, interlock, or indicator circuit, all practicable steps must be taken to eliminate all but one source of power in an enclosure. If the control functions make it impracticable to energize a control interlock or indicator circuit from the load side of a motor and controller disconnect device and the voltage of the control, interlock, or indicator circuit is more than 24 volts, there must be one of the following alternative methods of switching:

(1) Each conductor of a control, interlock, or indicator circuit must be disconnected from all sources of potential by a disconnect device independent of the motor and controller disconnect device. The two independent devices must be adjacent to each other, and a fixed sign, warning the operator to open both devices to disconnect completely the motor and controller, must be on the exterior of the door of the main disconnect device.

(2) Each conductor of a control, interlock, or indicator circuit must be disconnected from all sources of power by a disconnect device actuated by the opening of the controller door, or the power must first be disconnected to allow opening of the door. The disconnect device and its connections, including each terminal block for terminating the vessel's wiring, must have no electrically uninsulated or unshielded surface. When this type of disconnect device is used for vital auxiliary circuits, a nameplate must be affixed to the vital auxiliary motor controller door that warns that opening the door will trip a vital auxiliary off-line.
