
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Electrical Engineering
#### PART 111 - ELECTRIC SYSTEMS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart 111.95 - Electric Power-Operated Boat Winches
###### ยง 111.95-7 Wiring of boat winch components.

(a) If the motor controller of a boat winch power unit is next to the winch, the main line emergency switch must disconnect all parts of the boat winch power unit, including the motor controller and limit switches, from all sources of potential. Other power circuit switches must be connected in series with the main line emergency switch and must be ahead of the motor controller. The main line emergency switch must be the motor and controller disconnect required by Subpart 111.70 and must have a horsepower rating of at least that of the winch motor.

(b) If the motor controller of a boat winch power unit is remote from the winch, there must be a switch at the controller that can disconnect the entire winch electric installation from all sources of potential. The switch must be in series with and on the supply side of the main line emergency switch.

(c) Each davit arm limit switch, whether connected in the power circuit or in the control circuit, must disconnect all ungrounded conductors of the circuit controlled.

(d) If one motor is used with two winches, there must be a main line emergency switch, a clutch interlock switch, and a master switch for each winch, except that a single main line emergency switch located as required by paragraph (e) of this section may be used for both winches. The main line emergency switches must be connected, in series, ahead of the motor controller. The master switches must be connected in parallel and each, in series, with the corresponding clutch interlock switch for that winch. Each clutch interlock switch must open the circuit to its master switch, except when the power unit is clutched to the associated winch. There must be a means to prevent the power unit from being clutched to both winches simultaneously.

(e) The main line emergency disconnect switch must be adjacent to the master switch, within reach of the winch operator, accessible to the person in charge of the boat stowage, and for gravity davit installations, in a position from which the movement of boat davit arms can be observed as they approach the final stowed position.
