
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Electrical Engineering
#### PART 111 - ELECTRIC SYSTEMS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart 111.97 - Electric Power-Operated Watertight Door Systems
###### ยง 111.97-5 Electric and hydraulic power supply.

(a) Each electric motor-driven door operating system must have the same source of power as the emergency lighting and power system.

(b) The temporary emergency power source and the final emergency power source must each be capable of operating all doors simultaneously or sequentially as allowed by ยง 170.270(c) of this chapter.

(c) The power supply for each hydraulically operated watertight door system that uses a hydraulic system common to more than one watertight door must be an accumulator tank with enough capacity to open all doors once and to close all doors two times and be supplied by one or more motor-driven hydraulic pumps that can operate from the final source of the emergency lighting and power system.

(d) The motor-driven hydraulic pumps must automatically maintain the accumulator tank pressure within the design limits, be above the uppermost continuous deck, and be controlled from above the uppermost continuous deck.

(e) The accumulator tank capacity required in paragraph (c) of this section must be available when the accumulator tank pressure is at the automatic pump "cut-in" pressure.

(f) The source of power for each hydraulically operated watertight door system using an independent hydraulic system for each door operator must meet paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.

(g) The power supply for other types of watertight door operators must be accepted by the Commandant.
