
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Electrical Engineering
#### PART 111 - ELECTRIC SYSTEMS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart 111.105 - Hazardous Locations
###### § 111.105-32 Bulk liquefied flammable gas and ammonia carriers.

(a) Each vessel that carries bulk liquefied flammable gases or ammonia as a cargo, cargo residue, or vapor must meet the requirements of this section.

(b) As used in this section:

(1) The terms "gas-safe" and "gas-dangerous" spaces are used as defined in § 154.7 of this chapter.

(2) The term "gas-dangerous" does not include the weather deck of an ammonia carrier.

(c) Each submerged cargo pump motor design must receive concept approval by the Commandant (CG-ENG) and its installation must receive plan approval by the Commanding Officer, Marine Safety Center.

(d) Electrical equipment must not be installed in a gas-dangerous space or zone, except:

(1) Intrinsically safe electrical equipment and wiring, and

(2) Other equipment as allowed in this section.

(e) A submerged cargo pump motor, if installed in a cargo tank, must meet § 111.105-31(d).

(f) Electrical equipment must not be installed in a hold space that has a tank that is not required to have a secondary barrier under § 154.459 of this chapter, except:

(1) Through runs of marine shipboard cable;

(2) Explosionproof lighting fixtures;

(3) Depth sounding devices in gastight enclosures;

(4) Log devices in gastight enclosures;

(5) Impressed current cathodic protection system electrodes in gastight enclosures; and

(6) Armored or MI type cable for a submerged cargo pump motor.

(g) Electrical equipment must not be installed in a space that is separated by a gastight steel boundary from a hold space that has a tank that must have a secondary barrier under the requirements of § 154.459 of this chapter, except:

(1) Through runs of marine shipboard cable;

(2) Explosionproof lighting fixtures;

(3) Depth sounding devices in gastight enclosures;

(4) Log devices in gastight enclosures;

(5) Impressed current cathodic protection system electrodes in gastight enclosures;

(6) Explosionproof motors that operate cargo system valves or ballast system valves;

(7) Explosionproof bells for general alarm systems; and

(8) Armored or MI type cable for a submerged cargo pump motor.

(h) A cargo-handling room must not have any installed electrical equipment, except explosionproof lighting fixtures.

(i) A space for cargo hose storage or a space that has cargo piping must not have any installed electrical equipment, except:

(1) Explosionproof lighting fixtures; and

(2) Through runs of marine shipboard cable.

(j) A gas dangerous zone on the open deck must not have any installed electrical equipment, except:

(1) Explosionproof equipment that is necessary for the operation of the vessel; and

(2) Through runs of marine shipboard cable.

(k) A space, except those named in paragraphs (f) through (i) of this section, that has a direct opening to gas-dangerous spaces or zones must have no electrical equipment except as allowed in the gas-dangerous space or zone.

(l) Each gas-dangerous space that has lighting fixtures must have at least two branch circuits for lighting.

(m) Each switch and each overcurrent protective device for any lighting circuit that is in a gas-dangerous space must open all conductors of the circuit simultaneously.

(n) Each switch and each overcurrent protective device for lighting in a gas-dangerous space must be in a gas-safe space.
