
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Electrical Engineering
#### PART 111 - ELECTRIC SYSTEMS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart 111.105 - Hazardous Locations
###### ยง 111.105-33 Mobile offshore drilling units.
####### Definitions.

(b)As used in this section:

(1) "Enclosed spaces" are locations delineated by floors, bulkheads, or decks which may have doors or windows.

(2) "Semi-enclosed spaces" are locations where natural conditions of ventilation are notably different from those on open deck due to the presence of structures such as roofs, windbreaks, and bulkheads which are so arranged that dispersion of gas may not occur.

(c) The internal space of each pressure vessel, tank, and pipe for drilling mud and for gas venting must have only intrinsically safe electric equipment.

(d) The following are Class I, Division 1 locations:

(1) An enclosed space that contains any part of the mud circulating system that has an opening into the space and is between the well and final degassing discharge.

(2) An enclosed or semi-enclosed location that is below the drill floor and contains a possible source of gas release such as the top of a drilling nipple.

(3) An enclosed space that is on the drill floor and is not separated by a solid, gas-tight floor from the spaces specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

(4) A space that would normally be considered a Division 2 location under paragraph (e) of this section but where combustible or flammable gases might accumulate. This could include pits, ducts, and similar structures downstream of the final degassing discharge.

(5) A location in the weather or a semi-enclosed location, except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, that is within 5 feet (1.5 m) of the boundary of any:

(i) Equipment or opening specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section;

(ii) Ventilation outlet, access, or other opening to a Class I, Division 1 space; or

(iii) Gas vent outlet.

(6) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, an enclosed space that has an opening into a Class I, Division 1 location.

(e) The following are Class I, Division 2 locations:

(1) An enclosed space that has any open portion of the mud circulating system from the final degassing discharge to the mud suction connection at the mud pit.

(2) A location in the weather that is:

(i) Within the boundaries of the drilling derrick up to a height of 10 feet (3m) above the drill floor;

(ii) Below the drill floor and within a radius of 10 feet (3m) of a possible source of release, such as the top of a drilling nipple; or

(iii) Within 5 feet (1.5m) of the boundaries of any ventilation outlet, access, or other opening to a Class I, Division 2 space.

(3) A location that is:

(i) Within 5 feet (1.5m) of a semi-enclosed Class I, Division 1 location indicated in paragraph (d)(2) of this section; or

(ii) Within 5 feet (1.5m) of a Class I, Division 1 space indicated in paragraph (d)(5).

(4) A semi-enclosed area that is below and contiguous with the drill floor to the boundaries of the derrick or to the extent of any enclosure which is liable to trap gases.

(5) A semi-enclosed derrick to the extent of its enclosure above the drill floor, or to a height of 10 feet (3m) above the drill floor, whichever is greater.

(6) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, an enclosed space that has an opening into a Class I, Division 2 location.

(f) An enclosed space that has direct access to a Division 1 or Division 2 location is the same division as that location, except:

(1) An enclosed space that has direct access to a Division 1 location is not a hazardous location if:

(i) The access has self-closing gas-tight doors that form an air lock;

(ii) The ventilation causes greater pressure in the space than in the Division 1 location; and

(iii) Loss of ventilation overpressure is alarmed at a manned station;

(2) An enclosed space that has direct access to a Division 1 location can be considered as a Division 2 location if:

(i) The access has a self-closing, gas-tight door that opens into the space and that has no hold-back device;

(ii) Ventilation causes the air to flow with the door open from the space into the Division 1 location; and

(iii) Loss of ventilation is alarmed at a manned control station; and

(3) An enclosed space that has direct access to a Division 2 location is not a hazardous location if:

(i) The access has a self-closing, gas-tight door that opens into the space and that has no hold-back device;

(ii) Ventilation causes the air to flow with the door open from the space into the Division 2 location; and

(iii) Loss of ventilation actuates an alarm at a manned control station.

(g) Electrical equipment and devices installed in spaces made non-hazardous by the methods indicated in paragraph (f) of this section must be limited to essential equipment.
