
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Electrical Engineering
#### PART 111 - ELECTRIC SYSTEMS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart 111.106 - Hazardous Locations on OSVs
###### ยง 111.106-13 Cargo handling devices or cargo pump rooms handling flammable or combustible cargoes.

(a) This section is applicable to enclosed areas containing devices handling flammable or combustible liquid cargoes with closed-cup flashpoints not exceeding 60 &#xB0;C (140 &#xB0;F).

(b) Enclosed hazardous locations containing devices that handle cargoes must comply with Clauses 6.3.1.2 of API RP 500 and 6.6.1.2 of API RP 505 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 110.10-1). Ventilation must not be used to reduce the classification of such areas.

(c) Cargo pump rooms must be isolated from all sources of vapor ignition by gastight bulkheads. The gastight bulkhead between the pump room and the pump-motor compartment may be pierced by fixed lights, drive shafts, and pump-engine control rods, provided that the shafts and rods are fitted with fixed oil reservoir gland seals, or pressure grease seals where they pass through the gastight bulkheads. Other types of positive pressure seals must be specially approved by the Commandant (CG-ENG). Access to a cargo handling enclosed area or room must be from the open deck.

(d) Fixed lights in cargo pump rooms or enclosed cargo handling areas must meet the arrangement and construction requirements in ยง 111.105-31(g) of this part.

(e) A cargo handling area or pump room that precludes the lighting arrangement of paragraph (d) of this section, or where the lighting arrangement of paragraph (d) of this section does not give the required illumination level, must have explosion-proof, flameproof (Ex "d") or flameproof-increased safety (Ex "de") lighting fixtures.
