
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Electrical Engineering
#### PART 112 - EMERGENCY LIGHTING AND POWER SYSTEMS
##### Subpart 112.15 - Emergency Loads
###### ยง 112.15-1 Temporary emergency loads.

On vessels required by ยง 112.05-5(a) to have a temporary emergency power source, the following emergency lighting and power loads must be arranged so that they can be energized from the temporary emergency power source:

(a) Navigation lights.

(b) Enough lights throughout machinery spaces to allow essential operations and observations under emergency conditions and to allow restoration of service.

(c) Lighting, including low location lighting if installed, for passageways, stairways, and escape trunks in passenger quarters, crew quarters, public spaces, machinery spaces, damage control lockers, emergency equipment lockers, and work spaces sufficient to allow passengers and crew to find their way to open decks and to survival craft, muster stations, and embarkation stations with all watertight doors and fire doors closed.

(d) Illuminated signs with the word "EXIT" in red letters throughout a passenger vessel so the direction of escape to the open deck is obvious from any portion of the vessel usually accessible to the passengers or crew, except machinery spaces, and except stores and similar spaces where the crew are not normally employed. There must be sufficient signs so that the direction of escape is obvious, with all fire doors in stairway enclosures and main vertical zone bulkheads closed and all watertight doors closed. For the purpose of this paragraph, an individual stateroom or other similar small room is not required to have a sign, but the direction of escape must be obvious to a person emerging from the room.

(e) Illumination to allow safe operation of each power operated watertight door.

(f) At least one light in each space where a person may be maintaining, repairing, or operating equipment, stowing or drawing stores or equipment, or transiting, such as public spaces, work spaces, machinery spaces, workshops, galleys, emergency fire pumprooms, bow thruster rooms, storage areas for paint, rope, and other stores, underdeck passageways in cargo areas, steering gear rooms, windlass rooms, normally accessible duct keels with valve operators, cargo handling rooms, and holds of roll-on/roll-off vessels.

(g) Lighting for survival craft launching, including muster stations, embarkation stations, the survival craft, its launching appliances and the area of the water where it is to be launched.

(h) Electric communication systems that are necessary under temporary emergency conditions and that do not have an independent storage battery source of power.

(i) Each power operated watertight door system.

(j) All shipwide communications systems necessary for the transmittal of information during an emergency.

(k) Each fire door holding and release system.

(l) Supply to motor generator or other conversion equipment if a temporary emergency power source of alternating current is necessary for essential communication systems or emergency equipment.

(m) Each daylight signaling light.

(n) Each smoke detector system.

(o) Each electrically controlled or powered ship's whistle.

(p) Each fire detection system; and gas detection system if installed.

(q) All lighting relative to helicopter operations and landing if installed, unless provided for by another source of power (such as independent batteries separately charged by solar cells).

(r) Each general emergency alarm system required by IMO SOLAS 74 (incorporated by reference; see 46 CFR 110.10-1).
