
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Electrical Engineering
#### PART 112 - EMERGENCY LIGHTING AND POWER SYSTEMS
##### Subpart 112.15 - Emergency Loads
###### § 112.15-5 Final emergency loads.

On vessels required to have a final emergency power source by § 112.05-5(a) of this chapter, the following emergency lighting and power loads must be arranged so that they can be energized from the final emergency power source:

(a) Each load under § 112.15-1.

(b) The machinery, controls, and alarms for each passenger elevator.

(c) Each charging panel for:

(1) Temporary emergency batteries;

(2) Starting batteries for diesel engines or gas turbines that drive emergency generators; and

(3) General alarm batteries.

(d) One of the bilge pumps, if the emergency power source is its source of power to meet Part 56 of this chapter.

(e) One of the fire pumps, if the emergency power source is its source of power to meet the requirements of the subchapter under which the vessel is certificated.

(f) Each sprinkler system, water spray extinguishing system, or foam system pump.

(g) If necessary, the lube oil pump for each propulsion turbine and reduction gear, propulsion diesel reduction gear, and ship's service generator turbine which needs external lubrication.

(h) Each rudder angle indicator.

(i) Each radio or global maritime distress and safety system (GMDSS) component.

(j) Each radio direction finder, radar, gyrocompass, depth sounder, global positioning system (GPS), satellite navigation system (SATNAV), speed log, rate-of-turn indicator and propeller pitch indicator.

(k) Each steering gear feeder, if required by part 58, subpart 58.25, of this chapter.

(l) Each general emergency alarm flashing light required by § 113.25-10 of this chapter.

(m) Each electric blow-out-preventer control system.

(n) Any permanently installed diving equipment that is dependent upon the vessel's or drilling unit's power.

(o) Each emergency generator starting compressor, as allowed by § 112.50-7(c)(3)(ii).

(p) Each steering gear failure alarm required by part 113, subpart 113.43, of this chapter.

(q) The ballast control system on each column-stabilized mobile offshore drilling unit.

(r) Each vital system automation load required by part 62 of this chapter.

(s) Motor-operated valves for each cargo oil and fuel oil system, if the emergency power source is the source of power to meet § 56.60(d) of this chapter.

(t) Each ship's stabilizer wing, unless a separate source of emergency power is supplied.

(u) Each indicator that shows the position of the stabilizer wings, if the emergency power source is its emergency source of power.

(v) Each smoke extraction fan, not including smoke detector sampling, and carbon dioxide or clean agent exhaust fans for spaces.
