
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Electrical Engineering
#### PART 112 - EMERGENCY LIGHTING AND POWER SYSTEMS
##### Subpart 112.50 - Emergency Diesel and Gas Turbine Engine Driven Generator Sets
###### ยง 112.50-1 General.

(a) The prime mover of a generator set must have:

(1) All accessories necessary for operation and protection of the prime mover; and

(2) A self-contained cooling system of a size that ensures continuous operation with 100 degrees F (37 degrees C) air.

(b) The fuel used must have a flashpoint of not less than 110 degrees F (43 degrees C).

(c) The room that has the generator set must have intake and exhaust ducts to supply adequate cooling air.

(d) The generator set must be capable of carrying its full rated load within 45 seconds after cranking is started with the intake air, room ambient temperature, and starting equipment at O&#xB0;C. The generator's prime mover must not have a starting aid to meet this requirement, except that a thermostatically-controlled electric water-jacket heater connected to the final emergency bus is permitted.

(e) The generator set must start by hydraulic, compressed air, or electrical means.

(f) The generator set must maintain proper lubrication when inclined to the angles specified in ยง 112.05-5(c), and must be arranged so that it does not spill oil under a vessel roll of 30 degrees to each side of the vertical.

(g) The generator set must shut down automatically upon loss of lubricating oil pressure, overspeed, or operation of a fixed fire extinguishing system in the emergency generator room (see ยง 111.12-1(b) for detailed overspeed trip requirements).

(h) If the prime mover is a diesel engine, there must be an audible alarm that sounds on low oil pressure and high cooling water temperature.

(i) If the prime mover is a gas turbine, it must meet the shutdown and alarm requirements in ยง 58.10-15(f) of this chapter.

(j) An independent fuel supply must be provided for the prime mover.

(k) Each emergency generator that is arranged to be automatically started must be equipped with a starting device with an energy-storage capability of at least six consecutive starts. A second, separate source of starting energy may provide three of the required six starts. If a second source is provided, the system need only provide three consecutive starts.
