
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Electrical Engineering
#### PART 112 - EMERGENCY LIGHTING AND POWER SYSTEMS
##### Subpart 112.50 - Emergency Diesel and Gas Turbine Engine Driven Generator Sets
###### ยง 112.50-7 Compressed air starting.

A compressed air starting system must meet the following:

(a) The starting, charging, and energy storing devices must be in the emergency generator room, except for the main or auxiliary air compressors addressed in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section.

(b) The compressed air starting system must provide the cranking torque and engine starting RPM recommended by the engine manufacturer.

(c) The compressed air starting system must have an air receiver that meets the following:

(1) Has a capacity for at least six consecutive starts. A second, separate source of starting energy may provide three of the required consecutive starts. If a second source is provided, the compressed air starting system need only provide three consecutive starts.

(2) Supplies no other system.

(3) Is supplied from one of the following:

(i) The main or auxiliary compressed air receivers with a nonreturn valve in the emergency generator room and a handcranked, diesel-powered air compressor for recharging the air receiver.

(ii) An electrically driven air compressor that is automatically operated and is powered from the emergency power source. If this compressor supplies other auxiliaries, there must be a non-return valve at the inlet of the starting air receiver and there must be a handcranked, diesel-powered air compressor for recharging the air receiver.
