
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Electrical Engineering
#### PART 113 - COMMUNICATION AND ALARM SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 113.25 - General Emergency Alarm Systems
###### ยง 113.25-8 Distribution of general emergency alarm system feeders and branch circuits.

(a) Each system must have a feeder distribution panel to divide the system into the necessary number of zone, feeders, except where, because of the arrangement of the vessel, only one zone feeder is necessary; then a branch circuit distribution panel or feeder distribution panel must be used.

(b) The feeder distribution panel must have overcurrent protection for each zone feeder, but there must be no disconnect switches.

(c) The feeder distribution panel must be in an enclosed space next to the general alarm power supply.

(d) Each system must have at least one feeder for each vertical fire zone that has general emergency alarm signal.

(e) Each system must have one or more branch circuit distribution panels for each zone feeder, with at least one fused branch circuit for each deck level. The distribution panel must be above the uppermost continuous deck, in the zone served, and there must be no disconnect switches for the branch circuits.

(f) A branch circuit must not supply emergency alarm signal on more than one deck level, except for a single branch circuit supplying all levels of a single space containing more than one deck level if all other requirements of this section are met.

(g) On a vessel not divided into fire zones by main vertical fire bulkheads, the general emergency alarm system must be arranged into vertical service zones not more than 40 meters (131 feet) long, and there must be a general alarm feeder for each of these zones that has general emergency alarm signal.

(h) General alarm feeders and branch circuit cables must be in passageways and must not be in staterooms, lockers, galleys, machinery spaces, or other enclosed spaces, unless it is necessary to supply general emergency alarm signal in those spaces.
