
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Electrical Engineering
#### PART 113 - COMMUNICATION AND ALARM SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 113.30 - Internal Communications
###### ยง 113.30-5 Requirements.
####### Radio and radio direction finder.

(e)Communication to the radio and radio direction finder must meet the following requirements:

(1) Each vessel that has a radio installation must have a means of communication between the radio room, the navigating bridge, or, if the vessel is a mobile offshore drilling unit, the control room, and any other place from which the vessel may be navigated under normal conditions, other than a place that is only for emergency functions, a place that is only for docking or maneuvering, or a place that is for navigating the vessel in close quarters. A location that has the apparatus that is necessary to steer the vessel, give engine orders, and control the whistle, is a place from which the vessel may be navigated.

(2) If the operating position of the emergency radio installation is not in the compartment normally used for operating the main radio installation, there must be means of communication between the emergency radio room, the navigating bridge, or, if the vessel is a mobile offshore drilling unit, the control room, and any other place from which the vessel may be navigated under normal conditions; other than a place that is only for emergency functions, a place that is only for docking or maneuvering, or a place that is for navigating the vessel in close quarters.

(3) Each vessel equipped with radio direction-finding apparatus that is not in or next to the navigating bridge must have a means of communication between the navigating bridge and the direction-finding apparatus.

(4) The communication system required by this paragraph must be independent of all other systems on the vessel. The location of the termination of these systems is subject to approval by the Federal Communication Commission.
