
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter K - Small Passenger Vessels Carrying More Than 150 Passengers or with Overnight Accommodations for More Than 49 Passengers
#### PART 115 - INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart A - General Provisions; Certificate of Inspection
###### ยง 115.105 How to obtain or renew.

(a) A Certificate of Inspection is obtained or renewed by making application on Form CG 3752, "Application for Inspection of U.S. Vessel," to the Coast Guard OCMI of the marine inspection zone in which the inspection is to be made. Form CG-3752 may be obtained at any U.S. Coast Guard Sector Office or Marine Inspection Office.

(b) The application for initial inspection of a vessel being newly constructed or converted must be submitted prior to the start of the construction or conversion.

(c) The construction, arrangement, and equipment of each vessel must be acceptable to the cognizant OCMI as a prerequisite of the issuance of the initial Certificate of Inspection. Acceptance is based on the information, specifications, drawings and calculations available to the OCMI, and on the successful completion of an initial inspection for certification.

(d) A Certificate of Inspection is renewed by the issuance of a new Certificate of Inspection.

(e) The condition of the vessel and its equipment must be acceptable to the cognizant OCMI as a prerequisite to the Certificate of Inspection renewal. Acceptance is based on the condition of the vessel as found at the inspection for certification.
