
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter K - Small Passenger Vessels Carrying More Than 150 Passengers or with Overnight Accommodations for More Than 49 Passengers
#### PART 115 - INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart D - Inspection for Certification
###### ยง 115.402 Initial inspection for certification.

(a) Before construction or conversion of a vessel intended for small passenger vessel service, the owner of the vessel shall submit plans, manuals, and calculations indicating the proposed arrangement, construction, and operations of the vessel, to the Marine Safety Center for approval. The plans, manuals, and calculations required to be submitted and the disposition of these plans are set forth in Part 116, Subpart B of this subchapter.

(b) The initial inspection is conducted to determine that the vessel and its equipment comply with applicable regulations and that the vessel was built or converted in accordance with approved plans, manuals, and calculations. Additionally, during the inspection, the materials, workmanship, and condition of all parts of the vessel and its machinery and equipment may be checked to determine if the vessel is satisfactory in all respects for the service intended.

(c) The owner or managing operator of a vessel shall ensure that the vessel complies with the laws and regulations applicable to the vessel and that the vessel is otherwise satisfactory for the intended service. The initial inspection may include an inspection of the following items:

(1) The arrangement, installation, materials, and scantlings of the structure including the hull and superstructure, yards, masts, spars, rigging, sails, piping, main and auxiliary machinery, pressure vessels, steering apparatus, electrical installations, fire resistant construction materials, lifesaving appliances, fire detecting and extinguishing equipment, pollution prevention equipment, and all other equipment;

(2) Arrangement and means of emergency egress;

(3) Sanitary conditions and fire hazards; and

(4) Certificates and operating manuals, including certificates issued by the Federal Communications Commission.

(d) During an initial inspection for certification the owner or managing operator shall conduct all tests and make the vessel available for all applicable inspections discussed in this paragraph, and in Subpart H of this part, as applicable, to the satisfaction of the cognizant OCMI, including the following:

(1) The installation of each rescue boat, liferaft, inflatable buoyant apparatus, and launching appliance as listed on its Certificate of Approval (Form CGHQ-10030).

(2) The operation of each rescue boat and survival craft launching appliance required by Part 117 of this subchapter.

(3) Machinery, fuel tanks, and pressure vessels required by Part 119 of this subchapter.

(4) A stability test when required by ยง 170.175 in subchapter S of this chapter.

(5) Watertight bulkheads as required by Subchapter S of this chapter.

(6) Firefighting systems as required by part 118 of this subchapter.

(7) The operation of all smoke and fire detecting systems, fire alarms and sensors, and fire confining appliances (such as fire screen doors and fire dampers).
