
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter K - Small Passenger Vessels Carrying More Than 150 Passengers or with Overnight Accommodations for More Than 49 Passengers
#### PART 115 - INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart G - Repairs and Alterations
###### ยง 115.700 Permission for repairs and alterations.

(a) Repairs or alterations to the hull, machinery, or equipment that affect the safety of the vessel must not be made without the approval of the cognizant OCMI, except during an emergency. When repairs are made during an emergency, the owner, managing operator, or master shall notify the OCMI as soon as practicable after such repairs or alterations are made. Repairs or alterations that affect the safety of the vessel include, but are not limited to, the: replacement, repair, or refastening of deck or hull planking, plating, and structural members; repair of plate or frame cracks; damage repair or replacement, other than replacement in kind, of electrical wiring, fuel lines, tanks, boilers and other pressure vessels, and steering, propulsion and power supply systems; alterations affecting stability; and repair or alteration of livesaving, fire detecting, or fire extinguishing equipment.

(b) The owner or managing operator shall submit drawings, sketches, or written specifications describing the details of any proposed alterations to the cognizant OCMI. Proposed alterations must be approved by the OCMI before work is started.

(c) Drawings are not required to be submitted for repairs or replacements in kind.

(d) The OCMI may require an inspection and testing whenever a repair or alteration is undertaken.
