
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 10 - MERCHANT MARINER CREDENTIAL
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 10.109 Classification of endorsements.
####### National rating endorsements.

(b)The following national rating endorsements are established in part 12 of this subchapter. The endorsements indicate that an individual holding a valid MMC with this endorsement is qualified to serve in that capacity and the endorsement has been issued under the requirements contained in part 12 of this subchapter:

(1) Able seaman:

(i) Unlimited;

(ii) Limited;

(iii) Special;

(iv) Special (OSV);

(v) Sail; and

(vi) Fishing industry.

(2) Ordinary seaman.

(3) Qualified member of the engine department (QMED), including the following specialty endorsements:

(i) Oiler;

(ii) Fireman/Watertender;

(iii) Junior engineer;

(iv) Pumpman/Machinist; and

(v) Electrician/Refrigerating engineer.

(4) Lifeboatman.

(5) Lifeboatman-Limited.

(6) Wiper.

(7) Steward's department.

(8) Steward's department (F.H.).

(9) Cadet (deck or engine).

(10) Student observer.

(11) Apprentice engineer.

(12) Apprentice mate.

(c) The following ratings are established in part 13 of this subchapter. The national endorsements indicate that an individual holding a valid MMC with this endorsement is qualified to serve in that capacity and the endorsement has been issued under the requirements contained in part 13 of this subchapter:

(1) Tankerman-PIC.

(2) Tankerman-PIC (Barge).

(3) Restricted Tankerman-PIC.

(4) Restricted Tankerman-PIC (Barge).

(5) Tankerman assistant.

(6) Tankerman engineer.
