
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 10 - MERCHANT MARINER CREDENTIAL
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 10.109 Classification of endorsements.
####### STCW endorsements.

(d)The following STCW endorsements are issued according to the STCW Convention, the STCW Code, and parts 11, 12, and 13 of this subchapter. The endorsements indicate that an individual holding a valid MMC with this endorsement is qualified to serve in that capacity and the endorsement has been issued under the requirements contained in parts 11, 12 or 13 of this subchapter as well as the STCW Convention and STCW Code (incorporated by reference, see ยง 10.103 of this subpart):

(1) Master.

(2) Chief mate.

(3) Officer in charge of a navigational watch (OICNW).

(4) Chief engineer officer.

(5) Second engineer officer.

(6) Officer in charge of an engineering watch in a manned engineroom or designated duty engineer in a periodically unmanned engineroom (OICEW).

(7) Electro-technical officer (ETO).

(8) Rating forming part of a navigational watch (RFPNW).

(9) Able seafarer-deck.

(10) Rating forming part of an engineering watch in a manned engineroom or designated to perform duties in a periodically unmanned engineroom (RFPEW).

(11) Able seafarer-engine.

(12) Electro-technical rating.

(13) Basic training (BT).

(14) Advanced firefighting.

(15) Proficiency in survival craft and rescue boats other than fast rescue boats (PSC).

(16) Proficiency in survival craft and rescue boats other than fast rescue boats-limited (PSC-limited).

(17) Proficiency in fast rescue boats.

(18) Person in charge of medical care.

(19) Medical first-aid provider.

(20) GMDSS at-sea maintainer.

(21) GMDSS operator.

(22) Advanced oil tanker cargo operation.

(23) Advanced chemical tanker cargo operation.

(24) Advanced liquefied gas tanker cargo operation.

(25) Basic oil and chemical tanker cargo operation.

(26) Basic liquefied gas tanker cargo operation.

(27) Vessel Security Officer.

(28) Vessel personnel with designated security duties.

(29) Security awareness.

(30) High-speed craft (HSC) type rating certificate.
