
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter K - Small Passenger Vessels Carrying More Than 150 Passengers or with Overnight Accommodations for More Than 49 Passengers
#### PART 116 - CONSTRUCTION AND ARRANGEMENT
##### Subpart D - Fire Protection
###### ยง 116.415 Fire control boundaries.
####### Type and construction of fire control bulkheads and decks,Major hull structure.

(a)-(1)The hull, structural bulkheads, columns and stanchions, superstructures, and deckhouses must be composed of steel or equivalent material.

(2) Bulkheads and decks-Bulkheads and decks must be classed as A-60, A-30, A-15, A-0, B-15, B-0, C, or C' based on the following:

(i) A-Class bulkheads or decks must be composed of steel or equivalent material, suitably stiffened and made intact with the main structure of the vessel, such as the shell, structural bulkheads, and decks. They must be so constructed that, if subjected to the standard fire test, they are capable of preventing the passage of smoke and flame for 1 hour. In addition, they must be so insulated with approved structural insulation, bulkhead panels, or deck covering so that, if subjected to the standard fire test for the applicable time period listed below, the average temperature on the unexposed side does not rise more than 139 &#xB0;C (250 &#xB0;F) above the original temperature, nor does the temperature at any one point, including any joint, rise more than 181 &#xB0;C (325 &#xB0;F) above the original temperature:

(ii) Penetrations in A-Class fire control boundaries for electrical cables, pipes, trunks, ducts, etc. must be constructed to prevent the passage of flame and smoke for one hour. In addition, the penetration must be designed or insulated so that it will withstand the same temperature rise limits as the boundary penetrated.

(iii) B-Class bulkheads and decks must be constructed of noncombustible materials and made intact with the main structure of the vessel, such as shell, structural bulkheads, and decks, except that a B-Class bulkhead need not extend above an approved continuous B-Class ceiling. They must be so constructed that, if subjected to the standard fire test, they are capable of preventing the passage of flame for 30 minutes. In addition, their insulation value must be such that, if subjected to the standard fire test for the applicable time period listed below, the average temperature of the unexposed side does not rise more than 139 &#xB0;C (250 &#xB0;F) above the original temperature, nor does the temperature at any one point, including any joint, rise more than 225 &#xB0;C (405 &#xB0;F) above the original temperature:

(iv) Penetrations in B-Class fire control boundaries for electrical cables, pipes, trunks, ducts, etc. must be constructed to prevent the passage of flame for 30 minutes. In addition, the penetration must be designed or insulated so that it will withstand the same temperature rise limits as the boundary penetrated.

(v) C-Class bulkheads and decks must be composed of noncombustible materials.

(vi) C&#x2032;-Class bulkheads and decks must be constructed of noncombustible materials and made intact with the main structure of the vessel, such as shell, structural bulkheads, and decks, except that a C&#x2032;-Class bulkhead need not extend above a continuous B-Class or C&#x2032;-Class ceiling. C&#x2032;-Class bulkheads must be constructed to prevent the passage of smoke between adjacent areas. Penetrations in C&#x2032;-Class boundaries for electrical cables, pipes, trunks, ducts, etc. must be constructed so as to preserve the smoke-tight integrity of the boundary.

(vii) Any sheathing, furring, or holding pieces incidental to the securing of structural insulation must be approved noncombustible material.
