
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter K - Small Passenger Vessels Carrying More Than 150 Passengers or with Overnight Accommodations for More Than 49 Passengers
#### PART 116 - CONSTRUCTION AND ARRANGEMENT
##### Subpart D - Fire Protection
###### § 116.438 Stairtowers, stairways, ladders, and elevators.
####### Materials.

(b)(1) Stairways, stairtowers, ladders, elevators, and landings must be designed with sufficient strength to sustain a load of 4.8 kPa (100 pounds per square foot) with a safety factor of 4, based on ultimate strength of the material;

(2) All stairways, ladders, elevators, and landings within machinery spaces and cargo holds must be composed of steel; and

(3) All stringers, treads, and all platforms and landings of all stairways shall be composed of steel, and risers must be of approved incombustible material, except that:

(i) Stairways, ladders, elevators, stringers, treads, platforms, and landings protected from potential fire exposure by being in either exterior locations or within protective enclosure bulkheads, decks and doors as described in the requirements of paragraph (j), may be constructed of approved incombustible material; and

(ii) All stairways, ladders, elevators, stringers, treads, platforms, and landings subject to potential fire exposure and not within a protective enclosure must be composed of steel unless their failure will not hinder fire fighter access or debarkation.

(c) A stairway or stairtower must be fitted with handrails on both sides at a vertical height above the tread at its nosing of between 840 and 910 millimeters (33 and 36 inches). A stairway or stairtower of more than 1,680 millimeters (66 inches) in width must also be fitted with a center handrail.

(d) A handrail fitted in a stairtower, stairway, landing, ladder, or elevator must be constructed of noncombustible material.

(e) A stairway or stairtower must be clear of all obstructions other than handrails.

(f) Curved, spiral, or winding stairways are permitted only with the specific approval of the Commandant.

(g) Differences in the depth of tread or height of riser of stairs in different flights of stairs in a stairway or stairtower must be minimized. In an individual flight of stairs in a stairway or stairtower, the depth of the tread and the height of riser shall not have a variance exceeding 5 millimeters (0.19685 inches).

(h) In a stairway or stairtower, the sum of the riser height and tread depth must be at least 432 millimeters (17 inches) and not more than 455 millimeters (18 inches). A stairway or stairtower having treads less than 254 millimeters (10 inches) in depth must have a nosing of 12.7 millimeters (0.5 inches) in width.

(i) Landings for stairways and stairtowers must meet the following requirements:

(1) A clear landing having an area at least equal to the square of the tread width must be provided at the top and bottom of each stairway; and

(2) Any interruption or change of direction in a stairway must be accomplished by means of an intermediate landing of a width and length at least equal to the tread width of the stairway.

(j) A stairway or stairtower must not have an angle of inclination from the horizontal of more than 40 degrees. However, stairways accessing spaces visited solely by crew members must not have an angle of inclination from the horizontal of more than 50 degrees. The Commanding Officer, Marine Safety Center may approve higher angles of inclination for spaces with severe space constraints.

(k) Where a continuous vertical deck penetration for a stairway or elevator exceeds one deck, the integrity of all decks must be assured by enclosure bulkheads and decks meeting the requirements of §§ 116.415(b) and 116.415(c) of this part. Doors meeting the requirements of §§ 116.435(b) and 116.435(c) of this part must be fitted in the enclosure at each deck serviced.

(l) Where a vertical deck penetration for a stairway or elevator involves only one deck, the integrity of the deck must be assured as required by paragraph (k) of this section. Alternatively the integrity of the deck may be maintained at one level only by means of bulkheads of the same fire control boundary rating as the deck penetrated. A door meeting the requirements of §§ 116.435(b) and 116.435(c) of this part must be fitted in the enclosure. In spaces containing a balcony, the integrity of the balcony deck in the way of stairways or elevators need not be assured. However, such stairways must not be considered to be a means of escape.
