
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter K - Small Passenger Vessels Carrying More Than 150 Passengers or with Overnight Accommodations for More Than 49 Passengers
#### PART 116 - CONSTRUCTION AND ARRANGEMENT
##### Subpart D - Fire Protection
###### ยง 116.439 Balconies.

(a) An accommodation space containing a balcony must meet the requirements of this section.

(b) Each level of a space containing a balcony must have two independent means of escape that meet the requirements of ยง 116.500 of this part.

(c) For the purpose of main vertical zone bulkhead spacing requirements, the length of the space to which the balcony opens is considered to be increased by an amount equal to the gross area of the balcony divided by the average width of the space. If this equivalent main vertical zone length exceeds 40 meters (131 feet), the space must meet the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section. The actual length of the space may not exceed 40 meters (131 feet).

(d) If the equivalent main vertical zone length under paragraph (c) of this section exceeds 40 meters (131 feet), both decks connected by the balcony must be protected with an automatic sprinkler system meeting NFPA 13.

(e) If the unobstructed balcony opening area is less than 93 square meters (1,000 square feet), the opening must be protected in accordance with NFPA 13 or other standard specified by the Commandant. The horizontal projection area of stairs, escalators, statues, or other obstructions must be subtracted from the total balcony opening area for purposes of computation of unobstructed balcony opening area.
