
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 10 - MERCHANT MARINER CREDENTIAL
##### Subpart B - General Requirements for All Merchant Mariner Credentials
###### § 10.209 General application procedures.

(a) The applicant for an MMC, whether for an original, renewal, duplicate, raise of grade, or a new endorsement on a previously issued MMC, must establish that he or she satisfies all the requirements for the MMC and endorsement(s) sought before the Coast Guard will issue the MMC. This section contains the general requirements for all applicants. Additional requirements for duplicates, renewals, new endorsements, and raises of grade appear later in this part.

(b) The Coast Guard may refuse to process an incomplete MMC application. The requirements for a complete application for an original MMC are contained in § 10.225 of this part, the requirements for a renewal MMC application are contained in § 10.227 of this part, the requirements for a duplicate MMC application are contained in § 10.229 of this part, and the requirements for an application for a new endorsement or raise of grade are contained in § 10.231 of this part.

(c) Applications are valid for 12 months from the date that the Coast Guard approves the application.

(d) The application may be submitted in person, by mail, fax, or other electronic means. A complete MMC application, which is described in §§ 10.223, 10.225, 10.227, 10.229, and 10.231 may include-

(1) The application, consent for National Driver Register (NDR) check, and notarized oath on Coast Guard-furnished forms, and the evaluation fee required by § 10.219 of this part;

(2) The applicant's continuous discharge book, certificate of identification, MMD, MMC, license, STCW endorsement, Certificate of Registry (COR), or, if it has not expired, a photocopy of the credential, including the back and all attachments;

(3) Proof, documented on CG-719K or CG-719K/E, as appropriate, that the applicant passed the applicable vision, hearing, medical, or physical exam as required by subpart C of this part, or an unexpired medical certificate issued by the Coast Guard;

(4) Copies of course completion certificates or other evidence of course completion;

(5) Evidence of sea service, or an accepted substitute for sea service, if required;

(6) For an endorsement as a medical doctor or professional nurse as required in § 11.807 of this subchapter, evidence that the applicant holds a currently valid, appropriate license as physician, surgeon, or registered nurse, issued under the authority of a state or territory of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or the District of Columbia. Any MMC issued will retain any limitation associated with the medical license;

(7) Any certificates or other supplementary materials required to show that the mariner meets the mandatory requirements for the specific endorsement sought, as established in parts 11, 12 or 13 of this subchapter; and

(8) An open-book exercise, in accordance with § 10.227(e)(1) of this part.

(e) The following requirements must be satisfied before an original or renewal MMC, or new endorsement or a raise of grade added to a previously issued MMC, will be issued. These materials will be added to the individual's record by the Coast Guard:
