
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 10 - MERCHANT MARINER CREDENTIAL
##### Subpart B - General Requirements for All Merchant Mariner Credentials
###### § 10.209 General application procedures.
####### Information supplied by the Transportation Security Administration (TSA).

(3)No MMC or endorsement will be issued until the Coast Guard receives the following information from the applicant's TWIC enrollment: the applicant's fingerprints, FBI number and criminal record (if applicable), photograph, proof of citizenship, or Nationality with proof of legal resident status (if applicable). If the information is not available from TSA, the mariner may be required to visit a Regional Exam Center or a TWIC enrollment center to provide this information.

(f) Upon determining that the applicant satisfactorily meets all requirements for an MMC or an endorsement thereon, the Coast Guard will issue the properly endorsed MMC to the applicant. The Coast Guard will not issue an MMC until it has received proof that the mariner holds a valid TWIC.

(g) When a new MMC is issued, the mariner must return any previously issued and unexpired MMC, license, MMD, COR, or STCW endorsement to the Coast Guard, unless the new MMC is being issued to replace a lost or stolen credential.

(h) No MMC will be issued if the applicant fails a chemical test for dangerous drugs as required in §§ 10.223, 10.225(b)(5), 10.227(d)(5), and 10.231(c)(6).
