
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter K - Small Passenger Vessels Carrying More Than 150 Passengers or with Overnight Accommodations for More Than 49 Passengers
#### PART 118 - FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart D - Fixed Fire Extinguishing and Detecting Systems
###### ยง 118.410 Fixed gas fire extinguishing systems.
####### Controls.

(b)(1) Controls and valves for operation of a fixed gas fire extinguishing system must be:

(i) Located outside the space protected by the system; and

(ii) Not located in a space that might be inaccessible in the event of fire in the space protected by the system.

(2) Except for a normally unoccupied space of less than 170 cubic meters (6000 cubic feet), release of an extinguishing agent into a space must require two distinct operations.

(3) A system must have local manual controls at the storage cylinders capable of releasing the extinguishing agent. In addition, a normally manned space must have remote controls for releasing the extinguishing agent immediately outside the primary exit from the space.

(4) Remote controls must be located in a breakglass enclosure to preclude accidental discharge.

(5) Valves and controls must be of a type approved by the Commandant and protected from damage or accidental activation. A pull cable used to activate the system controls must be enclosed in conduit.

(6) A system protecting more than one space must have a manifold with a normally closed stop valve for each space protected.

(7) A gas actuated valve or device must be capable of manual override at the valve or device.

(8) A system, which has more than one storage cylinder for the extinguishing agent and that relies on pilot cylinders to activate the primary storage cylinders, must have at least two pilot cylinders. Local manual controls in compliance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section must be provided to operate the pilot cylinders but are not required for the primary storage cylinders.

(9) A system protecting a manned space must be fitted with a time delay and alarm of a type approved by the Commandant, arranged to require the alarm to sound for at least 20 seconds or the time necessary to escape from the space, whichever is greater, before the agent is released into the space. Alarms must be conspicuously and centrally located. The alarm must be powered by the extinguishing agent.

(10) A device must be provided to automatically shut down power ventilation serving the protected space and engines that draw intake air from the protected space prior to release of the extinguishing agent into the space.

(11) Controls and storage cylinders must not be in a locked space unless the key is in a breakglass type box conspicuously located adjacent to the space.
