
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter K - Small Passenger Vessels Carrying More Than 150 Passengers or with Overnight Accommodations for More Than 49 Passengers
#### PART 118 - FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart D - Fixed Fire Extinguishing and Detecting Systems
###### ยง 118.410 Fixed gas fire extinguishing systems.
####### Specific requirements for carbon dioxide systems.

(f)A custom engineered fixed gas fire extinguishing system, which uses carbon dioxide as the extinguishing agent, must meet the requirements of this paragraph.

(1) Piping, valves, and fittings must have a bursting pressure of not less than 41,360 kPa (6,000 psi). Piping, in nominal sizes of not more than 19 millimeters (0.75 inches), must be at least Schedule 40 (standard weight), and in nominal sizes of over 19 millimeter (0.75 inches), must be at least Schedule 80 (extra heavy).

(2) A pressure relief valve or equivalent set to relieve at between 16,550 and 19,300 kPa (2,400 and 2,800 psi) must be installed in the distribution manifold to protect the piping from overpressurization.

(3) Nozzles must be approved by the Commandant.

(4) When installed in a machinery space, paint locker, a space containing flammable liquid stores, or a space with a fuel tank, a fixed carbon dioxide system must meet the following requirements.

(i) The quantity of carbon dioxide in kilograms (pounds) that the system must be capable of providing to a space must not be less than the gross volume of the space divided by the appropriate factor given in Table 118.410(f)(4)(i). If fuel can drain from a space being protected to an adjacent space or if the spaces are not entirely separate, the volume of both spaces must be used to determine the quantity of carbon dioxide required. The carbon dioxide must be arranged to discharge into both such spaces simultaneously.

(ii) The minimum size of a branch line to a space must be as noted in Table 118.410(f)(4)(ii).

(iii) Distribution piping within a space must be proportioned from the distribution line to give proper supply to the outlets without throttling.

(iv) The number, type, and location of discharge outlets must provide uniform distribution of carbon dioxide throughout a space.

(v) The total area of all discharge outlets must not exceed 85 percent nor be less than 35 percent of the nominal cylinder outlet area or the area of the supply pipe, whichever is smaller. The nominal cylinder outlet area in square millimeters (inches) is determined by multiplying the factor 0.015 (0.0022 if using square inches) by the total capacity in kilograms (pounds) of all carbon dioxide cylinders in the system, except in no case must the outlet area be of less than 71 square millimeters (0.110 square inches).

(vi) The discharge of at least 85 percent of the required amount of carbon dioxide must be completed within two minutes.

(5) When installed in an enclosed ventilation system for rotating electrical propulsion equipment a fixed carbon dioxide system must meet the following requirements.

(i) The quantity of carbon dioxide in kilograms (pounds) must be sufficient for initial and delayed discharges as required by this paragraph. The initial discharge must be equal to the gross volume of the system in cubic meters divided by 0.624 (10 if using pounds) for ventilation systems having a volume of less than 57 cubic meters (2,000 cubic feet), or divided by 0.749 (12 if using pounds) for ventilation systems having a volume of at least 57 cubic meters (2,000 cubic feet). In addition, there must be sufficient carbon dioxide available to permit delayed discharges to maintain at least a 25 percent concentration until the equipment can be stopped. If the initial discharge achieves this concentration, a delayed discharge is not required.

(ii) The piping sizes for the initial discharge must be in accordance with Table 118.410(f)(4)(ii) and the discharge of the required amount must be completed within two minutes.

(iii) Piping for the delayed discharge must not be less than 12.7 millimeters (0.5 inches) nominal pipe size, and need not meet specific requirement for discharge rate.

(iv) Piping for the delayed discharge may be incorporated with the initial discharge piping.

(6) When installed in a cargo space a fixed carbon dioxide system must meet the following requirements.

(i) The number of kilograms (pounds) of carbon dioxide required for each space in cubic meters (feet) must be equal to the gross volume of the space in cubic meters (feet) divided by 1.88 (30 if using pounds).

(ii) System piping must be of at least 19 millimeters (0.75 inches).

(iii) No specific discharge rate is required.

(7) A lockout valve must be provided on any carbon dioxide extinguishing system protecting a space over 6,000 cubic feet in volume and installed or altered after [July 9, 2013. "Altered" means modified or refurbished beyond the maintenance required by the manufacturer's design, installation, operation and maintenance manual.

(8) The lockout valve must be a manually operated valve located in the discharge manifold prior to the stop valve or selector valves. When in the closed position, the lockout valve must provide complete isolation of the system from the protected space or spaces, making it impossible for carbon dioxide to discharge in the event of equipment failure during maintenance.

(9) The lockout valve design or locking mechanism must make it obvious whether the valve is open or closed.

(10) A valve is considered a lockout valve if it has a hasp or other means of attachment to which, or through which, a lock can be affixed, or it has a locking mechanism built into it.

(11) The master or person-in-charge must ensure that the valve is locked open at all times, except while maintenance is being performed on the extinguishing system, when the valve must be locked in the closed position.

(12) Lockout valves added to existing systems must be approved by the Commandant as part of the installed system.
