
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter K - Small Passenger Vessels Carrying More Than 150 Passengers or with Overnight Accommodations for More Than 49 Passengers
#### PART 118 - FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart D - Fixed Fire Extinguishing and Detecting Systems
###### ยง 118.410 Fixed gas fire extinguishing systems.
####### Specific requirements for Halon 1301 systems.

(g)(1) A custom engineered fixed gas fire extinguishing system that uses Halon 1301, must comply with the applicable sections of UL 1058 "Halogenated Agent Extinguishing System Units," and the requirements of this paragraph.

(2) The Halon 1301 quantity and discharge requirements of UL 1058 apply, with the exception that the Halon 1301 design concentration must be 6 percent at the lowest ambient temperature expected in the space. If the lowest temperature is not known, a temperature of -18 &#xB0;C (0 &#xB0;F) must be assumed.

(3) Each storage cylinder in a system must have the same pressure and volume.

(4) Computer programs used in designing systems must be approved by an independent laboratory recognized by the Commandant.

(h) Each carbon dioxide extinguishing system installed or altered after July 9, 2013, must have an approved odorizing unit to produce the scent of wintergreen, the detection of which will serve as an indication that carbon dioxide gas is present in a protected area and any other area into which the carbon dioxide may migrate. "Altered" means modified or refurbished beyond the maintenance required by the manufacturer's design, installation, operation and maintenance manual.
