
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 10 - MERCHANT MARINER CREDENTIAL
##### Subpart B - General Requirements for All Merchant Mariner Credentials
###### ยง 10.213 National Driver Register.

(a) No MMC will be issued as an original or reissued with a new expiration date, and no new officer endorsement will be issued, unless the applicant consents to a check of the NDR for offenses described in section 205(a)(3)(A) or (B) of the NDR Act (i.e., operation of a motor vehicle while under the influence of, or impaired by, alcohol or a controlled substance; and any traffic violations arising in connection with a fatal traffic accident, reckless driving, or racing on the highways).

(b) The Coast Guard will not consider NDR-listed civil convictions that are more than 3 years old from the date of request unless that information relates to a current suspension or revocation of the applicant's license to operate a motor vehicle. The Coast Guard may determine minimum and maximum assessment periods for NDR-listed criminal convictions using table 10.213(c) of this section. An applicant conducting simultaneous MMC transactions is subject to only one NDR check.

(c) The guidelines in table 1 to paragraph (c) will be used by the Coast Guard in evaluating applicants who have drug or alcohol related NDR-listed convictions. Non-drug or alcohol related NDR-listed convictions will be evaluated by the Coast Guard under table 1 to ยง 10.211 of this part as applicable. The Coast Guard may consider non-drug or alcohol related NDR-listed convictions that are more than 3 years old from the date of the request when the information relates to a current suspension or revocation of the applicant's license to operate a motor vehicle.

(d) Any application may be denied if information from the NDR check leads the Coast Guard to determine that the applicant cannot be entrusted with the duties and responsibilities of the endorsement for which the application is made. If an application is denied, the Coast Guard will notify the applicant in writing of the reason(s) for denial and advise the applicant that the appeal procedures in subpart 1.03 of part 1 of this chapter apply. No examination will be given pending decision on appeal.

(e) Before denying an application because of information received from the NDR, the Coast Guard will make the information available to the applicant for review and written comment. The applicant may submit records from the applicable State concerning driving record and convictions to the Coast Guard processing the application. The Coast Guard will hold an application with NDR-listed convictions pending the completion of the evaluation and delivery by the individual of the underlying State records.

(f) If an applicant has one or more alcohol or dangerous drug-related criminal or NDR-listed convictions, if the applicant has ever been the user of, or addicted to the use of, a dangerous drug, or if the applicant applies before the minimum assessment period for his or her conviction has elapsed, the Coast Guard may consider the following factors, as applicable, in assessing the applicant's suitability to hold an MMC. This list is intended as a guide for the Coast Guard. The Coast Guard may consider other factors which it judges appropriate to a particular applicant, such as-

(1) Proof of completion of an accredited alcohol or drug abuse rehabilitation program;

(2) Active membership in a rehabilitation or counseling group, such as Alcoholics Anonymous or Narcotics Anonymous;

(3) Character references from persons who can attest to the applicant's sobriety, reliability, and suitability for employment in the merchant marine, including parole or probation officers;

(4) Steady employment; and

(5) Successful completion of all conditions of parole or probation.
