
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter K - Small Passenger Vessels Carrying More Than 150 Passengers or with Overnight Accommodations for More Than 49 Passengers
#### PART 120 - ELECTRICAL INSTALLATION
##### Subpart C - Power Sources and Distribution Systems
###### ยง 120.320 Generators and motors.

(a) Each generator and motor must be:

(1) In a location that is accessible, adequately ventilated, and as dry as practicable; and

(2) Mounted above the bilges to avoid damage by splash and to avoid contact with low lying vapors.

(b) Each generator and motor must be designed for an ambient temperature of 50 &#xB0;C (122 &#xB0;F) except that:

(1) If the ambient temperature in the space where a generator or motor will be located will not exceed 40 &#xB0;C (104 &#xB0;F) under normal operating conditions, the generator or motor may be designed for an ambient temperature of 40 &#xB0;C (104 &#xB0;F); and

(2) A generator or motor designed for 40 &#xB0;C (104 &#xB0;F) may be used in 50 &#xB0;C (122 &#xB0;F) ambient locations provided the generator or motor is derated to 80 percent of the full load rating, and the rating or setting of the overcurrent devices is reduced accordingly.

(c) A voltmeter and an ammeter, which can be used for measuring voltage and current of a generator that is in operation, must be provided for a generator rated at 50 volts or more. For each alternating current generator, a means for measuring frequency must also be provided.

(d) Each generator must have a nameplate attached to it containing the information required by Article 445 of the National Electrical Code (NEC) (National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 70), and for a generator derated in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the derated capacity.

(e) Each motor must have a nameplate attached to it containing the information required by Article 430 of the NEC (NFPA 70), and for a motor derated in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the derated capacity.

(f) Each generator must be protected by an overcurrent device set at a value not exceeding 115 percent of the generator full load rating.
