
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter K - Small Passenger Vessels Carrying More Than 150 Passengers or with Overnight Accommodations for More Than 49 Passengers
#### PART 120 - ELECTRICAL INSTALLATION
##### Subpart C - Power Sources and Distribution Systems
###### ยง 120.330 Distribution panels and switchboards.

(a) Each distribution panel and switchboard must be in as dry a location as practicable, adequately ventilated, and protected from falling debris and dripping or splashing water.

(b) Each distribution panel or switchboard must be totally enclosed and of the dead front type.

(c) Each switchboard must have nonconductive handrails.

(d) Each switchboard must be fitted with a dripshield.

(e) Distribution panels and switchboards that are accessible from the rear must be constructed to prevent a person from accidentally contacting energized parts.

(f) Working space must be provided around all main distribution panels and switchboards of at least 610 millimeters (24 inches) in front of the switchboard, and at least 455 millimeters (18 inches) behind the switchboard. Rear access is prohibited when the working space behind the switchboard is less than 455 millimeters (18 inches).

(g) Nonconducting mats or grating must be provided on the deck in front of each switchboard and, if accessible from the rear, on the deck in the rear of the switchboard.

(h) All uninsulated current carrying parts must be mounted on noncombustible, nonabsorbent, high dielectric insulating material.

(i) Equipment mounted on a hinged door of an enclosure must be constructed or shielded so that a person will not accidentally contact energized parts of the door mounted equipment when the door is open and the circuit energized.

(j) In the design of control, interlock, or indicator circuit, the disconnect device and its connections, including each terminal block for terminating the vessel's wiring, must not have electrically unshielded or uninsulated surfaces.

(k) Switchboards and distribution panels must be sized in accordance with ยง 111.30-19 in subchapter J of this chapter.
