
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter K - Small Passenger Vessels Carrying More Than 150 Passengers or with Overnight Accommodations for More Than 49 Passengers
#### PART 121 - VESSEL CONTROL AND MISCELLANEOUS SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart E - Radio
###### ยง 121.510 Recommended emergency broadcast instructions.

The following emergency broadcast instructions, when placed on a placard, will satisfy the requirement contained in ยง 121.506 for an emergency broadcast placard:

(a) Emergency Broadcast Instructions.

(1) Make sure your radiotelephone is on.

(2) Select 156.8 MHz (channel 16 VHF) or 2182 kHz. (Channel 16 VHF and 2182 kHz on SSB are for emergency and calling purposes only.)

(3) Press microphone button and, speaking slowly-clearly-calmly, say:

(i) "MAYDAY-MAYDAY-MAYDAY" for situations involving Immediate Danger to Life and Property; or

(ii) "PAN-PAN-PAN" for urgent situations where there is No Immediate Danger to Life or Property.

(4) Say: "THIS IS (INSERT VESSEL'S NAME), (INSERT VESSEL'S NAME), (INSERT VESSEL'S NAME), (INSERT VESSEL'S CALL SIGN), OVER."

(5) Release the microphone button briefly and listen for acknowledgment. If no one answers, repeat steps 3 & 4.

(6) If there is no acknowledgment, or if the Coast Guard or another vessel responds, say: "MAYDAY" or "PAN", (INSERT VESSEL'S NAME)."

(7) DESCRIBE YOUR POSITION using latitude and longitude coordinates, or range and bearing from a known point.

(8) STATE THE NATURE OF THE DISTRESS.

(9) GIVE NUMBER OF PERSONS ABOARD AND THE NATURE OF ANY INJURIES.

(10) ESTIMATE THE PRESENT SEAWORTHINESS OF YOUR VESSEL.

(11) BRIEFLY DESCRIBE YOUR VESSEL: (INSERT LENGTH, COLOR, HULL TYPE, TRIM, MASTS, POWER, ANY ADDITIONAL DISTINGUISHING FEATURES).

(12) Say: "I WILL BE LISTENING ON CHANNEL 16/2182."

(13) End message by saying: "THIS IS (INSERT VESSEL'S NAME & CALL SIGN)."

(14) If your situation permits, stand by the radio to await further communications with the Coast Guard or another vessel. If no answer, repeat, then try another channel.

(b) [Reserved]
