
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 10 - MERCHANT MARINER CREDENTIAL
##### Subpart B - General Requirements for All Merchant Mariner Credentials
###### ยง 10.219 Fees.
####### Determination of eligibility.

(i)(1) An organization may submit a written request to U.S. Coast Guard National Maritime Center, 100 Forbes Drive, Martinsburg, WV 25404, in order to be considered an eligible organization under the criteria set forth in paragraph (h) of this section. With the written request, the organization must provide evidence of its status as a youth-oriented, not-for-profit, charitable organization.

(2) The following organizations are accepted by the Coast Guard as meeting the requirements of paragraph (h) of this section and need not submit evidence of their status: Boy Scouts of America, Sea Explorer Association, Girl Scouts of the United States of America, and Young Men's Christian Association of the United States of America.

(j) A letter from an organization determined eligible under paragraph (h) of this section must also accompany the person's MMC application to the Coast Guard. The letter must state that the purpose of the person's application is solely to further the conduct of the organization's maritime activities. The applicant will then be eligible under this section to obtain a no-fee MMC if other requirements for the MMC are met.

(k) An MMC issued to a person under paragraph (h) of this section will be endorsed restricting its use to vessels owned or operated by the sponsoring organization.

(l) The holder of a no-fee MMC issued under paragraph (h) of this section may have the restriction removed by paying the appropriate evaluation, examination, and issuance fees that would have otherwise applied.
