
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter K - Small Passenger Vessels Carrying More Than 150 Passengers or with Overnight Accommodations for More Than 49 Passengers
#### PART 122 - OPERATIONS
##### Subpart E - Preparations for Emergencies
###### ยง 122.514 Station bill.

(a) A station bill must be posted by the master on a vessel of more than 19.8 meters (65 feet) in length having:

(1) Overnight accommodations for more than 49 passengers; or

(2) A Certificate of Inspection requiring more than four crew members at any one time, including the master.

(b) A vessel of more than 19.8 meters (65 feet) in length with overnight accommodations for more than 49 passengers must comply with the requirements of ยง 78.13 in subchapter H of this chapter in regards to the content of a station bill, the duties of the crew, emergency signals, an emergency squad, and instructions.

(c) Except when paragraph (b) of this section is applicable, the station bill of a vessel of more than 19.8 meters (65 feet) in length required to have more than four crew members, must set forth the special duties and duty station of each crew member for various emergencies. The duties must, as far as possible, be comparable with the regular work of the individual. The duties must include at least the following and any other duties necessary for the proper handling of a particular emergency.

(1) The closing of hatches, airports, watertight doors, vents, scuppers, and valves for intake and discharge lines that penetrate the hull, the stopping of fans and ventilating systems, and the operating of all safety equipment;

(2) The preparing and launching of survival craft and rescue boats;

(3) The extinguishing of fire; and

(4) The mustering of passengers including the following:

(i) Warning the passengers;

(ii) Assembling the passengers and directing them to their appointed stations; and

(iii) Keeping order in the passageways and stairways and generally controlling the movement of the passengers.

(d) The station bill must be posted at the operating station and a conspicuous location in each crew accommodation space.
