
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 10 - MERCHANT MARINER CREDENTIAL
##### Subpart B - General Requirements for All Merchant Mariner Credentials
###### ยง 10.223 Modification or removal of limitations or scope.

(a) If the Coast Guard is satisfied by the documentary evidence submitted that an applicant is entitled by experience, training, and knowledge to an endorsement or increase in the scope of any MMC held, any limitations that were previously placed upon the MMC by the Coast Guard may be changed or removed. Such an increase in scope may include a change in horsepower or tonnage limitations, or geographic route restrictions.

(b) Modifications or removal of limitations or scope to MMC endorsement(s) under this section will not change the expiration date of the mariner's MMC unless the applicant renews all endorsements that would appear on the MMC under ยง 10.227 of this part.

(c) A complete application for modification or removal of limitation of scope must contain the following:

(1) A completed signed application;

(2) Proof that the mariner either holds a valid TWIC or has applied for a TWIC.

(3) All supplementary materials required to show that the mariner meets the mandatory requirements for the transaction sought:

(i) The mandatory requirements for officer endorsements are contained in part 11 of this subchapter.

(ii) The mandatory requirements for rating endorsements are contained in part 12 of this subchapter.

(iii) The mandatory requirements for tankerman rating endorsements are contained in part 13 of this subchapter.

(iv) The mandatory requirements for STCW endorsements are contained in parts 11, 12, and 13 of this subchapter.

(4) The appropriate fee as set forth in ยง 10.219 of this part; and

(5) Any uncanceled MMD, MMC, license, STCW endorsement, or COR held by the applicant. If one or more of these credentials are still valid at the time of application, a photocopy, front and back of all pages, and all attachments, will satisfy this requirement. If the applicant submits a photocopy, upon the issuance of the new MMC, the applicant must surrender the old, original credential to the Coast Guard. If requested in writing at the time of submission, the old MMD, MMC, license, COR, or STCW endorsement may be returned to the applicant after cancellation.

(d) No limitation on any endorsement may be changed before the applicant has made up any deficiency in the experience prescribed for the endorsement or endorsement desired and passed any necessary examination.
