
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter L - Offshore Supply Vessels
#### PART 125 - GENERAL
##### § 125.125 Carriage of noxious liquid substances in bulk by OSVs of at least 6,000 GT ITC (500 GRT if GT ITC is not assigned).

(a) Except as provided by this section, no OSV of at least 6,000 GT ITC (500 GRT if GT ITC is not assigned) may carry a noxious liquid substance (NLS) in bulk without the approval of the Commandant (CG-ENG).

(b) An OSV of at least 6,000 GT ITC (500 GRT if GT ITC is not assigned) holding a valid Certificate of Fitness or a International Pollution Prevention Certificate for the Carriage of Noxious Liquid Substances in Bulk in accordance with the provisions of IMO Resolution A.673(16) (incorporated by reference, see § 125.180), may carry in integral and fixed independent tanks-

(1) Drilling fluids, including muds, brines, and salts, subject to paragraph (c) of this section and § 125.110 of this subpart; and

(2) Additional NLSs that are-

(i) Hazardous and noxious liquids listed in Appendix 1 of IMO Resolution A.673(16);

(ii) Products that may be carried on a type 3 ship, as defined by the IBC Code (incorporated by reference, see § 125.180), except that cargoes with an "S" designation in the hazard column (column d) in Chapter 17 of the IBC Code may only be carried if they are not designated as toxic products as per section 15.12 of that Code; or

(iii) Not listed in Chapter 17 of the IBC Code, but otherwise meet the specific carriage requirements established by the Commandant (CG-ENG).

(c) An OSV of at least 6,000 GT ITC (500 GRT if GT ITC is not assigned) that meets the stability and cargo tank location requirements-

(1) Of IMO Resolution A.673(16) may carry any of those cargoes listed in paragraph (b) of this section up to a maximum aggregate quantity of 800 cubic meters or 40 percent of the vessel's deadweight calculated with a cargo density of 1.0, whichever is less; or

(2) Of a well stimulation vessel in accordance with IMO Resolution A.673(16) may carry-

(i) In unlimited quantity, those combustible cargoes in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, as defined in 46 CFR 30.10-15; and

(ii) In quantities not to exceed 20 percent of the vessel's deadweight, drilling fluids of Grade C, as defined in § 30.10-22 of this chapter, and those cargoes in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(d) Each OSV carrying NLS in bulk in integral tanks or fixed independent tanks must maintain a Cargo Record Book and have on board an approved Shipboard Marine Pollution Emergency Plan in accordance with Annex II to MARPOL 73/78 (incorporated by reference, see § 125.180).

(e) An OSV is not allowed to discharge NLS residues into the sea. This must be stated in the approved Procedures and Arrangements Manual required by Regulation 14 of Annex II to MARPOL 73/78. The Manual may, in lieu of the requirements as outlined in Annex II Appendix 4, be approved with the following changes:

(1) Section 2.6 may read "This vessel is prohibited from discharging Noxious Liquid Substance (NLS) residues to the sea, and is not equipped with an underwater discharge outlet."

(2) Section 2.8 may be marked "N/A".

(3) Section 2.9 may read, "This vessel is not equipped with a tank washing system.", unless the vessel is equipped with a tank washing system.

(4) Section 3.3 may read, "This vessel is prohibited from discharging Noxious Liquid Substance (NLS) residues to the sea and is not equipped with a tank stripping system.", unless the vessel is equipped with a tank stripping system.

(5) Section 4.4.2 may read, "This vessel is prohibited from discharging Noxious Liquid Substance (NLS) residues to the sea and is not equipped with a tank stripping system.", unless the vessel is equipped with a tank stripping system.

(6) Section 4.4.3 may read, "This vessel is prohibited from discharging Noxious Liquid Substance (NLS) residues to the sea."

(7) Section 4.4.6 should refer the reader to appropriate compatibility guides.

(8) Section 4.4.7 may read, "This vessel is prohibited from discharging Noxious Liquid Substance (NLS) residues to the sea. All NLS residues must be discharged to an appropriate reception facility."

(9) Section 4.4.8 may read, "This vessel is prohibited from discharging Noxious Liquid Substance (NLS) residues to the sea."

(10) Section 4.4.9 may read, "All cleaning agents and additives must be treated as substances of their assigned NLS category. This vessel is prohibited from discharging Noxious Liquid Substance (NLS) residues to the sea. All NLS residues must be discharged to an appropriate reception facility."

(11) Section 4.4.10 may be marked "N/A".

(f) An OSV of at least 6,000 GT ITC (500 GRT if GT ITC is not assigned) may transfer the following materials to and from a portable tank by following the procedures in § 98.30, including § 98.30-17 (b)(2), of this chapter:

(1) The materials in § 98.30-5 of this chapter.

(2) Hazardous and noxious liquids listed in appendix 1 of IMO Resolution A.673(16).

(3) Products which may be carried on a type 2 or 3 ship, as defined by the IBC Code.

(4) Products which may be carried with a cargo containment system II or III, as defined by Table 1 to part 153.

(g) An OSV of at least 6,000 GT ITC (500 GRT if GT ITC is not assigned) may not transfer Certain Dangerous Cargoes, as defined by 33 CFR 160.204, to or from a portable tank.
