
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 10 - MERCHANT MARINER CREDENTIAL
##### Subpart B - General Requirements for All Merchant Mariner Credentials
###### § 10.225 Requirements for original merchant mariner credentials.

(a) An applicant must apply as an original if the MMC sought is-

(1) The first credential issued to the applicant;

(2) The first credential issued to applicants after their previous credential has expired beyond the grace period and they do not hold a Document of Continuity under § 10.227(g) of this part or an equivalent unexpired continuity endorsement on their license or MMD; or

(3) The first credential issued to applicants after their previous credential was revoked pursuant to § 10.235 of this part.

(b) A complete application for an original MMC must contain the following, except as otherwise noted in § 10.227(i) of this subpart:

(1) A completed, signed application.

(2) Proof that the mariner either holds a valid TWIC or has applied for a TWIC.

(3) All supplementary materials required to show that the mariner meets the mandatory requirements for all endorsements sought as follows:

(i) The mandatory requirements for officer endorsements are contained in part 11 of this subchapter.

(ii) The mandatory requirements for rating endorsements are contained in part 12 of this subchapter.

(iii) The mandatory requirements for tanker rating endorsements are contained in part 13 of this subchapter.

(iv) The mandatory requirements for STCW endorsements are contained in parts 11, 12, and 13 of this subchapter.

(4) The appropriate fee as set forth in § 10.219 of this part.

(5) Evidence of having passed a chemical test for dangerous drugs or of qualifying for an exemption from testing in § 16.220 of this subchapter.

(6) Where sea service is required, documentary evidence in accordance with § 10.232 of this part.

(7) Proof, documented on CG-719-K or CG-719-K/E, as appropriate, that the applicant passed all applicable vision, hearing, medical, and/or physical exams as required by subpart C of this part or a valid medical certificate issued by the Coast Guard.

(8) Consent to a Coast Guard check of the NDR for offenses described in section 205(a)(3)(A) or (B) of the National Driver Register Act of 1982, as amended.

(9) The oath as required in paragraph (c) of this section.
