
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 10 - MERCHANT MARINER CREDENTIAL
##### Subpart B - General Requirements for All Merchant Mariner Credentials
###### § 10.227 Requirements for renewal.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, an applicant for renewal of a credential must establish possession of all of the necessary qualifications before the MMC will be renewed.

(b) A credential may be renewed at any time during its validity and for 1 year after expiration.

(c) No credential will be renewed if it has been suspended without probation or revoked as a result of action under part 5 of this chapter or if facts that would render a renewal improper have come to the attention of the Coast Guard.

(d) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, a complete application for renewal must contain the following:

(1) A completed, signed application.

(2) Proof that the mariner either holds a valid TWIC or has applied for a TWIC.

(3) The appropriate fee as set forth in § 10.219 of this part.

(4) Any uncanceled MMD, MMC, license, STCW endorsement, Certificate of Registry (COR), or Document of Continuity held by the applicant. If one or more of these credentials are still valid at the time of application, a photocopy-front, back, and all attachments-will satisfy this requirement.

(5) Evidence of having passed a chemical test for dangerous drugs or of qualifying for an exemption from testing in § 16.220 of this subchapter.

(6) Applicants seeking a national endorsement must either hold an unexpired medical certificate or submit a medical certificate application.

(7) Consent to a Coast Guard check of the NDR for offenses described in section 205(a)(3)(A) or (B) of the National Driver Register Act of 1982, as amended.

(e) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(8) of this section and 46 CFR 13.120, the applicant must meet the following professional requirements for renewal:

(1) The applicant must either-

(i) Present evidence of at least 1 year of sea service during the past 5 years;

(ii) Pass a comprehensive, open-book exercise covering the general subject matter contained in appropriate sections of subpart (I) of this part;

(iii) Complete an approved refresher training course;

(iv) Provide evidence of employment as a qualified instructor or in a position closely related to the operation, construction, or repair of vessels (either deck or engineer as appropriate) for at least 3 years during the past 5 years. An applicant for a deck license or officer endorsement with this type of employment must also demonstrate knowledge on an applicable Rules of the Road open-book exercise; or

(v) Provide evidence of being a qualified instructor who has taught a Coast Guard-approved or -accepted course relevant to the endorsement or credential being applied for, at least twice within the past 5 years, therefore meeting the standards needed to receive a course completion certificate for that course.

(2) The qualification requirements for renewal of radar observer endorsement as contained in § 11.480 of this subchapter.

(3) Additional qualification requirements for renewal of an officer endorsement as first-class pilot as contained in § 11.713 of this subchapter.

(4) An applicant for renewal of a radio officer's endorsement must, in addition to meeting the requirements of this section, present a copy of a currently valid license as first- or second-class radiotelegraph operator issued by the Federal Communications Commission.

(5) An applicant for renewal of an endorsement as medical doctor or professional nurse must, in addition to meeting the requirements of this section, present evidence that he or she holds a currently valid, appropriate license as physician, surgeon, or registered nurse issued under the authority of a State or territory of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or the District of Columbia. Any such renewal will retain the limitations placed upon the medical license by the issuing body. There are no professional requirements for renewal of an endorsement as marine physician assistant or hospital corpsman.

(6) An applicant for renewal of an endorsement as master or mate (pilot) of towing vessels, in addition to the other requirements in this paragraph, must also submit satisfactory evidence of-

(i) Having completed a practical demonstration of maneuvering and handling a towing vessel to the satisfaction of a designated examiner; or

(ii) Ongoing participation in training and drills during the validity of the license or MMC being renewed.

(7) An applicant seeking to renew a tankerman endorsement must meet the additional requirements listed in § 13.120 of this subchapter.

(8) There are no professional requirements for renewal for the following endorsements:

(i) Staff officers (all types).

(ii) Ordinary seaman.

(iii) Wiper.

(iv) Steward's department.

(v) Steward's department (F.H.).

(vi) Cadet.

(vii) Student observer.

(viii) Apprentice engineer.

(ix) Apprentice mate (issued under part 12 of this subchapter).

(x) Person in charge of medical care.

(xi) Medical first-aid provider.

(xii) GMDSS at-sea maintainer.

(xiii) GMDSS operator.

(f) Except as otherwise provided, each candidate for a renewal of an STCW endorsement must meet the applicable requirements of part 11, subpart C, and/or part 12, subpart F.
