
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 10 - MERCHANT MARINER CREDENTIAL
##### Subpart B - General Requirements for All Merchant Mariner Credentials
###### ยง 10.227 Requirements for renewal.
####### Document of Continuity.

(g)(1) Applicants for renewal of national endorsements, who are unwilling or otherwise unable to meet the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section, including but not limited to the medical and physical standards of subpart C of this part, suitability standards of ยง 10.211 of this part, drug tests, professional requirements, and TWIC, may apply for a Document of Continuity issued by the Coast Guard. Documents of Continuity do not expire and are issued solely to maintain an individual's eligibility for renewal. A Document of Continuity does not entitle an individual to serve as a merchant mariner. A holder of a Document of Continuity may obtain a properly endorsed, valid MMC at any time by satisfying the requirements for renewal as provided in paragraphs (d), (e), or (f) of this section as applicable. When a valid MMC is issued to replace a previously held Document of Continuity, the previously issued Document of Continuity becomes void.

(2) Applications for a Document of Continuity must include the following:

(i) The endorsements to be placed into continuity.

(ii) An application including a signed statement from the applicant attesting to an awareness of the limited purpose of the Document of Continuity, his or her inability to serve, and the requirements to obtain an MMC.

(3) If not all MMC endorsements are to be converted into a Document of Continuity, a new MMC will be issued with the active endorsements. Once the new MMC and/or Document of Continuity is issued the previous MMC is no longer valid and must be returned to the Coast Guard.

(4) STCW endorsements may not be placed in continuity. If an individual continues to maintain a valid MMC while placing specific national endorsements into continuity, those STCW endorsements associated with the national endorsements that were placed in continuity are no longer valid.

(5) No credential expired beyond the 12-month administrative grace period in paragraph (h) of this section can be converted into a Document of Continuity.

(6) A holder of a Document of Continuity may obtain a properly endorsed, valid MMC, including STCW endorsements, at any time by satisfying the requirements for renewal as provided in paragraphs (d) and (f) of this section.
