
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 10 - MERCHANT MARINER CREDENTIAL
##### Subpart B - General Requirements for All Merchant Mariner Credentials
###### ยง 10.229 Replacement of lost merchant mariner credentials.

(a) Upon request and without examination, a mariner may be issued a duplicate credential and medical certificate after submitting an application with an affidavit describing the circumstances of the loss. The Coast Guard will only issue the duplicate credential, MMC and/or medical certificate, after confirming the validity of the mariner's credentials and the validity of the mariner's TWIC.

(b) The duplicate credential will have the same authority, wording, and expiration date as the lost credential.

(c) If a person loses a credential by shipwreck or other casualty, a duplicate credential will be issued free of charge. The term "other casualty" includes any damage to a ship caused by collision, explosion, tornado, wreck, flooding, beaching, grounding, or fire; or personal loss associated with a federally declared natural disaster.

(d) If a person loses a credential by means other than those noted in paragraph (c) of this section and applies for a duplicate, the appropriate fee set out in ยง 10.219 of this part must be paid.

(e) No application from an alien for a duplicate credential will be accepted unless the alien complies with the requirements of ยง 10.221 of this part.

(f) Applications for duplicate credentials will not be subject to a criminal record review.
