
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 10 - MERCHANT MARINER CREDENTIAL
##### Subpart B - General Requirements for All Merchant Mariner Credentials
###### § 10.232 Sea service.
####### Documenting sea service.

(a)(1) Sea service may be documented in various forms such as certificates of discharge, pilotage service and billing forms, and service letters or other official documents from marine companies signed by the owner, operator, master, or chief engineer of the vessel. The Coast Guard must be satisfied as to the authenticity and acceptability of all evidence of experience or training presented.

(2) Documentary evidence produced by the applicant, unless in the form of a Certificate of Discharge conforming to § 14.307 of this subchapter, must contain all of the following information:

(i) Vessel name(s) and official numbers listed on the registration, certificate, or document issued.

(ii) Gross tonnage of the vessel.

(iii) Propulsion power and mode of propulsion of the vessel.

(iv) The amount and nature (e.g. chief mate, assistant engineer, etc.) of the applicant's experience.

(v) Applicable dates of service for each vessel, and the ports or terminals if applicable.

(vi) The routes upon which the experience was acquired.

(vii) For those seeking to renew a radar observer endorsement, whether the vessel is equipped with radar and if the mariner served in a position that routinely uses radar for navigation and collision avoidance purposes.

(viii) For those seeking service credit on towing vessels in accordance with § 11.211(e) of this subchapter, the aggregate tonnage of the tug and barges during the mariner's service.

(ix) Any other information necessary to determine the applicability of STCW to the vessel.

(x) Whether the vessel is manned and equipped in accordance with SOLAS.

(xi) Where required for an officer endorsement, time served as bridge watchkeeping or engine watchkeeping duties under the supervision of a qualified officer.

(3) An MMC endorsement, in certain cases, may be considered as satisfactory evidence of any qualifying experience for obtaining other endorsements.

(4) For service on vessels of less than 200 GRT, owners of vessels may attest to their own service and provide proof of ownership. Those who do not own a vessel must obtain letters or other evidence from licensed personnel or the owners of the vessels listed.

(5) If the required sea service is associated with watchkeeping functions and the performance of duties, as required in §§ 11.323, 11.329, and 11.333, the service must be documented as having been carried out under the direct supervision of the appropriate person. If the required sea service is associated with the performance of duties, as required in §§ 11.470, 11.472, and 11.474, the service must be documented as having been carried out under the supervision of the appropriate person.

(6) An applicant who has been acting as a pilot may submit a letter from a pilot's association attesting to the applicant's sea service. For those pilots seeking to renew a radar observer endorsement, the association's letter should indicate that the vessels piloted were equipped with radar, and that radar was used by the pilot for navigation and collision avoidance purposes. Pilots not part of an association may submit other relevant records indicating service, such as billing forms. For a raise-of-grade, pilots must comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(b) Service toward an oceans, near-coastal, or STCW endorsement will be credited as follows:

(1) Service on the Great Lakes will be credited on a day-for-day basis up to 100 percent of the total required service.

(2) Service on inland waters, other than Great Lakes, that are navigable waters of the United States, will be credited on a day-for-day basis for up to 50 percent of the total required service.

(3) Service on vessels to which STCW applies, whether inland or coastwise, will be credited on a day-for-day basis. For establishing credit for sea service, the waters of the Inside Passage between Puget Sound and Cape Spencer, Alaska will be credited for a near-coastal and STCW endorsement.

(c) Service toward a near-coastal or a Great Lakes endorsement will be credited on a day-for-day basis and in accordance with the individual requirements for the specific credential.
