
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter L - Offshore Supply Vessels
#### PART 126 - INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart E - Annual, Periodic, and Alternative Annual Inspections
###### ยง 126.510 Annual and periodic inspections.
####### Annual inspection.

(a)Your vessel must undergo an annual inspection within 3 months before or after each anniversary date, except as required in paragraph (b) of this section.

(1) You must contact the cognizant OCMI to schedule an inspection at a time and place which he or she approves. No written application is required.

(2) The scope of the annual inspection is the same as the inspection for certification as specified in ยง 126.430, but in less detail unless the cognizant marine inspector finds deficiencies or determines that a major change has occurred since the last inspection. If deficiencies are found or a major change to the vessel has occurred, the marine inspector will conduct an inspection more detailed in scope to ensure that the vessel is in satisfactory condition and fit for the service for which it is intended. If your vessel passes the annual inspection, the marine inspector will endorse your current Certificate of Inspection.

(3) If the annual inspection reveals deficiencies in your vessel's maintenance, you must make any or all repairs or improvements within the time period specified by the OCMI.

(4) Nothing in this subpart limits the marine inspector from making such tests or inspections he or she deems necessary to be assured of the vessel's seaworthiness.
