
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 10 - MERCHANT MARINER CREDENTIAL
##### Subpart B - General Requirements for All Merchant Mariner Credentials
###### ยง 10.232 Sea service.
####### Sea service as a member of the Armed Forces of the United States and civilian service on vessels owned by the United States as required experience.

(d)(1) Sea service as a member of the Armed Forces of the United States will be accepted as required experience for an original, raise of grade, renewal, or increase in scope of all endorsements. In most cases, military sea service will have been performed upon ocean waters; however, inland service, as may be the case on smaller vessels, will be credited in the same manner as conventional evaluations. The applicant must submit an official transcript of sea service or history of assignments as verification of the service claimed when the application is submitted. A DD-214 is not acceptable evidence of sea service. The applicant must also provide the Coast Guard with other necessary information as to tonnage, routes, propulsion power, percentage of time underway, and assigned duties upon the vessels on which he or she served. Such service will be evaluated by the Coast Guard for a determination of its equivalence to sea service acquired on merchant vessels and the appropriate grade, class, and limit of endorsement for which the applicant is eligible. Normally, 60 percent of the total time onboard is considered equivalent underway service; however, the periods of operation of each vessel may be evaluated separately. In order to be eligible for a master's or chief engineer's unlimited endorsement, the applicant must have acquired military service in the capacity of commanding officer or engineer officer, respectively.

(2) Applicants for management-level, operational-level or support-level STCW endorsements must demonstrate competence in accordance with part 11, subpart C; part 12, subpart F; and part 13, subpart F of this subchapter.

(3) Service in deck ratings on military vessels such as seaman apprentice, seaman, boatswain's mate, quartermaster, or Radarman/Operations Specialist are considered deck service for the purposes of this part. Service in other ratings may be considered if the applicant establishes that his or her duties required a watchstanding presence on or about the bridge of a vessel. Service in engineer ratings on military vessels such as fireman apprentice, fireman, engineman, machinists mate, machinery technician, or boiler tender are considered engineer service for the purposes of this part. There are also other ratings such as electrician, hull technician, or damage controlman, which may be credited when the applicant establishes that his or her duties required watchstanding duties in an operating engine room.

(4) In addition to service on vessels that get underway regularly, members of the Armed Forces may obtain creditable service for assignment to vessels that get underway infrequently, such as tenders and repair vessels. Normally, a 25-percent factor is applied to these time periods. This experience can be equated with general shipboard familiarity, training, ship's business, and other related duties.

(5) Sea service obtained on submarines is creditable, as if it were surface vessel service, for deck and engineer officer and qualified ratings endorsements under the provision of paragraph (a) of this section. For application for deck officer and qualified ratings endorsements, submarine service may be creditable if at least 25 percent of all service submitted for the endorsement was obtained on surface vessels (e.g. if 4 years' total service were submitted for an original officer endorsement, at least 1 year must have been obtained on surface craft in order for the submarine service to be eligible for evaluation).

(6) Service gained in a civilian capacity as commanding officer, master, mate, engineer, or pilot, etc., of any vessel owned and operated by the United States, in any service in which a license or officer endorsement as master, mate, engineer, or pilot was not required at the time of such service, will be evaluated by the Coast Guard for a determination of equivalence.
