
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter L - Offshore Supply Vessels
#### PART 129 - ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS
##### Subpart D - Lighting Systems
###### ยง 129.410 Lighting fixtures.

(a) Each globe, lens, or diffuser of a lighting fixture must have a high-strength guard or be made of high-strength material, except in accommodations, the pilothouse, the galley, or similar locations where the fixture is not subject to damage.

(b) No lighting fixture may be used as a connection box for a circuit other than the branch circuit supplying the fixture.

(c) Each lighting fixture must be installed as follows:

(1) Each lighting fixture and lampholder must be fixed. No fixture may be supported by the screw shell of a lampholder.

(2) Each pendant-type lighting fixture must be suspended by and supplied through a threaded rigid-conduit stem.

(3) Each tablelamp, desklamp, floorlamp, or similar equipment must be so secured in place that it cannot be displaced by the roll, pitch, or heave or by the vibration of the vessel.

(d) Each lighting fixture in an electrical system operating at more than 50 volts must comply with UL 595, "Marine Type Electric Lighting Fixtures." A lighting fixture in an accommodation space, radio room, galley, or similar interior space may comply with UL 57, "Electric Lighting Fixtures," UL 1570, "Fluorescent Lighting Fixtures," UL 1571, "Incandescent Lighting Fixtures," UL 1572, "High Intensity Discharge Lighting Fixtures," UL 1573, "Stage and Studio Lighting Units," or UL 1574, "Track Lighting Systems," as long as the general marine requirements of UL 595 are satisfied.
