
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 10 - MERCHANT MARINER CREDENTIAL
##### Subpart B - General Requirements for All Merchant Mariner Credentials
###### § 10.235 Suspension or revocation of merchant mariner credentials.

(a) Any MMC or endorsement is subject to suspension or revocation on the same grounds, in the same manner, and with like procedure as provided in 46 U.S.C. chapter 77.

(b) When any individual's credential is revoked, it is no longer valid for any purpose, and any MMC subsequently requested must be applied for as an original following the procedures of §§ 5.901-5.905 of this subchapter. When an endorsement on an individual's MMC is revoked, it is no longer valid, and any endorsement of the same type subsequently requested must be applied for as an original following the procedures of §§ 5.901-5.905 of this subchapter. When an officer's endorsement is revoked, the Coast Guard will issue an MMC containing any rating endorsement for which the holder is qualified.

(c) An applicant who has had a TWIC, credential, or endorsement revoked, and who is applying for a subsequent MMC or endorsement, must state in his or her application the date of revocation, the serial number of the document revoked, and the type of document or endorsement revoked.

(d) A person whose credential or endorsement has been revoked or suspended without probation may not be issued a replacement credential or endorsement without approval of the Commandant. If a mariner has multiple endorsements and one or more, but not all, of those endorsements are suspended or revoked, he or she will be issued, without payment of a fee, a replacement MMC reflecting those endorsements for which the mariner remains qualified.

(e) When a credential or endorsement that is about to expire has been suspended, without probation, the renewal of the credential or endorsement will be withheld until expiration of the suspension period.

(f) When applying for an original endorsement on an MMC, pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section, an individual's existing service and training may be considered by the Coast Guard when determining the grade of the endorsement to be issued.

(g) An applicant for renewal or return of a credential with endorsement as master or mate (pilot) of towing vessels whose most recent credential has been suspended or revoked by an administrative law judge for incompetence must complete the practical demonstration required under § 10.227(e)(6)(i) of this subpart.

(h) If the Coast Guard is advised by the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) that a mariner has either been denied a TWIC or their TWIC has been revoked, the Coast Guard may initiate suspension and revocation action against the mariner's MMC, license, MMD, and COR under 46 U.S.C. 7702 and 7703. During the subsequent suspension and revocation proceeding, the TSA decision to deny issuance of, or to revoke, a mariner's TWIC will not be subject to review, and the mariner's failure to hold a TWIC will be treated by the Coast Guard as proof that the mariner is not eligible for an MMC, license, MMD or COR.

(i) A mariner that has either been denied issuance of a TWIC or whose TWIC has been revoked for a reason, other than administrative reasons (e.g., being lost or stolen, not functioning, or having a misspelling) will be deemed ineligible for an MMC, license, MMD or COR.
