
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter L - Offshore Supply Vessels
#### PART 130 - VESSEL CONTROL, AND MISCELLANEOUS EQUIPMENT AND SYSTEMS
##### Subpart A - Vessel Control
###### § 130.130 Steering on OSVs of less than 100 gross tons.

(a) Each OSV of less than 100 gross tons must have a steering system that complies with-

(1) Section 130.140 of this subpart; or

(2) This section.

(b) Except as provided by paragraph (i) of this section, each vessel must have a main and an independent auxiliary means of steering.

(c) The main means of steering (main steering gear) must be-

(1) Of adequate strength for, and capable of, steering the OSV at each service speed;

(2) Designed to operate at maximum astern speed without being damaged; and

(3) Capable of moving the rudder from 35 degrees on one side to 30 degrees on the other side in no more than 28 seconds with the vessel moving ahead at maximum service speed.

(d) Control of the main steering gear must be available from the pilothouse, including control of any necessary ancillary device (motor, pump, valve, or the like). If a power-driven main steering gear is used, a pilot light must be installed in the pilothouse to indicate operation of the power units.

(e) The auxiliary means of steering (auxiliary steering gear) must be-

(1) Of adequate strength for steering the OSV at navigable speed;

(2) Capable of steering the vessel at navigable speed; and

(3) Controlled from a place that-

(i) Can communicate with the pilothouse; or

(ii) Enables the master to safely maneuver the vessel.

(f) The steering gear must be designed so that transfer from the main steering gear or its control to the auxiliary steering gear or its control can be achieved rapidly. Any tools or equipment necessary for transfer must be readily available. Instructions for transfer must be posted.

(g) Each vessel must have instantaneous protection against short circuit for electrical-power circuits and control circuits, the protection sized and located to comply with §§ 58.25-55 (d) and (e) of this chapter.

(h) A rudder-angle indicator independent of the control of the main steering gear must be installed at the steering-control station in the pilothouse.

(i) No auxiliary steering gear need be installed if-

(1) The main steering gear, including power systems, is installed in duplicate; or

(2) Multiple-screw propulsion-with independent control of propulsion from the pilothouse for each screw and with a means to restrain and center the rudder-is installed, and if that control is capable of steering the OSV.

(j) Each vessel with duplicate (parallel but cross-connected) power systems for the main steering gear by way of compliance with paragraph (i)(1) of this section may use one of the systems for other purposes if-

(1) Control of the subordinate parallel system is located at the steering-control station in the pilothouse;

(2) Full power is available to the main steering gear when the subordinate parallel system is not in operation;

(3) The subordinate parallel system can be isolated from the means of steering, and instructions on procedures for isolating it are posted; and

(4) The subordinate parallel system is materially equivalent to the steering system.
