
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter L - Offshore Supply Vessels
#### PART 130 - VESSEL CONTROL, AND MISCELLANEOUS EQUIPMENT AND SYSTEMS
##### Subpart A - Vessel Control
###### § 130.140 Steering on OSVs of 100 or more gross tons.

(a) Except as provided in § 128.110 of this subchapter, each OSV of 100 GRT or more must have a means of steering that meets the-

(1) Applicable requirements of subchapters F and J of this chapter; or

(2) Requirements for a hydraulic-helm steering-system in paragraph (b) of this section.

(b) Each hydraulic-helm steering-system must have the following:

(1) A main steering gear of adequate strength for, and capable of, steering the vessel at every service speed without being damaged at maximum astern speed.

(2) A hydraulic system with a maximum allowable working pressure of not more than 12,411 kPa (1,800 psi), dedicated to steering.

(3) Piping materials that comply with subchapter F of this chapter, and piping thickness of at least schedule 80.

(4) Each fore-and-aft run of piping located as far inboard as practicable.

(5) Rudder stops.

(6) Either-

(i) Two steering pumps in accordance with § 130.130(c)(3) of this part; or

(ii) A single hydraulic sump of the "cascading overflow" type with a centerline bulkhead open only at the top, if each half has enough capacity to operate the system.

(7) Control of the main steering gear from the pilothouse, including-

(i) Control from the helm;

(ii) Control of any necessary ancillary device (motor, pump, valve, or the like); and

(iii) Adequate visibility when going astern.

(8) Multiple-screw propulsion with independent control of propulsion from the pilothouse, complying with § 130.120 of this part and being capable of steering the vessel.

(9) Dual hydraulic cylinders arranged so that either cylinder can be readily isolated, permitting the other cylinder to remain in service and move each rudder.

(10) The steering alarms and indicators required by § 58.25-25 of this chapter, located in the pilothouse.

(11) Instantaneous protection against short circuit for electrical power, and control circuits sized and located as required by §§ 58.25-55 (d) and (e) of this chapter.

(12) A rudder-angle indicator, at the steering-control station in the pilothouse, that is independent of the control of the main steering gear.

(13) Means to locally start and stop the steering pumps.

(14) Means to isolate any auxiliary means of steering so as not to impair the reliability and availability of the control required by paragraph (b)(7) of this section.

(15) Manual capability to center and steady the rudder if the vessel loses normal steering power.

(c) For compliance with paragraph (b) of this section, a common piping system for pumps, helm, and cylinders is acceptable.
