
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter L - Offshore Supply Vessels
#### PART 130 - VESSEL CONTROL, AND MISCELLANEOUS EQUIPMENT AND SYSTEMS
##### Subpart D - Automation of Unattended Machinery Spaces
###### ยง 130.460 Placement of machinery alarms.

(a) Visible and audible alarms must be installed at the pilothouse to indicate the following:

(1) Loss of power for propulsion control.

(2) Loss of power to the steering motor or for control of the main steering gear.

(3) Engine-room fire.

(4) High bilge-level.

(5) Low lube-oil pressure for each main propulsion engine and each prime mover of a generator.

(6) For each main propulsion engine and each prime mover of a generator-

(i) High lube-oil temperature; and

(ii) High jacket-water temperature.

(7) For each reduction gear and each turbocharger with a pressurized oil system-

(i) Low lube-oil pressure; and

(ii) High lube-oil temperature.

(8) Loss of normal power for the alarms listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(7) of this section.

(b) Sensors for the high-bilge-level alarm required by paragraph (a)(4) of this section must be installed in-

(1) Each space below the deepest load waterline that contains pumps, motors, or electrical equipment; and

(2) The compartment that contains the rudder post.

(c) Centralized displays must be installed in the machinery spaces to allow rapid evaluation of each problem detected by the alarms required by paragraph (a) of this section. Equipment-mounted gauges or meters are acceptable for this purpose, if they are grouped at a central site.
