
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter L - Offshore Supply Vessels
#### PART 131 - OPERATIONS
##### Subpart D - Sufficiency and Supervision of Crew of Survival Craft
###### ยง 131.420 Manning and supervision.

(a) There must be enough trained persons aboard each survival craft to muster and assist untrained persons.

(b) Except as permitted by paragraph (c)(2) of this section, there must be enough deck officers, able seamen, or other certificated persons aboard each survival craft to manage the launching and handling of the survival craft.

(c) One person must be placed in charge of each survival craft to be used.

(1) Except as permitted by paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the person in command must be a deck officer, able seaman, or other certificated person.

(2) Considering the nature of the voyage, the number of persons permitted aboard, and the characteristics of the vessel, including gross tonnage, the cognizant OCMI may permit persons practiced in the handling of liferafts to be placed in charge of liferafts instead of persons required under paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(3) A deck officer, able seaman, or other certificated person shall serve as second-in-command for each lifeboat either-

(i) Carried on a vessel in ocean service; or

(ii) Permitted to carry more than 40 persons.

(d) The person in charge and the second-in-command of each survival craft shall have a list of crew members and offshore workers assigned to the craft and shall see that the crew members are acquainted with their duties.

(e) Each motorized survival craft must have assigned a person capable of operating the engine and carrying out minor adjustments.

(f) The master shall ensure that the persons required under paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section are equitably distributed among the vessel's survival crafts.
