
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 10 - MERCHANT MARINER CREDENTIAL
##### Subpart C - Medical Certification
###### ยง 10.303 Medical waivers, limitations, and restrictions.

(a) The Coast Guard may grant a waiver if, after review of all relevant supporting medical documents and consultation with the examining physician, as needed, an applicant does not possess the vision, hearing, or general physical condition necessary; and extenuating circumstances warrant special consideration. An applicant may submit to the Coast Guard additional correspondence, records, and reports in support of a waiver. In this regard, recommendations from agencies of the Federal Government operating government vessels, as well as owners and operators of private vessels, made on behalf of their employees, will be given full consideration.

(b) In general, medical waivers are approved when an applicant does not meet the applicable medical standards, but objective medical evidence indicates that the condition is sufficiently controlled and the effects of medication pose no significant risk to maritime and public safety. The Coast Guard retains final authority for the issuance of medical waivers.

(c) Medical waivers may be granted with specific conditions to which the applicant must adhere, such as more frequent monitoring of the medical conditions, submission of medical exams and/or tests at varying intervals to track the ongoing status of the medical condition, or operational limitations in the manner the mariner may serve under the MMC.

(d) The Coast Guard may place an operational limitation on medical and physical conditions. Any operational limitations will be reflected in the medical certificate.

(e) The Coast Guard may place a restriction on a medical certificate based upon medical and physical conditions of an applicant. Any restriction will be reflected on the medical certificate and may include restriction of route or trade.
