
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter L - Offshore Supply Vessels
#### PART 131 - OPERATIONS
##### Subpart E - Tests, Drills, and Inspections
###### ยง 131.535 Firefighting training and drills.

(a) A fire drill must be held on each vessel, normally on alternate weeks. It must not be held as part of the abandon-ship drill, nor immediately before or after the abandon-ship drill. If none can be held on schedule, because of bad weather or other unavoidable constraint, one must be held at the next opportunity.

(b) Any crew member excused from a fire drill must participate in the next one, so that each member participates in at least one each month. Unless more than 25 percent of the members have participated in one on that particular vessel in the previous month, one must be held before the vessel leaves port if reasonable and practicable; but, unless the Commandant (CG-CVC) accepts alternative arrangements as at least equivalent, one must be held not later than 24 hours after the vessel leaves port in any event.

(c) Each fire drill must include-

(1) Summoning of crew members and offshore workers to their stations with the general alarm;

(2) Simulation of a fire emergency that varies from drill to drill;

(3) Reporting of crew members and offshore workers to stations, and preparing for, and demonstrating of the duties assigned under the procedure described in the station bill for, the particular fire emergency being simulated;

(4) Starting of fire pumps and use of a sufficient number of outlets to determine that the system is working properly;

(5) Bringing out each breathing apparatus and other item of rescue and safety equipment from the emergency-equipment lockers, and demonstrating of the use of each item by the person or persons that will make use of it;

(6) Operation of each watertight door;

(7) Operation of each self-closing fire door;

(8) Closing of each fire door and each door within the fire boundary; and

(9) Closing of each ventilation closure of each space protected by a fixed fire-extinguishing system.

(d) Each fire drill must, as far as practicable, be conducted as if there were an actual emergency.

(e) The dates when fire drills are held, and details of training in fire fighting and of fire drills, must be entered in the vessel's official logbook. Each logbook entry must include the following, as applicable:

(1) Time and date.

(2) Length of drill or training session.

(3) Number and lengths of hose used.

(4) Subject of training session.

(5) Statement on the condition of the equipment used.

(6) Unless a full drill or training session is held at the appointed time, the circumstances and the extent of the drill or training session held.
