
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter L - Offshore Supply Vessels
#### PART 131 - OPERATIONS
##### Subpart F - Logs
###### ยง 131.610 Logbooks and records.

(a) Each OSV must by statute, or by regulations in this subchapter, have certain logbooks or records. The master shall make all entries required by statute, or by regulations in this subchapter.

(b) 46 U.S.C. 11301 states that a vessel of the United States, except one on a voyage from a port in the United States to a port in Canada, shall have an official logbook if the vessel is-

(1) On a voyage from a port in the United States to a foreign port; or

(2) Of at least 100 gross tons and on a voyage between a port in the United States on the Atlantic Ocean and one on the Pacific Ocean.

(c) The Coast Guard gratuitously furnishes to masters of vessels of the United States the official logbook as Form CG-706B or CG-706C, depending upon the number of persons employed as crew. The first several pages of this logbook list various acts of Congress governing logbooks and the entries required in them.

(d) When a voyage is completed, or after a specified time has elapsed, the master shall file the official logbook containing required entries with the OCMI at or nearest the port where the vessel may be.

(e) Unless an official logbook is required, the owner, operator, or master shall supply an alternative log or record for making entries required by law, including regulations in this subchapter. This log or record need not be filed with this OCMI, but must be kept available for review by a marine inspector for a year after the date that the latest entry concerns.
