
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter L - Offshore Supply Vessels
#### PART 131 - OPERATIONS
##### Subpart H - Markings for Fire Equipment and Emergency Equipment
###### ยง 131.855 Lifeboats and rescue boats.

(a) The following must be plainly marked or painted on each side of the bow of each lifeboat and rescue boat in block capital letters and numbers:

(1) The name of the vessel.

(2) The number of the boat. (The boats on each side of the vessel must be numbered from forward to aft. If there are boats on both sides of the vessel, the odd numbers must be on the starboard side.)

(3) For each vessel in ocean service, the name of the port whose marking on the stern is required by ยง 67.123 of this chapter.

(b) The following must be plainly marked or painted on each side of the bow of each lifeboat and rescue boat in block capital letters and numbers:

(1) The length and beam of the boat.

(2) The number of persons the boat will hold. This number must-

(i) Be the number of persons the boat is equipped for; and

(ii) Not be greater than the number of persons the boat is approved for, as shown on its nameplate.

(c) The following must be plainly marked or painted on each lifeboat and rescue boat, visible from above the boat:

(1) The number of the boat.

(2) The name of the vessel.

(d) Each lifeboat and rescue boat must be marked with Type II retro-reflective material approved under subpart 164.018 of this chapter. The arrangement of the retro-reflective material must comply with IMO Resolution A.658(16).
