
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter L - Offshore Supply Vessels
#### PART 132 - FIRE-PROTECTION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart A - General Provisions; Fire Main
###### ยง 132.130 Fire stations.

(a) Except as provided by paragraph (b) of this section, ire stations must be so numerous and so placed that each part of the vessel accessible to persons aboard while the vessel is being operated, and each cargo hold, are reachable by at least two effective spray patterns of water. At least two such patterns must come from separate hydrants. At least one must come from a single length of hose.

(b) Each part of the main machinery space, including the shaft alley if it contains space assigned for the stowage of combustibles, must be reachable by at least two streams of water. Each stream must come from a single length of hose, from a separate fire station.

(c) Each fire station must be numbered in compliance with ยง 131.830 of this subchapter.

(d) Each part of the fire main on a weather deck must be either protected against freezing or fitted with cut-out valves and drain valves so that exposed parts of the piping may be shut off and drained in freezing weather. Except when closed against freezing, the cut-out valves must be sealed open.

(e) Each outlet at a fire hydrant must be at least 38 millimeters (1inch) in diameter and, to minimize the possibility of kinking, must be fitted so that no hose leads upward from it.

(f) Each fire station must be equipped with a spanner suitable for use on the hose there.

(g) Each fire station must have at least one length of fire hose. Each hose on the station must have a fire nozzle approved under subpart 162.027 of this chapter that can discharge both solid stream and water spray.

(h) Each pipe and fire hydrant must be placed so that the fire hose may be easily coupled to them. Each station must be readily accessible. No deck cargo may interfere with access to the stations; each pipe must run as far away from this cargo as practicable, to avoid risk of damage by the cargo.

(i) Each fire hydrant or "Y" branch must be equipped with a valve such that the fire hose may be removed while there is pressure on the fire main.

(j) Each fire hydrant connection must be of brass, bronze, or equivalent metal. The threads of fire hose couplings must be of brass or other suitable corrosion-resistant material and comply with NFPA 1963.

(k) Each fire hydrant must have a fire hose 15.2 meters (50 feet) in length, with a minimum diameter of 38 millimeters (1inches), connected to an outlet, for use at any time.

(l) No fire hose, when part of the fire equipment, may be used for any purpose except fire-fighting, fire drills, and testing.

(m) A suitable hose rack or other device must be provided for each fire hose. Each rack on a weather deck must be placed so as to protect its hose from heavy weather.

(n) Each section of fire hose must be lined commercial fire hose, or lined fire hose that meets Standard 19 of Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. (UL). Hose that bears the UL label as lined fire hose complies with this section.
