
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter L - Offshore Supply Vessels
#### PART 132 - FIRE-PROTECTION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Portable and Semiportable Fire Extinguishers
###### ยง 132.220 Installation.

(a) Each portable fire extinguisher approved under subpart 162.028 of this chapter and each semi-portable fire extinguisher approved under subpart 162.039 of this chapter must be installed in compliance with Table 132.220 of this section. The placement of each extinguisher must satisfy the cognizant OCMI, who may also deem added extinguishers necessary for the proper protection of the vessel.

(b) Table 132.220 of this section indicates the minimum required number and type of extinguishers for each space listed. Extinguishers with larger numerical ratings or multiple letter designations may be used if the extinguishers meet the requirements of the table.

(c) Each semi-portable fire extinguisher must be mounted or otherwise placed in the open so as to be readily visible.

(d) Except as provided by paragraph (d) of this section, each portable fire extinguisher must be mounted or otherwise placed in the open or behind glass so as to be readily visible.

(e) A portable fire extinguisher may be mounted or otherwise placed in an enclosure together with the firehose, if the enclosure is marked in compliance with ยง 131.830 of this subchapter.

(f) Each portable fire extinguisher and its station must be numbered to comply with ยง 131.835 of this subchapter.

(g) No portable or semi-portable fire extinguisher with a nameplate indicating that it needs protection from freezing may be mounted or otherwise placed where freezing temperatures are foreseeable.
