
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter L - Offshore Supply Vessels
#### PART 132 - FIRE-PROTECTION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart C - Miscellaneous
###### § 132.350 Tests and inspections of fire-extinguishing equipment.

(a) Each master of a vessel shall ensure that the tests and inspections, of fire-extinguishing equipment, described by paragraph (b) of this section are performed-

(1) Every 12 months; or

(2) Not later than the next inspection for certification and periodic inspection, unless the total time from the date of the last tests and inspections exceeds 15 months.

(b) The master shall provide satisfactory evidence of the servicing of fire-extinguishing equipment, required by paragraph (c) of this section, to the marine inspector. If any of the equipment or records have not been properly maintained, a qualified servicing facility may be required to perform the required inspections, maintenance, and hydrostatic tests.

(c) The following tests and inspections of fire-extinguishing equipment must be performed by the owner, operator, or master, or by a qualified servicing facility, to verify compliance with paragraph (a) of this section:

(1) Each portable fire extinguisher must be inspected, maintained, and hydrostatically tested as required by Chapter 4 of NFPA 10 with the frequency specified by NFPA 10. Carbon-dioxide and halon portable fire extinguishers must be refilled when the weight loss of net content exceeds that specified for fixed systems by Table 132.350. Further, each must be examined for excessive corrosion and for general condition. A tag issued by a qualified servicing facility, and attached to each extinguisher, will be acceptable evidence that the necessary maintenance has been conducted.

(2) Each semiportable fire extinguisher and each fixed fire-extinguishing system must be-

(i) Inspected and tested as required by Table 132.350 of this subpart;

(ii) Inspected, tested, and marked as required by §§ 147.60 and 147.65 of this chapter;

(iii) Inspected to ensure that piping, controls, and valves are in good general condition with no excessive corrosion; and

(iv) Inspected and tested to determine that alarms and ventilation shutdowns for each fire-extinguishing system operate properly.

(3) The fire-main system must be operated, and the pressure checked at the remotest and highest outlets. Each fire hose must be subjected to a test pressure, equivalent either to the maximal pressure to which it may be subjected in service or to 690 kPa (100 psi), whichever is greater.

(4) All systems for detecting smoke and fire, including sensors and alarms, must be inspected and tested.
