
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter L - Offshore Supply Vessels
#### PART 132 - FIRE-PROTECTION EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart C - Miscellaneous
###### ยง 132.365 Emergency outfits.

(a) Two emergency outfits, stored for use in widely separated, accessible locations, are required on all OSVs of at least 6,000 GT ITC (500 GRT if GT ITC is not assigned) that have cargo tanks that exceed 15 feet in depth, measured from the tank top to the lowest point at which cargo is carried.

(b) Each emergency outfit must have on board the following equipment:

(1) One pressure-demand, open-circuit, self-contained breathing apparatus, approved by the Mine Safety and Health Administration and by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health and having at a minimum a 30-minute air supply, a full facepiece, and a spare charge.

(2) One lifeline with a belt or a suitable harness.

(3) One Type II or Type III flashlight constructed and marked in accordance with ASTM F1014-02 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 125.180).

(4) One fire axe.

(5) One pair of boots and gloves of rubber or other electrically nonconducting material.

(6) One rigid helmet that provides effective protection against impact.

(7) One set of protective clothing of material that will protect the skin from the heat of fire and burns from scalding steam. The outer surface must be water resistant.

(c) Lifelines must be of steel or bronze wire rope. Steel wire rope must be either inherently corrosion resistant or made so by galvanizing or tinning. Each end must be fitted with a hook with keeper having a throat opening that can be readily slipped over a-inch bolt. The total length of the lifeline must be dependent upon the size and arrangement of the vessel, and more than one line may be hooked together to achieve the necessary length. No individual lifeline may be less than 50 feet in length. The assembled lifeline must have a minimum breaking strength of 1,500 pounds.
