
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter L - Offshore Supply Vessels
#### PART 133 - LIFESAVING SYSTEMS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for All OSVs
###### ยง 133.105 Survival craft.
####### One self-igniting light.

(iv)The self-igniting light must be approved under approval series 161.010, and must be attached to the buoyant apparatus, inflatable buoyant apparatus, or lifefloat by a 12-thread manila or equivalent lanyard, at least 5.5 meters (18 feet) long. The self-igniting light is not required on a lifefloat with a capacity of 24 persons or less.

(5) Each marine evacuation system must be approved under approval series 160.175.

(6) Lifeboats may be substituted for liferafts. If lifeboats are installed on an OSV, their installation and arrangement must meet the applicable requirements of subchapter W of this chapter.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, OSVs must carry one or more liferafts with an aggregate capacity that will accommodate the total number of persons on board. The liferafts must be-

(1) Stowed in a position providing for easy side-to-side transfer at a single open deck level; or

(2) Additional liferafts must be provided to bring the total capacity available on each side to at least 100 percent of the total number of persons on board. If additional liferafts are provided and the rescue boat required under ยง 133.135 is also a lifeboat, it may be included in the aggregate capacity requirement.

(c) Each OSV operating in the Gulf of Mexico, as an alternative to the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, may carry a sufficient number of inflatable buoyant apparatus or a sufficient number of lifefloats, having an aggregate capacity that, together with any lifeboats, rescue boats, and liferafts, will accommodate the total number of persons on board.
