
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter L - Offshore Supply Vessels
#### PART 133 - LIFESAVING SYSTEMS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for All OSVs
###### ยง 133.110 Survival craft muster and embarkation arrangements.

(a) Each OSV must have muster stations that-

(1) Are near the embarkation stations, unless the muster station is the embarkation station;

(2) Permit ready access for the offshore workers to the embarkation station, unless the muster station is the embarkation station; and

(3) Have sufficient room to marshal and instruct the offshore workers.

(b) Each muster station must have sufficient space to accommodate all persons assigned to muster at that station. One or more muster stations must be close to each embarkation station.

(c) Each muster station and embarkation station must be readily accessible to accommodation and work areas.

(d) Each muster station and embarkation station must be adequately illuminated by lighting supplied from the emergency source of electrical power.

(e) Each davit-launched survival craft muster station and embarkation station must be arranged to enable stretcher cases to be placed in the survival craft.

(f) Each launching station or each two adjacent launching stations with an embarkation position more than 3 meters (10 feet) above the waterline in the lightest seagoing condition, must have an embarkation ladder as follows:

(1) Each embarkation ladder must be approved under approval series 160.117 or approval series 160.017.

(2) Each embarkation ladder must extend in a single length, from the deck to the waterline in the lightest seagoing condition under unfavorable conditions of trim and with the OSV listed not less than 15 degrees either way.

(3) Each embarkation ladder may be replaced by a device approved to provide safe and rapid access to survival craft in the water, if the OCMI permits the device, provided that there is at least one embarkation ladder on each side of the OSV.

(g) Each davit-launched liferaft must be arranged to be boarded and launched from a position immediately adjacent to the stowed position or from a position to where, under ยง 133.130, the liferaft is transferred before launching.

(h) If a davit-launched survival craft is embarked over the edge of the deck, the craft must be provide with a means for bringing it against the side of the OSV and holding it alongside the OSV to allow persons to safely embark.

(i) If a davit-launched survival craft or rescue boat is not intended to be moved to the stowed position with persons on board, the craft must be provided with a means for bringing it against the side of the OSV and holding it alongside the OSV to allow persons to safely disembark after a drill.
