
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter L - Offshore Supply Vessels
#### PART 133 - LIFESAVING SYSTEMS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for All OSVs
###### ยง 133.130 Stowage of survival craft.
####### General.

(a)Each survival craft must be stowed as follows:

(1) Each survival craft must be as close to the accommodation and service spaces as possible.

(2) Each survival craft must be stowed in a way that neither the survival craft nor its stowage arrangements will interfere with the embarkation and operation of any other survival craft or rescue boat at any other launching station.

(3) Each survival craft must be as near the water surface as is safe and practicable.

(4) Other than liferafts intended for throw-overboard launching, each survival craft must be not less than 2 meters above the waterline with the OSV-

(i) In the fully loaded condition;

(ii) Under unfavorable conditions of trim; and

(iii) Listed up to 20 degrees either way, or to the angle where the OSV's weatherdeck edge becomes submerged, whichever is less.

(5) Each survival craft must be sufficiently ready for use so that two crew members can complete preparations for embarkation and launching in less than 5 minutes.

(6) Each survival craft must be fully equipped as required under this part.

(7) Each survival craft must be in a secure and sheltered position and protected from damage by fire and explosion, as far as practicable.

(8) Each survival craft must not require lifting from its stowed position in order to launch, except that-

(i) A davit-launched liferaft may be lifted by a manually powered winch from its stowed position to its embarkation position; or

(ii) A survival craft that weights 185 kilograms (407.8 pounds) or less, may require lifting of not more than 300 millimeters (1 foot).
