
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter L - Offshore Supply Vessels
#### PART 133 - LIFESAVING SYSTEMS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for All OSVs
###### ยง 133.130 Stowage of survival craft.
####### Additional liferaft stowage requirements.

(b)In addition to meeting the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, each liferaft must be stowed as follows:

(1) Each liferaft must be stowed to permit manual release from its securing arrangements.

(2) Each liferaft must be stowed at a height above the waterline in the lightest seagoing condition not greater than the maximum stowage height indicated on the liferaft container. Each liferaft without an indicated maximum stowage height must be stowed not more than 18 meters (59 feet) above the waterline in the OSV's lightest seagoing condition.

(3) Each liferaft must be arranged to permit it to drop into the water from the deck on which it is stowed. A liferaft stowage arrangement meets this requirement if it-

(i) Is outboard of the rail or bulwark;

(ii) Is on stanchions or on a platform adjacent to the rail or bulwark; or

(iii) Has a gate or other suitable opening to allow the liferaft to be pushed directly overboard and-

(A) Each gate or opening must be large enough to allow the liferaft to be pushed overboard; and

(B) If the liferaft is intended to be available for use on either side of the OSV, a gate or opening must be provided on each side.

(4) Each davit-launched liferaft must be stowed within reach of its lifting hook, unless some means of transfer is provided that is not rendered inoperable-

(i) Within the limits of trim and list and list specified in paragraph (a)(4)(iii) of this section;

(ii) By OSV motion; or

(iii) By power failure.

(5) Each rigid container for an inflatable liferaft to be launched by a launching appliance must be secured in a way that the container or parts of it are prevented from falling into the water during and after inflation and launching of the contained liferaft.

(6) Each liferaft must have a painter system providing a connection between the OSV and the liferaft.

(7) Each liferaft or group of liferafts must be arranged for float-free launching. The arrangement must ensure that the liferaft or liferafts when released and inflated, are not dragged under by the sinking OSV. A hydrostatic release unit used in a float-free arrangement must be approved under approval series 160.162.
