
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter L - Offshore Supply Vessels
#### PART 133 - LIFESAVING SYSTEMS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for All OSVs
###### ยง 133.145 Marine evacuation system launching arrangements.
####### Arrangements.

(a)Each marine evacuation system must have the following arrangements:

(1) Each marine evacuation system must be capable of being deployed by one person.

(2) Each marine evacuation system must enable the total number of persons for which it is designed, to be transferred from the OSV into the inflated liferafts within a period of 10 minutes from the time an abandon-ship signal is given.

(3) Each marine evacuation system must be arranged so that liferafts may be securely attached to the platform and released from the platform by a person either in the liferaft or on the platform.

(4) Each marine evacuation system must be capable of being deployed from the OSV under unfavorable conditions of trim of up to 10 degrees either way and of list of up to 20 degrees either way.

(5) If the marine evacuation system has an inclined slide, the angle of the slide from horizontal must be within a range of 30 to 35 degrees when the OSV is upright and in the lightest seagoing condition.

(6) Each marine evacuation system platform must be capable of being restrained by a bowsing line or other positioning system that is designed to deploy automatically, and if necessary, be capable of being adjusted to the position required for evacuation.
