
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter L - Offshore Supply Vessels
#### PART 133 - LIFESAVING SYSTEMS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for All OSVs
###### ยง 133.160 Rescue boat embarkation, launching and recovery arrangements.

(a) Each davit for a rescue boat must be approved under approval series 160.132 with a winch approved under approval series 160.115. If the launching arrangement uses a single fall, the davit may be of a type which is turned out manually, and the release mechanism may be an automatic disengaging apparatus approved under approval series 160.170 instead of a lifeboat release mechanism. Each rescue boat must be able to be boarded and launched directly from the stowed position with the number of persons assigned to crew the rescue boat on board. If the rescue boat is also a lifeboat and the other lifeboats are boarded and launched from an embarkation deck, the arrangements must be such that the rescue boat can also be boarded and launched from the embarkation deck.

(b) Each rescue boat must be capable of being launched with the OSV making headway of 5 knots in calm water. A painter may be used to meet this requirement.

(c) Each rescue boat embarkation and launching arrangement must permit the rescue boat to be boarded and launched in the shortest possible time.

(d) Rapid recovery of the rescue boat must be possible when loaded with its full complement of persons and equipment.

(e) Each rescue boat launching appliance must be fitted with a powered winch motor.

(f) Each rescue boat launching appliance must be capable of hoisting the rescue boat when loaded with its full rescue boat complement of persons and equipment at a rate of not less than 0.3 meters per second (59 feet per minute).
