
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter L - Offshore Supply Vessels
#### PART 134 - ADDED PROVISIONS FOR LIFTBOATS
##### § 134.170 Operating manual.

(a) Each liftboat must have aboard an operating manual approved by the Coast Guard as complying with this section.

(b) The operating manual must be available to, and written so as to be easily understood by, the crew members of the liftboat and must include the following:

(1) A table of contents and general index.

(2) A general description of the vessel, including-

(i) Major dimensions;

(ii) Tonnages; and

(iii) Load capacities for-

(A) Various cargoes;

(B) Crane hook; and

(C) Helicopter-landing deck.

(3) Designed limits for each mode of operation, including-

(i) Draft;

(ii) Air gap;

(iii) Wave height;

(iv) Wave period;

(v) Wind;

(vi) Current;

(vii) Temperatures; and

(viii) Other environmental factors.

(4) The heaviest loads allowable on deck.

(5) Information on the use of any special cross-flooding fittings and on the location of valves that may require closure to prevent progressive flooding.

(6) Guidance on preparing the vessel for heavy weather and on what to do when heavy weather is forecast, including when critical decisions or acts-such as leaving the area and heading for a harbor of safe refuge, or evacuating the vessel-should be accomplished.

(7) Guidance on operating the vessel while changing mode and while preparing the vessel to make a move, and information on how to avoid structural damage from shifting loads during heavy weather.

(8) Information on inherent operational limitations for each mode and on changing modes, including preloading instructions.

(9) Guidance on the proper procedures for discovering the flooding of a normally buoyant leg or leg pad, precautionary information concerning the effects on stability of flooded legs, and what to do upon discovering the flooding of a normally buoyant leg or leg pad.

(10) A description, a diagram, operating guidance for the bilge system, and an alternative method of dewatering.

(11) A general arrangement diagram showing the locations of-

(i) Watertight and weathertight compartments;

(ii) Openings in the hull and structure;

(iii) Vents and closures;

(iv) Shutdowns for mechanical and electrical emergencies, and for emergencies affecting ventilation;

(v) Alarms for flooding and for too-high and too-low levels;

(vi) Fire and gas detectors; and

(vii) Access to different compartments and decks.

(12) A list of shutdown locations for emergencies and guidance on restarting mechanical and electrical equipment and equipment for ventilation after shutdowns.

(13) A diagram of the hazardous locations (if applicable).

(14) A diagram of the emergency-power system.

(15) Stability information setting forth the maximum allowable height of the center of gravity in relation to draft data, displacement, and other applicable parameters unique to the design of the unit to determine compliance with the intact and damage stability criteria, under §§ 174.250 and 174.255 of this chapter.

(16) Curves of form as required under § 170.075(a)(3) of this chapter.
