
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 10 - MERCHANT MARINER CREDENTIAL
##### Subpart D - Training Courses and Programs
###### ยง 10.402 Approval of training courses.
####### A cover letter.

(1)The cover letter must contain-

(i) The name of the organization providing the instruction and the course name;

(ii) The locations where the course will be held;

(iii) A general description and overview of the course;

(iv) The category of acceptance being sought, as listed in paragraph (a) of this section; and

(v) Reference to regulatory requirements met by the training.

(2) Part A: Course framework. The course framework must contain-

(i) The following specific course intentions:

(A) Course scope.

(B) Course objective;

(ii) The following conditions relative to students:

(A) Student entry standards.

(B) Class-size limitations.

(C) Student/teacher ratio;

(iii) Documentary evidence that each instructor and/or assessor-

(A) Has either experience, training, or evidence of instruction in effective instructional techniques and/or effective assessment techniques;

(B) Is qualified in the task for which the training is being conducted and have relevant experience; and

(C) Has attained a level of experience and qualification equal or superior to the relevant level of knowledge, skills, and abilities described in the performance objective;

(iv) Site information, which must include-

(A) A description of the facility, measurements of the instructional space, pictures showing multiple views of the space, and a description of the instruction or assessment being performed; and

(B) A request, if applicable, to teach at an alternative site. This requires contact with the local Regional Exam Center and approval by the National Maritime Center; and

(v) A description of the following materials used for development, instruction, and performance measurement:

(A) Equipment.

(B) Teaching aids.

(C) Textbooks and presentations.

(D) Reference bibliography.

(3) Part B: Course outline. The course outline must contain-

(i) Course subjects/topics; and

(ii) Course schedule, including the duration and order of lessons, and an indication as to whether each lesson is-

(A) A classroom lecture;

(B) A practical demonstration;

(C) A simulator exercise;

(D) An examination; or

(E) Another method of instructional reinforcement.

(4) Part C: Detailed teaching syllabus. The detailed teaching syllabus must be written in a learning objective format in which the objectives describe what the student must do to demonstrate that the specific knowledge has been transferred. The detailed teaching syllabus must contain-

(i) The learning objectives as related to the subjects/topics;

(ii) The specific references from which the instruction was developed; and

(iii) Reference to the specific teaching aids, textbooks, or technical materials used for instruction and performance measurement.

(5) Part D-1: Lesson plans. The lesson plans must contain the following specific instructional contents of the individual course lessons:

(i) The main element learning objective.

(ii) Student assignments.

(iii) Training outcomes, which are statements that identify the specific knowledge, skill, or ability that students must gain and display as a result of the training or instructional activity. A training outcome is made up of three elements: expected student performance, condition, and criterion.

(6) Part D-2: Instructor notes. The instructor notes must contain-

(i) The specific instructional methodologies utilized in the particular lesson; and

(ii) The instructional materials, including instructional directions containing the following:

(A) Pre-instructional activities.

(B) Content presentation.

(C) Student participation.

(D) Assessment process.

(E) Other instructional activities, such as homework and reading assignments.

(7) Part E: Evaluations. The evaluations section must contain-

(i) Any methodology that is used to measure a student's knowledge, performance, or level of achievement, including-

(A) Homework;

(B) Quizzes;

(C) Exams;

(D) Laboratory projects;

(E) Competency assessments;

(F) Remediation; and

(G) Testing strategies;

(ii) Assessment instruments, which are any tools used to determine whether the student has achieved the desired level of knowledge, understanding, or proficiency; and

(iii) Any methodology that is used to measure the effectiveness of the training or instructor, including-

(A) Instructor evaluations;

(B) Course evaluations/surveys; and

(C) Other feedback.
