
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 10 - MERCHANT MARINER CREDENTIAL
##### Subpart D - Training Courses and Programs
###### ยง 10.403 General standards.

(a) Each school with an approved course must-

(1) Have a well-maintained facility that accommodates the students in a safe and comfortable environment conducive to learning;

(2) Have the necessary equipment, including simulators where appropriate, sufficient for the number of students to be accommodated, and support the objectives of the course;

(3) Administer training entirely in the English language unless specifically approved to be presented in another language;

(4) Administer written examinations to each student appropriate for the course material and the knowledge requirements of the position or endorsement for which the student is being trained. For a course approved to substitute for a Coast Guard-administered examination, the courses must be of such a degree of difficulty that a student who successfully completes them would most likely pass, on the first attempt, an examination prepared by the Coast Guard;

(5) Require each student to successfully demonstrate practical skills appropriate for the course material and equal to the level of endorsement for which the course is approved;

(6) Effective March 24, 2014, keep physical or electronic copies of the following records for at least 5 years after the end of each student's completion or disenrollment from a course or program:

(i) A copy of each student's examination scores.

(ii) A copy of each examination or, in the case of a practical test, a report of such test.

(iii) A record of each student's classroom attendance.

(iv) A copy of each student's course completion certificate or program completion certificate, as appropriate.

(v) A summary of changes or modification to the last course submittal.

(vi) A list of all locations at which the training course was presented and the number of times it was presented at each location.

(vii) The name(s) of the instructor(s) who taught the course, which does not include lab assistants or other non-teaching assistants.

(viii) The number of students who began the training.

(ix) The number of students who successfully completed the training.

(x) The number of students who were required to retest.

(xi) The number of students who were required to retake the entire course.

(xii) The number of students who were required to retake a portion of the course;

(7) Not significantly change its approved curriculum without approval from the NMC as specified in ยง 10.402(e) of this subpart;

(8) Conduct an internal audit midway through the term of the course's approval and maintain the results of the audit for a period of not less than 5 years. The audit will evaluate whether-

(i) Records are being maintained according to these regulations;

(ii) The course is being presented in accordance with the approval letter; and

(iii) Surveys from students indicate that the course is meeting their needs; and

(9) At any time, allow the Coast Guard to-

(i) Inspect its facilities, equipment, and records, including scholastic records;

(ii) Conduct interviews and surveys of students to aid in course evaluation and improvement;

(iii) Assign personnel to observe or participate in the course of instruction; and

(iv) Supervise or administer the required examinations or practical demonstrations, including the substitution of an applicable Coast Guard examination in a course approved to substitute for a Coast Guard administered examination.

(b) [Reserved]
