
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter M - Towing Vessels
#### PART 136 - CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 136.130 Options for documenting compliance to obtain a Certificate of Inspection.

(a) There are two options for documenting compliance with the requirements in this subchapter to obtain a COI:

(1) The Coast Guard option, in which all inspections of the towing vessel are conducted by the Coast Guard, as discussed in ยง 136.210 and parts 137 and 140 through 144 of this subchapter; or

(2) The TSMS option, as discussed in ยง 136.210, and in parts 137 through 144 of this subchapter.

(b) Regardless of the option chosen, the Coast Guard is responsible for issuing a towing vessel COI, and may board a vessel at any time to verify compliance and take appropriate action.

(c) An owner or managing operator choosing the Coast Guard option may use a management system, vessel operations manual, towing vessel record (TVR), or logbook to meet this subchapter's recordkeeping requirements.

(d) When submitting an application for inspection, the owner or managing operator must specify on the application which option he or she chooses for each particular towing vessel. Owners or managing operators may choose different options for the individual vessels within their fleets.

(e) Requests to change options during the period of validity of an existing COI must be accompanied by an application to the OCMI for a new COI. If the requirements for the new option are met, the OCMI will issue the vessel a new COI.
