
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 10 - MERCHANT MARINER CREDENTIAL
##### Subpart D - Training Courses and Programs
###### ยง 10.404 Substitution of training for required service, use of training-record books (TRBs), and use of towing officer assessment records (TOARs).
####### Substitution of training for required service.

(a)(1) Satisfactory completion of an approved training course may be substituted for a portion of the required service on deck or in the engine department for national deck or engineer endorsements. Satisfactory completion of an approved training program which includes sea service may be substituted for a portion of or all of the required service on deck or in the engine department, except as limited by law for ratings. The list of all currently approved courses and programs, including the equivalent service and applicable endorsements, is maintained by the NMC.

(2) Unless otherwise allowed, recency requirements may not be achieved by service granted as a result of successful completion of approved training or by training on a simulator; however, underway service obtained as a portion of an approved course or program may be used for this purpose.

(3) Unless otherwise allowed, training obtained before receiving an endorsement may not be used for service credit for subsequent raises of grade, increases in scope, or renewals.

(4) This provision for crediting service for training is not applicable to STCW endorsements unless provided otherwise.
