
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter M - Towing Vessels
#### PART 136 - CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart B - Certificate of Inspection
###### ยง 136.235 Certificate of Inspection amendment.

(a) An amended COI may be issued at any time by the cognizant OCMI. The amended COI replaces the original, but the expiration date remains the same as that of the original. An amended COI may be issued to authorize and record a change in the dimensions, gross tonnage, owner, managing operator, manning, persons permitted, route permitted, conditions of operations, or equipment of a towing vessel, from that specified in the current COI.

(b) The owner or managing operator of the towing vessel must make a request for an amended COI to the cognizant OCMI any time there is a change in the character of the vessel or in its route, equipment, ownership, operation, or similar factors specified in its current COI. The OCMI may need to conduct an inspection before issuing an amended COI.

(c) For those vessels selecting the TSMS option, the owner or managing operator of the towing vessel must provide to the OCMI objective evidence of compliance with the requirements in this subchapter prior to the issuance of an amended COI. The evidence must:

(1) Be from a TPO and prepared in accordance with parts 138 and 139 of this subchapter; and

(2) Consider the change in the character of a vessel or in its route, equipment, ownership, operation, or similar factors specified in the vessel's current COI.
