
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 10 - MERCHANT MARINER CREDENTIAL
##### Subpart D - Training Courses and Programs
###### ยง 10.404 Substitution of training for required service, use of training-record books (TRBs), and use of towing officer assessment records (TOARs).
####### Use of training-record books (TRBs).

(b)(1) Approved training programs for STCW endorsements for OICNW and OICEW must maintain a TRB for each student where training and/or assessments of competence are conducted onboard the ship. The TRB must contain at least the following information:

(i) The name of the applicant.

(ii) The tasks to be performed or the skills to be demonstrated, with reference to the standards of competence set forth in the tables of the appropriate sections in part A of the STCW Code (incorporated by reference, see ยง 10.103 of this part).

(iii) The method for demonstrating competence to be used in determining that the tasks or skills have been performed properly, with reference to the standards of competence set forth in the tables of competence in the appropriate sections in part A of the STCW Code (incorporated by reference, see ยง 10.103 of this part).

(iv) A place for a qualified instructor to indicate by his or her initials that the applicant has received training in the proper performance of the task or skill.

(v) A place for a qualified assessor (QA) to indicate by his or her initials that the applicant has successfully completed a practical demonstration and has proved competent in the task or skill under the criteria, when assessment of competence is to be documented in the record books.

(vi) The printed name of each qualified instructor, including any MMC endorsements held, and the instructor's signature.

(vii) The printed name of each qualified assessor, when any assessment of competence is recorded, including any MMC endorsement, license, or document held by the assessor, and the assessor's signature confirming that his or her initials certify that he or she has witnessed the practical demonstration of a particular task or skill by the applicant.

(2) The TRB referred to in paragraph (b) of this section may be maintained electronically, provided the electronic record meets Coast Guard-accepted standards for accuracy, integrity, and availability.

(3) The Coast Guard may accept other forms of documentation as meeting the requirements to maintain the training-record book.
