
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter M - Towing Vessels
#### PART 136 - CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart B - Certificate of Inspection
###### ยง 136.245 Permit to carry an excursion party or temporary extension or alteration of route.

(a) A towing vessel must obtain approval to engage in an excursion prior to carrying a greater number of persons than permitted by the COI, or to temporarily extend or alter its area of operation.

(b) For a vessel utilizing the TSMS option, the vessel may engage in an excursion, if:

(1) In the opinion of the owner, managing operator, or master the operation can be undertaken safely;

(2) The TSMS addresses the temporary excursion operation contemplated; the necessary conditions under which the vessel may safely conduct the operation, including the number of persons the vessel may carry; the crew required; and any additional lifesaving or safety equipment required;

(3) The vessel proceeds as provided in the TSMS; and

(4) The owner, managing operator, or master notifies the cognizant OCMI at least 48 hours prior to the temporary excursion operation. The cognizant OCMI may require submission of pertinent provisions of the TSMS applicable to the vessel for review and onboard verification of compliance. If the cognizant OCMI has reasonable cause to believe that the TSMS applicable to the vessel is insufficient for the intended excursion, additional information may be requested and/or additional requirements may be imposed.

(c) If the towing vessel is not under a TSMS, or the TSMS applicable to the vessel does not address the temporary excursion operation:

(1) The owner or managing operator must submit an application to the cognizant OCMI. The application must state the intended route, number of passengers or guests, and any other conditions applicable to the excursion that exceed those specified in its COI.

(2) The cognizant OCMI may issue the permit either on Form CG-949, "Permit To Carry Excursion Party," or in letter form. The cognizant OCMI will indicate on the permit the conditions under which it is issued, the number of persons the vessel may carry, the crew required, any additional lifesaving or safety equipment required, the route for which the permit is granted, and the dates on which the permit is valid. The application may be made electronically, in writing, or orally.

(3) The vessel may not engage in towing during the excursion, unless the cognizant OCMI determines it is safe to do so.

(d) The cognizant OCMI may require an inspection of the vessel by a Coast Guard Marine Inspector or an examination by a surveyor from a TPO prior to the vessel proceeding.
