
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter M - Towing Vessels
#### PART 137 - VESSEL COMPLIANCE
##### Subpart B - Inspections and Surveys for Certification
###### ยง 137.200 Documenting compliance for the Coast Guard inspection option.

A towing vessel subject to this subchapter and choosing the Coast Guard inspection option, or required to have the Coast Guard inspection option, must undergo an annual inspection within 3 months before or after the COI anniversary date.

(a) Owners and managing operators must contact the cognizant Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection (OCMI) to schedule an inspection at a time and place the OCMI approves. No written application is required.

(b) Annual inspections will be similar to the inspection for certification but will cover less detail unless the marine inspector finds deficiencies or determines that a major change has occurred since the last inspection. If the marine inspector finds deficiencies or finds that a major change to the vessel has occurred, he or she will conduct a more detailed inspection to ensure that the vessel is in satisfactory condition and fit for the service for which it is intended. If the vessel passes the annual inspection, the Coast Guard will endorse the vessel's current Certificate of Inspection (COI).

(c) If the annual inspection reveals the need, the owner or managing operator must make any or all repairs or improvements within the time period specified by the OCMI. The OCMI may use Form CG-835, "Notice of Merchant Marine Inspection Requirements," to record deficiencies discovered during the inspection. The OCMI will then give a copy of the completed form to the master of the vessel.

(d) Nothing in this subpart limits the marine inspector from conducting any tests or inspections he or she deems necessary to be assured of the vessel's seaworthiness or fitness for its route and service.
