
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 10 - MERCHANT MARINER CREDENTIAL
##### Subpart D - Training Courses and Programs
###### ยง 10.404 Substitution of training for required service, use of training-record books (TRBs), and use of towing officer assessment records (TOARs).
####### Use of towing officer assessment records (TOARs).

(c)Each applicant for an endorsement as master or mate (pilot) of towing vessels, and each master or mate of self-propelled vessels of 200 GRT or more, seeking an endorsement for towing vessels, must complete a TOAR approved by the Coast Guard that contains at least the following:

(1) Identification of the applicant, including his or her full name, and reference number.

(2) Objectives of the training and assessment.

(3) Tasks to perform or skills to demonstrate.

(4) Criteria to use in determining that the tasks or skills have been performed properly.

(5) A means for a designated examiner (DE) to attest that the applicant has successfully completed a practical demonstration and has proved proficient in the task or skill under the criteria.

(6) Identification of each DE by his or her full name and reference number, job title, ship name and official number, and serial number of the MMC, license, or document held, and printed name and signature confirming that his or her initials certify that he or she has witnessed the practical demonstration of a particular task or skill by the applicant.
