
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter M - Towing Vessels
#### PART 137 - VESSEL COMPLIANCE
##### Subpart B - Inspections and Surveys for Certification
###### ยง 137.220 Scope.
####### Lifesaving.

(g)Verify that the vessel complies with applicable requirements contained in part 141 of this subchapter and examine the condition of lifesaving equipment and systems as follows:

(1) Verify that the vessel is equipped with the required number of lifejackets, work vests, and immersion suits.

(2) Verify the serviceable condition of each lifejacket, work vest, and marine buoyant device.

(3) Verify that each item of lifesaving equipment found to be defective has been repaired or replaced.

(4) Verify that each lifejacket, other personal floatation device, or other lifesaving device found to be defective and incapable of repair was destroyed or removed.

(5) Verify that each piece of expired lifesaving equipment has been replaced.

(6) Examine each survival craft and launching appliance in accordance with subchapter W of this chapter.

(7) Verify the servicing of each inflatable liferaft, inflatable buoyant apparatus, and inflatable lifejacket as required by subchapter W of this chapter.

(8) Verify the proper servicing of each hydrostatic release unit, other than a disposable hydrostatic release unit, as required under subchapter W of this chapter.

(9) Verify that the vessel's crew conducted abandon ship and man overboard drills under simulated emergency conditions.
