
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter M - Towing Vessels
#### PART 139 - THIRD-PARTY ORGANIZATIONS
##### ยง 139.120 Application for approval as a TPO.

An organization, which may include a business entity or an association, desiring to be approved as a TPO under this part must submit a written request to the Towing Vessel National Center of Expertise, 504 Broadway St Suite 101, Paducah, KY 42001. The organization must provide the following information:

(a) A description of the organization, including the ownership, structure, and organizational components.

(b) A general description of the clients being served or intended to be served.

(c) A description of the types of work performed by the organization or by the principals of the organization in the past, noting the amount and extent of such work performed within the previous 3 years.

(d) Objective evidence of an internal quality system based on ANSI/ISO/ASQ Q9001-2000 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 136.112 of this subchapter) or an equivalent quality standard.

(e) Organization procedures and supporting documentation that describe processes used to perform an audit and records to show system effectiveness.

(f) Copies of checklists, forms, or other tools to be used as guides or for recording the results of audits and/or surveys.

(g) Organization procedures for appeals and grievances.

(h) The organization's code of ethics applicable to the organization and its auditors and/or surveyors.

(i) A list of the organization's auditors and/or surveyors who meet the requirements of ยง 139.130. This list must include the experience, background, and qualifications for each auditor and/or surveyor.

(j) A description of the organization's means of assuring continued competence of its personnel.

(k) The organization's procedures for terminating or removing auditors and/or surveyors.

(l) A description of the organization's means of assuring the availability of its personnel to meet the needs of the towing companies for conducting audits and surveys within the intervals established in this subchapter.

(m) A description of the organization's apprentice or associate program for auditors and/or surveyors.

(n) A statement that the Coast Guard may inspect the organization's facilities and records and may accompany auditors and/or surveyors in the performance of duties related to the requested approval.

(o) Disclosure of any potential conflicts of interest.

(p) A statement that the organization, its managers, and employees engaged in audits and/or surveys are not, and will not be involved in any activities which could result in a conflict of interest or otherwise limit the independent judgment of the auditor and/or surveyor or organization.

(q) Any additional information that the applicant deems pertinent.
