
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter M - Towing Vessels
#### PART 139 - THIRD-PARTY ORGANIZATIONS
##### ยง 139.130 Qualifications of auditors and surveyors.

(a) A prospective auditor or surveyor must have the skills and experience necessary to assess compliance with all requirements of this subchapter.

(b) Auditors must meet the following qualifications:

(1) High school diploma or equivalent.

(2) Four years of working on towing vessels or other relevant marine experience such as Coast Guard marine inspector, licensed mariner, military personnel with relevant maritime experience, or marine surveyor.

(3) Successful completion of an ANSI/ISO/ASQ Q9001-2000 or ISO 9001:2008(E) (incorporated by reference, see ยง 136.112 of this subchapter) lead auditor/assessor course or Coast Guard recognized equivalent.

(4) Successful completion of a training course for the auditing of a TSMS.

(5) Audit experience, as demonstrated by:

(i) Documented experience in auditing the ISM Code or the American Waterways Operators Responsible Carrier Program, consisting of at least two management audits and six vessel audits within the past 5 years; or

(ii) Successful completion of an auditor apprenticeship, consisting of at least one management audit and three vessel audits under the direction of a lead auditor.

(c) Surveyors must meet the following qualifications:

(1) High school diploma or equivalent.

(2) At least one of the following:

(i) Four years of experience working on towing vessels as master, mate (pilot), or engineer; or

(ii) Other relevant marine experience such as Coast Guard marine inspector, military personnel with relevant maritime experience, marine surveyor, accredited marine surveyor, experience on vessels of similar operating and physical characteristics.
