
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter M - Towing Vessels
#### PART 140 - OPERATIONS
##### Subpart E - Safety and Health
###### ยง 140.515 Training requirements.

(a) All crewmembers must be provided with health and safety information and training that includes:

(1) Content and procedures of the owner or managing operator's health and safety plan;

(2) Procedures for reporting unsafe conditions;

(3) Proper selection and use of PPE appropriate to the vessel operation;

(4) Safe use of equipment including deck machinery, rigging, welding and cutting, hand tools, ladders, and abrasive wheel machinery found onboard the vessel;

(5) Hazard communication and cargo knowledge;

(6) Safe use and storage of hazardous materials and chemicals;

(7) Confined space entry;

(8) Respiratory protection; and

(9) Lockout/Tagout procedures.

(b) Individuals, other than crewmembers, must be provided with sufficient information or training on hazards relevant to their potential exposure on or around the vessel.

(c) Crewmember training required by this section must be conducted as soon as practicable, but not later than 5 days after employment.

(d) Refresher training must be repeated annually and may be conducted over time in modules covering specific topics. Refresher training may be less comprehensive, provided that the information presented is sufficient to provide employees with continued understanding of workplace hazards. The refresher training of persons subject to this subpart must include the information and training prescribed in this section.

(e) The owner, managing operator, or master must determine the appropriate training and information to provide to each individual permitted on the vessel who is not a crewmember, relative to the expected risk exposure of the individual.

(f) All training required in this section must be documented in owner or managing operator's records.
