
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter M - Towing Vessels
#### PART 140 - OPERATIONS
##### Subpart F - Vessel Operational Safety
###### ยง 140.640 Pilothouse resource management.

(a) The officer in charge of a navigational watch must:

(1) Ensure that other members of the navigational watch have a working knowledge of the navigation assessment required by ยง 140.635, and understand the chain of command, the decision-making process, and the fact that information sharing is critical to the safety of the vessel.

(2) Ensure that the navigation assessment required by ยง 140.635 is complete, updated, communicated and available throughout the trip.

(3) Ensure that watch change procedures incorporate all items listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(4) Take actions (to include delaying watch change or pausing the voyage) if there is reasonable cause to believe that an oncoming watchstander is not immediately capable of carrying out his or her duties effectively.

(5) Maintain situational awareness and minimize distractions.

(b) Prior to assuming duties as officer in charge of a navigational watch, a person must:

(1) Complete the navigation assessment required by ยง 140.635;

(2) Verify the operational condition of the towing vessel; and

(3) Verify that there are adequate personnel available to assume the watch.

(c) If at any time the officer in charge of a navigational watch is to be relieved when a maneuver or other action to avoid any hazard is taking place, the relief of that officer in charge of a navigational watch must be deferred until such action has been completed.
