
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter M - Towing Vessels
#### PART 140 - OPERATIONS
##### Subpart F - Vessel Operational Safety
###### ยง 140.665 Inspection and testing required when making alterations, repairs, or other such operations involving riveting, welding, burning, or like fire-producing actions.

(a) The inspections and issuance of certificates required by this section must be conducted in accordance with the provisions of NFPA 306 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 136.112 of this subchapter) before alterations, repairs, or other operations involving riveting, welding, burning, or other fire producing actions may be made aboard a vessel.

(b) Until an inspection has been made to determine that such operation can be undertaken with safety, no alterations, repairs, or other such operations involving riveting, welding, burning, or like fire-producing actions must be made:

(1) Within or on the boundaries of cargo tanks which have been used to carry combustible liquid or chemicals in bulk;

(2) Within or on the boundaries of fuel tanks; or,

(3) To pipe lines, heating coils, pumps, fittings, or other appurtenances connected to such cargo or fuel tanks.

(c) Such inspections must be made and evidenced as follows:

(1) In ports or places in the United States or its territories and possessions the inspection must be made by a marine chemist certificated by the National Fire Protection Association. However, if the services of such certified marine chemist are not reasonably available, the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection (OCMI), upon the recommendation of the vessel owner and his or her contractor or their representative, must select a person who, in the case of an individual vessel, must be authorized to make such inspection. If the inspection indicated that such operations can be undertaken with safety, a certificate setting forth the fact in writing and qualified as may be required, must be issued by the certified marine chemist or the authorized person before the work is started. Such qualifications must include any requirements as may be deemed necessary to maintain the safe conditions in the spaces certified throughout the operation and must include such additional tests and certifications as considered required. Such qualifications and requirements must include precautions necessary to eliminate or minimize hazards that may be present from protective coatings or residues from cargoes.

(2) When not in such a port or place, and a marine chemist or such person authorized by the OCMI, is not reasonably available, the inspection must be made by the master or person in charge and a proper entry must be made in the vessel's logbook.

(d) The master or person in charge must secure copies of certificates issued by the certified marine chemist or such person authorized by the OCMI. The master or person in charge must maintain a safe condition on the vessel by full observance of all qualifications and requirements listed by the marine chemist or person authorized by the OCMI in the certificate.
