
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter M - Towing Vessels
#### PART 141 - LIFESAVING
##### Subpart C - Lifesaving Requirements for Towing Vessels
###### ยง 141.305 Survival craft requirements for towing vessels.
####### Prescriptive requirements.

(d)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (d)(2) through (4) of this section, each towing vessel must carry the survival craft specified in Table 141.305 of this section, as appropriate for the towing vessel, in an aggregate capacity to accommodate the total number of individuals onboard.

(2) The following approved survival craft may be substituted for survival craft required by Table 141.305 of this section:

(i) A lifeboat approved under approval series 160.135 may be substituted for any survival craft required by this section, provided it is arranged and equipped in accordance with part 199 of this chapter.

(ii) An inflatable liferaft approved under approval series 160.051 or 160.151, may be substituted for an inflatable buoyant apparatus or rigid buoyant apparatus.

(iii) An inflatable buoyant apparatus approved under approval series 160.010 may be substituted for a rigid buoyant apparatus.

(iv) A life float approved under approval series 160.027 may be substituted for a rigid buoyant apparatus.

(3) Unless it is determined to be necessary by the cognizant OCMI under ยง 141.225, or a TSMS applicable to the towing vessel, each towing vessel that operates solely on rivers need not carry survival craft if:

(i) It carries a 406 MHz Cat 1 EPIRB meeting 47 CFR part 80;

(ii) It is designed for pushing ahead and has a TSMS that contains procedures for evacuating crewmembers onto the tow or other safe location; or

(iii) It operates within 1 mile of shore.

(4) A towing vessel which is not required by this part to carry survival craft may carry a non-approved survival craft as excess equipment, provided that it is maintained in good working condition and maintained according to the manufacturer's instructions.
