
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter M - Towing Vessels
#### PART 141 - LIFESAVING
##### Subpart C - Lifesaving Requirements for Towing Vessels
###### ยง 141.340 Lifejackets.

(a) Each towing vessel must carry at least one appropriately-sized lifejacket, approved under approval series 160.002, 160.005, 160.055, 160.155, or 160.176, for each person on board.

(b) For towing vessels with berthing aboard, a sufficient number of additional lifejackets must be carried so that a lifejacket is immediately available for persons at each normally manned watch station.

(c) Where alternative means are used to meet the requirements of this section, as permitted by ยง 141.225, there must be at least one lifejacket for each person onboard. Any TSMS applicable to the towing vessel must specify the number and location of lifejackets in such a manner as to facilitate immediate accessibility at normally occupied spaces including, but not limited to, accommodation spaces and watch stations.

(d) Lifejackets must be readily accessible.

(e) If the towing vessel carries inflatable lifejackets they must be of similar design to each other and have the same mode of operation.

(f) Each lifejacket must be marked:

(1) In block capital letters with the name of the vessel; and

(2) With Type I retro-reflective material approved under approval series 164.018. The arrangement of the retro-reflective material must meet IMO Resolution A.658(16) (incorporated by reference, see ยง 136.112 of this subchapter).

(g) Lifejackets must have the following attachments and fittings:

(1) Each lifejacket must have a lifejacket light approved under approval series 161.012 or 161.112 securely attached to the front shoulder area of the lifejacket.

(2) Each lifejacket must have a whistle firmly secured by a cord to the lifejacket.

(h) Stowage positions for lifejackets stowed in a berthing space or stateroom and all lifejacket containers must be marked in block capital letters and numbers with the minimum quantity, identity, and, if sizes other than adult or universal sizes are used on the vessel, the size of the lifejackets stowed inside the container. The equipment may be identified in words or with the appropriate symbol from IMO Resolution A.760(18) (incorporated by reference, see ยง 136.112 of this subchapter).
