
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter M - Towing Vessels
#### PART 141 - LIFESAVING
##### Subpart C - Lifesaving Requirements for Towing Vessels
###### ยง 141.350 Immersion suits.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, each towing vessel operating north of lat. 32&#xB0; N. or south of lat. 32&#xB0; S. must carry the number of immersion suits as prescribed in this paragraph (a):

(1) Each towing vessel operating in those regions must carry at least one appropriate-size immersion suit, approved under approval series 160.171, for each person onboard.

(2) In addition to the immersion suits required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, each watch station, work station, and industrial work site must have enough immersion suits to equal the number of persons normally on watch in, or assigned to, the station or site at one time. However, an immersion suit is not required at a station or site for a person whose cabin or berthing area (and the immersion suits stowed in that location) is readily accessible to the station or site.

(3) Where alternative means are used to meet the requirements of this section, as permitted by ยง 141.225, there must be at least one immersion suit of the appropriate size for each person onboard. Any TSMS applicable to the towing vessel must specify the number and location of immersion suits in such a manner as to facilitate immediate accessibility at normally occupied spaces including, but not limited to, accommodation spaces and watch stations.

(4) A towing vessel operating on rivers or in a limited geographic area is not required to carry immersion suits.

(b) Immersion suits carried on towing vessels must meet the requirements of ยง 199.70(c) and (d) of this chapter.
