
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter M - Towing Vessels
#### PART 141 - LIFESAVING
##### Subpart C - Lifesaving Requirements for Towing Vessels
###### ยง 141.360 Lifebuoys.

(a) A towing vessel must carry lifebuoys as follows:

(1) A towing vessel less than 26 feet length must carry a minimum of one lifebuoy of not less than 510 millimeters (20 inches) in diameter.

(2) A towing vessel of at least 26 feet, but less than 79 feet, in length must carry a minimum of two lifebuoys located on opposite sides of the vessel where personnel are normally present. Lifebuoys must be at least 610 millimeters (24 inches) in diameter.

(3) A towing vessel 79 feet or more in length must carry four lifebuoys, with one lifebuoy located on each side of the operating station. Lifebuoys must be at least 610 millimeters (24 inches) in diameter.

(4) Where alternative means are used to meet the requirements of this section, as permitted by ยง 141.225, any TSMS applicable to the towing vessel must specify the number and location of lifebuoys in such a manner as to facilitate rapid deployment of lifebuoys from exposed decks, including the pilot house.

(b) Each lifebuoy on a towing vessel must:

(1) Be approved under approval series 160.050 or 160.150;

(2) Be capable of being rapidly cast loose;

(3) Not be permanently secured to the vessel in any way;

(4) Be marked in block capital letters with the name of the vessel; and

(5) Be orange in color, if on a vessel on an oceans or coastwise route.

(c) Lifebuoys must have the following attachments and fittings:

(1) At least one lifebuoy must have a lifeline, secured around the body of the lifebuoy. If more than one lifebuoy is carried, at least one must not have a lifeline attached. Each lifeline on a lifebuoy must:

(i) Be buoyant;

(ii) Be of at least 18.3 meters (60 feet) in length;

(iii) Be non-kinking;

(iv) Have a diameter of at least 7.9 millimeters (inch);

(v) Have a breaking strength of at least 5 kilonewtons (1,124 pounds); and

(vi) Be of a dark color if synthetic, or of a type certified to be resistant to deterioration from ultraviolet light.

(2) At least two lifebuoys on a towing vessel greater than 26 feet must be fitted with a floating electric water light approved under approval series 161.010 or 161.110, unless the towing vessel is limited to daytime operation, in which case no floating electric water light is required.

(3) If a towing vessel carries only one lifebuoy, the lifebuoy must be fitted with a floating electric water light approved under approval series 161.010 or 160.110, unless the towing vessel is limited to daytime operation, in which case no floating electric water light is required. The water light must be attached by the lanyard with a corrosion-resistant clip to allow the water light to be quickly disconnected from the lifebuoy. The clip must have a strength of at least 22.7 kilograms (50 pounds).

(4) Each lifebuoy with a floating electric water light must have a lanyard of at least 910 millimeters (3 feet) in length, but not more than 1,830 millimeters (6 feet), securing the water light around the body of the lifebuoy.
