
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter M - Towing Vessels
#### PART 142 - FIRE PROTECTION
##### Subpart C - Fire Extinguishing and Detection Equipment Requirements
###### ยง 142.330 Fire-detection system requirements.
####### Fire-detection systems.

(a)Except as provided in paragraph (a)(8) of this section, each towing vessel must have a fire-detection system installed to detect engine room fires. The owner or managing operator must ensure the following:

(1) Each detector, control panel, remote indicator panel, and fire alarm are approved by the Commandant under approval series 161.002 or listed by a NRTL as set forth in 29 CFR 1910.7;

(2) The system is installed, tested, and maintained in accordance with the manufacturer's design manual;

(3) The system is arranged and installed so a fire in the engine room automatically sets off alarms on a fire detection control panel at the operating station. On vessels with more than one operating station, only one of them must be outfitted with a fire detection control panel. Any other operating station must be outfitted with either a fire detection control panel or a remote indicator panel;

(4) The control panel includes:

(i) A power available light;

(ii) An audible to notify crew of a fire;

(iii) Visual alarm alarms to identify the zone or zones of origin of the fire;

(iv) A means to silence the audible alarm while maintaining indication by the visual alarms;

(v) A circuit-fault detector test-switch, or internal supervision of circuit integrity; and

(vi) Labels for all switches and indicator lights, identifying their functions.

(5) The system draws power from two sources. Switchover from the primary source to the secondary source may be either manual or automatic;

(6) The system serves no other purpose, unless it is an engine room monitoring system complying with paragraph (a)(8) of this section; and

(7) The design of the system and its installation on the towing vessel is certified and inspected by a registered professional engineer with experience in fire-detection system design, by a technician with qualifications as a National Institute for Certification in Engineering Technologies (NICET) level IV fire alarm engineering technician, or by an authorized classification society with equivalent experience, to comply with paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section.

(8) A towing vessel whose construction was contracted for prior to January 18, 2000, may use an existing engine room monitoring system (with fire-detection capability) instead of a fire-detection system, if the monitoring system is operable and complies with paragraphs (a)(2) through (7) of this section, and uses detectors listed by an NRTL.
