
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 10 - MERCHANT MARINER CREDENTIAL
##### Subpart D - Training Courses and Programs
###### § 10.409 Coast Guard-accepted Quality Standard System (QSS) organizations.
####### Validity of acceptance.

(b)Organizations meeting the requirements in paragraph (e) of this section will be issued a letter of acceptance valid for a maximum period of 5 years from the date of issuance.

(c) An organization wishing to become a Coast Guard-accepted QSS organization must have processes for reviewing, accepting, and monitoring training that are equal to the Coast Guard's course approval and oversight processes in §§ 10.402 through 10.410 of this subpart.

(d) Each person conducting evaluation and monitoring of the training must be knowledgeable about the subjects being evaluated or monitored and about the national and international requirements that apply to the training, and must not be involved in the training and assessment of students.

(e) The documentation submitted to the Coast Guard must contain the information listed below. An organization approved as a recognized classification society in accordance with 46 CFR part 8, subpart B, need not present evidence of compliance with paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(8) of this section.

(1) Identification of the organization: Name of the organization, address, contact information, and organizational structure (including the QSS department).

(2) Scope of approval: Training and assessment the organization wishes to accept and monitor.

(3) Background of the organization: Historical information outlining the organization's experience reviewing and accepting training and/or assessment activities.

(4) Staffing and support infrastructure, including-

(i) Names and qualifications of the individuals who will be involved in the review, acceptance, and monitoring of training and assessment;

(ii) Description of the training given to individuals who will be conducting review, acceptance, and monitoring activities; and

(iii) Technical and support resources within the organization that support the review, acceptance and monitoring activities.

(5) Submission guidelines: Information for client organizations to submit courses for review and acceptance, including criteria for course design, instructor/assessor qualifications, syllabi, equipment, and facilities.
