
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 10 - MERCHANT MARINER CREDENTIAL
##### Subpart D - Training Courses and Programs
###### ยง 10.409 Coast Guard-accepted Quality Standard System (QSS) organizations.
####### Review and acceptance procedures.

(6)(i) Descriptions of the methods of evaluation of the physical, administrative, and infrastructure support aspects of client organizations;

(ii) Descriptions of the methods of evaluation of the instructors or qualified assessors of a client organization and the maintenance of their records;

(iii) Descriptions of format for accepting training material;

(iv) Descriptions of the methods by which the course acceptance process responds to the client organization modifications to the training curriculum, changes to instructors or examiners, changes to the infrastructure support; and

(v) Descriptions of the renewal procedures.

(7) Audit procedures: Description of the methods for auditing accepted courses. Client organizations must be audited once in a 5-year period.

(8) Quality commitment: Provide evidence of having a quality management system that includes the following elements:

(i) A documented statement of a quality policy and quality objectives.

(ii) A quality manual.

(iii) Documented procedures and records.

(iv) Documents, including records, determined by the organization to be necessary to ensure the effective planning, operation, and control of its processes.

(f) Coast Guard-accepted QSS organizations must notify the NMC of the training they have accepted within 14 days of the acceptance date. The notification must include the name and address of the institution, the course title and the requirement the course meets, and a one-paragraph description of the course's content.
