
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter M - Towing Vessels
#### PART 143 - MACHINERY AND ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart C - Requirements for New Towing Vessels
###### ยง 143.570 Electrical grounding and ground detection.

(a) An ungrounded distribution system must be provided with a ground detection system located at the main switchboard or distribution panel that provides continuous indication of circuit status to ground, with a provision to temporarily remove the indicating device from the reference ground.

(b) A dual voltage or grounded electrical distribution system must have the neutral suitably grounded. There must be only one connection to ground, regardless of the number of power sources. This connection must be at the main switchboard or distribution panel.

(c) On a metallic towing vessel, a grounded distribution system must be grounded to the hull. This grounded system must be connected to a common, non-aluminum ground plate. The ground plate must have only one connection to the main switchboard or distribution panel, and the connection must be readily accessible for examination.

(d) On a nonmetallic towing vessel, all electrical equipment must be grounded to a common ground. Multiple ground plates bonded together are acceptable.

(e) Each grounding conductor of a cable must be identified by one of the following means:

(1) Green braid or green insulation; or

(2) Stripping the insulation from the entire exposed length of the grounding conductor.

(f) A towing vessel's hull may not carry current as a conductor, except for an impressed-current cathodic-protection system or a battery system used to start an engine.

(g) Cable armor may not be used to ground electrical equipment or systems.

(h) Each receptacle outlet and attachment plug for a portable lamp, tool, or similar apparatus operating at 100 or more volts must have a grounding pole and a grounding conductor in the portable cord.

(i) In a grounded distribution system, only grounded, three-prong appliances may be used. This does not apply to double-insulated appliances or tools and appliances of 50 volts or less.
