
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter M - Towing Vessels
#### PART 143 - MACHINERY AND ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart C - Requirements for New Towing Vessels
###### ยง 143.575 Electrical conductors, connections, and equipment.
####### e.g.,

(3) Each wire and cable run must be installed in a manner to prevent contact with personnel, mechanical hazards, and leaking fluids. Wire and cable runs must not be installed in bilges, across a normal walking path, or less than 24 inches from the path of movable machinery (cranes, elevators, forktrucks, etc., where the machinery location can change) unless adequately protected.

(4) Connections and terminations must be suitable for the installed conductors, and must retain the original electrical, mechanical, flame-retarding, and where necessary, fire-resisting properties of the conductor. If twist-on types of connectors are used, the connections must be made within an enclosure and the insulated cap of the connector must be secured to prevent loosening due to vibration. Twist-on type of connectors may not be used for making joints in cables, facilitating a conductor splice, or extending the length of a circuit.

(5) Each cable and wire must be installed so as to avoid or reduce interference with radio reception and compass indication.

(6) Each cable and wire must be protected from the weather.

(7) Each cable and wire must be supported in order to avoid chafing or other damage.

(8) Each cable and wire must be protected by metal coverings or other suitable means, if in areas subject to mechanical abuse.

(9) Each cable and wire must be suitable for low temperature and high humidity, if installed in refrigerated compartments.

(10) Each cable and wire must be located outside a tank, unless it supplies power to equipment in the tank.

(11) If wire is installed in a tank, it must have sheathing or wire insulation compatible with the fluid in a tank.

(b) Extension cords must not be used as a permanent connection to a source of electrical power.

(c) Multi-outlet adapters (power strips) may not be connected to other adapters ("daisy-chained"), or otherwise used in a manner that could overload the capacity of a receptacle.
