
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter M - Towing Vessels
#### PART 143 - MACHINERY AND ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart C - Requirements for New Towing Vessels
###### § 143.585 General requirements for propulsion, steering, and related controls on vessels that move tank barges carrying oil or hazardous material in bulk.

(a) There must be an alternate means to control the propulsion and steering system which must:

(1) Be independent of the primary control required by § 143.225;

(2) Be located at or near the propulsion and steering equipment; and

(3) Be readily accessible and suitable for prolonged operation.

(b) There must be a means to communicate between each operating station and the alternate propulsion and steering controls.

(c) There must be a means to stop each propulsion engine and steering motor from each operating station.

(d) The means to monitor the amount of thrust, rudder angle, and if applicable, direction (ahead or astern) of thrust must be independent of the controls required by § 143.225.

(e) The propulsion control system required by § 143.225 must be designed so that, in the event of a single failure of any component of the system, propeller speed and direction of thrust are maintained or reduced to zero.

(f) On a towing vessel with an integrated steering and propulsion system, such as a Z-drive, the control system required by § 143.225 must be designed so that, in the event of a single failure of any component of the system, propeller speed and direction of thrust are maintained or the propeller speed is reduced to zero.

(g) An audible and visual alarm must actuate at each operating station when:

(1) The propulsion control system fails;

(2) A non-follow up steering control system fails, if installed; and

(3) The ordered rudder angle does not match the actual rudder position on a follow-up steering control system, if installed. This alarm must have an appropriate delay and error tolerance to eliminate nuisance alarms.

(h) Alarms must be separate and independent of the control system required by § 143.225.

(i) A means of communication must be provided between each operating station and any crewmember(s) required to respond to alarms.

(j) The two sources of electricity required by § 143.555(a)(3) and (b)(8) must be capable of powering electrical loads needed to maintain propulsion, steering, and related controls for not less than 3 hours.

(k) The second source of supply required by § 143.555(a)(3) must automatically start to help restore or maintain power to propulsion, steering, and related controls when the main power source fails.

(l) Propulsion, steering, or related controls that are directly reliant on stored energy, such as compressed air, battery power, or hydraulic pressure, must have two independent stored energy systems, such as compressed air cylinders, battery banks, or hydraulic cylinders, that are capable of maintaining the vessel's propulsion, steering, and related controls.

(m) After a power failure, electrical motors used to maintain propulsion and steering must automatically restart when power is restored, unless remote control starting is provided at the operating station.
