
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter M - Towing Vessels
#### PART 144 - CONSTRUCTION AND ARRANGEMENT
##### Subpart A - General
###### § 144.145 Procedures for verification of compliance with design standards.

(a) Verification of compliance with design standards, when required by § 144.135, must be performed by an individual or entity who meets the requirements of § 144.140.

(b) Verification of compliance with design standards must be based on objective evidence of compliance with the applicable requirements and include:

(1) A description of the vessel's intended service and route;

(2) The standards used for the vessel's design and construction;

(3) Deviations from the standards used, if any;

(4) A statement that the vessel is suitable for the intended service and route; and

(5) The identification of the individual or entity in Table 144.140 of § 144.140 who conducted the verification of compliance.

(c) Verification of compliance with design standards must include review and analyses of sufficient plans, drawings, schematics, calculations, and other documents to ensure the vessel complies with the standards used. The plans must be stamped with the seal authorized for use by the individual or entity performing the verification of compliance, or otherwise indicate that they have been reviewed and determined to meet the applicable standards by an individual or entity who meets the requirements of § 144.140.

(d) A copy of the verified plan must be provided to the cognizant Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection (OCMI) and the third-party organization (TPO) conducting the surveys, if applicable, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section.

(e) Plans verified by an authorized classification society need only be provided to the Coast Guard upon request.

(f) If the vessel is a new vessel, a copy of the verified plan must be available at the construction site.

(g) As referred to in this section, the term plan may include, but is not limited to drawings, documents, or diagrams of the following:

(1) Outboard profile.

(2) Inboard profile.

(3) Arrangement of decks.

(4) Midship section and scantling plans.

(5) Survival craft embarkation stations.

(6) Machinery installation, including, but not limited to:

(i) Propulsion and propulsion control, including shaft details;

(ii) Steering and steering control, including rudder details;

(iii) Ventilation diagrams;

(iv) Fuel transfer and service system, including tanks;

(v) Piping systems including: bilge, ballast, hydraulic, combustible and flammable liquids, vents, and overflows; and

(vi) Hull penetrations and shell connections;

(7) Electrical installation including, but not limited to:

(i) Elementary one-line diagram of the power system;

(ii) Cable lists;

(iii) Type and size of generators and prime movers;

(iv) Type and size of generator cables, bus-tie cables, feeders, and branch circuit cables;

(v) Power and lighting panelboards with number of circuits and rating of energy consuming devices;

(vi) Capacity of storage batteries;

(vii) Rating of circuit breakers and switches, interrupting capacity of circuit breakers, and rating and setting of overcurrent devices; and

(viii) Electrical plant load analysis as required by § 143.555 of this subchapter.

(8) Lifesaving equipment locations and installation;

(9) Fire protection equipment installation including, but not limited to:

(i) Fire main system plans and calculations;

(ii) Fixed gas fire extinguishing system plans and calculations;

(iii) Fire detecting system and smoke detecting system plans;

(iv) Sprinkler system diagram and calculations; and

(v) Portable fire extinguisher types, sizes, and locations;

(10) Lines and offsets, curves of form, cross curves of stability, tank capacities including size and location on vessel, and other stability documents needed to show compliance; and

(11) Towing arrangements.
