
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter N - Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 147 - HAZARDOUS SHIPS' STORES
##### Subpart B - Stowage and Other Special Requirements for Particular Materials
###### § 147.45 Flammable and combustible liquids.

(a) This section applies to the stowage and transfer of flammable and combustible liquids (including gasoline and diesel oil), other than liquids used as fuel for cooking, heating, and lighting under § 147.50.

(b) No flammable or combustible liquids may be stowed in any accommodation, control, or service space (other than a paint locker).

(c) No more than 19 liters (five gallons) of flammable liquids may be stowed in any machinery space. The flammable liquids must be in containers of 3.8 liters (one gallon) or less.

(d) No more than 208 liters (55 gallons) of combustible liquids may be stowed in any machinery space.

(e) An aggregate of more than 7.6 liters (two gallons) of flammable or combustible liquids stowed outside of an accommodation, control, or service, space (other than a paint locker) or outside of a machinery space must be stowed in a paint locker that is marked with a warning sign indicating flammable or combustible liquid storage.

(f) Flammable and combustible liquids used as fuel for portable auxiliary equipment must be stored in-

(1) Integral tanks that form part of the vessel's structure;

(2) An independent tank meeting the requirements of subpart 58.50 of Part 58 of this chapter;

(3) A non-bulk packaging authorized for Class 3 (flammable) liquids or combustible liquids under 49 CFR 173.201, 173.202, or 173.203, as referenced for the specific liquid in column 8B of the Hazardous Materials Table of 49 CFR 172.101.

(4) A portable outboard fuel tank meeting the specifications of ABYC H-25-81 (incorporated by reference, see § 147.7) or one identified by Underwriters Laboratories as meeting the specifications of UL 1185 (incorporated by reference, see § 147.7);

(5) A portable safety container identified by Underwriters Laboratories as meeting the specifications of UL 30 or UL 1313 (both incorporated by reference, see § 147.7); or

(6) A portable safety container identified by Underwriters Laboratories as meeting the requirements of UL 1314 (incorporated by reference, see § 147.7).

(g) Each portable container of flammable or combustible liquid used for portable auxiliary equipment must be stowed in a paint locker or an open location designated by the master.

(h) Fuel tanks for portable auxiliary equipment using flammable or combustible liquids may only be refilled on a vessel-

(1) By using a container described in paragraph (f)(2), (f)(3), or (f)(5) of this section which has a capacity not exceeding 23 liters (6 gallons); or

(2) In the case of portable outboard fuel tanks described in paragraph (f)(4) of this section, in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section.

(i) Portable containers or portable outboard fuel tanks may be refilled from a larger container of flammable or combustible liquid on the weather deck of a vessel, other than a small passenger vessel subject to Subchapter T of this chapter, provided that-

(1) A drip pan of adequate size is used to collect any drippings; and

(2) At least one Coast Guard approved Type B, Size I, fire extinguisher is within three meters (9.75 feet) of the refilling location.
