
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter N - Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 148 - CARRIAGE OF BULK SOLID MATERIALS THAT REQUIRE SPECIAL HANDLING
##### Subpart B - Special Permits
###### ยง 148.21 Necessary information.

Each petition for a special permit must contain at least the following:

(a) A description of the material, including, if a hazardous material-

(1) The proper shipping name from the table in 49 CFR 172.101;

(2) The hazard class and division of the material; and

(3) The identification number of the material.

(b) A material safety data sheet (MSDS) for the material or-

(1) The chemical name and any trade names or common names of the material;

(2) The composition of the material, including the weight percent of each constituent;

(3) Physical data, including color, odor, appearance, melting point, and solubility;

(4) Fire and explosion data, including auto-ignition temperature, any unusual fire or explosion hazards, and any special fire fighting procedures;

(5) Health hazards, including any dust inhalation hazards and any chronic health effects;

(6) The threshold limit value (TLV) of the material or its major constituents, if available, and any relevant toxicity data;

(7) Reactivity data, including any hazardous decomposition products and any incompatible materials; and

(8) Special protection information, including ventilation requirements and personal protection equipment required.

(c) Other potentially dangerous characteristics of the material not covered by paragraph (b) of this section, including-

(1) Self-heating;

(2) Depletion of oxygen in the cargo space;

(3) Dust explosion; and

(4) Liquefaction.

(d) A detailed description of the proposed transportation operation, including-

(1) The type of vessel proposed for water movements;

(2) The expected loading and discharge ports, if known;

(3) Procedures to be used for loading and unloading the material;

(4) Precautions to be taken when handling the material; and

(5) The expected temperature of the material at the time it will be loaded on the vessel.

(e) Test results (if required under Subpart E of this part).

(f) Previous approvals or permits.

(g) Any relevant shipping or accident experience (or any other relevant transportation history by any mode of transport).
