
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter N - Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 148 - CARRIAGE OF BULK SOLID MATERIALS THAT REQUIRE SPECIAL HANDLING
##### Subpart E - Special Requirements for Certain Materials
###### ยง 148.240 Coal.

(a) The electrical equipment in cargo holds carrying coal must meet the requirements of Subpart 111.105 of this chapter or an equivalent standard approved by the administration of the vessel's flag state.

(b) Before coal is loaded in a cargo hold, the bilges must be as clean and dry as practical. The hold must also be free of any readily combustible material, including the residue of previous cargoes if other than coal.

(c) The master of each vessel carrying coal must ensure that-

(1) All openings to the cargo hold, except for unloading gates on self-unloading vessels, are sealed before loading the coal and, unless the coal is as described in paragraph (f) of this section, the hatches must also be sealed after loading;

(2) As far as practical, gases emitted by the coal do not accumulate in enclosed working spaces such as storerooms, shops, or passageways, and tunnel spaces on self-unloading vessels, and that such spaces are adequately ventilated;

(3) The vessel has adequate ventilation as required by paragraph (f) of this section; and

(4) If the temperature of the coal is to be monitored under paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section, the vessel has instruments that are capable of measuring the temperature of the cargo in the range 0&#xB0;-100 &#xB0;C (32 &#xB0;-212 &#xB0;F) without entry into the cargo hold.

(d) A cargo hold containing coal must not be ventilated unless the conditions of paragraph (f) of this section are met, or unless methane is detected under paragraph (h) of this section.

(e) If coal waiting to be loaded has shown a tendency to self-heat, has been handled so that it may likely self-heat, or has been observed to be heating, the master is responsible for monitoring the temperature of the coal at several intervals during these times:

(1) Before loading; and

(2) During the voyage, by-

(i) Measuring the temperature of the coal;

(ii) Measuring the emission of carbon monoxide; or

(iii) Both.

(f) If coal waiting to be loaded has a potential to emit dangerous amounts of methane, for example it is freshly mined, or has a history of emitting dangerous amounts of methane, then:

(1) Surface ventilation, either natural or from fixed or portable nonsparking fans, must be provided; and

(2) The atmosphere above the coal must be monitored for the presence of methane as prescribed in paragraph (h) of this section. The results of this monitoring must be recorded at least twice in every 24-hour period, unless the conditions of paragraph (m) of this section are met.

(g) Electrical equipment and cables in a hold containing a coal described in paragraph (f) of this section must be either suitable for use in an explosive gas atmosphere or de-energized at a point outside the hold. Electrical equipment and cables necessary for continuous safe operations, such as lighting fixtures, must be suitable for use in an explosive gas atmosphere. The master of the vessel must ensure that the affected equipment and cables remain de-energized as long as this coal remains in the hold.

(h) For all coal loaded on a vessel, other than an unmanned barge, the atmosphere above the coal must be routinely tested for the presence of methane, carbon monoxide, and oxygen, following the procedures in the Appendices to the schedules for Coal and Brown Coal Briquettes as contained in the IMSBC Code (incorporated by reference, see ยง 148.8). This testing must be performed in such a way that the cargo hatches are not opened and entry into the hold is not necessary.

(i) When carrying a coal described in paragraph (e) of this section, the atmosphere above the coal must be monitored for the presence of carbon monoxide as prescribed in paragraph (h) of this section. The results of this monitoring must be recorded at least twice in every 24-hour period, unless the conditions of paragraph (m) of this section are met. If the level of carbon monoxide is increasing rapidly or reaches 20 percent of the lower flammability limit (LFL), the frequency of monitoring must be increased.

(j) When a cargo of coal has a potential to self-heat or has been observed to be heating, the hatches should be closed and sealed and all surface ventilation halted except as necessary to remove any methane that may have accumulated.

(k) If the level of carbon monoxide monitored under paragraph (i) of this section continues to increase rapidly or the temperature of coal carried on board a vessel exceeds 55 &#xB0;C (131 &#xB0;F) and is increasing rapidly, the master must notify the nearest Coast Guard Captain of the Port of-

(1) The name, nationality, and position of the vessel;

(2) The most recent temperature, if measured, and levels of carbon monoxide and methane;

(3) The port where the coal was loaded and the destination of the coal;

(4) The last port of call of the vessel and its next port of call; and

(5) What action has been taken.

(l) If the level of methane as monitored under paragraph (h) of this section reaches 20 percent of the LFL or is increasing rapidly, ventilation of the cargo hold, under paragraph (f) of this section, must be initiated. If this ventilation is provided by opening the cargo hatches, care must be taken to avoid generating sparks.

(m) The frequency of monitoring required by paragraph (f) of this section may be reduced at the discretion of the master provided that-

(1) The level of gas measured is less than 20 percent of the LFL;

(2) The level of gas measured has remained steady or decreased over three consecutive readings, or has increased by less than 5 percent over four consecutive readings spanning at least 48 hours; and

(3) Monitoring continues at intervals sufficient to determine that the level of gas remains within the parameters of paragraphs (m)(1) and (m)(2) of this section.
