
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter N - Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 148 - CARRIAGE OF BULK SOLID MATERIALS THAT REQUIRE SPECIAL HANDLING
##### Subpart E - Special Requirements for Certain Materials
###### ยง 148.250 Direct reduced iron (DRI); hot-molded briquettes.

(a) Before loading DRI hot-molded briquettes-

(1) The master must have a written certification from a competent person appointed by the shipper and recognized by the Commandant (CG-ENG-5) that at the time of loading the DRI hot-molded briquettes are suitable for shipment; and

(2) Each hold and bilge must be as clean and dry as practical. Except double bottom tanks, adjacent ballast tanks must be kept empty where possible. All wooden fixtures, such as battens, must be removed.

(b) All boundaries of a hold must be resistant to fire and passage of water to carry DRI hot-molded briquettes.

(c) DRI hot-molded briquettes must be protected at all times from contact with water. They must not be loaded or transferred from one vessel to another during periods of rain or snow.

(d) DRI hot-molded briquettes may not be loaded if their temperature is greater than 65 &#xB0;C (150 &#xB0;F).

(e) When loading DRI hot-molded briquettes, precautions must be taken to avoid the concentration of fines (pieces less than 6.35mm in size) in any one location in the cargo hold.

(f) Adequate surface ventilation must be provided when carrying or loading DRI hot-molded briquettes.

(g) When DRI hot-molded briquettes are carried by unmanned barge-

(1) The barge must be fitted with vents adequate to provide natural ventilation; and

(2) The cargo hatches must be closed at all times after loading the DRI hot-molded briquettes.

(h) Radar and RDF scanners must be adequately protected against dust generated during cargo transfer operations of DRI hot-molded briquettes.

(i) During final discharge only, a fine spray of water may be used to control dust from DRI hot-molded briquettes.
