
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter N - Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 148 - CARRIAGE OF BULK SOLID MATERIALS THAT REQUIRE SPECIAL HANDLING
##### Subpart E - Special Requirements for Certain Materials
###### ยง 148.255 Ferrosilicon, aluminum ferrosilicon, and aluminum silicon containing more than 30% but less than 90% silicon.

(a) This section applies to the stowage and transportation of ferrosilicon, aluminum ferrosilicon, and aluminum silicon containing more than 30 percent but less than 90 percent silicon.

(b) The shipper of material described in paragraph (a) of this section must give the master a written certification stating that after manufacture the material was stored under cover, but exposed to the weather, in the particle size in which it is to be shipped, for at least three days before shipment.

(c) Material described in paragraph (a) of this section must be protected at all times from contact with water, and must not be loaded or unloaded during periods of rain or snow.

(d) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, each hold containing material described in paragraph (a) of this section must be mechanically ventilated by at least two separate fans. The total ventilation must be at least five air changes per hour, based on the empty hold. Ventilation must not allow escaping gas to reach accommodation or work spaces, on or under deck.

(e) An unmanned barge which is provided with natural ventilation need not comply with paragraph (d) of this section.

(f) Each space adjacent to a hold containing material described in paragraph (a) of this section must be well ventilated with mechanical fans. No person may enter that space unless it has been tested to ensure that it is free from phosphine and arsine gases.

(g) Scuttles and windows in accommodation and work spaces adjacent to holds containing material described in paragraph (a) of this section must be kept closed while this material is being loaded and unloaded.

(h) Any bulkhead between a hold containing material described in paragraph (a) of this section and an accommodation or work space must be gas tight and adequately protected against damage from any unloading equipment.

(i) When a hold containing material described in paragraph (a) of this section is equipped with atmosphere sampling type smoke detectors with lines that terminate in accommodation or work spaces, those lines must be blanked off gas-tight.

(j) If a hold containing material described in paragraph (a) of this section must be entered at any time, the hatches must be open for two hours before entry to dissipate any accumulated gases. The atmosphere in the hold must be tested to ensure that there is no phosphine or arsine gas present.

(k) After unloading material described in paragraph (a) of this section, each cargo hold must be thoroughly cleaned and tested to ensure that no phosphine or arsine gas remains.
