
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter N - Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 148 - CARRIAGE OF BULK SOLID MATERIALS THAT REQUIRE SPECIAL HANDLING
##### Subpart E - Special Requirements for Certain Materials
###### ยง 148.265 Fish meal or fish scrap.

(a) This part does not apply to fish meal or fish scrap that contains less than 5 percent moisture by weight.

(b) Fish meal or fish scrap may contain a maximum of 12 percent moisture by weight and a maximum of 15 percent fat by weight.

(c) At the time of production, fish meal or fish scrap must be treated with an effective antioxidant (at least 400 mg/kg (ppm) ethoxyquin, at least 1000 mg/kg (ppm) butylated hydroxytoluene, or at least 1000 mg/kg (ppm) of tocopherol-based liquid antioxidant).

(d) Shipment of the fish meal or fish scrap must take place a maximum of 12 months after the treatment prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section.

(e) Fish meal or fish scrap must contain at least 100 mg/kg (ppm) of ethoxyquin or butylated hydroxytoluene or at least 250 mg/kg (ppm) of tocopherol-based antioxidant at the time of shipment.

(f) At the time of loading, the temperature of the fish meal or fish scrap to be loaded may not exceed 35 &#xB0;C (95 &#xB0;F), or 5 &#xB0;C (9 &#xB0;F) above the ambient temperature, whichever is higher.

(g) For each shipment of fish meal or fish scrap, the shipper must give the master a written certification stating-

(1) The total weight of the shipment;

(2) The moisture content of the material;

(3) The fat content of the material;

(4) The type of antioxidant and its concentration in the fish meal or fish scrap at the time of shipment;

(5) The date of production of the material; and

(6) The temperature of the material at the time of shipment.

(h) During a voyage, temperature readings must be taken of fish meal or fish scrap three times a day and recorded. If the temperature of the material exceeds 55 &#xB0;C (131 &#xB0;F) and continues to increase, ventilation to the hold must be restricted. This paragraph does not apply to shipments by unmanned barge.
