
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter N - Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 148 - CARRIAGE OF BULK SOLID MATERIALS THAT REQUIRE SPECIAL HANDLING
##### Subpart E - Special Requirements for Certain Materials
###### ยง 148.295 Petroleum coke, calcined or uncalcined, at 55 &#xB0;C (131 &#xB0;F) or above.

(a) This part does not apply to shipments of petroleum coke, calcined or uncalcined, on any vessel when the temperature of the material is less than 55 &#xB0;C (131 &#xB0;F).

(b) Petroleum coke, calcined or uncalcined, or a mixture of calcined and uncalcined petroleum coke may not be loaded when its temperature exceeds 107 &#xB0;C (225 &#xB0;F).

(c) No other hazardous materials may be stowed in any hold adjacent to a hold containing petroleum coke except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section.

(d) Before petroleum coke at 55 &#xB0;C (131 &#xB0;F) or above may be loaded into a hold over a tank containing fuel or material having a flashpoint of less than 93 &#xB0;C (200 &#xB0;F), a 0.6 to 1.0 meter (2 to 3 foot) layer of the petroleum coke at a temperature not greater than 43 &#xB0;C (110 &#xB0;F) must first be loaded.

(e) Petroleum coke must be loaded as follows:

(1) For a shipment in a hold over a fuel tank, the loading of a cooler layer of petroleum coke in the hold as required by paragraph (d) of this section must be completed before loading the petroleum coke at 55 &#xB0;C (131 &#xB0;F) or above in any hold of the vessel;

(2) Upon completion of the loading described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, a 0.6 to 1.0 meter (2 to 3 foot) layer of the petroleum coke at 55 &#xB0;C (131 &#xB0;F) or above must first be loaded into each hold, including those holds already containing a cooler layer of the petroleum coke; and

(3) Upon completion of the loading described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, normal loading of the petroleum coke may be completed.

(f) The master of the vessel must warn members of a crew that petroleum coke is hot, and that injury due to burns is possible.

(g) During the voyage, the temperature of the petroleum coke must be monitored often enough to detect spontaneous heating.
