
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter N - Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 148 - CARRIAGE OF BULK SOLID MATERIALS THAT REQUIRE SPECIAL HANDLING
##### Subpart E - Special Requirements for Certain Materials
###### ยง 148.310 Seed cake.

(a) This part does not apply to solvent-extracted rape seed meal, pellets, soya bean meal, cotton seed meal, or sunflower seed meal that-

(1) Contains a maximum of 4 percent vegetable oil and a maximum of 15 percent vegetable oil and moisture combined; and

(2) As far as practical, is free from flammable solvent.

(b) This part does not apply to mechanically expelled citrus pulp pellets containing not more than 2.5 percent oil and a maximum of 14 percent oil and moisture combined.

(c) Before loading, the seed cake must be aged per the instructions of the shipper.

(d) Before loading, the shipper must give the master or person in charge of a barge a certificate from a competent testing laboratory stating the oil and moisture content of the seed cake.

(e) The seed cake must be kept as dry as practical at all times.

(f) If the seed cake is solvent-extracted, it must be-

(1) As free as practical from flammable solvent; and

(2) Stowed in a mechanically ventilated hold.

(g) For a voyage with a planned duration greater than 5 days, the vessel must be equipped with facilities for introducing carbon dioxide or another inert gas into the hold.

(h) Temperature readings of the seed cake must be taken at least once in every 24-hour period. If the temperature exceeds 55 &#xB0;C (131 &#xB0;F) and continues to increase, ventilation to the cargo hold must be discontinued. If heating continues after ventilation has been discontinued, carbon dioxide or the inert gas required under paragraph (g) of this section must be introduced into the hold. If the seed cake is solvent-extracted, the use of inert gas must not be introduced until fire is apparent, to avoid the possibility of igniting the solvent vapors by the generation of static electricity.

(i) Seed cake must be carried under the terms of a Special Permit issued by the Commandant (CG-ENG-5) per subpart B of this part if-

(1) The oil was mechanically expelled; and

(2) It contains more than 10 percent vegetable oil or more than 20 percent vegetable oil and moisture combined.
