
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter N - Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 148 - CARRIAGE OF BULK SOLID MATERIALS THAT REQUIRE SPECIAL HANDLING
##### Subpart E - Special Requirements for Certain Materials
###### ยง 148.330 Zinc ashes; zinc dross; zinc residues; zinc skimmings.

(a) The shipper must inform the cognizant Coast Guard Captain of the Port in advance of any cargo transfer operations involving zinc ashes, zinc dross, zinc residues, or zinc skimmings (collectively, "zinc material") in bulk.

(b) Zinc material must be aged by exposure to the elements for at least one year before shipment in bulk.

(c) Before loading in bulk, zinc material must be stored under cover for a period of time to ensure that it is as dry as practical. No zinc material that is wet may be accepted for shipment.

(d) Zinc material may not be loaded in bulk if its temperature is greater than 11.1 &#xB0;C (52 &#xB0;F) in excess of the ambient temperature.

(e) Paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(5) of this section apply only when zinc materials are carried by a cargo vessel:

(1) Zinc material in bulk must be stowed in a mechanically ventilated hold that-

(i) Is designed for at least one complete air change every 30 minutes based on the empty hold;

(ii) Has explosion-proof motors approved for use in Class I, Division 1, Group B atmospheres or equivalent motors approved by the vessel's flag state administration for use in hydrogen atmospheres; and

(iii) Has nonsparking fans.

(2) Combustible gas detectors capable of measuring hydrogen concentrations of 0 to 4.1 percent by volume must be permanently installed in holds that will carry zinc material. If the concentration of hydrogen in the space above the cargo exceeds 1 percent by volume, the ventilation system must be run until the concentration drops below 1 percent by volume.

(3) Thermocouples must be installed approximately 6 inches below the surface of the zinc material or in the space immediately above the zinc material. If an increase in temperature is detected, the mechanical ventilation system required by paragraph (d) of this section must be used until the temperature of the zinc material is below 55 &#xB0;C (131 &#xB0;F).

(4) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(5) of this section, the cargo hatches of holds containing zinc material must remain sealed to prevent the entry of seawater.

(5) If the concentration of hydrogen is near 4.1 percent by volume and increasing, despite ventilation, or the temperature of the zinc material reaches 65 &#xB0;C (150 &#xB0;F), the cargo hatches should be opened provided that weather and sea conditions are favorable. When hatches are opened take care to prevent sparks and minimize the entry of water.
