
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter N - Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 148 - CARRIAGE OF BULK SOLID MATERIALS THAT REQUIRE SPECIAL HANDLING
##### Subpart F - Additional Special Requirements
###### ยง 148.445 Adjacent spaces.

When transporting a material that Table 148.10 of this part associates with a reference to this section, the following requirements must be met:

(a) Each space adjacent to a cargo hold must be ventilated by natural ventilation or by ventilation equipment safe for use in an explosive gas atmosphere.

(b) Each space adjacent to a cargo hold containing the material must be regularly monitored for the presence of the flammable gas indicated by reference to ยง 148.420 of this part. If the level of flammable gas in any space reaches 30 percent of the LFL, all electrical equipment that is not certified safe for use in an explosive gas atmosphere must be de-energized at a location outside of that space. This location must be labeled to prohibit reenergizing until the atmosphere in the space is tested and found to be less than 30 percent of the LFL.

(c) Each person who enters any space adjacent to a cargo hold or compartment containing the material must wear a self-contained breathing apparatus unless-

(1) The space has been tested, or is routinely monitored, for the appropriate flammable gas and oxygen;

(2) The level of flammable gas is less than 10 percent of the LFL; and

(3) The level of toxic gas, if required to be tested, is less than the TLV.

(d) No person may enter an adjacent space if the level of flammable gas is greater than 30 percent of the LFL. If emergency entry is necessary, each person who enters the space must wear a self-contained breathing apparatus and caution must be exercised to ensure that no sparks are produced.
