
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 150 - COMPATIBILITY OF CARGOES
##### Appendix I to Part 150-Exceptions to the Chart

(a) The binary combinations listed below have been tested as prescribed in Appendix III to part 150 and found not to be dangerously reactive. These combinations are exceptions to Figure 1 of part 150 (Compatibility Chart) and may be stowed in adjacent tanks.

(b) The binary combinations listed below have been determined to be dangerously reactive, based either on data obtained in the literature or on laboratory testing that has been carried out in accordance with procedures prescribed in Appendix III. These combinations are exceptions to Figure 1 of part 150 (Compatibility Chart) and may not be stowed in adjacent tanks.

Acetone cyanohydrin (0) is not compatible with Groups 1-12, 16, 17 or 22.

Acrolein (19) is not compatible with Group 1, Non-Oxidizing Mineral Acids.

Acrylic acid (4) is not compatible with Group 9, Aromatic Amines.

Acrylonitrile (15) is not compatible with Group 5, Caustics.

Alkyl (C7-C9) nitrates (34) is not compatible with Group 1, Non-Oxidizing Mineral Acids.

Alkylbenzene sulfonic (alternately sulphonic) acid (less than 4%) (0) is not compatible with Groups 1-3, 5-9, 15, 16, 18, 19, 30, 34, 37, or strong oxidizers.

Allyl alcohol (15) is not compatible with Group 12, Isocyanates.

Aluminum sulfate (alternately Aluminium sulphate) solution (43) is not compatible with Groups 5-11.

Ammonium bisulfite (alternately bisulphite) solution (70% or less) (43) is not compatible with Groups 1 or 3-5.

Benzenesulfonyl (alternately Benzenesulphonyl) chloride (0) is not compatible with Groups 5-7, or 43.

Butylene glycol (20) is not compatible with Caustic soda solution (5).

gamma-Butyrolactone (0) is not compatible with Groups 1-9.

C9 Resinfeed (DSM) (32) is not compatible with Group 2, Sulfuric (alternately Sulphuric) Acids.

Carbon tetrachloride (36) is not compatible with Tetraethylenepentamine or Triethylenetetramine, both Group 7, Aliphatic Amines.

Catoxid feedstock (36) is not compatible with Groups 1-5, or 12.

Caustic soda solution (5) is not compatible with Butylene glycol (20).

1-(4-Chlorophenyl)-4,4-dimethyl pentan-3-one (18) is not compatible with Group 5, Caustics, or Group 10, Amides.

Crotonaldehyde (19) is not compatible with Group 1, Non-Oxidizing Mineral Acids.

Cyclohexanone/Cyclohexanol mixture (18) is not compatible with Group 12, Isocyanates.

2,4-Dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, Dimethylamine salt solution (70% or less) (0) is not compatible with Groups 1-5, 11, 12, or 16.

2,4-Dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, Triisopropanolamine salt solution (43) is not compatible with Group 3, Nitric Acids.

Diethylenetriamine (7) is not compatible with 1,2,3-Trichloropropane, Group 36, Halogenated Hydrocarbons.

Dimethyl hydrogen phosphite (34) is not compatible with Groups 1 or 4.

Dimethyl naphthalene sulfonic (alternately sulphonic) acid, sodium salt solution (34) is not compatible with Group 12, or Formaldehyde, or with strong oxidizing agents.

Dodecylbenzenesulfonic (alternately Dodecylbenzenesulphonic) acid (0) is not compatible with oxidizing agents or Groups 1-3, 5-9, 15, 16, 18, 19, 30, 34, or 37.

Ethyl tert-butyl ether (41) is not compatible with Group 1, Non-Oxidizing Mineral Acids.

Ethylenediamine (7) and Ethyleneamine EA 1302 (7) are not compatible with either Ethylene dichloride (36) or 1,2,3-Trichloropropane (36).

Ethylene dichloride (36) is not compatible with Ethylenediamine (7) or Ethyleneamine EA 1302 (7).

Ethylidene norbornene (30) is not compatible with Groups 1-3 or 5-8.

2-Ethyl-3-propylacrolein (19) is not compatible with Group 1, Non-Oxidizing Mineral Acids.

Fatty acids, essentially linear (C6-C18) 2-ethylhexyl ester (34) is not compatible with Group 3, Nitric Acids.

Ferric hydroxyethylethylenediamine triacetic acid, Triodium salt solution (43) is not compatible with Group 3, Nitric Acids.

Fish oil (34) is not compatible with Sulfuric (alternately Sulphuric) acid (2).

Formaldehyde (50% or more) in Methyl alcohol (over 30%) (19) is not compatible with Group 12, Isocyanates.

Formic acid (4) is not compatible with Furfuryl alcohol (20).

Furfuryl alcohol (20) is not compatible with Group 1, Non-Oxidizing Mineral Acids, or with Formic acid (4).

1,6-Hexanediol distillation overheads (4) is not compatible with Group 3, Nitric Acids, or Group 9, Aromatic Amines.

2-Hydroxyethyl acrylate (14) is not compatible with Groups 5, 6, or 12.

Isophorone (18) is not compatible with Group 8, Alkanolamines.

Lactic acid (0) is not compatible with Caustic soda solution (5).

Magnesium chloride solution (0) is not compatible with Groups 2, 3, 5, 6, or 12.

Mesityl oxide (18) is not compatible with Group 8, Alkanolamines.

Methacrylonitrile (15) is not compatible with Group 5, Caustics.

Methyl tert-butyl ether (41) is not compatible with Group 1, Non-Oxidizing Mineral Acids.

Nitroethane/1-Nitropropane (each 15% or more) mixture (42) is not compatible with Group 7, Aliphatic Amines; Group 8, Alkanolamines; or Group 9, Aromatic Amines.

o-Nitrophenol (0) is not compatible with Groups 2, 3, or 5-10.

Nitropropane (60%)/Nitroethane (40%) mixture (42) is not compatible with Group 7, Aliphatic Amines; Group 8, Alkanolamines; or Group 9, Aromatic Amines.

Oleum (0) is not compatible with Sulfuric (alternately Sulphuric) acid (2) or 1,1,1-Trichloroethane (36).

Phthalate-based polyester polyol (0) is not compatible with Groups 2, 3, 5, 7, or 12.

Polyglycerine, Sodium salts solution (containing less than 3% sodium hydroxide) (20) is not compatible with Groups 1, 4, 11, 16, 17, 19, 21, or 22.

Propylene, Propane, MAPP gas mixture (containing 12% or less MAPP gas) (30) is not compatible with Group 1, Non-Oxidizing Mineral Acids, Group 36, Halogenated Hydrocarbons, or with nitrogen dioxide, oxidizing agents, or molten sulfur (alternately sulphur) (0).

Sodium acetate, Glycol, Water mixture (containing 1% or less Sodium hydroxide) (5) is not compatible with Group 12, Isocyanates.

Sodium chlorate solution (50% or less) (0) is not compatible with Groups 1-3, 5, 7, 8, 10, 12, 13, 17, or 20.

Sodium dichromate solution (70% or less) (0) is not compatible with Groups 1-3, 5, 7, 8, 10, 12, 13, 17, or 20.

Sodium dimethyl naphthalene sulfonate solution (34) is not compatible with Group 12, or Formaldehyde, or strong oxidizing agents.

Sodium hydrogen sulfide (alternately sulphide) (6% or less)/Sodium carbonate solution (3% or less) (0) is not compatible with Group 6, Ammonia, or Group 7, Aliphatic Amines.

Sodium hydrosulfide (alternately hydrosulphide) solution (45% or less) (5) is not compatible with Group 6, Ammonia, or Group 7, Aliphatic Amines.

Sodium hydrosulfide (alternately hydrosulphide), Ammonium sulfide (alternately sulphide) solution (5) is not compatible with Group 6, Ammonia, or Group 7, Aliphatic Amines.

Sodium polyacrylate solution (43) is not compatible with Group 3, Nitric Acids.

Sodium silicate solution (43) is not compatible with Group 3, Nitric Acids.

Sodium sulfide, hydrosulfide (alternately sulphide, hydrosulphide) solution (0) is not compatible with Group 6, Ammonia, or Group 7, Aliphatic Amines.

Sodium thiocyanate (56% or less) (0) is not compatible with Groups 1-4.

Sulfonated (alternately Sulphonated) polyacrylate solution (43) is not compatible with Group 5, Caustics.

Sulfuric (alternately Sulphuric) acid (2) is not compatible with Fish oil (34), or Oleum (0).

Tall oil fatty acid (Resin acids less than 20%) (34) is not compatible with Group 5, Caustics.

Tallow fatty acid (34) is not compatible with Group 5, Caustics.

Tetraethylenepentamine (7) is not compatible with Carbon tetrachloride, Group 36, Halogenated Hydrocarbons.

1,1,1-Trichloroethane (36) is not compatible with Oleum (0).

Trichloroethylene (36) is not compatible with Group 5, Caustics.

1,2,3-Trichloropropane (36) is not compatible with Diethylenetriamine, Ethylenediamine, Ethyleaneamine EA 1302, or Triethylenetetramine, all Group 7, Aliphatic Amines.

Triethylenetetramine (7) is not compatible with Carbon tetrachloride, or 1,2,3-Trichloropropane, both Group 36, Halogenated Hydrocarbons.

Triethyl phosphite (34) is not compatible with Group 1, Non-Oxidizing Mineral Acids, or Group 4, Organic Acids.

Trimethyl phosphite (34) is not compatible with Group 1, Non-Oxidizing Mineral Acids, or Group 4, Organic Acids.

1,3,5-Trioxane (41) is not compatible with Group 1, Non-Oxidizing Mineral Acids, or Group 4, Organic Acids.

Vinyl neodecanoate (13) is not compatible with Group 5, Caustics.
