
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 150 - COMPATIBILITY OF CARGOES
##### Appendix II to Part 150-Explanation of Figure 1
###### Using the Compatibility Chart-

The following procedure explains how the compatibility chart should be used to find compatibility information:

(1) Determine the group numbers of the two cargoes by referring to the alphabetical listing of cargoes and the corresponding groups (Table I). Many cargoes are listed under their parent names; unless otherwise indicated, isomers or mixtures of isomers of a particular cargo are assigned to the same group. For example, to find the group number for Isobutyl Alcohol, look under the parent name Butyl Alcohol. Similarly, the group number for para-Xylene is found under the entry Xylene. If a cargo cannot be found in this listing, contact the Coast Guard for a group determination (see ยง 150.140).

(2) If both group numbers are between 30 and 43 inclusive, the products are compatible and the chart need not be used.

(3) If both group numbers do not fall between 30 and 43 inclusive, locate one of the numbers on the left of the chart (Cargo Groups) and the other across the top (Reactive Groups). (Note that if a group number is between 30 and 43, it can only be found on the left side of the chart.) The box formed by the intersection of the column and row containing the two numbers will contain one of the following:

(a) Blank-The two cargoes are compatible.

(b) "X"-The two cargoes are not compatible.
