
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 11 - REQUIREMENTS FOR OFFICER ENDORSEMENTS
##### Subpart C - STCW Officer Endorsements
###### ยง 11.301 Requirements for STCW officer endorsements.
####### Standard of competence.

(a)(1) The Coast Guard will accept one or more methods listed in the STCW Code to demonstrate meeting the standard of competence in this subpart. See Column 3-Methods for demonstrating competence-of the Tables of Competence in the STCW Code (incorporated by reference, see ยง 11.102 of this part). The Coast Guard will accept the following as evidence of meeting the standard of competence under each of these methods:

(i) In-service experience: Documentation of successful completion of assessments, approved or accepted by the Coast Guard, and signed by a qualified assessor (QA)-deck or engineering-as appropriate.

(ii) Training ship experience: Documentation of successful completion of an approved training program involving formal training and assessment onboard a training ship.

(iii) Simulator training: Documentation of successful completion of training and assessment from a Coast Guard-approved course involving maritime simulation.

(iv) Laboratory equipment training: Documentation of successful completion of training and assessments from an approved training course or facility.

(v) Practical training or instruction:

(A) Documentation of successful completion of assessment as part of a structured/formal training or instruction provided by an organization or company as part of an accepted safety or quality management system; or

(B) Documentation of successful completion of an approved training course from a school or facility.

(vi) Specialist training: Documentation of successful completion of assessment as part of a company training or specialized training provided by a maritime or equipment specialist.

(vii) Workshop skills training: Documentation of successful completion of assessments or completion certificate from an approved training program, school or facility.

(viii) Training program: Documentation of successful completion of an approved training program.

(ix) Training on a manned scale ship model: Documentation of successful completion of assessment as part of a structured/formal training or instruction provided by an approved training school or facility.

(x) Practical demonstration of competence: Documentation of successful completion of assessments approved or accepted by the Coast Guard.

(xi) Practical test and practical experience: Documentation of successful completion of assessments approved or accepted by the Coast Guard.

(xii) Examination: Successful completion of a Coast Guard examination.

(xiii) Instruction or course: Documentation of successful completion of an approved or accepted course of instruction.

(2) Knowledge components may be documented by-

(i) Successful completion of the Coast Guard examination for the associated officer endorsement;

(ii) Successful completion of an approved course; or

(iii) Successful completion of an approved program.

(3) The Coast Guard will publish assessment guidelines that should be used to document assessments that demonstrate meeting the standard of competence, as required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Organizations may develop alternative assessment documentation for demonstrations of competence; however, such documentation must be approved by the Coast Guard prior to its use and submittal with an application.
