
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 11 - REQUIREMENTS FOR OFFICER ENDORSEMENTS
##### Subpart C - STCW Officer Endorsements
###### ยง 11.301 Requirements for STCW officer endorsements.
####### Exemptions and Limitations.

(f)(1) The Coast Guard may exempt an applicant from meeting any individual knowledge, understanding, and proficiency required in the appropriate table of competence in the STCW Code. These exemptions must be approved by the Coast Guard based upon vessel type. Under these circumstances, the certificate may include a corresponding limitation. (2) A seafarer may have a limitation removed by providing the Coast Guard with evidence of having completed the individual knowledge, understanding, and proficiency required.

(g) Notwithstanding ยง 11.901 of this part, each mariner found qualified to hold any of the following national officer endorsements will also be entitled to hold an STCW endorsement corresponding to the service or other limitations of the license or officer endorsements on the MMC. The vessels concerned are not subject to further obligation under STCW because of their special operating conditions as small vessels engaged in domestic, near-coastal voyages.

(1) Masters, mates, or engineers endorsed for service on small passenger vessels that are subject to subchapter T or K of this chapter and that operate beyond the boundary line.

(2) Masters, mates, or engineers endorsed for service on seagoing vessels of less than 200 GRT, other than passenger vessels subject to subchapter H of this chapter.

(h) Mariners serving on, and owners or operators of any of the following vessels, do not need to hold an STCW endorsement, because they are exempt from application of STCW:

(1) Fishing vessels as defined in 46 U.S.C. 2101(11)(a).

(2) Fishing vessels used as fish-tender vessels as defined in 46 U.S.C. 2101(11)(c).

(3) Barges as defined in 46 U.S.C. 102, including non-self-propelled mobile offshore drilling units.

(4) Vessels operating exclusively on the Great Lakes or on the inland waters of the United States in the Straits of Juan de Fuca or on the Inside Passage between Puget Sound and Cape Spencer.

(i) Mariners serving on, and owners or operators of uninspected passenger vessels as defined in 46 U.S.C. 2101(42)(B), do not need to hold an STCW endorsement. The vessels concerned are not subject to further obligation under STCW because of their special operating conditions as small vessels engaged in domestic, near-coastal voyages.
