
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 11 - REQUIREMENTS FOR OFFICER ENDORSEMENTS
##### Subpart C - STCW Officer Endorsements
###### ยง 11.302 Basic training.

(a) Applicants seeking an STCW officer endorsement must provide evidence of meeting the standard of competence for basic training (BT) as follows:

(1) Personal survival techniques as set out in Table A-VI/1-1 of the STCW Code (incorporated by reference, see ยง 11.102 of this part).

(2) Fire prevention and firefighting as set out in Table A-VI/1-2 of the STCW Code.

(3) Elementary first aid as set out in Table A-VI/1-3 of the STCW Code.

(4) Personal safety and social responsibilities as set out in Table A-VI/1-4 of the STCW Code.

(b) Every 5 years seafarers qualified in accordance with ยง 11.301(c) and (d) of this subpart must provide evidence of maintaining the standard of competence for BT.

(c) The Coast Guard will accept onboard training and experience, through evidence of 1 year of sea service within the last 5 years, for the following areas:

(1) Personal survival techniques as set out in Table A-VI/1-1 of the STCW Code:

(i) Donning a lifejacket.

(ii) Boarding a survival craft from the ship, while wearing a lifejacket.

(iii) Taking initial actions on boarding a lifeboat to enhance chance of survival.

(iv) Streaming a lifeboat drogue or sea-anchor.

(v) Operating survival craft equipment.

(vi) Operating location devices, including radio equipment.

(2) Fire prevention and firefighting as set out in Table A-VI/1-2 of the STCW Code:

(i) Using self-contained breathing apparatus.

(ii) Performing a rescue in a smoke-filled space, using an approved smoke-generating device aboard, while wearing a breathing apparatus.

(3) Elementary first aid as set out in Table A-VI/1-3 of the STCW Code.

(4) Personal safety and social responsibilities as set out in Table A-VI/1-4 of the STCW Code.

(d) The Coast Guard will only accept evidence of approved assessments conducted ashore for the following areas:

(1) Personal survival techniques as set out in Table A-VI/1-1 of the STCW Code:

(i) Donning and using an immersion suit.

(ii) Safely jumping from a height into the water.

(iii) Righting an inverted liferaft while wearing a lifejacket.

(iv) Swimming while wearing a lifejacket.

(v) Keeping afloat without a lifejacket.

(2) Fire prevention and firefighting as set out in Table A-VI/1-2 of the STCW Code:

(i) Using various types of portable fire extinguishers.

(ii) Extinguishing smaller fires, e.g., electrical fires, oil fires, and propane fires.

(iii) Extinguishing extensive fires with water, using jet and spray nozzles.

(iv) Extinguishing fires with foam, powder, or any other suitable chemical agent.

(v) Fighting fire in smoke-filled enclosed spaces wearing self-contained breathing apparatus.

(vi) Extinguishing fire with water fog or any other suitable firefighting agent in an accommodation room or simulated engineroom with fire and heavy smoke.

(vii) Extinguishing oil fire with fog applicator and spray nozzles, dry chemical powder, or foam applicators.

(e) Applicants who cannot meet the requirement for 1 year of sea service within the last 5 years, as described in paragraph (c) of this section, will be required to meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section or complete approved or accepted refresher training.
