
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 151-BARGES CARRYING BULK LIQUID HAZARDOUS MATERIAL CARGOES
##### Subpart 151.10-Barge Hull Construction Requirements
###### ยง 151.10-20 Hull construction.
####### Construction features.

(a)(1) Each barge hull shall be constructed with a suitable bow form (length, shape, and height of headlog) to protect against diving at the maximum speed at which the barge is designed to be towed. In any integrated tow, only the lead barge need comply with this requirement.

(2) All "open hopper" type barges shall be provided with coamings around the hopper space and a 36-inch minimum height plowshare breakwater on the forward rake. The plowshare breakwater may be omitted, if it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Commandant that sufficient protection is achieved without it. Coamings shall have a minimum height of 36 inches forward and may be graduated to a minimum height of 24 inches at midlength and 18 inches thereafter. All hopper barges constructed with a weathertight rain shield over the hopper space are exempt from these requirements, except that they shall be provided with an 18-inch minimum coaming all around the hopper.

(3) All "open hopper" type barges modified for the carriage of chlorine in bulk shall be provided with 36-inch minimum height coamings around the hopper.

(4) All barges in ocean or coastwise service shall be provided with a structural deck and hatches in accordance with the applicable provisions of subchapter E of this chapter and the scantling requirements of the American Bureau of Shipping.
