
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 151-BARGES CARRYING BULK LIQUID HAZARDOUS MATERIAL CARGOES
##### Subpart 151.10-Barge Hull Construction Requirements
###### ยง 151.10-20 Hull construction.
####### Hull structural requirements.

(b)(1) All Types I, II, and III barges shall comply with the basic structural requirements of the American Bureau of Shipping for barges of the ordinary types and the applicable supplementary requirements of this section.

(2) Types I and II barges in inland service: A grounding condition shall be assumed where the forward rake bulkhead rests upon a pinnacle at the water surface. The maximum hull and tank bending moment and tank saddle reactions (if applicable) shall be determined. The hull bending stress shall not exceed the applicable limits of paragraphs (b)(2) (i), (ii), or (iii) of this section. The maximum tank bending moment and saddle reaction shall be used in the tank design calculations required by ยง 151.15-2(b)(3).

(i) Independent tanks supported by only two saddles do not contribute to the strength and stiffness of the barge hull. In such case, the hull stress shall not exceed either 50 percent of the minimum ultimate tensile strength of the material or 70 percent of the yield strength when specified, whichever is greater.

(ii) Independent tanks supported by three or more saddles contribute to the strength and stiffness of the hull. In such case, the hull stress shall not exceed the percentage stress values prescribed in ยง 151.10-20(b)(2)(i), multiplied by the quantity

(iii) Integral tanks may be considered as contributing to the strength and stiffness of the barge hull. The hull stresses for integral tank barges shall not exceed the percentage stress values prescribed in paragraph (b)(2)(i), of this section.

(3) Types I and II barges in ocean service:

(i) Independent tank barges with tanks supported by three or more saddles shall be subjected to a 0.6Ltrochoidal wave hogsag analysis to determine the maximum hull and tank bending moments and tank saddle reactions.

(ii) All independent tank barges, regardless of the number of saddle supports shall be subject to a still water bending analysis to determine the hull bending moment. For those barges with independent tanks supported by three or more saddles, this analysis shall consider tank-hull interaction so as to determine tank bending moments and saddle reactions.

(iii) The still water tank bending moments and saddle reactions shall be superimposed upon those obtained by simultaneous application of the following dynamic loadings:
