
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 11 - REQUIREMENTS FOR OFFICER ENDORSEMENTS
##### Subpart C - STCW Officer Endorsements
###### ยง 11.303 Advanced firefighting.
####### Advanced firefighting.

(a)Applicants seeking an STCW officer endorsement must provide evidence of meeting the standard of competence as set out in Table A-VI/3 of the STCW Code (incorporated by reference, see ยง 11.102 of this part). Applicants for an original STCW officer endorsement, who met the requirements of ยง 11.201(h) of this part will be deemed to have met the requirement of this paragraph.

(b) Every 5 years seafarers qualified in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section must provide evidence of maintaining the standard of competence as set out in Table A-VI/3 of the STCW Code.

(c) The Coast Guard will accept onboard training and experience, through evidence of 1 year of sea service within the last 5 years, as meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section for the following areas as set out in Table A-VI/3 of the STCW Code:

(1) Control firefighting operations aboard ships with the following knowledge, understanding, and proficiencies:

(i) Firefighting procedures at sea and in port, with particular emphasis on organization, tactics and command.

(ii) Communication and coordination during firefighting operations.

(iii) Ventilation control, including smoke extraction.

(iv) Control of fuel and electrical systems.

(v) Firefighting process hazards (dry distillation, chemical reactions, boiler uptake).

(vi) Fire precautions and hazards associated with the storage and handling of materials.

(vii) Management and control of injured persons.

(viii) Procedures for coordination with shore-based firefighters.

(2) Inspect and service fire-detection and extinguishing systems and equipment.

(i) Requirements for statutory and classification surveys.

(ii) Reserved.

(d) The Coast Guard will only accept evidence of assessments conducted ashore as meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section for the following areas as set out in Table A-VI/3 of the STCW Code:

(1) Control firefighting operations aboard ships with the following knowledge, understanding, and proficiencies:

(i) Use of water for fire-extinguishing, the effect on ship stability, precautions and corrective procedures.

(ii) Firefighting involving dangerous goods.

(2) Organize and train fire parties.

(3) Inspect and service fire-detection and extinguishing systems and equipment.

(i) Fire detection. Fire-detection systems; fixed fire-extinguishing systems; portable and mobile fire-extinguishing equipment, including appliances, pumps and rescue, salvage; life-support; personal protective and communication equipment.

(ii) Reserved.

(4) Investigate and compile reports on incidents involving fire.

(e) Applicants who cannot meet the requirement for 1 year of sea service within the last 5 years, as described in paragraph (c) of this section, will be required to meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section or complete approved or accepted refresher training.
