
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 151-BARGES CARRYING BULK LIQUID HAZARDOUS MATERIAL CARGOES
##### Subpart 151.15-Tanks
###### ยง 151.15-3 Construction.
####### Pressure vessel type tanks.

(b)Pressure vessel type tanks shall be designed and tested in accordance with the requirements of Part 54 of this chapter.

(1) Uninsulated cargo tanks, where the cargo is transported, at or near ambient temperatures, shall be designed for a pressure not less than the vapor pressure of the cargo at 115 &#xB0;F. The design shall also be based on the minimum internal pressure (maximum vacuum), plus the maximum external static head to which the tank may be subjected.

(2) When cargo tanks, in which the cargo is transported at or near ambient temperature, are insulated with an insulation material of a thickness to provide a thermal conductance of not more than 0.075 B.t.u. per square foot per degree Fahrenheit differential in temperature per hour, the tanks shall be designed for a pressure of not less than the vapor pressure of the cargo at 105 &#xB0;F. The insulation shall also meet the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section.

(3) Cargo tanks in which the temperature is maintained below the normal atmospheric temperature by refrigeration or other acceptable means shall be designed for a pressure of not less than 110 percent of the vapor pressure corresponding to the temperature of the liquid at which the system is maintained, or the pressure corresponding to the greatest dynamic and static loads expected to be encountered in service. For mechanically stressed relieved cargo tanks, additional factors relating design pressure and maximum allowable pressure shall be as specified by the Commandant. The material of the tank shall meet the material requirements specified in part 54 of this chapter for the service temperature, and this temperature shall be permanently marked on the tank as prescribed in ยง 54.10-20 of this chapter.

(4) The maximum allowable temperature of the cargo is defined as the boiling temperature of the liquid at a pressure equal to the setting of the relief valve.

(5) The service temperature is the minimum temperature of a product at which it may be contained, loaded and/or transported. However, the service temperature shall in no case be taken higher than given by the following formula.

(6) Heat transmission studies, where required, shall assume the minimum ambient temperatures of 0 &#xB0;F still air and 32 &#xB0;F still water, and maximum ambient temperatures of 115 &#xB0;F still air and 90 &#xB0;F still water.

(7) Where applicable, the design of the cargo tanks shall investigate the thermal stresses induced in the tanks at the service temperature.

(8) Calculations showing the stress level in the tanks under dynamic loading conditions for ocean service barges (see ยง 151.10-20(b)(4)) and grounding conditions for inland service barges (see ยง 151.10-20-(b)(2)) shall be submitted to the Commandant for approval. These calculations shall take into account the local stresses due to the interaction between the barge hull and the tanks.
