
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 151-BARGES CARRYING BULK LIQUID HAZARDOUS MATERIAL CARGOES
##### Subpart 151.15-Tanks
###### ยง 151.15-3 Construction.
####### Arrangements,Collision protection.

(d)-(1)(i) Tanks containing cargoes which are required to be carried in Type I hulls by Table 151.05 shall be located a minimum of 4 feet inboard from the side shell and box end of the vessel. Tanks containing cargoes which are required to be carried in Type II hulls by Table 151.05 shall be located a minimum of 3 feet inboard from the side shell and box end of the vessel.

(ii) All independent cargo tanks installed on Type I or Type II barge hulls shall be protected with suitable collision chocks or collision straps. A longitudinal collision load of one and one half times the combined weight of the tank and the cargo shall be assumed. All other independent cargo tanks shall be provided with suitable collision chocks or collision straps assuming a longitudinal collision load equal to the combined weight of the tank and the cargo. The design bearing stress shall not exceed 2 times the yield strength or 1.5 times the minimum ultimate strength, whichever is less.

(iii) Tanks containing cargoes, which are required to be carried in Type I or Type II hulls by Table 151.05, shall be located a minimum of 25 feet from the head log at the bow. Box barges and trail barges need not comply with this requirement.
