
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 151-BARGES CARRYING BULK LIQUID HAZARDOUS MATERIAL CARGOES
##### Subpart 151.15-Tanks
###### ยง 151.15-3 Construction.
####### Low temperature protection.

(4)(i) When low temperature cargoes are to be carried in gravity type tanks at a temperature lower than that for which the hull steel is adequate, a secondary barrier designed to contain leaked cargo temporarily shall be provided. The design of the cargo containment system shall be such that under normal service conditions, or upon failure of the primary tank, the hull structure shall not be cooled down to a temperature which is unsafe for the materials involved. The secondary barrier and structural components of the hull which may be exposed to low temperatures shall meet the material requirements (i.e., chemistry and physical properties) specified in part 54 of this chapter for the service temperature involved. Heat transmission studies and tests may be required to demonstrate that the structural material temperatures in the hull are acceptable.

(ii) The design shall take into consideration the thermal stresses induced in the cargo tank at the service temperature during loading.

(iii) Where necessary, devices for spray loading or other methods of precooling or cooling during loading shall be included in the design.

(iv) Pressure-vessel type tanks shall be radiographed in accordance with the requirements of part 54 of this chapter. For gravity type tanks, all weld intersections or crossings in joints of primary tank shells shall be radiographed for a distance of 10 thicknesses from the intersection. All other welding in the primary tank and in the secondary barrier, shall be spot radiographed in accordance with the requirements specified in part 54 of this chapter for Class II-L pressure vessels.

(v) For nonpressure vessel type containment systems, access shall be arranged to permit inspection one side each of the primary tank and secondary barrier, under normal shipyard conditions. Containment systems which, because of their peculiar design, cannot be visually inspected to this degree, may be specially considered provided an equivalent degree of safety is attained.
