
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 151-BARGES CARRYING BULK LIQUID HAZARDOUS MATERIAL CARGOES
##### Subpart 151.15-Tanks
###### ยง 151.15-3 Construction.
####### Installation of cargo tanks.

(e)(1) Cargo tanks shall be supported on foundations of steel or other suitable material and securely anchored in place to prevent the tanks from shifting when subjected to external forces. Each tank shall be supported so as to prevent the concentration of excessive loads on the supporting portions of the shell or head.

(2) Foundations, and stays where required, shall be designed for support and constraint of the weight of the full tank, and the dynamic loads imposed thereon. Thermal movement shall also be considered.

(3) Foundations and stays shall be suitable for the temperatures they will experience at design conditions.

(4) Cargo tanks may be installed "on deck," "under deck," or with the tanks protruding through the deck. All tanks shall be installed with the manhole openings located in the open above the weather deck. Provided an equivalent degree of safety is attained, the Commandant may approve cargo tanks installed with manhole openings located below the weather deck. Where a portion of the tank extends above the weather deck, provision shall be made to maintain the weathertightness of the deck, except that the weathertightness of the upper deck need not be maintained on:

(i) Vessels operating on restricted routes which are sufficiently protected; or,

(ii) Open hopper type barges of acceptable design.

(5) No welding shall be performed on tanks which require and have been stress relieved unless authorized by the Commandant.
