
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 151-BARGES CARRYING BULK LIQUID HAZARDOUS MATERIAL CARGOES
##### Subpart 151.15-Tanks
###### ยง 151.15-3 Construction.
####### Insulation.

(g)(1) Insulation, when provided, shall be compatible with the cargo and the tank materials.

(2) Insulation in a location exposed to possible high temperature or source of ignition shall be one of the following:

(i) Incombustible, complying with the requirements of Subpart 164.009 of Part 164 of this chapter; or

(ii) Fire retardant, having a flame spread rating of 50 or less as determined by ASTM Specification E 84 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 151.01-2) (Tunnel Test); or,

(iii) Nonburning or "self-extinguishing" as determined by ASTM Specification D 4986, "Horizontal Burning Characteristics of Cellular Polymeric Materials" (incorporated by reference, see ยง 151.01-2) and covered by a steel jacket having a minimum thickness of 18 gauge (0.0428 inches) (U.S. Standard Gauge) or an equivalent means of protection acceptable to the Commandant.

(3) Insulation in a location protected against high temperature or source of ignition need satisfy no requirement for combustibility.

(4) Insulation shall be impervious to water vapor, or have a vapor-proof coating of a fire-retardant material acceptable to the Commandant. Unless the vapor barrier is inherently weather resistant, tanks exposed to the weather shall be fitted with a removable sheet metal jacket of not less than 18 gauge over the vapor-proof coating and flashed around all openings so as to be weathertight. Insulation which is not exposed to the weather when installed on tanks carrying cargoes above ambient temperatures need not be impervious to water vapor nor be covered with a vapor-proof coating.

(5) Insulation shall be adequately protected in areas of possible mechanical damage.
