
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 11 - REQUIREMENTS FOR OFFICER ENDORSEMENTS
##### Subpart C - STCW Officer Endorsements
###### ยง 11.305 Requirements to qualify for an STCW endorsement as master of vessels of 3,000 GT or more (management level).

(a) To qualify for an STCW endorsement as master, an applicant must-

(1) Provide evidence of 36 months of service as OICNW on vessels operating in oceans, near-coastal waters, and/or Great Lakes. This period may be reduced to not less than 24 months if the applicant served as chief mate for not less than 12 months. Service on inland waters that are navigable waters of the United States may be substituted for up to 50 percent of the total required service. Experience gained in the engine department on vessels may be creditable for up to 3 months of the service requirements;

(2) Provide evidence of meeting the standard of competence specified in Section A-II/2 of the STCW Code (incorporated by reference, see ยง 11.102 of this part); and

(3) Provide evidence of having satisfactorily completed approved training in the following subject areas:

(i) Advanced ship handling.

(ii) Advanced stability.

(iii) Advanced meteorology.

(iv) Leadership and managerial skills.

(v) Search and rescue.

(vi) ARPA, if serving on a vessel with this equipment.

(vii) ECDIS, if serving on a vessel with this equipment.

(viii) GMDSS, if serving on a vessel with this equipment.

(ix) Management of medical care.

(b) For a renewal of an STCW endorsement as master of vessels of 3,000 GT or more to be valid on or after January 1, 2017, each candidate must provide evidence of successful completion of approved training in the following:

(1) Leadership and managerial skills.

(2) ECDIS, if serving on a vessel with this equipment.

(c) The Coast Guard may exempt an applicant from meeting any individual knowledge, understanding, and proficiency required in Section A-II/2 of the STCW Code. These exemptions must be approved by the Coast Guard based upon vessel type. Under these circumstances, the credential may include a corresponding limitation.

(d) Seafarers holding an STCW endorsement as masters of vessels of 500 GT or more and less than 3,000 GT, in accordance with ยง 11.311 of this subpart, are eligible to apply for the endorsement as master on vessels of 3,000 GT or more upon completion of 6 months of sea service, under the authority of the endorsement, and must complete any items in paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section not previously satisfied.

(e) Seafarers with one of the following national officer endorsements are eligible to apply for this endorsement upon completion of the requirements in table 1 to this paragraph:
