
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 151-BARGES CARRYING BULK LIQUID HAZARDOUS MATERIAL CARGOES
##### Subpart 151.15-Tanks
###### ยง 151.15-10 Cargo gauging devices.
####### Use of restricted gauging devices.

(f)(1) When required in Table 151.05, cargoes carried under pressure shall have restricted gauging devices designed so that the maximum bleed valve opening is not larger than 0.055;inch; diameter, unless provided with an excess flow valve. Sounding tubes are prohibited for use with cargoes having a vapor pressure in excess of 14.7 p.s.i.a. at 115 &#xB0;F, if carried in an uninsulated tank, or at 105 &#xB0;F, if carried in an insulated tank.

(2) When utilizing a sounding tube, the cargo tank vent system shall be designed to prevent the discharge of cargo through the sounding tube due to pressure build up in the cargo tank vapor space. (See ยง 151.03-43) When cargoes carried at atmospheric pressure are required to have a restricted gauging device, open gauges may be provided in addition to restricted gauges for this type of cargo. However, open gauges may not be used while cargo transfer operations are actually being performed.

(g) Fixed tube gauges are not acceptable as primary means of gauging. They may be used as a check on the calibration of other gauging devices.

(h) For pressure-vessel type tanks, each automatic float, continuous reading tape or similar type gauge not mounted directly on the tank or dome shall be fitted with a shutoff device located as close to the tank as practicable. When an automatic float gauging device, which gauges the entire height of the tank, is used, a fixed tube gauge set in the range of 85 percent to 90 percent of the water capacity of the tank shall be provided in addition as a means of checking the accuracy of the automatic float gauge, or other alternate means acceptable to the Commandant may be used.

(i) Gauge glasses of the columnar type are prohibited.

(j) Flat sight glasses may be used in the design of automatic float continuous reading tape gauges. However such glasses shall be made of high strength material, suitable for the operating temperatures, of not less than one-half inch in thickness and adequately protected by a metal cover.
