
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 151-BARGES CARRYING BULK LIQUID HAZARDOUS MATERIAL CARGOES
##### Subpart 151.20-Cargo Transfer
###### ยง 151.20-1 Piping-general.

(a) Cargo piping systems shall be arranged and fabricated in accordance with this section and Subchapter F. The class of piping system required for a specific cargo shall be as listed in Table 151.05 as a minimum; however, a higher class may be required when the actual service temperature or pressure so dictates. See Table 56.04-2 of this chapter.

(b) Piping system components shall be suitable for use with the cargoes for which the barge is certificated, and shall be of materials listed in Subchapter F of this chapter, or such other material as the Commandant may specifically approve. All piping materials shall be tested in accordance with the requirements of Subchapter F of this chapter. The valve seat material, packing, gaskets, and all other material which comes into contact with the cargo shall be resistant to the chemical action of the cargoes for which the barge is certificated.

(c) Cargo piping systems, when subject to corrosive attack of the cargo, and when serving cargo tanks which are required by this subchapter to be lined or coated, shall be constructed of, lined or coated with corrosion-resistant material. Vent systems shall be similarly constructed, lined, or coated up to and including the vent control device.

(d) All piping systems components shall have a pressure rating at operating temperature (according to the applicable American National Standards Institute, Inc., pressure/temperature relations) not less than the maximum pressure to which the system may be subjected. Piping which is not protected by a relief valve, or which can be isolated from its relief valve, shall be designed for the greatest of:

(1) The cargo vapor pressure at 115 &#xB0;F.

(2) The maximum allowable working pressure of the cargo tank.

(3) The pressure of the associated pump or compressor relief valve.

(4) The total discharge head of the associated pump or compressor where a discharge relief valve is not used.

(e) Provisions shall be made by the use of offsets, loops, bends, expansion joints, etc., to protect the piping and tank from excessive stress due to thermal movement and/or movements of the tank and hull structure. Expansion joints shall be held to a minimum and where used shall be subject to individual approval by the Commandant.

(f) Low temperature piping shall be isolated from the hull structure. Where necessary, arrangements to provide for the protection of the hull structure from leaks in low temperature systems in way of pumps, flanges, etc., shall be provided.

(g) Connections to tanks shall be protected against mechanical damage and tampering. Underdeck cargo piping shall not be installed between the outboard side of cargo containment spaces and the skin of the barge, unless provision is made to maintain the minimum inspection and collision protection clearances (where required) between the piping and the skin. Cargo piping which is external to tanks, and is installed below the weather deck shall be joined by welding, except for flanged connections to shutoff valves and expansion joints.

(h) Piping shall enter independent cargo tanks above the weatherdeck, either through or as close to the tank dome as possible.

(i) Horizontal runs of cargo piping on integral tank barges may be run above or below the weatherdeck. When run below the weatherdeck, the following are applicable:

(1) Horizontal runs located entirely within integral cargo tanks shall be fitted with a stop valve, located inside the tank that is being serviced and operable from the weatherdeck. There shall be cargo compatibility in the event of a piping failure.
