
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 151-BARGES CARRYING BULK LIQUID HAZARDOUS MATERIAL CARGOES
##### Subpart 151.20-Cargo Transfer
###### ยง 151.20-5 Cargo system valving requirements.
####### Pressure-2 (P-2).

(d)(1) One manually operated stop valve and one excess flow valve shall be installed at each tank penetration, located as close as possible to the tank.

(2) One remote operated quick closing shutoff valve shall be installed at each cargo hose connection when in use.

(3) No tank penetration shall be less than 1 inch diameter.

(e) Cargo tank penetrations which are connections for gauging or measuring devices need not be equipped with excess flow or remote operated quick closing valves provided that the opening is constructed so that the outward flow of tank contents shall not exceed that passed by a No. 54 drill size (0.055-inch diameter).

(f) The control system for any required quick closing shutoff valves shall be such that the valves may be operated from at least two remote locations on the vessel; if means of fire protection is required by Table 151.05, the control system shall also be provided with fusible elements designed to melt between 208 &#xB0;F and 220 &#xB0;F, which will cause the quick closing shutoff valves to close in case of fire. Quick closing shutoff valves shall be of the fail-closed (closed on loss of power) type and be capable of local manual operation. Quick closing shutoff valves shall operate from full open to full closed under all service conditions in not more than 10 seconds, without causing excessive pressure surges.

(g) Excess flow valves, where required, shall close automatically at the rated closing flow of vapor or liquid as tested and specified by the manufacturer. The piping, including fittings, valves, and appurtenances protected by an excess flow valve, shall have a greater capacity than the rated closing flow of the excess flow valve. Excess flow valves may be designed with a bypass not to exceed 0.040-inch diameter opening to allow equalization of pressure, after an operating shutdown.

(h) Suitable means shall be provided to relieve the pressure and remove liquid contents from cargo lines and hoses to the cargo tank or other safe location prior to effecting disconnections.
