
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 151-BARGES CARRYING BULK LIQUID HAZARDOUS MATERIAL CARGOES
##### Subpart 151.20-Cargo Transfer
###### ยง 151.20-20 Cargo transfer methods.

(a) Cargo transfer may be accomplished by means of gravity, pumping, vapor or gas pressurization, or fluid displacement unless otherwise provided in Subpart 151.50 of this part.

(b) Vapor or gas pressurization may be used only in transferring cargo from pressure vessel type cargo tanks. The pressurizing vapor or gas lines shall be provided with safety relief device in the lines set to open at a pressure no greater than 90 percent of the set pressure of the cargo tank safety relief valve. The pressurizing line shall be fitted with a stop valve at the tank, and a check valve to prevent the accidental release of cargo through the pressure line.

(c) Fluid displacement is permitted with either gravity or pressure vessel type cargo tanks. The displacing fluid shall enter the tank under low relative pressure. The fluid entry line shall be fitted with a safety relief valve set to lift at a pressure no higher than 80 percent of the cargo tank safety relief valve setting.

(d) When cargo vapors are flammable, combustible or toxic, cargo filling lines entering the top of the tank shall lead to a point at or near the bottom. Spray filling lines, discharging near the top of the tank, may be fitted in lieu of, or in addition to, the above cargo filling lines.
