
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 151-BARGES CARRYING BULK LIQUID HAZARDOUS MATERIAL CARGOES
##### Subpart 151.45-Operations
###### ยง 151.45-2 Special operating requirements.
####### Cargo signs and cards.

(e)(1) Warning signs shall be displayed on the vessel, port and starboard, facing outboard without obstructions, at all times except when the vessel is gas free. The warning sign shall be rectangular and a minimum of 3 feet wide and 2 feet high. It shall be of sufficient size to accommodate the required alerting information, which shall be shown in black block style letters and numerals (characters) at least 3 inches high on a white background. The minimum spacing between adjacent words and lines of characters shall be 2 inches. The minimum spacing between adjacent characters shall be one-half inch. All characters shall have a minimum stroke width of one-half inch and shall be a minimum of 2 inches wide, except for the letters "M" and "W", which shall be a minimum of 3 inches wide, and except for the letter "I" and the Numeral "1", which may be-inch wide. The signs shall have a 2-inch minimum white border clear of characters. The signs shall be maintained legible. The alerting information shall include the following:

(2)(i) Names and locations of all cargoes will be displayed in a readily discernible manner on all barges carrying one or more commodities regulated by this subchapter. This may be an individual sign at or on each tank or by a single sign similar to the following example:

(ii) When the dangerous cargo barge is carrying only a single product, the Warning Sign required by paragraph (e)(1) of this section can be considered as meeting the requirements for the cargo location sign. The name of the commodity shall be added to the Warning Sign.

(3) A cargo information card for each cargo regulated by this subchapter shall be carried on the bridge or in the pilot house of the towing vessel, readily available for use by the person in charge of the watch. This information card shall also be carried aboard the barge, mounted near the Warning Sign required by paragraph (e)(1) of this section, in such position as to be easily read by a man standing on the deck of the barge. The minimum card size shall be 7&#x2033; x 9&#x2033;. The card shall have legible printing on one side only. The card shall be laminated in clear plastic or otherwise made weatherproof. The following data shall be listed:
