
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 151-BARGES CARRYING BULK LIQUID HAZARDOUS MATERIAL CARGOES
##### Subpart 151.45-Operations
###### ยง 151.45-2 Special operating requirements.
####### Surveillance.

(f)During the time the cargo tanks contain any amount of liquid or gaseous dangerous cargoes requiring Type I or Type II barge hulls, the barge shall be under surveillance, as set forth in this paragraph:

(1) The licensed operator, person in command, and mate of a vessel towing a tank barge that need not be manned, and each of them, shall be responsible for monitoring the security and integrity of the tank barge and for ensuring adherence to proper safety precautions. These responsibilities include, but are not limited to-

(i) Ensuring that every tank barge added to the tow has all tank openings properly secured; has its freeing-ports and scuppers, if any, unobstructed; meets any loadline or freeboard requirements; and neither leaks cargo into the water, voids, or cofferdams nor leaks water into the tanks, voids, or cofferdams;

(ii) Ensuring that every tank barge in the tow is properly secured within the tow;

(iii) Ensuring that periodic checks are made of every tank barge in the tow for leakage of cargo into the water, voids, or cofferdams and for leakage of water into the tanks, voids, or cofferdams;

(iv) Knowing the cargo of every tank barge in the tow, all hazards associated with the cargo, and what to do on discovery of a leak;

(v) Ensuring that the crew of the vessel know the cargo of every tank barge in the tow, all hazards associated with the cargo, and what to do on discovery of a leak;

(vi) Reporting to the Coast Guard any leaks from a tank barge in the tow into the water, as required by 33 CFR 151.15; and

(vii) Ensuring that the crew of the vessel and other personnel in the vicinity of the tank barges in the tow follow the proper safety precautions for tank vessels, and that no activity takes place in the vicinity of the barges that could create a hazard.

(2) A towing vessel engaged in transporting such unmanned barges shall not leave them unattended. When a barge is moored, but not gas free, it shall be under the care of a watchman who may be a member of the complement of the towing vessel, or a terminal employee, or other person. This person shall be responsible for the security of the barge and for keeping unauthorized persons off the barge. Such person shall be provided with, read, and have in his possession for ready reference the information cards required by paragraph (e) of this section.

(g) All cargo hatches shall be closed, dogged down, or otherwise tightly secured.
