
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 11 - REQUIREMENTS FOR OFFICER ENDORSEMENTS
##### Subpart C - STCW Officer Endorsements
###### ยง 11.315 Requirements to qualify for an STCW endorsement as master of vessels of less than 500 GT (management level).

(a) To qualify for an STCW endorsement as master, an applicant must-

(1) Provide evidence of 36 months of seagoing service as OICNW on vessels operating in oceans, near-coastal waters, and/or Great Lakes; however, this period may be reduced to not less than 24 months if not less than 12 months of such seagoing service has been served as chief mate. Service on inland waters, bays, or sounds that are navigable waters of the United States may be substituted for up to 50 percent of the total required service. Experience gained in the engine department may be creditable for up to 3 months of the service requirements;

(2) Provide evidence of meeting the standard of competence specified in Section A-II/2 of the STCW Code (incorporated by reference, see ยง 11.102 of this part); and

(3) Provide evidence of having satisfactorily completed approved training in the following subject areas:

(i) Search and rescue.

(ii) Management of medical care.

(iii) Leadership and managerial skills.

(iv) ECDIS, if serving on a vessel with this equipment.

(v) ARPA, if serving on a vessel with this equipment.

(vi) GMDSS, if serving on a vessel with this equipment.

(b) For a renewal of an STCW endorsement as master of vessels of less than 500 GT to be valid on or after January 1, 2017, each candidate must provide evidence of successful completion of approved training in the following:

(1) Leadership and managerial skills.

(2) ECDIS, if serving on a vessel with this equipment.

(c) The Coast Guard may exempt an applicant from meeting any individual knowledge, understanding, and proficiency required in Section A-II/2 of the STCW Code. These exemptions must be approved by the Coast Guard based upon vessel type. Under these circumstances, the credential may include a corresponding limitation.

(d) Seafarers with one of the following national officer endorsements are eligible to apply for this endorsement upon completion of the requirements in the following table:
