
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 151-BARGES CARRYING BULK LIQUID HAZARDOUS MATERIAL CARGOES
##### Subpart 151.45-Operations
###### ยง 151.45-4 Cargo-handling.
####### Inspection prior to transfer of cargo.

(d)Prior to the transfer of cargo, the person in charge of the transfer operation shall inspect the barge and other cargo equipment to assure himself that the following conditions exist:

(1) The Certificate of Inspection is endorsed for the products to be loaded. Loading restrictions, if any, should be noted.

(2) Warning signs are displayed as required.

(3) Cargo information cards for the product are aboard.

(4) No repair work in way of cargo space is being carried out.

(5) Cargo connections and hatch covers conform with the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section and cargo valves are properly set.

(6) All connections for cargo transfer have been made to the vessel's fixed pipeline system.

(7) In transferring flammable or combustible cargoes, there are no fires or open flames present on the deck, or in any compartment which is located on, facing, open or adjacent to the part of the deck on which cargo connections have been made.

(8) The shore terminal or other tank vessel concerned has reported itself in readiness for transfer of cargo.

(9) All sea valves are properly set and those connected to the cargo piping are closed.

(10) When transferring flammable or combustible cargoes that a determination was made as to whether or not boiler and/or galley fires can be maintained with reasonable safety.
