
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 151-BARGES CARRYING BULK LIQUID HAZARDOUS MATERIAL CARGOES
##### Subpart 151.50-Special Requirements
###### ยง 151.50-5 Cargoes having toxic properties.
####### Piping.

(d)(1) The pumps and piping used for cargo transfer shall be independent of all other piping.

(2) Where multiple cargoes are carried, and the cargo piping conveying cargoes covered under this section are led through cargo tanks containing other products, the piping shall be encased in a tunnel.

(3) Where cargo lines handling other products, or bilge and ballast piping are led through tanks containing cargoes covered by this section, the piping shall be enclosed in a tunnel.

(e) Gravity type cargo tanks shall be fitted with an approved pressure-vacuum relief valve of not less than 2-inch size, which shall be set at a pressure of not less than 3 pounds per square inch gauge, but not in excess of the design pressure of the tank.

(f) The discharge fittings from each safety relief or pressure vacuum relief valve shall be directed in such a manner as to not impinge on another tank, piping or any other equipment which would increase the fire hazard should burning products be discharged from the safety or pressure vacuum relief valve as a result of a fire or other casualty. In addition, the discharges shall be directed away from areas where it is likely that persons might be working and as remote as practicable from ventilation inlets and ignition sources. A common discharge header may be employed if desired. The area near the discharge fittings shall be clearly marked as a hazardous area.

(g) A means shall be provided for either the reclamation or safe venting of vapors during the loading and unloading operations. For this purpose the safety relief or pressure vacuum relief valve shall be provided with a valved bypass to a vapor return line shore connection which shall be used whenever vapor return shore facilities are available. In the event vapors must be vented to the atmosphere, a vent riser shall extend at least 12 feet above the highest level accessible to personnel. The vent riser may be collapsible for ease of stowage when not in use. Vapor return lines or vent risers for tanks carrying the same class product may be connected to a common header system if desired. Tanks carrying cargoes covered by this section shall be vented independent of tanks carrying other products.

(h) The pump room ventilation outlet duct exhausts shall terminate at a distance of at least 6 feet above the enclosed space or pump room and at least 6 feet from any entrance to the interior part of the vessel. The discharge end of the exhaust ducts shall be located so as to preclude the possibility of recirculating contaminated air through the pump room, or other spaces where personnel may be present.
