
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 151-BARGES CARRYING BULK LIQUID HAZARDOUS MATERIAL CARGOES
##### Subpart 151.50-Special Requirements
###### ยง 151.50-10 Alkylene oxides.

(a) For the purpose of this part, alkylene oxides are considered to be ethylene oxide and propylene oxide.

(b) Alkylene oxides transported under the provisions of this part shall be acetylene free.

(c)(1) No other product may be transported in tanks certified for an alkylene oxide except that the Commandant may approve subsequent transportation of other products and return to alkylene oxide service if tanks, piping and auxiliary equipment are adequately cleaned to the satisfaction of the Marine Inspector.

(2) Unless authorized by the Commandant, no other kind of cargo except methane, ethane, propane, butane and pentane shall be on board a tank vessel certificated for the carriage of an alkylene oxide at the same time an alkylene oxide in either the liquid or vapor state is present in any cargo tank. Alkylene oxide tanks shall not be installed in tanks intended for any other cargo.

(d) All valves, flanges, fittings, and accessory equipment shall be of a type suitable for use with the alkylene oxides and shall be made of steel or stainless steel, or other materials acceptable to the Commandant. Impurities of copper, magnesium and other acetylide-forming metals shall be kept to a minimum. The chemical composition of all material used shall be submitted to the Commandant for approval prior to fabrication. Disks or disk faces, seats and other wearing parts of valves shall be made of stainless steel containing not less than 11 percent chromium. Mercury, silver, aluminum, magnesium, copper, and their alloys shall not be used for any valves, gauges, thermometers, or any similar devices. Gaskets shall be constructed of spirally wound stainless steel with "Teflon" or other suitable material. All packing and gaskets shall be constructed of materials which do not react spontaneously with or lower the autoignition temperature of the alkylene oxides.

(e) The pressure rating of valves, fittings, and accessories shall be not less than the maximum pressure for which the cargo tank is designed, or the shutoff head of the cargo pump, whichever is greater, but in no case less than 150 pounds per square inch. Welded fittings manufactured in accordance with A.N.S.I. Standards shall be used wherever possible, and the number of pipe joints shall be held to a minimum. Threaded joints in the cargo liquid and vapor lines are prohibited.

(f) The thermometer shall terminate in the liquid space and shall be attached to the shell by welding with the end of the fitting being provided with a gastight screwed plug or bolted cover.

(g) Automatic float continuous reading tape gauge, and similar types, shall be fitted with a shutoff valve located as close to the tank as practicable, which shall be designed to close automatically in the event of fracture of the external gauge piping. An auxiliary gauging device shall always be used in conjunction with an automatic gauging device.

(h) Filling and discharge piping shall extend to within 4 inches of the bottom of the tank or sump pit if one is provided.
