
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 151-BARGES CARRYING BULK LIQUID HAZARDOUS MATERIAL CARGOES
##### Subpart 151.50-Special Requirements
###### ยง 151.50-10 Alkylene oxides.
####### Venting.

(i)(1) The discharge fittings from each safety relief or pressure vacuum relief valve shall be directed in such a manner as to not impinge on another tank, piping or any other equipment which would increase the fire hazard should burning products be discharged from the safety or pressure vacuum relief valve as a result of a fire or other casualty. In addition, the discharges shall be directed away from areas where it is likely that persons might be working and as remote as practicable from ventilation inlets and ignition sources. A common discharge header may be employed if desired. The area near the discharge fittings shall be clearly marked as a hazardous area.

(2) A means shall be provided for either the reclamation or safe venting of vapors during the loading and unloading operations. For this purpose, the safety relief or pressure vacuum relief valve shall be provided with a valved bypass to a vapor return line shore connection which shall be used whenever vapor return shore facilities are available. In the event vapors must be vented to the atmosphere, a vent riser shall be connected to the vapor return line and extend at least 12 feet above the highest level accessible to personnel. The vent riser may be collapsible for ease of stowage when not in use. The vent riser shall not be connected to a safety relief or pressure vacuum valve. Vapor return lines or vent risers for tanks carrying the same class product may be connected to a common header system if desired. Tanks carrying alkylene oxides shall be vented independent of tanks carrying other products.

(3) The outlet of each vent riser shall be fitted with acceptable corrosion-resistant flame screen of suitable material or a flame arrester suitable for use with alkylene oxide.
