
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 151-BARGES CARRYING BULK LIQUID HAZARDOUS MATERIAL CARGOES
##### Subpart 151.50-Special Requirements
###### ยง 151.50-10 Alkylene oxides.
####### Ventilation.

(j)(1) All enclosed spaces within the hull shall be vented or ventilated in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter except as otherwise provided for in this subpart.

(2) The enclosed spaces in which the cargo tanks are located shall be inerted by injection of a suitable inert gas or shall be well ventilated.

(3) The enclosed spaces in which the cargo tanks are located, if an inerting system is not installed, shall be fitted with forced ventilation of such capacity to provide a complete change of air every three minutes and arranged in such a manner that any vapors lost into the space will be removed. The ventilation system shall be in operation at all times cargo is being loaded or discharged. No electrical equipment shall be fitted within the spaces or within ten feet of the ventilation exhaust from these spaces.

(4) All ventilation machinery shall be of nonsparking construction and shall not provide a source of vapor ignition.

(5) Each vent shall be fitted with a flame screen of corrosion resistant wire which is suitable for use with the alkylene oxide.

(k)(1) Flexible metal hose fabricated of stainless steel or other acceptable material, resistant to the action of the alkylene oxide, shall be fitted to the liquid and vapor lines during cargo transfer.

(2) The hose shall be marked with the maximum pressure guaranteed by the manufacturer, and with his certification with the words "Certified for __________ Oxide."

(3) Cargo hose intended for alkylene oxide service shall not be used for any other products except those which are compatible with the alkylene oxide.

(l) Vessel shall be electrically bonded to the shore piping prior to connecting the cargo hose. This electrical bonding shall be maintained until after the cargo hose has been disconnected and any spillage has been removed.

(m) Cargo shall be discharged by pumping or by displacement with nitrogen or other acceptable inert gas. In no case shall air be allowed to enter the system. During loading and unloading operations, the vapor shall not be discharged to the atmosphere. Provisions shall be made to return all displaced vapor to the loading facility. The loading rate and the pressure applied to the tank to discharge the cargo shall be so limited to prevent opening the safety relief valves.

(n) During cargo transfer, a water hose with pressure to the nozzle, when atmospheric temperatures permit, shall be connected to a water supply for immediate use during filling and discharge operations and any spillage of alkylene oxide shall be immediately washed away. This requirement can be met by facilities provided from shore.

(o) Prior to disconnecting shore lines, the pressure in the liquid and vapor lines shall be relieved through suitable valves installed at the loading header. The liquid and vapor discharged from these lines shall not be discharged to atmosphere.

(p) The safety relief valves shall be tested by liquid, gas, or vapor pressure at least once every 2 years to determine the accuracy of adjustment and, if necessary, shall be reset. Alkylene oxides shall not be used as the testing medium.

(q) The special requirements for ethylene oxide contained in ยง 151.50-12 and for propylene oxide contained in ยง 151.50-13 shall also be observed.
