
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 151-BARGES CARRYING BULK LIQUID HAZARDOUS MATERIAL CARGOES
##### Subpart 151.50-Special Requirements
###### ยง 151.50-13 Propylene oxide.

(a)(1) Pressure vessel cargo tanks shall meet the requirements of Class II pressure vessels.

(2) Cargo tanks shall be designed for the maximum pressure expected to be encountered during loading, storing and discharging the cargo but in no case shall the design pressure of pressure vessel tanks be less than thirty (30) pounds per square inch gauge. The tank shell and heads shall not be less than-inch thick.

(b) When propylene oxide is carried on board a vessel, piping systems in propylene oxide service shall not be used for any other product and shall be completely separate from all other systems. The piping system shall be designed so that no cross connection may be made through inadvertence.

(c) Each safety relief valve shall be set to start to discharge at not less than 30 pounds per square inch gauge, nor more than the design pressure of the tank.

(d) Filling density shall not exceed 80 percent.

(e)(1) The cargo shall be shipped under a suitable protective padding, such as nitrogen gas. Other gases proposed for use as padding may be given consideration by the Commandant. Original charging only of protective gas padding at the loading facility is not considered adequate. A sufficient amount of spare padding gas as approved by the Commandant shall be provided on the vessel in order to maintain the proper concentration of the gas in the event of normal leakage or other losses.

(2) Any padding gas selected should be at least 98 percent pure and free of reactive materials.

(f) Prior to loading, a sample from the cargo tank will be taken to insure that the pad gas will meet the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section and that the oxygen content of the vapor space will be not more than 2 percent maximum. If necessary, a sample will be taken after loading to insure the vapor space meets this requirement.

(g) The cargo piping shall be subjected to a hydrostatic test of 1times the maximum pressure to which they may be subjected in service.

(h) The Commandant may permit the transportation of propylene oxide in other than pressure vessel type tanks if it is shown to his satisfaction that a degree of safety is obtained consistent with the minimum requirements of this subpart.

(i) The provisions of ยง 151.50-10 shall be complied with as a requirement for shipping propylene oxide.
