
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 151-BARGES CARRYING BULK LIQUID HAZARDOUS MATERIAL CARGOES
##### Subpart 151.50-Special Requirements
###### § 151.50-22 Hydrochloric acid.

(a) Hydrochloric acid shall be carried in gravity or pressure type cargo tanks which are independent of the vessel's structure provided such tanks are lined with rubber or other equally suitable material acceptable to the Commandant. See § 151.15-3(f)(2).

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of § 151.50-20(b)(3), compressed air may be used to discharge hydrochloric acid from gravity type cargo tanks only if the tanks are of cylindrical shape with dished heads, provided the air pressure does not exceed the design pressure of the tank but in no case shall it exceed 10 pounds per square inch gauge. Such tanks shall be fitted with pressure relief devices and need not be vented to the atmosphere as required by § 151.50-20(b)(3).

(c) During cargo transfer, a water hose shall be connected to a water supply and be ready for immediate use. Any leakage or spillage of acid shall be immediately washed down. This requirement can be met by facilities provided from shore.

(d) Spent hydrochloric acid or hydrochloric acid adulterated by other chemicals, inhibitors, oils, solvents, water, etc., shall not be transported in bulk except upon authorization by the Commandant (CG-ENG).

(e) The requirements of § 151.50-20 are also applicable to the shipment of hydrochloric acid.
