
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 151-BARGES CARRYING BULK LIQUID HAZARDOUS MATERIAL CARGOES
##### Subpart 151.50-Special Requirements
###### ยง 151.50-30 Compressed gases.
####### Venting.

(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section each safety relief valve installed on a cargo tank shall be connected to a branch vent of a venting system which shall be constructed so that the discharge of gas will be directed vertically upward to a point at least 10 feet above the weatherdeck or the top of any tank or house located above the weatherdeck.

(2) Safety valves on cargo tanks in barges may be connected to individual or common risers which shall extend to a reasonable height above the deck. Where the escape of vapors from the venting system may interfere with towing operations, the installation shall be acceptable to the Commandant, and the arrangement shall be such as to minimize the hazard of escaping vapors. Arrangements specially provided for venting cargo tanks forming part of the hull on unmanned barges will be given special consideration by the Commandant.

(3) The capacity of branch vents or vent headers shall depend upon the number of cargo tanks connected to such branch or header as provided in Table 151.50-30(b)(3).

(4) Return bends and restrictive pipe fittings are prohibited. Vents and headers shall be so installed as to minimize stresses on safety relief valves and their mounting nozzles.

(5) When vent discharge risers are installed, they shall be so located as to protect against physical damage and be fitted with loose raincaps.

(6) When vent discharge risers are installed and their installation in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph results in restrictions in the operation of the barge due to navigation clearances, the vents may be designed so as to be collapsible when passing under such low clearance obstacles.
