
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 151-BARGES CARRYING BULK LIQUID HAZARDOUS MATERIAL CARGOES
##### Subpart 151.50-Special Requirements
###### ยง 151.50-31 Chlorine.
####### Design and construction of cargo tanks.

(b)(1) The cargo tanks shall meet the requirements of Class I pressure vessels.

(2) Tanks shall be designed for a pressure of not less than 300 pounds per square inch gauge. For the maximum allowable working pressure of tanks in service, see paragraph (q) of this section.

(3) Each tank shall be provided with one or more 24-inch inside diameter manhole, fitted with a cover located above the maximum liquid level and as close as possible to the top of the tank. There shall be no other openings in the tank.

(c) Tanks may be installed "on deck" or "under deck" with the tank protruding above deck. If a portion of the tank extends above the weatherdeck, provision shall be made to maintain the weathertightness on the deck. All tanks shall be installed with the manhole opening located above the weatherdeck. Hopper type barges operating on protected inland waters may have tanks located in the hopper space.

(d) All valves, flanges, fittings and accessory equipment shall be of a type suitable for use with chlorine and shall be made of metal, corrosion-resistant to chlorine in either the gas or liquid phase. Cast or malleable iron shall not be used. Valves, flanges, and flanged joints shall be 300 pounds A.N.S.I. standard minimum with tongue and groove or raised face. Joints shall be fitted with sheet lead or other suitable gasket material. Welded fittings shall be used wherever possible and the number of pipe joints held to a minimum. Threaded joints in cargo lines and vapor lines shall not be used in sizes above 1 inch internal diameter. Welded "hammerlock" unions or other unions approved by the Commandant may be used at terminal points of fixed barge piping.

(e) Each tank shall be provided with liquid and vapor connections fitted with manually operated shutoff valves and with safety relief valves. All valves shall be bolted to the cover or covers specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section and shall be protected against mechanical damage by a suitable protective metal housing. A drain connection shall be provided from the protective housing.

(f) All liquid and vapor connections, except safety relief valves, shall be fitted with automatic excess flow valves, which shall be located on the inside of the tank. Bypass openings are not permitted in excess flow valves.

(g) Chlorine barge cargo piping shall not be fitted with the nonreturn valves specified by ยง 151.20-20(b).

(h) Liquid level gauging devices of any type are prohibited on chlorine tanks.

(i) A pressure gauge shall be attached to the vapor shutoff valve or vapor line so as to indicate the pressure in the tank at all times during loading and unloading.

(j) Piping including connections between tank valves and fixed barge piping, shall be of a thickness of not less than Schedule 80.

(k) In multiple tank installations the tanks shall not be interconnected by piping or manifolds which may contain liquid chlorine. Manifolding of vapor lines of individual tanks into a common header for connection to shore is permitted. More than one cargo tank may be filled or discharged at a time, provided each tank is filled from or discharged to shore tanks through separate lines.

(l) Connections between fixed barge piping and shore piping shall be fabricated from one of the following:

(1) Schedule 80 seamless pipe, having flexible metallic joints.

(2) Corrosion-resistant metallic pipe (equivalent to Schedule 80) not subject to deterioration by chlorine, having flexible metallic joints.

(3) Flexible metallic hose acceptable to the Commandant. If paragraphs (k)(1) or (2) of this section are used, the flexible metallic joints shall meet the requirements for cargo hose. See ยง 151.04-5(h).

(m) Safety relief valves shall discharge into the protective housing surrounding the valves. Suitable provisions shall be made to vent the housing. The arrangement shall be such as to minimize the hazard of escaping vapors.
