
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 151-BARGES CARRYING BULK LIQUID HAZARDOUS MATERIAL CARGOES
##### Subpart 151.50-Special Requirements
###### ยง 151.50-31 Chlorine.
####### Cargo transfer operations.

(n)(1) The amount of chlorine loaded into each cargo tank shall be determined by weight. Draft marks shall not be used as a means of weighing. Any chlorine vapors vented during the filling operation shall be disregarded when calculating the maximum amount of chlorine to be loaded into the cargo tanks.

(2) Prior to the start of filling operations, care shall be exercised to insure that the cargo tanks are empty, dry, and free from foreign matter.

(3) After the filling operation is completed, the vapor in each cargo tank shall be analyzed to determine the percentage of gaseous chlorine in the vapor space. If it should contain less than 80 percent chlorine by volume, vapors shall be withdrawn through the vent or vapor line until the vapor in the cargo tanks contains at least 80 percent chlorine by volume.

(4) After filling connections are removed, upon completion of the loading of a cargo tank, all connections at the tank shall be tested for leakage of chlorine by the aqua ammonia method.

(5) The chlorine in the cargo tanks shall be discharged by the pressure differential method. If the vapor pressure of the chlorine is not sufficient to force the liquid out of the tank, compressed air, or other nonreactive gas, may be used to secure the desired rate of discharge, provided the air or gas is oil-free and thoroughly dried by passing it over activated aluminum oxide, silica gel, or other acceptable drying agent, and provided the supply pressure is limited to 75 percent of maximum allowable pressure of chlorine tanks.

(6) After completion of cargo transfer, any liquid chlorine in the cargo piping shall be removed and cargo transfer piping shall be disconnected at the cargo tanks. After disconnecting the cargo piping, both ends of the line shall be closed and all inlet and outlet valves on the tank shall be plugged or fitted with blind flanges.

(o) During cargo transfer, every person on the barge shall carry on his person a respiratory protective device which will protect the wearer against chlorine vapors and will provide respiratory protection for emergency escape from a contaminated area resulting from cargo leakage. This respiratory protective equipment shall be of such size and weight that the person wearing it will not be restricted in movement or in the wearing of a lifesaving device.

(p) During each internal inspection, each cargo tank must be tested hydrostatically to 1times the maximum allowable pressure as determined by the safety relief valve setting.

(q) During each internal inspection, each cargo tank excess flow valve and safety relief valve must be inspected and tested in accordance with paragraphs (g) and (i) of ยง 151.04-5 of this chapter.

(r) When periodic inspection indicates that a cargo tank has deteriorated in service, the maximum allowable pressure shall be recalculated, using the minimum thickness found by actual measurement. The recalculated maximum allowable pressure shall be not less than 275 pounds per square inch gauge. If the recalculated maximum allowable pressure is less than 275 pounds per square inch gauge, the cargo tanks shall be withdrawn from service.

(s) The following substances shall not be carried as stores on board barges transporting chlorine in bulk: hydrogen, methane, liquefied petroleum gases, coal gas, acetylene, ammonia, turpentine, compounds containing metallic powders, finely divided metals or finely divided organic materials.

(t) The requirements of ยง 151.50-30 for compressed gases are also applicable to the shipment of chlorine.
