
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 151-BARGES CARRYING BULK LIQUID HAZARDOUS MATERIAL CARGOES
##### Subpart 151.50-Special Requirements
###### ยง 151.50-32 Ammonia, anhydrous.

(a) The anhydrous ammonia tanks may be installed in the bulk liquid cargo tanks provided the liquid surrounding the enclosed anhydrous ammonia tanks complies with the following chemical and physical properties:

(1) Boiling point above 125 &#xB0;F atmospheric pressure.

(2) Inert to ammonia at 100 &#xB0;F at atmospheric pressure.

(3) Noncorrosive in the liquid and vapor phase to the ammonia tanks and piping.

(b) Copper, copper alloys, and copper bearing alloys shall not be used as materials of construction for tanks, pipelines, valves, fittings, and other items of equipment that may come in contact with anhydrous ammonia liquid or vapor.

(c) Valves, flanges and pipe fittings shall be of the tongue and groove or raised-face type, fitted with suitable gasket material. Welded fittings shall be used wherever possible and the number of pipe joints shall be held to a minimum. Threaded joints are not permitted for pipe diameters exceeding 2 inches. Brazed joints are prohibited.

(d) All enclosed spaces containing cargo tanks fitted with bottom outlet connections shall be provided with mechanical ventilation of sufficient capacity to assure a change of air every 3 minutes.

(e) Each cargo tank shall be electrically grounded to the hull.

(f) When transferring cargo, a hose shall be connected to a water supply so that if leakage of anhydrous ammonia occurs the vapor may be dispersed by the use of water fog. This requirement can be met by facilities provided from shore.

(g) During cargo transfer operations, every person on the vessel shall carry on his person or have close at hand at all times a canister mask approved for ammonia or each person shall carry on his person a respiratory protective device which will protect the wearer against ammonia vapors and will provide respiratory protection for emergency escape from a contaminated area resulting from cargo leakage. This respiratory protective equipment shall be of such size and weight that the person wearing it will not be restricted in movement or in the wearing of a lifesaving device.

(h) [Reserved]

(i) The requirements of ยง 151.50-30 for compressed gases are also applicable to the shipment of anhydrous ammonia.
