
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 151-BARGES CARRYING BULK LIQUID HAZARDOUS MATERIAL CARGOES
##### Subpart 151.50-Special Requirements
###### ยง 151.50-50 Elemental phosphorus in water.

(a) Tanks shall be designed and tested for a head equivalent to the design lading of phosphorus and its water blanket extended to 8 feet above the tank top. In addition, tank design calculations shall demonstrate that the tank can withstand, without rupture, a single loading to the highest level to which the water blanket may rise, if that exceeds 8 feet. Tanks shall not be less than-inch thick.

(b) When a water displacement method of discharge is used, pressure vessel type cargo tanks, designed and tested in accordance with Subchapter F of this chapter shall be employed. Such tanks shall be designed for the maximum pressure to which they may be subjected when water pressure is used to discharge the cargo.

(c) Each cargo tank shall be fitted with an approved pressure vacuum relief valve set to discharge at a pressure not exceeding 2 pounds per square inch. When transferring cargo, the vent discharge shall lead overboard above the waterline. When pressure vessel type tanks are used, each tank shall be fitted with a relief valve of suitable size.

(d) Sufficient outage shall be provided to prevent the tank from being liquid full at any time, but in no case shall the outage be less than 1 percent. When pressure vessel type tanks are used, outage need not be provided.

(e) The use of compressed air to discharge cargo is prohibited.

(f) Cargo shall be loaded at a temperature not exceeding 140 &#xB0;F, and then cooled until the water above the cargo has a temperature not exceeding 105 &#xB0;F prior to the movement of the vessel. Upon presentation of satisfactory proof that procedures followed will provide adequate safety in transportation and handling, the Commandant may authorize movement of the vessel following cooling of the water above the cargo to a temperature exceeding 105 &#xB0;F.

(g) Coils in which steam or hot water is circulated to heat the cargo so that it may be pumped shall be located outside the cargo tanks.

(h) A fixed ballast piping system (including a power driven pump of ample capacity), or other means acceptable to the Commandant shall be installed so that any void space surrounding the tanks may be flooded.

(i) All openings shall be in the top of the tank and shall be fitted with bolted cover plates and gaskets resistant to the attack of phosphorus pentoxide.

(j) All enclosed compartments containing cargo tanks shall be provided with effective means of ventilation.

(k) Cargo lines shall be traced with steam piping and secured thereto by lagging to prevent solidification of cargo during transfer operations.

(l) During cargo transfer, a water hose shall be connected to a water supply ready for immediate use, and any spillage of phosphorus shall be immediately washed down. This requirement can be met by facilities provided from shore.

(m) At least two fresh air masks or self-contained breathing apparatus shall be stowed on board the vessel at all times for use of personnel entering the tanks or adjacent spaces.

(n) Authorization from the Commandant (CG-ENG) shall be obtained to transport lading other than phosphorus in the cargo tanks or to have on board any other cargo when phosphorus is laden in the tanks.

(o) Mechanical ventilation of sufficient capacity to insure a change of air within the cargo tanks every 3 minutes shall be provided during the inspection and maintenance of the cargo tanks.

(p) Cargo tanks shall be electrically bonded to the hull of the barge. A vessel shall be electrically bonded to the shore piping prior to connecting the cargo hose. This electrical bonding shall be maintained until after the cargo hose has been disconnected.
