
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 151-BARGES CARRYING BULK LIQUID HAZARDOUS MATERIAL CARGOES
##### Subpart 151.50-Special Requirements
###### ยง 151.50-73 Chemical protective clothing.

When table 151.05 refers to this section, the following apply:

(a) The person in charge of cargo handling operations shall ensure that the following chemical protective clothing constructed of materials resistant to permeation by the cargo being handled is worn by all personnel engaged in an operation listed in paragraph (b) of this section:

(1) Splash protective eyewear.

(2) Long-sleeved gloves.

(3) Boots or shoe covers.

(4) Coveralls or lab aprons.

(b) The section applies during the following operations:

(1) Sampling cargo.

(2) Transferring cargo.

(3) Making or breaking cargo hose connections.

(4) Gauging a cargo tank, unless gauging is by closed system.

(5) Opening cargo tanks.

(c) Coveralls or lab aprons may be replaced by splash suits or aprons constructed of light weight or disposable materials if, in the judgment of the person in charge of cargo handling operations,

(1) Contact with the cargo is likely to occur only infrequently and accidentally; and

(2) The splash suit or apron is disposed of immediately after contamination.

(d) Splash protective eyewear must be tight-fitting chemical-splash goggles, face shields, or similar items intended specifically for eye protection from chemical splashing or spraying.

(e) The person in charge of cargo handling operations shall ensure that each person in the vicinity of an operation listed in the paragraph (b) of this section or in the vicinity of tanks, piping, or pumps being used to transfer the cargo wears splash protective eyewear under paragraph (d) of this section.
