
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 151-BARGES CARRYING BULK LIQUID HAZARDOUS MATERIAL CARGOES
##### Subpart 151.55-Special Requirements for Materials of Construction
###### § 151.55-1 General.

(a) This section provides special requirements for the materials of construction of equipment that may come into contact with various cargoes. Table 151.05 contains specific requirements for various cargoes.

(b) Copper, copper alloys, zinc, and aluminum shall not be used as materials of construction for tanks, pipelines, valves, fittings, and other items of equipment that may come in contact with the cargo liquid or vapor. (Equivalent to § 151.56-1(a),(b), and (c).)

(c) Copper, copper alloys, zinc, galvanized steel, and mercury shall not be used as materials of construction for tanks, pipelines, valves, fittings, and other items of equipment that may come in contact with the cargo liquid or vapor. (Equivalent to § 151.56-1(b),(c), and (g).)

(d) Aluminum, magnesium, zinc, and lithium shall not be used as materials of construction for tanks, pipelines, valves, fittings, and other items of equipment that may come in contact with the cargo liquid or vapor. (Equivalent to § 151.56-1(a),(c), and (d).)

(e) Copper and copper bearing alloys shall not be used as materials of construction for tanks, pipelines, valves, fittings, and other items of equipment that may come in contact with the cargo liquid or vapor. (Equivalent to § 151.56-1(b).)

(f) Aluminum or copper or alloys of either shall not be used as materials of construction for tanks, pipelines, valves, fittings, and other items of equipment that may come in contact with the cargo vapor or liquid. (Equivalent to § 151.56-1(a) and (b).)

(g) Aluminum, stainless steel, or steel covered with a suitable protective lining or coating shall be used as materials of construction for tanks, pipelines, valves fittings, and other items of equipment that may come in contact with the cargo liquid or vapor. (Equivalent to § 151.58-1(a).)

(h) Alkaline or acidic materials, such as caustic soda or sulfuric acid, should not be allowed to contaminate this cargo.

(i) For concentrations of 98 percent or greater, aluminum or stainless steel shall be used as materials of construction. For concentrations of less than 98 percent, 304L or 316 stainless steel shall be used as materials of construction.

(j) Zinc, alloys that have more than 10 percent zinc by weight, and aluminum may not be used as materials of construction for tanks, pipelines, valves, fittings, and other items of equipment that may come in contact with cargo liquid or vapor. (Equivalent to § 151.56-1(a) and (c).)
