
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 11 - REQUIREMENTS FOR OFFICER ENDORSEMENTS
##### Subpart C - STCW Officer Endorsements
###### ยง 11.335 Requirements to qualify for an STCW endorsement as an electro-technical officer on vessels powered by main propulsion machinery of 750 kW/1,000 HP or more (operational level).

(a) To qualify for an STCW endorsement as an electro-technical officer (ETO), an applicant must-

(1) Provide evidence of 36 months combined workshop skills training and approved seagoing service of which not less than 30 months must be seagoing service in the engine department of vessels. Experience gained in the deck department may be creditable for up to 3 months of the service requirements; or completion of an approved training program, that includes a combination of workshop skill training and seagoing service of not less than 12 months, and which meets the requirements of Section A-III/6 of the STCW Code (incorporated by reference, see ยง 11.102 of this part);

(2) Provide evidence of meeting the standard of competence specified in Section A-III/6 of the STCW Code;

(3) Provide evidence of having satisfactorily completed approved training in the following subject areas:

(i) Medical first-aid provider.

(ii) Basic and advanced firefighting in accordance with ยง 11.303 of this subpart.

(iii) Proficiency in survival craft and rescue boats other than fast rescue boats (PSC) or proficiency in survival craft and rescue boats other than lifeboats and fast rescue boats (PSC-limited); and

(4) Provide evidence of having satisfactorily completed approved professional training in the following subject areas:

(i) Onboard computer networking and security.

(ii) Radio electronics.

(iii) Integrated navigation equipment.

(iv) Ship propulsion and auxiliary machinery.

(v) Instrumentation and control systems.

(vi) High-voltage power systems.

(b) Any applicant who has served in a relevant capacity onboard a vessel for a period of not less than 12 months within the last 60 months must provide evidence of-

(1) Seagoing service; and

(2) Having achieved the standards of competence specified in Section A-III/6 of the STCW Code.

(c) An applicant who holds an STCW endorsement as OICEW, second engineer officer, or chief engineer officer will be allowed to receive the ETO endorsement upon completion of the requirements in Section A-III/6 of the STCW Code.

(d) An applicant who does not hold any other national or STCW endorsement will be issued, upon completion of the requirements in this section, the ETO endorsement without any corresponding national endorsement.
