
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 11 - REQUIREMENTS FOR OFFICER ENDORSEMENTS
##### Subpart D - Professional Requirements for National Deck Officer Endorsements
###### § 11.401 Ocean and near-coastal national officer endorsements.

(a) Subject to the provisions of §§ 11.464(e) and 11.465(b) of this subpart, any license or MMC endorsement for service as master or mate on ocean waters qualifies the mariner to serve in the same grade on any waters, except towing vessels upon western rivers subject to the limitations of the endorsement.

(b) Subject to the provisions of §§ 11.464(e) and 11.465(b) of this subpart, any license or MMC endorsement issued for service as master or mate on near-coastal waters qualifies the mariner to serve in the same grade on Great Lakes and inland waters, except towing vessels upon western rivers subject to the limitations of the endorsement.

(c) Near-coastal endorsements for unlimited tonnage require the same number of years of service as the ocean-unlimited endorsements. The primary differences in these endorsements are the nature of the service and the scope of the required training, examination, and assessment.

(d) A master or mate on vessels of 200 GRT or more, and a master or mate on vessels under 200 GRT, may be endorsed for sail or auxiliary sail as appropriate. The applicant must present the equivalent total service required for conventional officer endorsements, including at least 1 year of deck experience on that specific type of vessel. For example, for an officer endorsement as master of vessels of less than 1,600 GRT endorsed for auxiliary sail, the applicant must meet the total experience requirements for the conventional officer endorsement, including time as mate, and the proper tonnage experience, including at least 1 year of deck service, on appropriately sized auxiliary sail vessels. For an endorsement to serve on vessels of less than 200 GRT, see the individual endorsement requirements.

(e) Service toward an oceans, near-coastal or STCW endorsement will be credited as follows:

(1) Service on the Great Lakes will be credited on a day-for-day basis.

(2) Service on inland waters, other than Great Lakes, that are navigable waters of the United States, may be substituted for up to 50 percent of the total required service.

(3) Service on vessels to which STCW applies, whether inland or coastwise, will be credited on a day-for-day basis.
