
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 153-SHIPS CARRYING BULK LIQUID, LIQUEFIED GAS, OR COMPRESSED GAS HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
##### Subpart A-General
###### § 153.9 Foreign flag vessel endorsement application.
####### Application for a vessel whose flag administration does not issue IMO Certificates.

(b)A person who desires a Certificate of Compliance endorsed with the name of a cargo in Table 1 of this part, as described in § 153.900, must submit an application, in a written or electronic format, to Commanding Officer (MSC), Attn: Marine Safety Center, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7430, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7430, that includes the following information:

(1) A copy of the vessel's Cargo Ship Safety Construction Certificate and Cargo Ship Safety Equipment Certificate issued under the International Convention for Safety of Life at Sea, 1974.

(2) A list of those cargoes for which the Letter of Compliance is to be endorsed.

(3) The specific tanks that are to be endorsed for each cargo.

(4) The names of the U.S. ports in which the person anticipates operating the vessel.

(5) The name of the vessel's flag administration.

(6) The name of the society that classes the vessel.

(7) A brief description of the vessel's cargo containment systems.

(8) Hull type calculations.

(9) The plans and information listed in §§ 54.01-18, 56.01-10, 91.55-5 (a), (b), (d), (g), and (h), and 111.05-5(d) of this chapter.
