
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 153-SHIPS CARRYING BULK LIQUID, LIQUEFIED GAS, OR COMPRESSED GAS HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
##### Subpart B-Design and Equipment
###### Piping Systems and Cargo Handling Equipment
####### ยง 153.296 Emergency shutdown stations.

(a) Each tankship must have at least two emergency shutdown stations.

(b) One emergency shutdown station must be located forward of the deckhouse, in the after part of the weatherdeck in which the cargo tanks are located.

(c) A second emergency shutdown station must be located so that one of the two stations is accessible from any part of the weatherdeck if a break in a cargo piping system or hose causes spraying or leaking.

(d) Each emergency shutdown station must contain a single remote actuator for all quick closing shutoff valves required by this part.

(e) Each emergency shutdown station must have the controls necessary to stop all cargo pumps on the tankship.

(f) Any remote emergency actuator, such as that for a quick closing shut-off valve, a cargo pump, or a water spray system, must be of a type that will not defeat the operation of other remote emergency actuators. The emergency action must occur whether one or several actuators are operated.

(g) Each emergency shutdown station must be marked as described in ยง 153.955 (c), (d), and (e) with the legend "EMERGENCY SHUTDOWN STATION" so that the legend is visible from work areas in the part of the deck where the cargo containment systems are located.
