
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 11 - REQUIREMENTS FOR OFFICER ENDORSEMENTS
##### Subpart D - Professional Requirements for National Deck Officer Endorsements
###### ยง 11.412 Service requirements for master of ocean or near-coastal self-propelled vessels of less than 1,600 GRT.

(a) The minimum service required to qualify an applicant for an endorsement as master of ocean or near-coastal self-propelled vessels of less than 1,600 GRT is-

(1) Four years total service on ocean or near-coastal waters. Service on Great Lakes and inland waters may substitute for up to 2 years of the required service. Two years of the required service must have been on vessels of more than 100 GRT. Two years of the required service must have been as a master or mate of self-propelled vessels, or master or mate (pilot) of towing vessels, or equivalent position while holding a license or MMC endorsement as master or mate of self-propelled vessels, or master or mate (pilot) of towing vessels. One year of the service as master or mate of self-propelled vessels, or master or mate (pilot) of towing vessels, or equivalent position must have been on vessels of more than 100 GRT; or

(2) One year of service on vessels of more than 100 GRT on ocean or near-coastal waters as a master or mate of self-propelled vessels, or master or mate of towing vessels while holding a license or MMC endorsement as mate of ocean self-propelled vessels of less than 1,600 GRT or as master or mate of towing vessels.

(b) An applicant holding a license or MMC endorsement as chief mate of ocean or near-coastal self-propelled vessels of 1,600 GRT or more is eligible for this endorsement without further examination. An applicant holding a license or MMC endorsement as second mate of ocean or near-coastal self-propelled vessels of 1,600 GRT or more is eligible for this endorsement upon completion of a limited examination.

(c) A person holding this endorsement may qualify for an STCW endorsement, according to ยง 11.311 of this part.
