
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 153-SHIPS CARRYING BULK LIQUID, LIQUEFIED GAS, OR COMPRESSED GAS HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
##### Subpart B-Design and Equipment
###### Cargo Gauging Systems
####### ยง 153.408 Tank overflow control.

(a) When table 1 references this section, a cargo containment system must have a cargo high level alarm meeting ยง 153.409 and one of the following additional systems:

(1) A second high level (cargo overflow) alarm.

(2) A system that automatically stops cargo flow to the tank (automatic shutdown system).

(b) The high level alarm and the cargo overflow alarm or automatic shutdown system must:

(1) Be independent of one-another; and

(2) Operate on loss of power.

(c) The cargo overflow alarm or the automatic shutdown system must operate early enough to:

(1) Stop the loading operation before the cargo tank overflows; and

(2) Avoid surge pressures that exceed the working pressure specified in ยง 153.294(b).

(d) A tank overflow must be identified with the legend "TANK OVERFLOW ALARM" in lettering as specified for the warning sign in ยง 153.955.

(e) A tank overflow alarm must be audible and visible in that part of the deck where the containment systems are located and at the point where cargo loading is controlled on the tankship.

(f) The automatic shutdown system or tank overflow alarm must be able to be checked at the tank for proper operation (for example, by electrically simulating an overfill at the tank gauge connection).

(g) In this section, "independent" as applied to two systems means that one system will operate with a failure of any part of the other system except high level power sources and electrical feeder panels. Conduit need not be independent; the control wiring for several independent systems may be carried in a single conduit.
