
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 153-SHIPS CARRYING BULK LIQUID, LIQUEFIED GAS, OR COMPRESSED GAS HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
##### Subpart C-Operations
###### Documents and Cargo Information
####### ยง 153.907 Cargo information.

(a) The master shall ensure that the following information for each cargo carried under this part is readily available to those on the tankship engaged in cargo operations:

(1) The name of the cargo as listed in table 1.

(2) A description of the cargo's appearance and color.

(3) Hazards in handling the cargo.

(4) Any special handling procedures for the cargo, such as inerting.

(5) Procedures to follow if the cargo spills or leaks.

(6) Procedures for treating a person exposed to the cargo.

(7) A list of fire fighting procedures and extinguishing agents effective with cargo fires.

(8) Shipper's name.

(9) Loading point.

(10) Approximate quantity of cargo.

(11) Tank in which the cargo is located.

(12) The name of an agent in the United States authorized to accept service of legal process for the vessel.

(b) The master shall make sure that the following information for cargoes other than those carried under this part is readily available on the tankship:

(1) The name of the cargo as listed in Table 4 of Part 154 of this chapter or ยง 30.25-1 of this chapter if the cargo is listed in one of these two tables.

(2) The name of the cargo prescribed in the letter authorizing carriage of the cargo under ยง 153.900(d) if the cargo is a hazardous or flammable cargo authorized for carriage under that section.

(3) The shipper's name for the cargo and the name of the shipper if the cargo is neither a hazardous nor flammable cargo.
