
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 153-SHIPS CARRYING BULK LIQUID, LIQUEFIED GAS, OR COMPRESSED GAS HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
##### Subpart C-Operations
###### Documents and Cargo Information
####### ยง 153.908 Cargo viscosity and melting point information; measuring cargo temperature during discharge: Categories A, B, and C.

(a) The person in charge of the ship may not accept a shipment of a Category A, B, or C NLS cargo having a reference to this paragraph in the "Special Requirements" column of Table 1 unless the person has, from the cargo's manufacturer or the person listed as the shipper on the bill of lading, a written statement of the following:

(1) For Category A or B NLS, the cargo's viscosity at 20 &#xB0;C in mPa.s and, if the cargo's viscosity exceeds 25 mPa.s at 20 &#xB0;C, the temperature at which the viscosity is 25 mPa.s.

(2) For Category C NLS, the cargo's viscosity at 20 &#xB0;C in mPa.s and, if the cargo's viscosity exceeds 60 mPa.s at 20 &#xB0;C, the temperature at which the viscosity is 60 mPa.s. If the cargo's viscosity varies from shipment to shipment, the maximum viscosity and maximum temperature values may be supplied.

(b) The person in charge of the ship may not accept a shipment of a Category A, B, or C cargo having a reference to this paragraph in the "Special Requirements" column of Table 1 unless the person has a written statement of the cargo's melting point in &#xB0;C from the cargo's manufacturer or the person listed as the shipper on the bill of lading. If the cargo's melting point varies from shipment to shipment, the highest melting point may be supplied.

(c) The person in charge of the ship shall ensure that the cargo temperature is read and recorded in the Cargo Record Book following the procedures in paragraph (d) of this section when a cargo having a reference to paragraph (a) or (b) of this section in the "Special Requirements" column of Table 1 is unloaded.

(d) The cargo temperature measured in paragraph (c) of this section must be made using the following procedure:

(1) Each reading must be made with the sensor or thermometer required by ยง 153.440(a)(3) or (c). If a portable thermometer is used, it must be located as prescribed for the temperature sensor in ยง 153.440(a)(3).

(2) A total of 2 readings must be made, the first reading to be made no more than 30 minutes after cargo transfer begins and the second reading no more than 30 minutes before the main cargo pump is shut down.

(3) The cargo's temperature is the average of the 2 readings made under paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
