
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 153-SHIPS CARRYING BULK LIQUID, LIQUEFIED GAS, OR COMPRESSED GAS HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
##### Subpart C-Operations
###### Documents and Cargo Information
####### § 153.909 Completing the Cargo Record Book and record retention: Categories A, B, C, and D.

(a) The person in charge of a ship shall ensure that the Cargo Record Book required under § 153.490 is completed immediately after any of the following occurs:

(1) An NLS cargo is loaded.

(2) An NLS cargo is transferred between tanks on a ship.

(3) An NLS cargo is unloaded from a tank.

(4) A tank that last carried an NLS cargo is prewashed under this part.

(5) A tank that last carried an NLS cargo is washed, except as reported under paragraph (a)(4) of this section, cleaned, or ventilated.

(6) Washings from a tank that last carried an NLS cargo are discharged to the sea.

(7) Tanks that last carried an NLS cargo are ballasted.

(8) Ballast water is discharged to the sea from a cargo tank that last carried an NLS.

(9) An NLS cargo or NLS residue is discharged to the sea by accident or except as allowed by this part.

(10) A Surveyor is present during an operation that this part requires the presence of a Surveyor.

(11) NLS residue or NLS cargo is transferred from cargo pumproom bilges or transferred to an incinerator.

(12) A waiver is issued to the ship, ship owner, ship operator, or person in charge of the ship under this part.

(13) The concentration of a Category A NLS residue is measured under § 153.1120(a).

(14) Any discharge recording equipment required by § 153.481(b)(2) fails.

(b) The person in charge of the ship shall ensure that the Cargo Record Book is on board and readily available for inspection and copying by the Coast Guard and when the ship is a U.S. ship in the waters of a foreign country whose Administration is signatory to MARPOL 73/78, the authorities of that country.

(c) Each officer in charge of an operation listed under paragraph (a) of this section, and each Surveyor observing an operation that this part requires the presence of a Surveyor, shall attest to the accuracy and completeness of each Cargo Record Book entry concerning those operations by signing after each entry.

(d) After all the entries on a page of the Cargo Record Book are completed, and if the person in charge of the ship agrees with the entries, the person in charge of the ship shall sign the bottom of that page.

(e) The ship owner or operator shall ensure that-

(1) Each Cargo Record Book is retained on board the ship for at least 3 years after the last entry; and

(2) Each discharge recording required by § 153.1126(b)(1) is retained on board the ship for at least three years.
