
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 153-SHIPS CARRYING BULK LIQUID, LIQUEFIED GAS, OR COMPRESSED GAS HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
##### Subpart C-Operations
###### Marking of Cargo Transfer Hose
####### ยง 153.940 Standards for marking of cargo hose.

No person may mark a hose assembly as meeting the standards of this section unless the hose assembly meets the following requirements:

(a) Each hose assembly must have:

(1) Fully threaded connections;

(2) Flanges that meet ANSI B16.5, B16.24, or B16.31; or

(3) Class 1 quick-disconnect couplings that comply with ASTM F 1122 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 153.4), and are marked "C1-1."

(b) Each hose assembly must be marked with the:

(1) Date of manufacture;

(2) Working pressure described in paragraph (d) of this section;

(3) Date of the last test made as prescribed in paragraph (e) of this section; and

(4) Manufacturer's recommended maximum and minimum temperatures.

(c) A cargo hose assembly must have a minimum bursting pressure as stated by the manufacturer of at least 5152 kPa gauge (approx. 750 psig).

(d) The working pressure marked on a hose must meet the following:

(1) Be at least 1030 kPa gauge (approx. 150 psig).

(2) Not exceeded 20 per cent (one-fifth) of the manufacturer's stated bursting pressure.

(3) Not exceed the manufacturer's recommended working pressure.

(4) Not exceed the test pressure used in the latest test under paragraph (e)(3) of this section.

(e) A cargo hose assembly must be inspected and tested by placing it in a straight, horizontal position so that its entire external surface is accessible. It must be ascertained that the hose assembly:

(1) Has no loose covers, kinks, bulges, soft spots, and no gouges, cuts, or slashes that penetrate any hose reinforcement;

(2) Has no external and, to the extent internal inspection is possible with both ends of the hose open, no internal deterioration; and

(3) Does not burst, bulge, leak, or abnormally distort under static liquid pressure at least as great as the recommended working pressure.
