
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 153-SHIPS CARRYING BULK LIQUID, LIQUEFIED GAS, OR COMPRESSED GAS HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
##### Subpart C-Operations
###### Cargo Transfer Procedures
####### ยง 153.975 Preparation for cargo transfer.

The person in charge of cargo transfer may not approve or continue cargo transfer unless the following conditions are met:

(a) No fires or open flames are on deck or in compartments near the hose connections when Table 1 requires the cargo's containment system to have a fire protection system.

(b) Any electrical bonding of the tankship to the transfer facility is made before the cargo transfer piping is joined.

(c) Any supplemental inert gas supply necessary to maintain the 3.5 kPa gauge (approx. 0.5 psig) pressure in the tank during offloading (see ยง 153.500) is connected to the inert gas pressure control system.

(d) The transfer connections have enough slack to allow for vessel movement.

(e) The transfer connections are supported by tackles.

(f) The cargo high level alarms, tank overflow alarms and overflow control systems are functioning correctly when the cargo is loaded.

(g) Joints and couplings are gasketed and mated tightly.

(h) Flanges are bolted tightly.

(i) No repair work is underway in areas where cargo or cargo vapors may collect.

(j) Cargo and sea valves are properly set, with those sea valves connected to cargo piping lashed or sealed shut.

(k) Venting system bypass valves are set for cargo transfer and are operating properly.

(l) All scuppers are plugged.

(m) Smoking is limited to safe places.

(n) Fire fighting and safety equipment is ready.

(o) He is in effective communication with the transfer terminal.

(p) The person in charge of the transfer terminal has acknowledged that he is ready to transfer.

(q) Pressures within the cargo transfer and containment systems do not exceed the pressure ranges for which the transfer hose and containment systems are designed.

(r) No vessels that would hazard cargo transfer are alongside the tankship.
