
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 11 - REQUIREMENTS FOR OFFICER ENDORSEMENTS
##### Subpart D - Professional Requirements for National Deck Officer Endorsements
###### ยง 11.427 Requirements for mate of near-coastal self-propelled vessels of less than 200 GRT.

(a) The minimum service required to qualify for the endorsement as mate of near-coastal self-propelled vessels of less than 200 GRT is-

(1) Twelve months of total service in the deck department of ocean or near-coastal self-propelled, sail, or auxiliary sail vessels. Service on Great Lakes and inland waters may substitute for up to 6 months of the required service; or

(2) Three months of service in the deck department of self-propelled vessels operating on ocean, near-coastal, Great Lakes, or inland waters while holding a license or MMC endorsement as master of inland self-propelled, sail, or auxiliary sail vessels of less than 200 GRT.

(b) The holder of a license or MMC endorsement as operator of uninspected passenger vessels with a near-coastal route endorsement may obtain this endorsement by successfully completing an examination on rules and regulations for small passenger vessels.

(c) To obtain this officer endorsement for sail or auxiliary sail vessels, the applicant must submit evidence of 6 months of deck service on sail or auxiliary sail vessels.

(d) A license or MMC endorsement as master of near-coastal self-propelled vessels may be endorsed as mate of sail or auxiliary sail vessels upon presentation of 3 months of service on sail or auxiliary sail vessels.

(e) To obtain a tonnage endorsement for 100 GRT or more, the applicant must complete the additional examination topics indicated in subpart I of this part.

(f) Holders of this endorsement are considered to be in compliance with the STCW Convention (incorporated by reference, see ยง 11.102) while operating within the limitations of this endorsement.
