
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 153-SHIPS CARRYING BULK LIQUID, LIQUEFIED GAS, OR COMPRESSED GAS HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
##### Subpart C-Operations
###### Approval of Surveyors and Handling of Categories A, B, C, and D Cargo and NLS Residue
####### ยง 153.1101 Procedures for getting a Surveyor: Approval of Surveyors.

(a) At least 24 hours before a Surveyor is needed, the person wishing the services of a Surveyor must contact the Captain of the Port or the Sector Office that has jurisdiction over the port at which the Surveyor will be needed to-

(1) Arrange for the Coast Guard to provide a Surveyor; or

(2) Inform the Coast Guard of the selection of a Surveyor from one of the organizations accepted by the Coast Guard to provide Surveyors.

(b) Organizations may be accepted by the Coast Guard to provide Surveyors if they-

(1) Are engaged, as a regular part of their business, in performing inspections or tests of bulk liquid cargo tanks or bulk liquid cargo handling equipment;

(2) Are familiar with the references in ยง 153.0(b) and with the requirements of this part;

(3) Are not controlled by the owners or operators of ships needing the services of the Surveyors or the facilities at which those ships would unload cargo;

(4) Are not dependent on Coast Guard acceptance under this section to remain in business; and

(5) Sign a Memorandum of Understanding with the Coast Guard.

(c) Each application for acceptance as a Surveyor must be submitted to the Commandant (CG-ENG) and must contain the following:

(1) The name and address of the organization, including subsidiaries and divisions, requesting acceptance by the Coast Guard to provide Surveyors.

(2) A statement that the organization is not controlled by the owners or operators of ships needing the services of Surveyors or the facilities at which these ships would unload, or a full disclosure of any ownership or controlling interest held by such parties.

(3) A description of the experience and qualifications of the personnel who would be performing the function of Surveyor.

(4) A statement that the persons who will be performing the function of Surveyor have been trained in and are familiar with the requirements of Annex II and the regulations in this part.

(5) A statement that the Coast Guard may verify the information submitted in the application and may examine the persons who will be performing the function of Surveyor to determine their qualifications.

(d) The acceptance of an organization may be terminated by the Commandant if the organization fails to properly perform or supervise the inspections required in this part.
