
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 153-SHIPS CARRYING BULK LIQUID, LIQUEFIED GAS, OR COMPRESSED GAS HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
##### Subpart C-Operations
###### Approval of Surveyors and Handling of Categories A, B, C, and D Cargo and NLS Residue
####### § 153.1120 Procedures for tank prewash: Categories A, B, and C.

Except where the approved Procedures and Arrangements Manual prescribes a different procedure, each of the following steps must be done in the order listed for the Coast Guard to consider the tanks prewashed under this part:

(a) When this part requires a prewash of a tank containing Category A NLS residue and the alternative prewash procedure in paragraph (b) of this section is not used, the prewash must meet the following:

(1) The prewash may not begin until-

(i) A Surveyor is present; and

(ii) Instrumentation or equipment is available that is capable of measuring the concentration of the Category A NLS in the NLS residue and determining whether it is below 0.1 per cent by weight.

(2) The equipment specified in § 153.484 must be used as prescribed in the approved Procedures and Arrangements Manual for the prewash.

(3) The wash water must be heated if required by § 153.1108, and water or tank washings must pass through the cargo pump and piping, including any stripping equipment, during washing or during discharge of tank washings.

(4) The tank washing machine must be placed in all positions specified for the tank's Category A NLS prewash procedure in the approved Procedures and Arrangements Manual.

(5) The tank must be pumped out each time there are enough tank washings collected in the bottom of the tank for the pump to gain suction, and if the NLS is immiscible with water or is a solidifying cargo, all floating and suspended NLS must be discharged.

(6) The washing machine must be operated until samples of the discharged tank washings taken by the Surveyor are tested using the equipment required by paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section and the concentration of NLS is below 0.1 per cent by weight.

(7) After the washing is stopped, the remaining tank washings must be pumped out.

(8) The Cargo Record Book must have items 12 through 14 completed and must show the Surveyor's written certification of their accuracy.

(9) The Cargo Record Book must have the Surveyor's written concurrence that the prewash procedures specified in the approved Procedures and Arrangements Manual were followed.

(b) When this part requires a prewash of a tank containing Category B or C NLS residue or when the procedure in this paragraph is used as an alternative to the prewash procedure under paragraph (a) of this section, the prewash must meet the following:

(1) If the prewash is for a Category A NLS, the prewash may not begin until a Surveyor is present.

(2) The equipment specified in § 153.484 must be used as prescribed in the approved Procedures and Arrangements Manual for the prewash.

(3) The wash water must be heated if required by § 153.1108, and water or tank washings must pass through the cargo pump and piping, including any stripping equipment, during washing or during discharge of tank washings.

(4) Except as required in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, the number of washing machine cycles specified in Table 153.1120 must be completed. If a prewash is required by a section listed under Column 1 of Table 153.1120 and another section listed under Column 2, the number of cycles in Column 1 must be completed but no additional cycles are necessary.

(5) If the approved Procedures and Arrangements Manual specifies that a tank washing machine must be moved for the prewash of a tank from which a Category A NLS or a solidifying NLS has been unloaded, the number of washing machine cycles specified in Table 153.1120 must be completed at each position to which the washing machine is moved.

(6) When the NLS is immiscible with water or is a solidifying cargo, the tank must be pumped out each time enough tank washings collect in the bottom of the tank for the pump to gain suction, or the procedures in paragraphs (b)(3), (b)(4), and (b)(5) of this section must be repeated two additional times with the tank pumped out each time, for a total of three washings.

(7) Items 12 through 14 in the Cargo Record Book must be completed and, if the prewash is for a Category A NLS, verification that the procedures specified in the approved Procedures and Arrangements Manual were followed shown by the Surveyor's endorsement in the Cargo Record Book.
