
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 11 - REQUIREMENTS FOR OFFICER ENDORSEMENTS
##### Subpart D - Professional Requirements for National Deck Officer Endorsements
###### ยง 11.430 Endorsements for the Great Lakes and inland waters.

(a) Any officer endorsement issued for service on Great Lakes and inland waters self-propelled vessels, excluding towing vessels, is valid on all of the inland waters of the United States as defined in ยง 10.107 of this subchapter.

(b) Any officer endorsement issued for service on inland waters self-propelled vessels, excluding towing vessels, is valid for the inland waters of the United States, excluding the Great Lakes.

(c) Any officer endorsement issued for service on inland waters or an inland route is valid for service on the sheltered waters of the Inside Passage between Puget Sound and Cape Spencer, Alaska.

(d) Because these officer endorsements authorize service on waters seaward of the International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea (COLREGS) demarcation lines, as defined in 33 CFR part 80, the applicant must complete an examination on the COLREGS or the endorsement will exclude such waters.

(e) To obtain a master or mate endorsement with a tonnage limit of 200 GRT or more, whether an original, raise of grade, or increase in the scope of authority, the applicant must meet the training requirements in ยง 11.201(h) and (i) of this part and successfully complete radar observer training in ยง 11.480 of this part.

(f) Figure 11.430(f) illustrates the deck officer endorsement structure, including crossover points, for Great Lakes and inland waters service. The section numbers on the diagram refer to the specific requirements applicable.
