
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 153-SHIPS CARRYING BULK LIQUID, LIQUEFIED GAS, OR COMPRESSED GAS HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
##### Subpart D-Test and Calculation Procedures for Determining Stripping Quantity, Clingage NLS Residue, and Total NLS Residue
###### § 153.1602 Test procedure for determining the stripping quantity.

(a) The stripping quantity of a tank must be determined by testing the tank under the procedures in paragraph (b) of this section unless the Coast Guard agrees under the provisions of § 153.10 to accept the stripping quantity, previously determined under paragraph (b) of this section, of a tank having similar geometry, internal structure, and piping system.

(b) When testing a tank for stripping quantity, the owner or operator of the ship shall proceed as follows:

(1) Make arrangements with the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, for a Coast Guard Marine Inspector to witness the stripping test.

(2) Clean and gas free the tanks to be tested.

(3) Determine the least favorable values of list and trim for drainage within the range allowed by the approved Procedures and Arrangements Manual.

(4) Maintain the ship's list and trim during the test to that determined under paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(5) Load the tank with enough water so that unloading the water simulates the final stages of unloading a full tank of cargo.

(6) Pump out the water and strip the tank using the procedures specified in the approved Procedures and Arrangements Manual.

(7) After shutting the manifold valve, open any cargo pump foot valve to allow water trapped in the cargo pump to drain into the tank.

(8) Open all valves in the piping system except the manifold valve and allow the water to drain into the tank.

(9) Squeegee or sweep the water drained under paragraphs (b)(7) and (b)(8) of this section and any water that stands in puddles on the tank floor to the tank's low point or sump and collect in the container required by § 153.1600(b) using the equipment required in § 153.1600(e).

(10) With the manifold valve still closed, drain any water remaining in the piping system on the ship's side of the cargo transfer manifold valve into containers, and add this water to that collected from the tank under paragraph (b)(9) of this section. Water collected from a cargo line serving a block of tanks may be prorated between all the tanks it serves if-

(i) The ship owner requests, under the provisions of § 153.10, that the water be prorated; and

(ii) The ship's approved Procedures and Arrangements Manual specifies that no tank in the block be washed until all the tanks in the block have been discharged.

(c) Include any water that is trapped in dead end pipe sections, either by-

(1) Draining the pipe sections and adding the water to that collected in the container under paragraphs (b)(9) and (b)(10) of this section; or

(2) Adding an estimate of the water's volume to the sum calculated in paragraph (d) of this section using the pipe's dimensions, the ship's list and trim, and the geometry of the piping system.

(d) Measure the volume of water collected in the container under paragraphs (b)(9), (b)(10), and (c)(1) of this section and add to that volume the volume, if any, estimated under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
