
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 154-SAFETY STANDARDS FOR SELF-PROPELLED VESSELS CARRYING BULK LIQUEFIED GASES
##### Subpart A-General
###### § 154.22 Foreign flag vessel: Certificate of Compliance endorsement application.

(a) A person who desires an endorsed Certificate of Compliance to meet § 154.1802(a) of this part for a foreign flag vessel, whose flag administration issues IMO Certificates, must submit to the Commanding Officer (MSC), Attn: Marine Safety Center, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7430, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7430, in a written or electronic format, an application that includes the following:

(1) The vessel's valid IMO Certificate.

(2) A description of the vessel.

(3) Specifications for the cargo containment system.

(4) A general arrangement plan of the vessel.

(5) A midship section plan of the vessel.

(6) Schematic plans of the liquid and vapor cargo piping.

(7) A firefighting and safety plan.

(8) If the applicant is requesting an endorsement for the carriage of ethylene oxide, a classification society certification that the vessel meets § 154.1725(a) (4), (5), and (7).

(9) If the vessel is a new gas vessel, or an existing vessel that does not meet § 154.12 (b), (c), or (d)-

(i) A certification from a classification society that the vessel-

(A) Has enhanced grades of steel meeting § 154.170 (b)(1) and (b)(2) for crack arresting purposes in the deck stringer, sheer strake, and bilge strake; and

(B) Meets § 154.701, or if the vessel carries methane, meets § 154.703, by having the capability of cargo tank pressure and temperature control without venting; and

(ii) The vessel's valid SOLAS Cargo Ship Safety Construction Certificate and Cargo Ship Safety Equipment Certificate.

(10) Any additional plans, certificates, and information needed by the Commanding Officer, Marine Safety Center to determine whether or not the vessel meets this part.

(b) A person who desires an endorsed Certificate of Compliance to meet § 154.1802(b) for a foreign flag vessel, whose flag administration does not issue IMO Certificates, must submit to the Commanding Officer, Marine Safety Center the plans, calculations, and information under § 154.15(b).
