
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 11 - REQUIREMENTS FOR OFFICER ENDORSEMENTS
##### Subpart D - Professional Requirements for National Deck Officer Endorsements
###### ยง 11.454 Requirements for mate of Great Lakes and inland self-propelled vessels of less than 200 GRT.

(a) The minimum service required to qualify an applicant for an endorsement as mate of Great Lakes and inland self-propelled vessels of less than 200 GRT is 6 months of service in the deck department of self-propelled vessels. To obtain authority to serve on the Great Lakes, 3 months of the required service must have been on Great Lakes waters; otherwise the endorsement will be limited to the inland waters of the United States (excluding the Great Lakes).

(b) To obtain an endorsement for sail or auxiliary sail vessels, the applicant must submit evidence of 3 months of service on sail or auxiliary sail vessels.

(c) A mariner holding an endorsement as master of self-propelled vessels may be endorsed as mate of sail or auxiliary sail vessels upon presentation of 3 months service on sail or auxiliary sail vessels.

(d) The holder of a license or MMC endorsement as operator of inland uninspected passenger vessels may obtain this endorsement by successfully completing an examination on rules and regulations for small passenger vessels. To obtain authority to serve on the Great Lakes, 3 months of the required service must have been on Great Lakes waters; otherwise the endorsement will be limited to the inland waters of the United States (excluding the Great Lakes).

(e) To obtain a tonnage endorsement for 100 GRT or more, the applicant must complete the additional examination topics indicated in subpart I of this part.
