
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 11 - REQUIREMENTS FOR OFFICER ENDORSEMENTS
##### Subpart D - Professional Requirements for National Deck Officer Endorsements
###### § 11.463 General requirements for national endorsements as master, mate (pilot), and apprentice mate (steersman) of towing vessels.

(a) The Coast Guard issues the following endorsements for towing vessels:

(1) Master of towing vessels.

(2) Master of towing vessels, limited.

(3) Mate (pilot) of towing vessels.

(4) Apprentice mate (steersman).

(5) Apprentice mate (steersman), limited.

(b) An endorsement as master of towing vessels means an endorsement to operate towing vessels not restricted to local areas designated by OCMIs. This also applies to a mate (pilot) of towing vessels.

(c) For this section, "limited" means an endorsement to operate a towing vessel of less than 200 GRT only within a local area on the Great Lakes, inland waters, or Western Rivers designated by the OCMI.

(d) Mariners who met the training and service requirements for towing vessels before May 21, 2001, and have maintained a valid Coast Guard-issued credential may obtain a towing endorsement if they meet the following:

(1) Demonstrate at least 90 days of towing service before May 21, 2001.

(2) Provide evidence of successfully completing the apprentice mate exam, its predecessor exam, or a superior exam.

(3) Meet the renewal requirements in § 10.227(e)(6)(i) of this subchapter.

(e) Mariners who operated towing vessels in the offshore oil and mineral industry prior to October 15, 2010, may obtain a towing endorsement until December 24, 2018 as follows:

(1) Mariners who held officer endorsements as operator of uninspected towing vessels (OUTV) or mate or master of inspected self-propelled vessels may qualify for a towing endorsement if they meet the following:

(i) Provide evidence of at least 90 days of service on towing vessels in the offshore oil and mineral industry prior to October 15, 2010.

(ii) Provide evidence of successfully completing the apprentice mate (steersman) examination, its predecessor exam, or a superior exam.

(iii) Meet the renewal requirements in § 10.227(e)(6) of this subchapter.

(2) Mariners who have not held any of the officer endorsements listed in paragraph (e)(1) of this section may qualify for an endorsement as master of towing vessels if they meet the following:

(i) Provide evidence of at least 48 months of service on towing vessels in the offshore oil and mineral industry prior to October 15, 2010.

(ii) Successfully complete the appropriate apprentice mate (steersman) exam.

(3) Mariners who have not held any of the officer endorsements listed in paragraph (e)(1) of this section may qualify for an endorsement as mate of towing vessels if they meet the following:

(i) Provide evidence of at least 36 months of service on towing vessels in the offshore oil and mineral industry prior to October 15, 2010.

(ii) Successfully complete the appropriate apprentice mate (steersman) exam.

(f) Deck officers who serve on the following seagoing vessels must comply with the requirements of §§ 11.309 and 11.311 of this subpart for the appropriate STCW endorsement:

(1) A towing vessel on an oceans voyage operating beyond near-coastal waters.

(2) A towing vessel on an international voyage.

(3) A towing vessel of 200 GRT or more on a domestic, near-coastal voyage.

(g) Endorsements as mate (pilot) or master of towing vessels may be issued with a restriction to specific types of towing vessels and/or towing operations such as articulated tug barge (ATB) vessels that do not routinely perform all of the tasks identified in the Towing Officer Assessment Record (TOAR).

(h) Figure 11.463(h) illustrates the towing officer endorsement structure, including crossover points. The section numbers on the diagram refer to the specific requirements applicable.
