
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 154-SAFETY STANDARDS FOR SELF-PROPELLED VESSELS CARRYING BULK LIQUEFIED GASES
##### Subpart C-Design, Construction and Equipment
###### Electrical
####### ยง 154.1010 Electrical equipment in gas-dangerous space or zone.

(a) Except as allowed in this section, electrical equipment must not be installed in a gas-dangerous space or zone.

(b) Intrinsically safe electrical equipment and wiring may be in a gas-dangerous space or zone.

(c) A submerged cargo pump motor may be in a cargo tank if:

(1) Low liquid level, motor current, or pump discharge pressure automatically shuts down power to the pump motor if the pump loses suction;

(2) There is an audible and visual alarm at the cargo control station that actuates if the motor shuts down under the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section; and

(3) There is a lockable circuit breaker or lockable switch that disconnects the power to the motor.

(d) A supply cable for a submerged cargo pump motor may be in a hold space.

(e) A hold space that has a tank that is not required to have a secondary barrier under ยง 154.459 may only have:

(1) Through runs of cable;

(2) Explosion-proof lighting fixtures;

(3) Depth sounding devices in gas-tight enclosures;

(4) Log devices in gas-tight enclosures; and

(5) Impressed current cathodic protection system electrodes in gas-tight enclosures.

(f) A space that is separated by a gastight steel boundary from a hold space that has a cargo tank that must have a secondary barrier, under the requirements of ยง 154.459, may only have:

(1) Through runs of cable;

(2) Explosion-proof lighting fixtures;

(3) Depth sounding devices in gastight enclosures;

(4) Log devices in gastight enclosures;

(5) Impressed current cathodic protection system electrodes in gastight enclosures;

(6) Explosion-proof motors that operate cargo system valves or ballast system valves; and

(7) Explosion-proof bells for general alarm systems.

(g) A cargo handling room may only have:

(1) Explosion-proof lighting fixtures; and

(2) Explosion-proof bells for general alarm systems.

(h) A space for cargo hose storage may only have:

(1) Explosion-proof lighting fixtures; and

(2) Through runs of cable.

(i) A space that has cargo piping may only have:

(1) Explosion-proof lighting fixtures; and

(2) Through runs of cable.

(j) A gas-dangerous zone on the weather deck may only have:

(1) Explosion-proof equipment that is for the operation of the vessel; and

(2) Through runs of cable.

(k) A space, except those under paragraphs (e) through (j) of this section, that has a direct opening to a gas-dangerous space or zone may only have the electrical equipment allowed in the gas-dangerous space or zone.
