
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 11 - REQUIREMENTS FOR OFFICER ENDORSEMENTS
##### Subpart D - Professional Requirements for National Deck Officer Endorsements
###### ยง 11.467 Requirements for a national endorsement as operator of uninspected passenger vessels of less than 100 GRT.

(a) This section applies to an applicant for the endorsement to operate an uninspected vessel of less than 100 GRT, equipped with propulsion machinery of any type, carrying six or fewer passengers.

(b) An endorsement as OUPV for near-coastal waters limits the holder to service on domestic, near-coastal waters not more than 100 miles offshore, the Great Lakes, and all inland waters. Endorsements issued for inland waters include all inland waters except the Great Lakes. Endorsements may be issued for a particular local area under paragraph (f) or paragraph (g) of this section.

(c) For an endorsement as OUPV on near-coastal waters, an applicant must have a minimum of 12 months of experience in the operation of vessels, including at least 3 months of service on vessels operating on ocean or near-coastal waters.

(d) For an endorsement as OUPV on the Great Lakes and inland waters, an applicant must have 12 months of service on Great Lakes or inland waters, including at least 3 months of service operating vessels on Great Lakes waters.

(e) For an endorsement as OUPV on inland waters, an applicant must have a minimum of 12 months of experience in the operation of vessels.

(f) A limited OUPV endorsement may be issued to an applicant to be employed by organizations such as formal camps, yacht clubs, educational institutions, and marinas. An endorsement issued under this paragraph will be limited to the specific activity and the locality of the camp, yacht club, or marina. In order to obtain this restricted endorsement, an applicant must-

(1) Have 3 months of service in the operation of the type of vessel for which the endorsement is requested;

(2) Satisfactorily complete a safe-boating course approved by the National Association of State Boating Law Administrators, or those public education courses conducted by the U.S. Power Squadron or the American National Red Cross or a Coast Guard-approved course; and

(3) Pass a limited examination appropriate for the activity to be conducted and the route authorized.

(4) Hold the first aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) course certificates required by ยง 11.201(i) of this part when, in the opinion of the Coast Guard, the geographic area over which service is authorized precludes obtaining medical services within a reasonable time.

(g) Restricted OUPV endorsements may be issued to applicants to be employed on inland navigable waters. An endorsement under this paragraph will be limited to specific bodies of water that have been approved by the cognizant OCMI. In order to obtain this endorsement, the applicant must be qualified for the endorsement under this section; however, the OCMI may modify the service and examination requirements as follows:

(1) At least 3 months of service in the operation of the type of vessel and on each body of water for which the endorsement is requested.

(2) Satisfactorily pass an examination appropriate for the activity to be conducted and the waters authorized.

(h) An applicant for an officer endorsement as OUPV who speaks Spanish, but not English, may be issued an officer endorsement restricted to the navigable waters of the United States in the vicinity of Puerto Rico.
