
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Certain Bulk Dangerous Cargoes
#### PART 154-SAFETY STANDARDS FOR SELF-PROPELLED VESSELS CARRYING BULK LIQUEFIED GASES
##### Subpart C-Design, Construction and Equipment
###### Safety Equipment
####### § 154.1400 Safety equipment: All vessels.

(a) Instead of the equipment under § 35.30-20 of this chapter, a vessel of less than 25,000 mcargo capacity must have the following personnel safety equipment:

(1) Six self-contained, pressure-demand-type, air-breathing apparatus approved by the Mining Enforcement and Safety Administration (MESA) or the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), each having at least a 30 minute capacity.

(2) Nine spare bottles of air for the self-contained air-breathing apparatus, each having at least a 30 minute capacity.

(3) Six steel-cored lifelines.

(4) Six Type II or Type III flashlights constructed and marked in accordance with ASTM F 1014 (incorporated by reference, see § 154.1).

(5) Three fire axes.

(6) Six helmets that meet ANSI Safety Requirements for Industrial Head Protection, Z-89.1 (1969).

(7) Six sets of boots and gloves that are made of rubber or other electrically non-conductive material.

(8) Six sets of goggles that meet the specifications of ANSI Practice for Occupational and Educational Eye and Face Protection, Z-87.1 (1979).

(9) Three outfits that protect the skin from scalding steam and the heat of a fire, and that have a water resistant outer surface.

(10) Three chemical protective outfits that protect the wearers from the particular personnel hazards presented by the cargo vapor.

(b) Instead of the equipment under § 35.30-20 of this chapter, a vessel of 25,000 mcargo capacity or more must have the following personnel safety equipment:

(1) Eight self-contained, pressure-demand-type, air-breathing apparatus approved by the Mining Enforcement and Safety Administration (MESA) or the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), each having at least a 30 minute capacity.

(2) Nine spare bottles of air for the self-contained air-breathing apparatus, each having at least a 30 minute capacity.

(3) Eight steel-cored lifelines.

(4) Eight Type II or Type III flashlights constructed and marked in accordance with ASTM F 1014 (incorporated by reference, see § 154.1).

(5) Three fire axes.

(6) Eight helmets that meet ANSI Safety Requirements for Industrial Head Protection, Z-89.1 (1969).

(7) Eight sets of boots and gloves that are made of rubber or other electrically non-conductive material.

(8) Eight sets of goggles that meet the specifications of ANSI Practice for Occupational and Educational Eye and Face Protection, Z-87.1 (1979).

(9) Five outfits that protect the skin from scalding steam and the heat of a fire, and that have a water resistant outer surface.

(10) Three chemical protective outfits that protect the wearers from the particular personnel hazards presented by the cargo vapor.

(c) When Table 4 references this section, a vessel carrying the listed cargo must have the following additional personnel protection equipment:

(1) Three self-contained, pressure-demand-type, air-breathing apparatus approved by the Mining Enforcement and Safety Administration (MESA) or the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), each having at least a 30 minute capacity.

(2) Nine spare bottles of air for the self-contained air-breathing apparatus, each having at least a 30 minute capacity.

(3) Three steel-cored lifelines.

(4) Three Type II or Type III flashlights constructed and marked in accordance with ASTM F 1014 (incorporated by reference, see § 154.1).

(5) Three helmets that meet ANSI Safety Requirements for Industrial Head Protection, Z-89.1 (1969).

(6) Three sets of boots and gloves that are made of rubber or other electrically non-conductive material.

(7) Three sets of goggles that meet the specifications of ANSI Practice for Occupational and Educational Eye and Face Protection, Z-87.1 (1979).

(8) Three chemical protective outfits that protect the wearers from the particular personnel hazards presented by the cargo vapor.
