
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 11 - REQUIREMENTS FOR OFFICER ENDORSEMENTS
##### Subpart D - Professional Requirements for National Deck Officer Endorsements
###### ยง 11.474 National officer endorsements as ballast control operator.

(a) To qualify for an endorsement as ballast control operator (BCO), an applicant must-

(1) Present evidence of one of the following:

(i) One year of employment assigned to MODUs, including at least 28 days of service as a trainee under the supervision of an individual holding a license or MMC endorsement as ballast control operator.

(ii) A degree from a program in engineering or engineering technology that is accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET). The National Maritime Center will give consideration to accepting education credentials from programs having other than ABET accreditation. An applicant qualifying through a degree program must also have at least 28 days of service as a trainee under the supervision of an individual holding a license or MMC endorsement as ballast control operator; and

(2) Present evidence of training course completion as follows:

(i) A certificate from a Coast Guard-approved stability course approved for barge supervisor or ballast control operator.

(ii) A certificate from a Coast Guard-approved survival suit and survival craft training course.

(iii) A certificate from a firefighting training course as required by ยง 11.201(h) of this part.

(b) An applicant for an endorsement as BCO who holds an unlimited license or MMC endorsement as master, mate, chief engineer, or assistant engineer must satisfy the requirements in paragraph (a)(2) of this section and have at least 28 days of service as a trainee under the supervision of an individual holding an endorsement as BCO.
