
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 11 - REQUIREMENTS FOR OFFICER ENDORSEMENTS
##### Subpart D - Professional Requirements for National Deck Officer Endorsements
###### ยง 11.480 Radar observer.

(a) This section contains the requirements that an applicant must meet to qualify as a radar observer.

(b) If an applicant meets the requirements of this section, one of the following radar observer endorsements will be added to his or her MMC:

(1) Radar observer (unlimited).

(2) Radar observer (inland waters and Gulf Intracoastal waterways (GIWW)).

(3) Radar observer (rivers).

(c) Radar observer (unlimited) is valid on all waters. Radar observer (inland waters and GIWW) is valid only for those waters other than the Great Lakes covered by the Inland Navigational Rules. Radar observer (rivers) is valid only on any river, canal, or similar body of water designated by the OCMI, but not beyond the boundary line.

(d) Except as provided by paragraphs (f) or (g) of this section, each applicant for a radar observer endorsement or for renewal of a radar observer endorsement must complete the appropriate course approved by the Coast Guard, receive the appropriate certificate of training, and present the certificate or a copy of the certificate to the Coast Guard in person, by mail, fax, or other electronic means.

(e) A radar observer endorsement issued under this section is valid until the expiration of the mariner's MMC.

(f) A mariner may also renew his or her radar observer endorsement by providing evidence of meeting the requirements in 46 CFR 10.227(e)(1)(v).

(g) The Coast Guard will accept on-board training and experience through acceptable documentary evidence of 1 year of relevant sea service within the last 5 years in a position that routinely uses radar for navigation and collision avoidance purposes on vessels equipped with radar as meeting the refresher or re-certification requirements of paragraph (d) of this section. This also applies to mariners applying for raises of grade or new endorsements under 46 CFR 10.231.

(h) An applicant for renewal of an MMC who does not provide evidence of meeting the renewal requirements of paragraph (d), (f), or (g) of this section will not have a radar observer endorsement placed on his or her MMC.
