
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 11 - REQUIREMENTS FOR OFFICER ENDORSEMENTS
##### Subpart E - Professional Requirements for National Engineer Officer Endorsements
###### ยง 11.501 Grades and types of national engineer endorsements issued.

(a) National engineer endorsements are issued in the grades of-

(1) Chief engineer;

(2) First assistant engineer;

(3) Second assistant engineer;

(4) Third assistant engineer;

(5) Chief engineer (limited);

(6) Assistant engineer (limited);

(7) Designated duty engineer;

(8) Chief engineer uninspected fishing industry vessels;

(9) Assistant engineer uninspected fishing industry vessels;

(10) Chief engineer (MODU);

(11) Assistant engineer (MODU);

(12) Chief engineer (OSV); and

(13) Assistant engineer (OSV).

(b) Engineer endorsements issued in the grades of chief engineer (limited) and assistant engineer (limited) of steam, motor, and/or gas turbine-propelled vessels allow the holder to serve within any propulsion power limitations on vessels of unlimited tonnage on inland waters and of less than 1,600 GRT in ocean, near-coastal, or Great Lakes service in the following manner:

(1) Chief engineer (limited) may serve on oceans and near-coastal waters.

(2) Assistant engineer (limited) may serve on ocean and near-coastal waters.

(c) Engineer licenses or MMC endorsements issued in the grades of designated duty engineer of steam, motor, and/or gas turbine-propelled vessels allow the holder to serve within stated propulsion power limitations on vessels of less than 500 GRT in the following manner:

(1) Designated duty engineers limited to vessels of less than 1,000 HP or 4,000 HP may serve only on near-coastal or inland waters.

(2) Designated duty engineers-unlimited may serve on any waters.

(d) An engineer officer's license or MMC endorsement authorizes service on steam, motor, or gas turbine-propelled vessels or may authorize all modes of propulsion.

(e) A person holding an engineer license or MMC endorsement that is restricted to near-coastal waters may serve within the limitations of the license or MMC upon near-coastal, Great Lakes, and inland waters.
