
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 159-APPROVAL OF EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
##### Subpart 159.005-Approval Procedures
###### § 159.005-5 Preapproval review: Contents of application.

(a) Each application must contain the following:

(1) The name and address of the manufacturer and the factory where the finished equipment or material is produced.

(2) One or more of the following as required by the applicable subpart:

(i) Two sets of general plans of the equipment or material.

(ii) Two sets of specifications of the equipment or material.

(iii) A sample of the equipment or material accompanied by a written description of its components.

(3) A statement signed by the manufacturer or the manufacturer's representative, that an official representative of the Coast Guard is allowed access to the place of manufacture and to the place of test to verify the information submitted in the application or to witness tests.

(4) If the material submitted under paragraph (a)(2) of this section contains confidential commercial information that could cause substantial competitive harm if released to the public, a statement to the effect that the material is considered privileged and confidential under exemption (b)(4) of the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), and that it should not be released to anyone other than the original submitter.

(b) If the equipment or material is required by the subpart to be inspected and tested by an independent laboratory, the application must contain the following additional information:

(1) The name and address of a laboratory that meets § 159.010-3(a) and that is selected by the manufacturer to perform or supervise the inspections and tests.

(2) If the laboratory has not been accepted previously for inspecting and testing the manufacturer's equipment or material under the applicable subpart, the completed application under § 159.010-5(a).
