
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 159-APPROVAL OF EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
##### Subpart 159.005-Approval Procedures
###### § 159.005-11 Approval inspection or test report: Contents.

(a) Each approval inspection or test report must contain the following:

(1) The name of the manufacturer.

(2) If the inspections or tests are performed or supervised by an independent laboratory, the name and address of the laboratory.

(3) The trade name, product designation (such as model numbers), and a brief description of the equipment or material inspected or tested.

(4) The time, date, and place of each approval inspection and test.

(5) The name and title of each person performing, supervising, and witnessing the approval inspections or tests.

(6) The performance data for each test required in the applicable subpart, including a description of each failure.

(7) A description or photographs of the procedures and apparatus used in the inspections or tests, or a reference to another document that contains an appropriate description or photographs.

(8) At least one photograph that shows an overall view of the equipment or material submitted for approval and other photographs that show-

(i) Design details; and

(ii) Each occurrence of damage or deformation to the equipment or material that occurred during the approval tests.

(b) Each inspection or test report must bear an attestation that the inspections or tests were conducted as required by the applicable subpart and that the report contains no known errors, omissions, or false statements. The attestation must be signed by:

(1) The manufacturer or manufacturer's representative, if the inspection or tests are conducted by the manufacturer; or

(2) The chief officer of the laboratory, or the chief officer's representative, if the inspection or tests were conducted by an independent laboratory.
