
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 11 - REQUIREMENTS FOR OFFICER ENDORSEMENTS
##### Subpart E - Professional Requirements for National Engineer Officer Endorsements
###### ยง 11.503 Propulsion power limitations for national endorsements.

(a) Engineer endorsements of all grades and types may be subject to propulsion power limitations. Other than as provided in ยง 11.524 of this subpart for the designated duty engineer (DDE), the propulsion power limitation placed on a license or MMC endorsement is based on the applicant's qualifying experience considering the total shaft propulsion power of each vessel on which the applicant has served.

(b) When an applicant for an original or raise of grade of an engineer endorsement, other than a DDE, has not obtained at least 50 percent of the required experience on vessels of 4,000 HP/3,000 kW or more, a propulsion power limitation is placed on the MMC based on the applicant's qualifying experience. The endorsement is limited to the maximum propulsion power on which at least 25 percent of the required experience was obtained, or 150 percent of the maximum propulsion power on which at least 50 percent of the service was obtained, whichever is higher. Limitations are in multiples of 1,000 HP/750 kW, using the next higher figure when an intermediate horsepower is calculated. When the limitation as calculated equals or exceeds 10,000 HP/7,500 kW, an unlimited propulsion power endorsement is issued.

(c) The following service on vessels of 4,000 HP/3,000 kW or more will be considered qualifying for raising or removing the propulsion power limitations placed on an engineer endorsement:

(1) Six months of service in the highest-grade endorsed: Removal of all propulsion power limitations.

(2) Six months of service as an engineer officer in any capacity other than the highest grade for which the applicant is licensed or endorsed: Removal of all propulsion power limitations for the grade in which service is performed and raised to the next higher grade endorsement to the propulsion power of the vessel on which service was performed. The total cumulative service before and after issuance of the limited engineer endorsement may be considered in removing all propulsion power limitations.

(3) Twelve months of service as oiler or junior engineer while holding a license or MMC endorsement as third assistant engineer or assistant engineer (limited): Removal of all propulsion power limitations on third assistant engineer or assistant engineer's (limited) endorsement.

(4) Six months of service as oiler or junior engineer while holding a license or MMC endorsement as second assistant engineer: removal of all propulsion power limitations on third assistant engineer's endorsement.

(d) Raising or removing propulsion power limitations based on service required by paragraph (c) of this section may be granted without further written examination, if the Coast Guard considers further examination unnecessary.
