
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 159-APPROVAL OF EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
##### Subpart 159.010-Independent Laboratory: Acceptance, Recognition, and Termination
###### § 159.010-5 Independent laboratory: Application for acceptance.

(a) Each application for acceptance of an organization as an independent laboratory must contain the following:

(1) The name and address of the organization.

(2) A list of the equipment or material that the organization would inspect, or test, or both, under this subchapter.

(3) A description of the organization's experience and its qualifications for conducting the inspections and tests required in the applicable subpart.

(4) A description of the apparatus and facilities available to the organization for conducting those inspections and tests.

(5) If instruments are used in the required tests and inspections, a description of the instrument calibration program applying to those instruments.

(6) The position titles of personnel who are to perform, supervise, or witness those inspections or tests, along with the training and experience required for personnel in those positions.

(7) A statement signed by the chief officer of the organization or the chief officer's representative, that an official representative of the Coast Guard is allowed access upon request to the place where tests and inspections take place, to verify the information submitted in the application, or to witness tests and inspections.

(b) Each application for acceptance as an independent laboratory that is not submitted by an agency of a state or another national government, or by a classification society, must also contain the following:

(1) The name and address of each subsidiary and division of the organization, or a statement that none are involved in the testing or manufacturing of equipment approved under this subchapter.

(2) The name, title, address, and principal business activity of each of the organization's officers and directors, and the name, address, and principal business activity of each person, company, or corporation that owns at least three-percent interest in the organization or in a company or corporation that controls the organization.
