
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.001-Life Preservers, General
###### § 160.001-3 Procedure for approval.
####### General.

(a)Designs of life preservers are approved only by the Commandant, U.S. Coast Guard. Manufacturers seeking approval of a life preserver design shall follow the procedures of this section and subpart 159.005 of this chapter.

(b) Each application for approval of a life preserver must contain the information specified in § 159.005-5 of this chapter. The application and, except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d)(2) of this section, a prototype life preserver must be submitted to the Commandant for preapproval review. If a similar design has already been approved, the Commandant may waive the preapproval review under §§ 159.005-5 and 159.005-7 of this chapter.

(c) If the life preserver is of a standard design, as described by subpart 160.002, 160.005, or 160.055, the application:

(1) Must include the following: A statement of any exceptions to the standard plans and specifications, including drawings, product description, construction specifications, and/or bill of materials.

(2) Need not include: The information specified in § 159.005-5(a)(2).

(d) If the life preserver is of a non-standard design, the application must include the following:

(1) Plans and specifications containing the information required by § 159.005-12 of this chapter, including drawings, product description, construction specifications, and bill of materials.

(2) The information specified in § 159.005-5(a)(2) (i) through (iii) of this chapter, except that, if preapproval review has been waived, the manufacturer is not required to send a prototype PFD sample to the Commandant.

(3) Performance testing results of the design performed by an independent laboratory, that has a Memorandum of Understanding with the Coast Guard under § 159.010-7 of this subchapter covering the in-water testing of personal flotation devices, showing equivalence to the standard design's performance in all material respects.

(4) Any special purpose(s) for which the life preserver is designed and the vessel(s) or vessel type(s) on which its use is intended.

(5) Buoyancy and other relevant tolerances to be complied with during production.

(6) The text of any optional marking to be included on the life preserver in addition to the markings required by the applicable approval subpart.

(7) For any conditionally approved life preserver, the intended approval condition(s).

(e) The description of quality control procedures required by § 159.005-9 of this chapter may be omitted if the manufacturer's planned quality control procedures meet the requirements of those accepted by the Commandant for the independent laboratory performing production inspections and tests.
