
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 11 - REQUIREMENTS FOR OFFICER ENDORSEMENTS
##### Subpart E - Professional Requirements for National Engineer Officer Endorsements
###### § 11.524 Service requirements for national endorsement as designated duty engineer (DDE) of steam, motor, and/or gas turbine-propelled vessels.

(a) DDE endorsements are issued in three levels of propulsion power limitations dependent upon the total service of the applicant and completion of an appropriate examination. These endorsements are limited to vessels of less than 500 GRT on certain waters as specified in § 11.501 of this subpart.

(b) The service requirements for endorsements as DDE are-

(1) For designated duty engineer of steam, motor, and/or gas turbine-propelled vessels of unlimited propulsion power, the applicant must have 3 years of service in the engineroom. Eighteen months of this service must have been as a qualified member of the engine department or equivalent position;

(2) For designated duty engineer of steam, motor, and/or gas turbine-propelled vessels of less than 4,000 HP/3,000 kW, the applicant must have 2 years of service in the engineroom. One year of this service must have been as a qualified member of the engine department or equivalent position; and

(3) For designated duty engineer of steam, motor, and/or gas turbine-propelled vessels of less than 1,000 HP/750 kW, the applicant must have 1 year of service in the engineroom. Six months of this service must have been as a qualified member of the engine department or equivalent position.

(c) A person holding this endorsement may qualify for an STCW endorsement, according to §§ 11.325, 11.327, 11.329, and 11.331 of this part.
