
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.010-Buoyant Apparatus for Merchant Vessels
###### § 160.010-1 Incorporation by reference.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(a) Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. To enforce any edition other than that specified in this section, the Coast Guard must publish notice of change in theand the material must be available to the public. All approved material is available for inspection at Coast Guard Headquarters. Contact Commandant (CG-ENG-4), Attn: Lifesaving and Fire Safety Division, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7509, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7509. You may also inspect this material at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030 or go toYou may obtain copies of the material from the sources specified in the following paragraphs.

(b) General Services Administration, Federal Acquisition Service, Office of the FAS Commissioner, 2200 Crystal Drive, 11th Floor, Arlington, VA 22202, 703-605-5400.

(1) Federal Standard 595C, Colors Used in Government Procurement, (January 16, 2008), IBR approved for § 160.010-4 ("FED-STD-595C").

(2) [Reserved]
