
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 11 - REQUIREMENTS FOR OFFICER ENDORSEMENTS
##### Subpart E - Professional Requirements for National Engineer Officer Endorsements
###### § 11.542 Endorsement as chief engineer (MODU).

(a) To qualify for an endorsement as chief engineer (MODU) an applicant must-

(1) Present evidence of one of the following:

(i) Six years of employment assigned to MODUs, including 3 years of employment as mechanic, motorman, subsea engineer, electrician, barge engineer, toolpusher, unit superintendent, crane operator, or equivalent. Eighteen months of that employment must have been assigned to self-propelled or propulsion assisted units.

(ii) Two years of employment assigned to MODUs as an assistant engineer (MODU). Twelve months of that employment must have been assigned to self-propelled or propulsion assisted units; and

(2) Present evidence of completion of a firefighting training course as required by § 11.201(h) of this part.

(b) If an applicant successfully completes an examination and possesses the total required sea service for an endorsement as chief engineer (MODU), but does not possess the required sea service onboard self-propelled or propulsion assisted units, the Coast Guard may issue the applicant an endorsement limited to non-self-propelled units. The Coast Guard may remove the limitation upon presentation of satisfactory evidence of the required self-propelled sea service and completion of any additional required examination.

(c) A person holding this endorsement may qualify for an STCW endorsement, according to §§ 11.325, 11.327, and 11.331 of this part.
