
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 11 - REQUIREMENTS FOR OFFICER ENDORSEMENTS
##### Subpart E - Professional Requirements for National Engineer Officer Endorsements
###### § 11.544 Endorsement as assistant engineer (MODU).

(a) To qualify for an endorsement as assistant engineer (MODU) an applicant must-

(1) Present evidence of one of the following experience:

(i) Three years of employment assigned to MODUs including 18 months of employment as mechanic, motorman, subsea engineer, electrician, barge engineer, toolpusher, unit superintendent, crane operator, or equivalent. Nine months of that employment must have been assigned to self-propelled or propulsion assisted unit.

(ii) Three years of employment in the machinist trade engaged in the construction or repair of diesel engines and 1 year of employment assigned to MODUs in the capacity of mechanic, motorman, oiler, or equivalent. Nine months of that employment must have been assigned to self-propelled or propulsion assisted units.

(iii) A degree from a program in marine, mechanical, or electrical engineering technology that is accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET). The National Maritime Center will give consideration to accepting education credentials from programs having other than ABET accreditation. An applicant qualifying through a degree program must also have at least 6 months of employment in any of the capacities listed in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section aboard self-propelled or propulsion-assisted units; and

(2) Present evidence of completion of a firefighting training course as required by § 11.201(h) of this part.

(b) If an applicant successfully completes an examination and possesses the total required sea service for an endorsement as an assistant engineer (MODU), but does not possess the required sea service onboard self-propelled or propulsion assisted units, the Coast Guard may issue the applicant an endorsement limited to non-self-propelled units. The Coast Guard may remove the limitation upon presentation of the satisfactory evidence of the required self-propelled sea service and completion of any additional required examination.

(c) A person holding this endorsement may qualify for an STCW endorsement, according to §§ 11.329 and 11.333 of this part.
