
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 11 - REQUIREMENTS FOR OFFICER ENDORSEMENTS
##### Subpart E - Professional Requirements for National Engineer Officer Endorsements
###### § 11.555 Assistant engineer (OSV).

(a) The minimum service required to qualify an applicant for an endorsement as assistant engineer (OSV) of unlimited propulsion power is-

(1) Three years of service in the engineroom. Eighteen months of this service must have been as a qualified member of the engine department (QMED) or equivalent position; or

(2) One year of total service as part of an approved or accepted assistant engineer (OSV) training program.

(b) The minimum service required to qualify an applicant for an endorsement as assistant engineer (OSV) of less than 4,000 HP/3,000 kW, is 2 years of service in the engineroom. One year of this service must have been as a QMED or equivalent position.

(c) The minimum service required to qualify an applicant for an endorsement as assistant engineer (OSV) of less than 1,000 HP/750 kW is 1 year of service in the engineroom. Six months of this service must have been as a QMED or equivalent position.

(d) A person holding an endorsement as assistant engineer (OSV) may qualify for an STCW endorsement, according to §§ 11.329 and 11.333 of this part.

(e) The Coast Guard may exempt an applicant from meeting any requirement under STCW Regulation III/1 (incorporated by reference, see § 11.102 of this part) that the Coast Guard determines to be inappropriate or unnecessary for service on an OSV, or that the applicant meets under the equivalency provisions of Article IX of STCW.
