
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.021-Hand Red Flare Distress Signals
###### § 160.021-4 Approval and production tests.
####### Sampling procedure and accept/reject criteria.

(1)A sample of signals must be selected at random from the lot. The size of the sample must be the individual sample size in Table 160.021-4(c)(1) corresponding to the lot size. Each signal in the sample is tested as prescribed in the test procedure in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Each signal that has a defect listed in the table of defects (Table 160.021-4(c)(2)) is assigned a score (failure percent) in accordance with that table. In the case of multiple defects, only the score having the highest numerical value is assigned to that signal. If the sum of all the failure percents (cumulative failure percent) for the number of units in the sample is less than or equal to the accept criterion, the lot is accepted. If the cumulative failure percent falls between the accept and reject criteria, another sample is selected from the production lot and the operational tests are repeated. The cumulative failure percent of each sample tested is added to that of the previous samples to obtain the cumulative failure percent for all the signals tested (cumulative sample size). Additional samples are tested and the tests repeated until either the accept or reject criterion for the cumulative sample size is met. If any signal in the sample explodes when fired or ignited in a way that could burn or otherwise injure the person firing it, the lot is rejected without further testing. (This procedure is diagrammed in figure 160.021-4(c)).
