
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 11 - REQUIREMENTS FOR OFFICER ENDORSEMENTS
##### Subpart G - Professional Requirements for Pilots
###### § 11.709 Annual physical examination requirements.

(a) This section applies only to an individual who pilots a vessel of 1,600 GRT or more.

(b) Every person holding an MMC endorsement as first-class pilot, or a master or mate serving as a pilot under § 15.812 of this subchapter, must have a thorough physical examination each year. This annual physical examination must be completed by the first day of the month following the anniversary of the individual's most recently completed Coast Guard-required physical examination. Each annual physical examination must meet the requirements specified in 46 CFR, part 10, subpart C, and be recorded on the form CG-719K.

(1) Every five years, in accordance with the medical certificate requirements in §§ 10.301(b), 10.302(a), and 10.304(d) of this chapter, the results of the most recent physical examination must be submitted to the Coast Guard.

(2) The results of the physical examination must also be submitted to the Coast Guard no later than 30 calendar days after completion of the physical examination in any of the following circumstances:

(i) The examining medical practitioner documents that the individual does not meet the physical ability requirements as set forth in § 10.304(c) of this subchapter;

(ii) The examining medical practitioner documents that the individual has a condition that does not meet the general medical exam requirements described in § 10.304(a), the vision requirements described in § 10.305, or the hearing requirements described in § 10.306 of this subchapter;

(iii) The examining medical practitioner documents on a CG-719K that the individual is not recommended for a medical certificate or needs further review by the Coast Guard as set forth in § 10.301(a) of this subchapter; or

(iv) If the Coast Guard requests the results of an examination, they must be submitted no later than 30 calendar days after the date of the request.

(c) An individual's first-class pilot endorsement becomes invalid on the first day of the month following the anniversary of the individual's most recently completed Coast Guard-required physical examination, if the person does not meet the physical examination requirement as provided in paragraph (b) of this section. The individual may not operate under the authority of that endorsement until a physical examination has been satisfactorily completed.

(d) A master or mate may not serve as a pilot on a vessel 1,600 GRT or more under § 15.812 of this subchapter if the person does not meet the physical examination requirements provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
