
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.040-Line-Throwing Appliance, Impulse-Projected Rocket Type (and Equipment)
###### § 160.040-5 Approval and production tests.
####### Performance tests,Appliances.

(c)-(1)Each appliance shall be tested by firing three rounds. These rounds may be regular rockets or buoyant type rockets carrying regular service lines, as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this paragraph or may be dummy projectiles, of the same size and weight as the regular rocket projectile, expelled into an earthen bank or other resisting medium from a reasonable distance. At least one of the rounds shall be fired using a primer-ejector cartridge loaded with a charge double the normal charge; the other rounds may be fired using regular primer-ejector cartridges. After the firing tests have been completed, each appliance shall be fired twice using the regular primer-ejector cartridges only, for the purposes of demonstrating that the appliance is still in operating condition. The entire assembly of the appliance shall then be examined. Results of the test firing and the physical examination shall show none of the following: Failure to eject cartridge, failure to close breech, trigger malfunction, safety lock failure to function, breech catch malfunction, broken spring, broken handgrips, cracked barrel or discharge chamber, firing pin or plunger broken, distorted or excessively worn or loose breech. A single misfire is acceptable if a second cartridge fires on repeated test. Misfire of both shall be cause for rejection of the appliance. More than one loose screw shall be cause for rejection. If an appliance exhibits a single loose screw, it may be retightened.
