
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.040-Line-Throwing Appliance, Impulse-Projected Rocket Type (and Equipment)
###### § 160.040-5 Approval and production tests.
####### Rockets.

(2)The rocket shall utilize a solid fuel propellant which shall function in accordance with all applicable requirements of MIL-R-23139. The use of black powder for the rocket motor is not acceptable. The ignition of the rocket motor shall occur at such a distance from the appliance so as not to spew flame, hot gaseous exhaust, or hot particles of propellant in such a manner as to create a hazard to personnel or the vessel. The rocket shall have a service line carrier assembly permanently attached and made of material, or suitably protected, to withstand the heat from the rocket motor's exhaust. From each 200 rockets manufactured, not less than three must be selected to be tested by firing with service line attached. The rockets selected will, over a period of time, include representative samples of both the regular and buoyant type rockets, except that the approval test must include both types. The line shall be carried, under conditions of reasonably still atmosphere, a minimum of 230 m (750 ft.), without breaking or fouling the line, and the rocket shall alight not more than 15 m (50 ft.) from either side of the target line. In no case shall a test rocket be fired without a line attached. After a buoyant type rocket is fired, it shall demonstrate its ability to float in water for not less than 2 hours. Failure to meet any of the test requirements, nose cone cracks, rupture in flight, erratic flight, or unusual burning rate, shall be cause for rejection of rockets produced until suitable correction has been made. If rockets selected from this lot are used for the tests required in paragraph (c)(1) of this section this may be accepted as meeting the requirements of this paragraph.
