
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 11 - REQUIREMENTS FOR OFFICER ENDORSEMENTS
##### Subpart H - Registration of Staff Officers and Miscellaneous Endorsements
###### ยง 11.821 High-speed craft type-rating.

(a) This section is only applicable to those persons who will be serving or have served upon those vessels built and operated in accordance with the International Code of Safety for High Speed Craft (HSC Code).

(b) To qualify for a high-speed craft type-rating endorsement (TRE) for operating vessels to which the HSC Code applies, an applicant must-

(1) Hold a valid officer endorsement for vessels of commensurate grade, tonnage, route, and/or horsepower; and

(2) Present evidence of successful completion of a Coast Guard-approved type rating training program.

(c) A separate TRE will be issued for each type and class of high speed craft. The original route will be as specified in the approved type rating program. Additional routes may be added to an existing TRE by completing at least 12 roundtrips over each route under the supervision of a type-rated master on the class of high speed craft the TRE will be valid for. Six of the trips must be made during the hours of darkness or a "daylight only" restriction will be imposed.

(d) A TRE will be valid for 2 years. The expiration date of a TRE will not be changed due to the addition of additional routes.

(e) To renew a TRE, an applicant must provide evidence of-

(1) At least 6 months of service in the appropriate position on the type crafts to which the TRE applies during the preceding 2 years, including at least 12 roundtrips over each route, together with evidence of a completed revalidation assessment; or

(2) Completion of an approved revalidation training program.
