
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 11 - REQUIREMENTS FOR OFFICER ENDORSEMENTS
##### Subpart I - Subjects of Examinations
###### ยง 11.903 Officer endorsements requiring examinations.

(a) The following officer endorsements require examinations for issuance:

(1) Chief mate of ocean or near-coastal self-propelled vessels of unlimited tonnage (examined at the management level).

(2) Third mate of ocean or near-coastal self-propelled vessels of unlimited tonnage (examined at the operational level).

(3) Master of ocean or near-coastal self-propelled vessels of less than 1,600 GRT.

(4) Mate of ocean or near-coastal self-propelled vessels of less than 1,600 GRT.

(5) Master of near-coastal vessels less than 200 GRT.

(6) Mate of near-coastal vessels less than 200 GRT.

(7) Master of near-coastal vessels less than 100 GRT.

(8) Mate of near-coastal vessels less than 100 GRT.

(9) Master of Great Lakes and inland vessels of unlimited tonnage.

(10) Mate of Great Lakes and inland vessels of unlimited tonnage.

(11) Master of inland vessels of unlimited tonnage.

(12) Master of river vessels of unlimited tonnage.

(13) Master of Great Lakes and inland/river vessels less than 500 GRT or less than 1,600 GRT.

(14) Mate of Great Lakes and inland/river vessels less than 500 GRT or less than 1,600 GRT.

(15) Master of Great Lakes and inland/river vessels less than 200 GRT.

(16) Mate of Great Lakes and inland/river vessels less than 200 GRT.

(17) Master of Great Lakes and inland/river vessels less than 100 GRT.

(18) First-class pilot.

(19) Apprentice mate (steersman) of towing vessels.

(20) Apprentice mate (steersman) of towing vessels, limited.

(21) Offshore Installation Manager.

(22) Barge Supervisor.

(23) Ballast Control Operator.

(24) Operator of uninspected passenger vessels.

(25) Master of uninspected fishing industry vessels.

(26) Mate of uninspected fishing industry vessels.

(27) Master (OSV).

(28) Chief mate (OSV).

(29) Mate (OSV).

(30) First assistant engineer (limited or unlimited propulsion power).

(31) Third assistant engineer (limited or unlimited propulsion power).

(32) Chief engineer (limited) steam/motor vessels.

(33) Assistant engineer (limited) steam/motor vessels.

(34) Designated duty engineer steam/motor vessels.

(35) Chief engineer (uninspected fishing industry vessels).

(36) Assistant engineer (uninspected fishing industry vessels).

(37) Chief engineer (MODU).

(38) Assistant engineer (MODU).

(39) Chief engineer (OSV).

(40) Assistant engineer (OSV).

(b) In paragraphs (a)(1) through (4), and (a)(6), (7), (15), and (16) of this section, examinations will vary depending on route desired.

(c) The following officer endorsements do not require examinations:

(1) Master of oceans or near-coastal vessels of unlimited tonnage when upgrading from MMC officer endorsements, or a license as chief mate of oceans or near-coastal vessels of unlimited tonnage, provided the applicant has already been examined at the management level.

(2) Master of oceans or near-coastal vessels of unlimited tonnage when adding an endorsement as offshore installation manager (OIM).

(3) Master of oceans or near-coastal self-propelled vessels of less than 200 GRT, when upgrading from mate of near-coastal self-propelled vessels of less than 200 GRT. Master of oceans self-propelled vessels of less than 200 GRT would, however, require an examination in celestial navigation.

(4) Second mate of oceans or near-coastal vessels when upgrading from third mate of oceans or near-coastal vessels, provided the applicant has already been examined at the operational level.

(5) Master of Great Lakes and inland vessels, or river vessels of less than 200 GRT when upgrading from mate of less than 200 GRT on the same route.

(6) Chief engineer unlimited, provided the applicant has already been examined at the management level.

(7) Chief engineer limited to service on steam, motor, or gas turbine-propelled vessels of less than 10,000 HP/7,500 kW on near-coastal routes, provided the applicant has already been examined at the management level.

(8) Chief engineer limited to service on steam, motor, and/or gas turbine-propelled vessels of less than 4,000 HP/3,000 kW on near-coastal routes, provided the applicant has already been examined at the management level.

(9) Second assistant engineer when upgrading from third assistant engineer, provided the applicant has already been examined at the operational level.
