
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.048-Specification for a Buoyant Cushion, Fibrous Glass
###### § 160.048-4 Construction and workmanship.
####### Pad covers for buoyant material.

(d)Before being inserted in the outer cover the buoyant material shall be placed in waterproof vinyl film pad covers which shall be heat-sealed tight. The heat-sealed pad seams shall show an adhesion of not less than 8 pounds when one inch strips cut across and perpendicular to the seams are pulled apart at a rate of separation of the clamping jaws of the test machine of 12 inches per minute. Each cushion shall contain not less than four pads and all pads in a cushion shall contain approximately equal portions of the total amount of buoyant material in the cushion. The buoyant material may be inserted directly into the vinyl film pad covers, or may first be packed in bags made of print cloth or other suitable material and then inserted into the vinyl film pad covers. The pads shall be of such size as to adequately fill the outer cover, and prior to sealing, the pads shall be evacuated of air sufficiently that when sat on the pads will not "balloon" excessively because of the pressure in the pad covers. For 15&#x2033; x 15&#x2033; x 2&#x2033; cushions the four vinyl film pad covers shall each be cut approximately 12&#x2033; wide x 12&#x2033; long or approximately 8&#x2033; wide x 18&#x2033; long shall have a sealed area of approximately 125 square inches; shall contain not less than 5 ounces of kapok or 9 ounces of fibrous glass each; and the volume displacement of the individual heat-sealed pad inserts shall be 5pounds each, plus or minuspound, when tested in accordance with the method set forth in § 160.048-5(e)(1), except that the pad covers shall not be slit open, and the period of submergence shall be only long enough to determine the displacement of the pads.
