
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.048-Specification for a Buoyant Cushion, Fibrous Glass
###### § 160.048-4 Construction and workmanship.
####### Workmanship.
######## Buoyancy,Buoyancy test method.

(e)-(1)Remove the buoyant pad inserts from the cushion and cut three slits in the vinyl film, each not less than 6 inches in length on both sides of each pad. Securely attach the spring scale in a position directly over the test tank. Suspend the weighted wire basket from the scale in such a manner that the basket is weighed while it is completely under water. In order to measure the actual buoyancy provided by the pads, the underwater weight of the empty basket should exceed the buoyancy of the pads. To obtain the buoyancy of the pads, proceed as follows:

(i) Weigh the empty wire basket under water.

(ii) Place the pads inside the basket and submerge it so that the top of the basket is at least 2 inches below the surface of the water for 24 hours. The tank shall be locked or sealed during this 24-hour submergence period. It is important that after the pads have once been submerged that they shall remain submerged for the duration of the test, and at no time during the course of the test shall they be removed from the tank or otherwise exposed to air.

(iii) After the 24-hour submergence period unlock or unseal the tank and weigh the weighted wire basket with the pads inside while both are still under water.

(iv) The buoyancy is computed as (i) minus (iii).
