
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.052-Specification for a Buoyant Vest, Unicellular Plastic Foam, Adult and Child
###### § 160.052-6 Construction-nonstandard vests.
####### Adjustment, fit, and donning.
######## Lot size and sampling.

(b)(1) A lot consists of 500 buoyant vests or fewer.

(2) A new lot begins after any change or modification in materials used or manufacturing methods employed.

(3) The manufacturer of the buoyant vests shall notify the recognized laboratory when a lot is ready for inspection.

(4) The manufacturer shall select samples in accordance with the requirements in Table 160.052-7(b)(4) from each lot of buoyant vests to be tested for buoyancy in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.

(5) The manufacturer shall test-

(i) At least one vest from each lot for buoyancy in accordance with procedures contained in paragraph (e) of this section; and

(ii) At least one vest in each 10 lots for strength of the body strap assembly in accordance with the procedures contained in paragraph (f) of this section.

(6) If a vest fails the buoyancy test, the sample from the next succeeding lot must consist of 10 specimen vests or more to be tested for buoyancy in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.

(7) The manufacturer shall keep on file and make available to the laboratory inspector and Coast Guard inspector the records of inspections and tests, together with affidavits concerning the material.
