
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.053-Work Vests, Unicellular Plastic Foam
###### § 160.053-6 Procedure for approval.
####### General.

(a)Work vests for use on merchant vessels are approved only by the Commandant, U.S. Coast Guard. Manufacturers seeking approval of a work vest shall follow the procedures of this section and subpart 159.005 of this chapter.

(b) If the work vest is of a standard design, as described by § 160.053-3, in order to be approved, the work vest must be tested in accordance with § 160.053-4 by an independent laboratory accepted by the Coast Guard under 46 CFR 159.010.

(c) If the work vest is of a non-standard design, the application must include the following:

(1) Plans and specifications containing the information required by § 159.005-12 of this chapter, including drawings, product description, construction specifications, and bill of materials.

(2) The information specified in § 159.005-5(a)(2) (i) through (iii) of this chapter, except that, if preapproval review has been waived, the manufacturer is not required to send a prototype work vest sample to the Commandant.

(3) Performance testing results of the design performed by an independent laboratory, that has a Memorandum of Understanding with the Coast Guard under § 159.010-7 of this subchapter covering the in-water testing of personal flotation devices, showing equivalence to the standard design's performance in all material respects.

(4) Any special purpose(s) for which the work vest is designed and the vessel(s) or vessel type(s) on which its use is intended.

(5) Buoyancy and other relevant tolerances to be complied with during production.

(6) The text of any optional marking to be included on the work vest in addition to the markings required by § 160.053.
