
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 12 - REQUIREMENTS FOR RATING ENDORSEMENTS
##### Subpart D - Requirements for National Deck Rating Endorsements
###### ยง 12.409 General requirements for lifeboatman-limited endorsements.
####### Requirements for certification.

(b)(1) To qualify for an endorsement as lifeboatman-limited, an applicant must-

(i) Be at least 18 years of age;

(ii) Pass the prescribed physical and medical examination requirements specified in 46 CFR Part 10, subpart C; and

(iii) Present evidence of having passed a chemical test for dangerous drugs or of having qualified for an exemption for testing, as described in ยง 16.220 of this subchapter.

(2) An applicant, to be eligible for an endorsement as lifeboatman-limited, must meet one of the following sea service requirements:

(i) At least 12 months of sea service in any department of vessels on ocean, coastwise, inland, and Great Lakes routes.

(ii) At least 6 months of sea service in any department of vessels, and successful completion of an approved course.

(3) Before an applicant is issued an endorsement as a lifeboatman-limited, he or she must prove, to the satisfaction of the Coast Guard, by oral or other means of examination, and by actual practical demonstration of abilities, his or her knowledge of seamanship and ability to carry out effectively all the duties that may be required of a lifeboatman-limited.

(4) The practical demonstration must consist of a demonstration of the applicant's ability to-

(i) Take charge of a rescue boat, liferaft, or other lifesaving apparatus during and after launch;

(ii) Operate a rescue boat engine;

(iii) Manage a survival craft and survivors after abandoning ship;

(iv) Safely recover rescue boats; and

(v) Use locating and communication devices.

(5) The examination, whether administered orally or by other means, must be conducted only in the English language and must consist of questions regarding-

(i) Liferafts, rescue boats, and other survival craft except lifeboats, the names of their essential parts, and a description and use of the required equipment;

(ii) The clearing away, launching, and handling of rescue craft, except lifeboats; and

(iii) The operation and functions of commonly used launching devices for rescue boats and survival craft other than lifeboats.

(6) An applicant, to be eligible for an endorsement as lifeboatman-limited, must be able to speak and understand the English language as would be required in the rating of lifeboatman-limited and in an emergency aboard ship.
