
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.066-Distress Signal for Boats, Red Aerial Pyrotechnic Flare
###### § 160.066-7 Performance requirements.

(a) Each signal must:

(1) Burn "vivid red" when tested as specified in § 160.021-4(d)(7) for at least 5.5 seconds.

(2) Have a peak luminous intensity of at least 10,000 candela.

(3) Burn a total of not less than 1,000 candleminutes (Cm) using the formula

(4) Burn out completely before falling back to the level of launch.

(5) Function in a manner that would not cause burns or injury to an unprotected person firing the signal in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.

(6) Not malfunction in a manner that would cause burns or injury to an unprotected person firing the signal in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.

(b) Each signal must meet the requirements of paragraph (a) after:

(1) Submersion in water for 24 hours, or

(2) If protected by a sealed container, submersion in water for 24 hours inside the sealed container immediately followed by submersion for 10 minutes without the container, and

(3) Being exposed to the Elevated Temperature, Humidity, and Storage Test in § 160.066-13(b).

(c) Testing for burn time and luminous intensity pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2), respectively, shall be conducted in conformity with the following requirements and procedures:

(1) The chart speed of the light measuring equipment shall not be slower than 5 seconds per inch;

(2) The chart sweep of the light measuring equipment shall not be slower than .5 seconds for full scale;

(3) The first and last seconds of the burn shall be eliminated in measuring luminous intensity;

(4) The time during which the candle burns (excluding first and last seconds of burn) is to be used to determine the luminous intensity by averaging the readings taken during the burning; and

(5) Burn time is to be measured from first light of the signal to dark.
