
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.066-Distress Signal for Boats, Red Aerial Pyrotechnic Flare
###### § 160.066-13 Technical tests.

(a) The following conditions apply to technical tests as described in this section:

(1) A total of nine signals must be selected at random from the lot being tested;

(2) If the signals are protected by sealed packaging, then the conditioning for the technical tests must be conducted with the signal in the sealed packaging;

(3) If signals in the test sample fail to pass one of the technical tests, the entire lot is rejected;

(4) Signals from "reject lots" may be reworked by the manufacturer to correct the deficiency for which they were rejected and be resubmitted for inspection. Records shall be kept of the reasons for rejection, the reworking performed on the "reject lot", and the result of the second test. Signals from "reject lots" may not, unless subsequently accepted, be sold or offered for sale as being in compliance with this specification.

(b) The Elevated Temperature, Humidity, and Storage Test must be conducted in the following manner:

(1) Select three signals from the nine;

(2) Place each signal in a thermostatically controlled even-temperature oven held at 55 Degrees C (131 Degrees F), and at not less than 90% relative humidity, for at least 72 hours (If for any reason it is not possible to operate the oven continuously for the 72 hour period, it may be operated at the required temperature and humidity for 8 hours of each 24 during the 72 hour conditioning period.);

(3) After removal from the oven immediately place each signal in a chamber:

(i) At a temperature of at least 20 degrees C (68 degrees F) but not more than 25 degrees C (77 degrees F);

(ii) At not less than 65% relative humidity;

(iii) For ten days;

(4) Then remove each signal from any sealed packaging and fire it.

(5) The test sample fails the test if:

(i) Any signal ignites or decomposes before firing;

(ii) Any signal when fired malfunctions in a manner that would cause burns or injury to an unprotected person firing the signal, or;

(iii) Two or more of the signals fail to project and ignite the pyrotechnic candle.

(c) The Spontaneous Combustion Test must be performed in the following manner:

(1) Select three signals from the remaining six signals and place them in a thermostatically controlled even temperature over for 48 hours at a temperature of 75 degrees C (167 degrees F).

(2) The test sample fails the test if any signal ignites or decomposes during the test.

(d) The Luminous Intensity and Chromaticity Test must be performed in the following manner:

(1) Remove the pyrotechnic candle from the remaining three signals.

(2) Ignite, measure, and record the intensity of the burning candle with a visual photometer or equivalent photometric device or automatic recorder:

(i) While the specimen is supported in a horizontal position and the photometer is at right angles to the axis of the specimen,

(ii) At a distance of at least 3 m (10 ft.).

(3) Calculate the intensity of the candle as in § 160.066-7(c).

(4) Measure and record the chromaticity of the burning candle as specified in § 160.021-4(d)(4).

(5) The test sample fails the test if more than one signal has a luminous intensity of less than 10,000 candela, or more than one signal is not "vivid red".
