
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.066-Distress Signal for Boats, Red Aerial Pyrotechnic Flare
###### § 160.066-15 Production testing.

(a) Production tests must be performed under the procedures in Subpart 159.007 of this chapter.

(b) The operational tests in § 160.066-12 must be performed for every lot of signals produced.

(c) The technical tests in § 160.066-13 must be performed at least once every twelve months, or at least once every 10 lots, whichever occurs first.

(d) If a lot is rejected on the basis of the technical tests, then each subsequent lot produced must be tested according to the technical tests until samples from a lot pass these tests.

(e) An independent laboratory acceptable to the Commandant must perform or directly supervise:

(1) Each technical test, and

(2) All operational tests for at least four lots in a 12 month period, unless fewer than four lots are produced in a 12 month period. If less than four lots are produced in a 12 month period, each operational test must be performed or directly supervised by the independent laboratory.

(f) If a lot selected by the independent laboratory for an operational test is rejected, then the operational tests for the next lot produced, and the rejected lot, if reworked, must be performed or directly supervised by the independent laboratory. The tests required by this paragraph must not be counted for the purpose of meeting the requirements of paragraph (e).

(g) The independent laboratory selects the lots upon which technical tests are performed.

(h) If the manufacturer produces more than four lots within a 12 month period, the independent laboratory selects the lots for which it performs or directly supervises the operational tests.

(i) The operational test performed or directly supervised by the independent laboratory must occur at least once during each quarterly period, unless no lots are produced during that period.

(j) The independent laboratory, when it performs or directly supervises the technical tests required by paragraph (c) or (d) of this section, must inspect the signals selected for testing and compare them with the approved plans. Each signal inspected must conform to the plans.
