
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.076-Inflatable Recreational Personal Flotation Devices
###### § 160.076-29 Production oversight.
####### Recognized laboratory oversight.

(2)An inspector from a recognized laboratory shall oversee production in accordance with the MOU. During production oversight, the inspector shall not perform or supervise any production test or inspection unless-

(i) The manufacturer has a valid approval certificate; and

(ii) The inspector has first observed the manufacturer's production methods and any revisions to those methods.

(3) The inspector must perform or supervise testing and inspection of at least one in each five lots of PFDs produced.

(4) During each inspection, the inspector must check for compliance with the manufacturer's quality control procedures.

(5) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(6) of this section, at least once each calendar quarter, the inspector must examine the manufacturer's records required by § 160.076-33 and observe the manufacturer perform each of the tests required by § 160.076-31(c).

(6) If less than six lots are produced during a calendar year, only one lot inspection and one records' examination and test performance observation are required during that year. Each lot tested and inspected under paragraph (c)(3) of this section must be within seven lots of the previous lot inspected.
