
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.076-Inflatable Recreational Personal Flotation Devices
###### § 160.076-29 Production oversight.
####### Samples.

(e)For the tests, examinations, and inspections required by § 160.076-31, inspectors and manufacturers shall select samples as provided in this paragraph.

(1) Samples shall be selected at random from a lot in which all PFDs or materials in the lot are available for selection. Except as provided in § 160.076-31(c), samples must be selected from completed PFDs.

(2) Different samples must be selected for the manufacturer's and inspector's tests, except, if the total production for any five consecutive lots does not exceed 250 PFDs, the manufacturer's and inspector's tests may be run on the same sample(s) at the same time.

(3) The number of samples selected per lot must be at least equal to the applicable number required by Table 160.076-29A for manufacturers or Table 160.076-29B for inspectors.

(4) The following additional requirements apply as indicated in Table 160.076-29A to individual sample selections by manufacturers:

(i) Samples must be selected from each lot of incoming material. The tests required under paragraphs 160.076-25(d)(2)(i) through 160.076-25(d)(2)(iv) prescribe the number of samples to select.

(i) Samples must be selected from each lot of incoming material. Unless otherwise specified, Table 29.1 of UL 1191 (incorporated by reference, see § 160.076-11) prescribes the number of samples to select.

(iii) If a sample fails the over-pressure test, the number of samples to be tested in the next lot produced must be at least two percent of the total number of PFDs in the lot or 10 PFDs, whichever is greater.

(iv) The indicated test must be conducted at least once each calendar quarter or whenever a new lot of material is used or a production process is revised.

(5) The following additional requirements apply as indicated in Table 160.076-29B to individual sample selections by inspectors:

(i) Samples selected for the indicated tests may not be used for more than one test.

(ii) The indicated test may be omitted if it was conducted by the manufacturer on the materials used and by the inspector on a previous lot within the past 12 months.

(iii) One sample of each means of marking on each type of fabric or finish used in PFD construction must be tested at least every six months or whenever a new lot of materials is used.
