
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.076-Inflatable Recreational Personal Flotation Devices
###### § 160.076-33 Manufacturer records.

(a) Each manufacturer of inflatable PFDs shall keep the records of production inspections and tests as required by § 159.007-13 of this chapter, except that they must be retained for at least 120 months after the month in which the inspection or test was conducted.

(b) In addition to the information required by § 159.007-13 of this chapter, the manufacturer's records must also include the following information:

(1) For each test, the serial number of the test instrument used if more than one test instrument was available.

(2) For each test and inspection, the identification of the samples used, the lot number, the approval number, and the number of PFDs in the lot.

(3) For each lot rejected, the cause for rejection, any corrective action taken, and the final disposition of the lot.

(4) For all materials used in production the-

(i) Name and address of the supplier;

(ii) Date of purchase and receipt;

(iii) Lot number; and

(iv) Where required by § 164.019-5 of this chapter, the certification received with standard components.

(5) A copy of this subpart.

(6) Each document incorporated by reference in § 160.076-11.

(7) A copy of the approved plans and specifications.

(8) The approval certificate obtained in accordance with § 2.75-1 and 2.75-5 of this chapter.

(9) Certificates evidencing calibration of test equipment, including the identity of the agency performing the calibration, date of calibration, and results.

(c) A description or photographs of procedures and equipment used in testing required by § 159.007-13(a)(4) of this chapter, is not required if the manufacturer's procedures and equipment meet the requirements of this subpart.

(d) The records required by paragraph (b)(4) of this section must be kept for at least 120 months after preparation. All other records required by paragraph (b) of this section must be kept for at least 60 months after the PFD approval expires or is terminated.
