
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.077-Hybrid Inflatable Personal Flotation Devices
###### § 160.077-1 Scope.

(a) This specification contains requirements for approving hybrid inflatable personal flotation devices (hybrid PFDs).

(b) Under this chapter and 33 CFR part 175, certain commercial vessels and recreational boats may carry Type I, II, or III hybrid PFDs to meet carriage requirements. Type V hybrid PFDs may be substituted for other required PFDs if they are worn under conditions prescribed in their manual as required by § 160.077-29 and on their marking as prescribed in § 160.077-31. For recreational boats or boaters involved in a special activity, hybrid PFD approval may also be limited to that activity.

(c) Unless approved as a Type I SOLAS Lifejacket, a hybrid PFD on an inspected commercial vessel will be approved only-

(1) As work vest; or

(2) For the special purpose stated on the approval certificate and PFD marking.

(d) A hybrid PFD may be approved for adults, weighing over 40 kg (90 lb); youths, weighing 23-40 kg (50-90 lb); small children, weighing 14-23 kg (30-50 lb); or for the size range of persons for which the design has been tested, as indicated on the PFD's label.

(e) This specification also contains requirements for-

(1) Manufacturers and sellers of recreational hybrid PFD's to provide an information pamphlet and owner's manual with each PFD; and

(2) Manufacturers of commercial hybrid PFD's to provide a user's manual.
