
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.077-Hybrid Inflatable Personal Flotation Devices
###### § 160.077-6 Approval procedures.
####### General.

(a)Subpart 159.005 of this chapter contains the approval procedures. Those procedures must be followed, excepted as modified in this paragraph.

(1) Preapproval review under §§ 159.005-5 and 159.005-7 may be omitted if a similar design has already been approved.

(2) The information required in all three subparagraphs of § 159.005-5(a)(2) must be included in the application.

(3) The application must also include the following:

(i) The type of performance (i.e. Donned Type I, Type II or Type III) that the PFD is designed to provide.

(ii) Any special purpose(s) for which the PFD is designed and the vessel(s) or type(s) of vessel on which its use is planned.

(iii) Buoyancy and torque tolerances to be allowed in production.

(iv) The text of any optional marking to be provided in addition to required text.

(v) The manual required by § 160.077-29 (UL 1517 text may be omitted in this submission).

(vi) The size range of wearers that the device is intended to fit.

(4) The description of quality control procedures required by § 159.005-9 of this chapter to be submitted with the test report may be omitted as long as the manufacturer's planned quality control procedures comply with § 160.077-23.
