
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - Procedures Applicable to the Public
#### PART 1 - ORGANIZATION, GENERAL COURSE AND METHODS GOVERNING MARINE SAFETY FUNCTIONS
##### Subpart 1.01 - Organization and General Flow of Functions
###### ยง 1.01-25 General flow of functions.

(a) The Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, has final authority with respect to the functions described in ยง 1.01-15(b) of this subpart, subject to the rights of appeal set forth in subpart 1.03 of this part.

(b)(1) The general course and method by which the functions (other than those dealing with suspension and revocation of credentials described in paragraph (c) of this section) concerning marine safety activities are channeled, begins with the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, at the local Sector Office. From this Officer the course is to the Chief, Marine Safety Division, on the staff of the District Commander, and then to the District Commander. From the District Commander, the course is to the Chief of one of the offices with the Assistant Commandant for Prevention Policy at Headquarters.

(2) For Activities Europe, the course is from the Officer in Charge, Activities Europe to the staff of the Atlantic Area Commander, then to the Atlantic Area Commander, and then to the Chief of one of the offices with the Assistant Commandant for Prevention Policy at Headquarters.

(c) In proceedings involving the suspension or revocation of a Coast Guard credential issued to an individual, the course and method by which such proceedings are channeled are as follows:

(1) In the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Territory of Guam, the Virgin Islands, and other possessions, the proceedings are initiated by the issuance of a complaint against the holder of the Coast Guard credential. A Coast Guard Investigating Officer, as defined in 46 CFR 5.15, causes the complaint to be served on the person described therein (respondent) who is a holder of a Coast Guard credential. At a hearing the Coast Guard submits evidence to support the allegations of the complaint, while the respondent may submit evidence in rebuttal or mitigation. The Administrative Law Judge renders a decision on the basis of the evidence adduced at the hearing and the law. The Administrative Law Judge's decision is given to the respondent.

(i) In a case where an appeal is made by either party (Coast Guard or respondent), the notice of appeal is filed in accordance with the procedures of 33 CFR 20.1001(a).

(ii) [Reserved]

(2) [Reserved]
