
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.077-Hybrid Inflatable Personal Flotation Devices
###### § 160.077-23 Production tests and inspections.
####### Independent Laboratory.

(2)(i) An inspector may not perform or supervise any production test or inspection unless-

(A) The manufacturer has a current approval certificate; and

(B) The inspector has first observed the manufacturer's production methods and any revisions to those methods.

(ii) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(2)(v) of this section, an inspector must perform or supervise testing and inspection of at least one PFD lot in each five lots produced.

(iii) During each inspection, the inspector must check for noncompliance with the manufacturer's quality control procedures.

(iv) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(2)(v) of this section, at least once each calendar quarter, the inspector must, as a check on the manufacturer's compliance with this section, examine the manufacturer's records required by § 160.077-25 and observe the manufacturer perform each of the tests required by paragraph (h) of this section.

(v) If less than six lots are produced during any calendar year, only one lot inspection in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, and one records examination and test performance observation in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section is required during that year. Each lot tested and inspected must be within seven lots of the previous lot inspected.
