
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.077-Hybrid Inflatable Personal Flotation Devices
###### § 160.077-27 Pamphlet.

(a) Each recreational hybrid PFD sold or offered for sale must be provided with a pamphlet that a prospective purchaser can read prior to purchase. The required pamphlet text must be printed verbatim and in the sequence set out in paragraph (e) of this section. Additional information, instructions, or illustrations must not be included within the required text. The type size shall be no smaller than 8-point.

(b) Each pamphlet must be prominently marked "Seller, do not remove pamphlet."

(c) No person may sell or offer for sale any recreational hybrid PFD unless the pamphlet required by this section is provided with it.

(d) The text specified in paragraphs (e)(2) of this section must be accompanied by illustrations of the types of devices being described. The illustrations provided must be either photographs or drawings of the manufacturer's own products or illustrations of other Coast Guard-approved PFDs.

(e) For a Type I hybrid PFD intended for recreational use or a Type II, III, or V recreational hybrid PFD, the pamphlet contents must be as follows:

(1) The text in UL 1517, Section 39, item A;

(2) The following text and illustrations:

(3) A table with the applicable PFD Type, size, and buoyancy values from Table 160.077-15(b)(13) or 160.077-17(b)(11), as applicable; and

(4) The text in UL 1517, Section 39, items D, E, and F.
