
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.077-Hybrid Inflatable Personal Flotation Devices
###### § 160.077-29 PFD Manuals.
####### Commercial Hybrid PFD.

(e)(1) For a commercial hybrid PFD that is "REQUIRED TO BE WORN" the manual must meet the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section.

(2) For a commercial hybrid PFD approved as a "Work Vest Only" or Type I PFD the manual must meet the requirements of either paragraphs (e) (3) and (4) or of paragraph (c) of this section. The manual for a commercial Type I hybrid PFD which is also labeled for use on recreational boats must meet the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.

(3) Each commercial hybrid PFD approved with special purpose limitation must have a user's manual that-

(i) Explains in detail the proper care, maintenance, stowage, and use of the PFD; and

(ii) Includes any other safety information as prescribed by the approval certificate.

(4) If the manual required in paragraph (e)(3) of this section calls for inspection or service by vessel personnel, the manual must-

(i) Specify personnel training or qualifications needed;

(ii) Explain how to identify the PFDs that need to be inspected; and

(iii) Provide a log in which inspections and servicing may be recorded.

(5) If a PFD light approved under subpart 161.012 is not provided at time of sale, the manual must specify the recommended type of light to be used.

(6) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, manufacturers that make shipments to purchasers that do not redistribute the PFDs, must provide at least one manual in each carton of PFDs shipped.
