
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.133-Release Mechanisms for Lifeboats and Rescue Boats
###### § 160.133-13 Approval inspections and tests for prototype release mechanisms.
####### Test waiver.

(e)The Commandant may waive certain tests for a release mechanism identical in construction to smaller and larger release mechanisms that have successfully completed the tests. However, stress calculations in accordance with § 160.133-9(b)(3) of this subpart must still be submitted. Tests associated with release mechanism components that have already been accepted by the Commandant are not required to be repeated.

(f) At the request of the manufacturer and discretion of the Commandant, an independent laboratory may perform approval inspections and witness approval tests required by this section so long as the inspections and tests are performed and witnessed in accordance with the procedures agreed upon between the independent laboratory and Commandant under 46 CFR part 159, subpart 159.010.

(g) After completion of approval inspections and tests required by this section, the manufacturer must comply with the requirements of 46 CFR 159.005-9(a)(5) by preparing and submitting to the Commandant for review-

(1) The prototype approval test report containing the same information recommended by IMO MSC Circ. 980 (incorporated by reference, see § 160.133-5 of this subpart). The report must include a signed statement by the Coast Guard inspector (or independent laboratory as permitted under paragraph (f) of this section) who witnessed the testing, indicating that the report accurately describes the testing and its results; and

(2) The final plans of the release mechanism as built, in triplicate. The plans must include the instructions for training and maintenance described in §§ 160.133-19 and 160.133-21 of this subpart, respectively.

(h) The Commandant will review the report and plans submitted under paragraph (g) of this section, and if satisfactory to the Commandant, will approve the plans under 46 CFR 159.005-13.
