
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.151-Inflatable Liferafts (SOLAS)
###### § 160.151-5 Incorporation by reference.
####### typeapproval@uscg.mil,https://www.dco.uscg.mil/CG-ENG-4/.,fr.inspection@nara.gov,,www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.

(a) Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved incorporation by reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at Coast Guard Headquarters and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact the Coast Guard at: Commandant (CG-ENG-4), U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7509, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE, Washington, DC 20593-7509; or emailor visitFor information on the availability of this material at NARA, email:or go to:The material may be obtained from the sources in the following paragraphs of this section.

(b) American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), 100 Barr Harbor Drive, PO Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA, 19428-2959.

(1) ASTM F 1014-02 (Reapproved 2007), Standard Specification for Flashlights on Vessels, (approved May 1, 2007), IBR approved for § 160.151-21 ("ASTM F 1014").

(2) [Reserved]

(c) General Services Administration, Federal Acquisition Service, Office of the FAS Commissioner, 2200 Crystal Drive, 11th Floor, Arlington, VA 22202, 703-605-5400.

(1) Federal Standard 595C, Colors Used in Government Procurement, (January 16, 2008), IBR approved for §§ 160.151-15 and 160.151-17 ("FED-STD-595C").

(2) [Reserved]
