
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.151-Inflatable Liferafts (SOLAS)
###### § 160.151-13 Fabrication of prototype inflatable liferafts for approval.

If the manufacturer is notified that the information submitted in accordance with § 160.151-11 is satisfactory to the Commandant, fabrication of a prototype inflatable liferaft must proceed in the following sequence:

(a) The manufacturer shall arrange for an independent laboratory to inspect the liferaft during its fabrication and prepare an inspection report meeting the requirements of § 159.005-11 of this chapter. The independent laboratory shall conduct at least one inspection during layup of the buoyancy tubes of the liferaft, at least one inspection of the finished liferaft when fully inflated, and as many other inspections as are necessary to determine that the liferaft-

(1) Is constructed by the methods and with the materials specified in the plans;

(2) Passes the applicable inspections and tests required by § 160.151-31; and

(3) Conforms with the manufacturer's plans.

(b) The manufacturer shall submit the independent laboratory's inspection report to the Commandant for review.

(c) If, after review of the inspection report of the independent laboratory, the Commandant notifies the manufacturer that the liferaft is in compliance with the requirements of this subpart, the manufacturer may proceed with the approval tests required under §§ 160.151-27 and 160.151-29.

(d) The manufacturer shall notify the cognizant OCMI of where the approval tests required under §§ 160.151-27 and 160.151-29 will take place and arrange with the OCMI a testing schedule that allows for a Coast Guard inspector to travel to the site where the testing is to be performed.

(e) The manufacturer shall admit the Coast Guard inspector to any place where work or testing is performed on inflatable liferafts or their component parts and materials for the purpose of-

(1) Assuring that the quality-assurance program of the manufacturer is satisfactory;

(2) Witnessing tests; and

(3) Taking samples of parts or materials for additional inspections or tests.

(f) The manufacturer shall make available to the Coast Guard inspector the affidavits or invoices from the suppliers of all essential materials used in the production of inflatable liferafts, together with records identifying the lot numbers of the liferafts in which such materials were used.

(g) On conclusion of the approval testing, the manufacturer shall comply with the requirements of § 159.005-9(a)(5) of this chapter by submitting the following to the Commandant:

(1) The report of the prototype testing prepared by the manufacturer. The report must include a signed statement by the Coast Guard inspector who witnessed the testing, indicating that the report accurately describes the testing and its results.

(2) The final plans of the liferaft as built. The plans must include-

(i) The servicing manual described in § 160.151-37;

(ii) The instructions for training and maintenance described in §§ 160.151-59 and 160.151-61, respectively;

(iii) The final version of the plans required under § 160.151-11(b), including-

(A) Each correction, change, or addition made during the construction and approval testing of prototypes;

(B) Sufficient detail to determine that each requirement of this subpart is met;

(C) Fabrication details for the inflatable liferaft, including details of the method of making seams and joints; and

(D) Full details of the inflation system.

(3) A description of the quality-control procedures that will apply to the production of the inflatable liferaft. These must include-

(i) The system for checking material certifications received from suppliers;

(ii) The method for controlling the inventory of materials;

(iii) The method for checking quality of seams and joints; and

(iv) The inspection checklists used during various stages of fabrication to assure that the approved liferaft complies with the approved plans and the requirements of this subpart.
