
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 13 - CERTIFICATION OF TANKERMEN
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 13.107 Tankerman endorsement: General.

(a) If an applicant meets the requirements of subpart B of this part, the Coast Guard may endorse his or her MMC as tankerman-PIC with the appropriate cargo classification or classifications. A person holding this endorsement and meeting the other requirements of 33 CFR 155.710(a) may act as a PIC of a transfer of fuel oil, of a transfer of liquid cargo in bulk, or of cargo-tank cleaning on any tank vessel. That person may also act as a tankerman-engineer, provided that he or she also holds an engineer license or engineer endorsement.

(b) If an applicant meets the requirements of subpart C of this part, the Coast Guard may endorse his or her MMC as tankerman-PIC (barge) with the appropriate cargo classification or classifications. A person holding this endorsement and meeting the other requirements of 33 CFR 155.710(b) may act as a PIC of a transfer of liquid cargo in bulk only on a tank barge.

(c) If an applicant meets the requirements of subpart D of this part, the Coast Guard may endorse his or her MMC as tankerman-assistant with the appropriate cargo classification or classifications. No person holding this endorsement may act as a PIC of any transfer of fuel oil, of any transfer of liquid cargo in bulk, or of cargo-tank cleaning unless he or she also holds an endorsement authorizing service as PIC. He or she may, however, without being directly supervised by the PIC, perform duties relative to cargo and cargo-handling equipment assigned by the PIC of transfers of fuel oil, of transfers of liquid cargo in bulk, or of cargo-tank cleaning. When performing these duties, he or she shall maintain continuous two-way voice communications with the PIC.

(d) If an applicant meets the requirements of subpart E of this part, the Coast Guard may endorse his or her MMC as tankerman-engineer. No person holding this endorsement may act as a PIC or tankerman-assistant of any transfer of liquid cargo in bulk, or of cargo-tank cleaning unless he or she also holds an endorsement authorizing such service. A person holding this endorsement and acting in this capacity has the primary responsibility, on his or her self-propelled tank vessel carrying dangerous liquid (DL) or liquefied gas (LG), for maintaining both the cargo systems and equipment for transfer of liquid cargo in bulk. No person licensed or credentialed under part 11 of this chapter may serve as a chief engineer, first assistant engineer, or cargo engineer aboard an inspected self-propelled tank vessel when liquid cargo in bulk or cargo residue is carried unless he or she holds an endorsement as tankerman-engineer or equivalent.

(e) If an applicant meets the requirements of ยง 13.111 of this subpart, the Coast Guard may place on his or her MMC an endorsement as a tankerman-PIC restricted according to the definitions of "restricted tankerman endorsement" in ยง 10.107 of this subchapter.

(f) This section does not apply to any person solely by reason of his or her involvement in bunkering or fueling.
