
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 13 - CERTIFICATION OF TANKERMEN
##### Subpart A - General
###### § 13.111 Restricted tankerman endorsement.

(a) An applicant may apply for a tankerman endorsement restricted to specific cargoes, specific vessels, or groups of vessels (such as uninspected towing vessels and Oil Spill Response Vessels), specific facilities, and/or specific employers. The Coast Guard will evaluate each application and may modify the applicable requirements for the endorsement, allowing for special circumstances and for whichever restrictions the endorsement will state.

(b) To qualify for a restricted tankerman-PIC endorsement, an applicant must meet §§ 13.201 (excluding paragraph (c)(4)), 13.203, and 13.205 of this part.

(1) Twenty-five percent of the service described in § 13.203(a) of this part must have occurred within the past 5 years.

(2) Two of the transfers described in § 13.203(b) of this part must have occurred within the past 5 years.

(c) To qualify for a restricted tankerman-PIC (barge) endorsement, an applicant must meet §§ 13.301 (excluding paragraph (c)(4)), 13.303, and 13.305 of this part.

(1) Twenty-five percent of the service described in § 13.303(a) of this part must have occurred within the past 5 years.

(2) Two of the transfers described in § 13.303(b) of this part must have occurred within the past 5 years.

(d) To qualify for a restricted tankerman-PIC (barge) endorsement restricted to a tank-cleaning and gas-freeing facility, an applicant must-

(1) Be at least 18 years old;

(2) Apply on a form provided by the Coast Guard;

(3) Present evidence of passing a physical and medical examination according to § 13.125 of this part;

(4) Present evidence in the form of a letter, which must be dated within the 5 years prior to the application for the credential, on company letterhead from the operator of the facility stating that OSHA considers the applicant a "competent person (as designated under 29 CFR 1915.7)" for the facility and that the applicant has the knowledge necessary to supervise tank-cleaning and gas-freeing; and

(5) Be capable of speaking and understanding, in English, all instructions needed to commence, conduct, and complete a transfer of cargo, and of reading and understanding the English found in the Declaration of Inspection, vessel response plans, and Cargo Information Cards.

(e) The restricted tankerman-PIC (barge) endorsement restricted to a tank-cleaning and gas-freeing facility is valid only while the applicant is employed by the operator of the facility that provided the letter of service required by paragraph (d)(4) of this section, and this and any other appropriate restrictions will appear in the endorsement.

(f) A restricted tankerman-PIC endorsement limited to operation on vessels inside the boundary line is not valid where STCW certification is required.
