
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.151-Inflatable Liferafts (SOLAS)
###### § 160.151-37 Servicing manual.

(a) The servicing manual must provide instructions on performing the following tasks:

(1) Removing the inflatable liferaft from the container for testing without damaging the liferaft or its contents.

(2) Examining the liferaft and its container for damage and wear including deteriorated structural joints and seams.

(3) Determining the need for repairs.

(4) Performing each repair which can be made by a servicing facility.

(5) Identifying repairs that the manufacturer must perform.

(6) Determining when liferaft equipment must be replaced.

(7) Conducting tests required by § 160.151-57.

(8) Repacking the liferaft.

(9) Changing the maximum height of stowage of the liferaft by changing the length of the painter.

(10) Special equipment limitations or packing instructions, if any, necessary to qualify the liferaft for a particular height of stowage.

(11) Changing the service of the liferaft by changing the contents of the equipment pack.

(12) Proper marking of the liferaft container, including approval number, persons' capacity, maximum height of stowage, service (equipment pack), and expiration date of servicing.

(13) A list of parts for-

(i) Survival equipment;

(ii) Compressed-gas cylinders;

(iii) Inflation valves;

(iv) Relief valves; and

(v) Repair equipment.

(14) The necessary pressures for each size of approved liferaft for conducting the "Necessary Additional Pressure" test required by § 160.151-57(k).

(b) Each revision to a servicing manual, and each bulletin, that authorizes the modification of a liferaft, or that affects the compliance of a liferaft with any requirement under this subpart, must be submitted to and approved by the Commandant. Other revisions and bulletins need not be approved, but a copy of each must be submitted to the Commandant when issued.

(c) Each manual provided under this section must bear the original signature of a representative of the manufacturer attesting that it is a true copy of the manual approved by the Commandant.
