
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.156-Rescue Boats and Fast Rescue Boats (SOLAS)
###### § 160.156-7 Design, construction and performance of rescue boats and fast rescue boats.
####### Fuel system.

(8)(i) The fuel system must meet 46 CFR 56.50-75(b) and, except as specified in this paragraph, the fuel tank must meet 46 CFR 58.50-10.

(ii) The fuel tank and fuel system must be in accordance with paragraph (b)(8)(ii)(A), (B), or (C) of this section, as follows:

(A) Permanently installed fuel systems must meet the requirements in 46 CFR 160.135-7.

(B) Portable fuel systems for outboard engines must meet UL 1185 (incorporated by reference, see § 160.156-5 of this subpart) or equivalent, except that hoses must be Coast Guard Type A per SAE J1527 (incorporated by reference, see § 160.156-5 of this subpart), and hose clamps, primers, filters, and strainers must be successfully tested in accordance with 33 CFR 183.590. Anti-siphon devices must be provided in the fuel system to prevent fuel spillage when the hose is disconnected. Arrangements must be provided to secure the fuel tank in its normal operating position on the rescue boat.

(C) Fuel systems for outboard engines using non-integral, permanently installed fuel tanks must meet the requirements of 33 CFR part 183, subpart J-Fuel Systems. UL 1102 (incorporated by reference, see § 160.156-5 of this subpart) meets these requirements for fuel tanks.
