
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.156-Rescue Boats and Fast Rescue Boats (SOLAS)
###### § 160.156-7 Design, construction and performance of rescue boats and fast rescue boats.
####### Control and steering station.

(12)Rescue boat starting, maneuvering, and steering controls must be provided at the control and steering station.

(i) The throttle must be a continuous manual control and must be able to be set and locked at any position.

(ii) The control and steering station must be designed and laid out in accordance with ASTM F 1166 sections 9 and 10, so that controls and displays are unambiguous, accessible, and easy to reach and use from the operator's normal seated position, while wearing an immersion suit or a lifejacket.

(iii) Each control, gauge, or display must be identified by a marking posted on, above, or adjacent to the respective item. Each control must operate in a logical manner and be marked with an arrow to show direction of movement of control which will cause an increased response. Each gauge must be marked with the normal operating range and indicate danger or abnormal conditions. Each marking must be permanent and weatherproof.

(iv) Gauges, and audio and visual alarms, must be provided to monitor at least the following parameters on inboard engines-

(A) Coolant temperature, for a liquid cooled engine;

(B) Oil pressure, for an engine with an oil pump;

(C) Tachometer, for an engine not provided with over-speed protection; and

(D) State of charge, or rate of charge, for each rechargeable engine starting power source.
