
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.156-Rescue Boats and Fast Rescue Boats (SOLAS)
###### § 160.156-11 Fabrication of prototype rescue boats and fast rescue boats for approval.
####### Fiber Reinforced Plastic (FRP) Construction.

(i)(A) FRP components of each prototype rescue boat outer hull and any FRP inner hull or liner components that are bonded or bolted to the outer hull must have a layup made of unpigmented clear resins so that details of construction are visible for inspection. Test panels representative of each prototype layup must be tested in accordance with MIL-P-17549D(SH) (incorporated by reference, see § 160.156-5 of this subpart). If an accepted MIL-R-21607E(SH) Grade B resin is used for the prototype rescue boat, additives for fire retardancy must not be used so that the laminate is translucent for inspection purposes. A prototype test rescue boat with Grade B resins will not be marked in accordance with § 160.156-17 of this subpart for use as a production rescue boat regardless of the outcome of the performance tests. Whichever accepted resin the manufacturer decides to use for the prototype rescue boat, the same resin must be used in the production rescue boats.

(B) The hull, canopy, and major structural laminates of each prototype FRP rescue boat must be tested for resin content, ultimate flexural strength, and tensile strength. The test samples must be cut out from the prototype rescue boat, or be laid up at the same time, using the same procedures and by the same operators as the laminate used in the rescue boat. The number of samples used for each test, and the conditions and test methods used, must be as per the applicable test specified in this paragraph. The resin content must be determined as per ASTM D 2584 or ISO 1172 (incorporated by reference, see § 160.156-5 of this subpart). The flexural ultimate strength must be determined by ASTM D 790 method I (test condition "A", flatwise, dry) or the corresponding ISO 14125 test method (incorporated by reference, see § 160.156-5 of this subpart). The tensile strength, lengthwise, must be determined as per ASTM D 638 or ISO 527 (incorporated by reference, see § 160.156-5 of this subpart).

(C) Each major FRP component, such as the hull, canopy, and inner liner(s) of each prototype FRP rescue boat, must be examined and weighed after it is completed but before it is assembled. If the rescue boat is constructed by the spray lay-up technique, the hull and canopy thicknesses must be measured using ultrasonic or equivalent techniques;
