
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 13 - CERTIFICATION OF TANKERMEN
##### Subpart A - General
###### § 13.127 Service: General.

(a) A service letter must be signed by the owner, operator, master, or chief engineer of the vessel and must specify the following:

(1) The name of the vessel, official number for the vessel, and date of service for each vessel.

(2) For endorsements as tankerman-PIC, tankerman-PIC (barge), and tankerman-assistant, the classification of cargo (DL, LG, or, for a restricted endorsement, a specific product) handled while the applicant accumulated the service.

(3) The dates, the numbers and kinds of transfers the applicants have participated in, the ports or terminals, if applicable, and the number of transfers that involved commencement or completion of loading or discharge.

(4) For endorsements as tankerman-PIC or tankerman-PIC (barge), that the applicant has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the signer that he or she is fully capable of supervising transfers of liquid cargo, including-

(i) Pre-transfer inspection;

(ii) Pre-transfer conference and execution of the Declaration of Inspection;

(iii) Connection of cargo hoses or loading-arms;

(iv) Line-up of the cargo system for loading and discharge;

(v) Start of liquid flow during loading;

(vi) Start of cargo pump and increase of pressure to normal discharge pressure;

(vii) Calculation of loading-rates;

(viii) Monitoring;

(ix) Topping-off of cargo tanks during loading;

(x) Stripping of cargo tanks;

(xi) Ballasting and deballasting, if appropriate;

(xii) Disconnection of the cargo hoses or loading-arms; and

(xiii) Securing of cargo systems.

(5) For endorsements as tankerman-engineer, that the applicant has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the signer that he or she is fully capable of supervising transfers of fuel oil, including-

(i) Pre-transfer inspection;

(ii) Pre-transfer conference and execution of the Declaration of Inspection;

(iii) Connection of hoses or loading-arms;

(iv) Line-up of the piping system for loading and transfer of fuel oil;

(v) Start of liquid flow during loading;

(vi) Calculation of loading rates;

(vii) Monitoring;

(viii) Topping-off of tanks during loading;

(ix) Disconnection of the hoses or loading arms; and

(x) Securing of fuel oil systems.

(b) In determining the numbers and kinds of transfers that the applicant has participated in under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the following rules apply:

(1) A transfer must involve the loading or discharge from at least one of the vessel's cargo tanks to or from a shore facility or another vessel. A shift of cargo from one tank to another tank is not a transfer for this purpose.

(2) Regardless of how long the transfer lasts beyond 4 hours, it counts as only one transfer.

(3) A transfer must include both a commencement and a completion.

(4) Regardless of how many tanks or products are being loaded or discharged at the same time, a person may receive credit for only one transfer, one loading, and one discharge conducted during each watch.

(5) Credit for a transfer during a watch of less than 4 hours accrues only if the watch includes either the connection and the commencement of transfer or the completion of transfer and the disconnection.

(6) Credit for a commencement of loading accrues only if the applicant participates in the pre-transfer inspection, the pre-transfer conference including execution of the Declaration of Inspection, the connection of hoses or loading-arms, the line-up of the system for the loading, the start of liquid flow, and the calculation of loading-rates, where applicable.

(7) Credit for a commencement of discharge accrues only if the applicant participates in the pre-transfer inspection, the pre-transfer conference including execution of the Declaration of Inspection, the connection of hoses or loading-arms, the line-up of the cargo system for the discharge, the start of the pump or pumps and increase of pressure to normal pressure for discharge, and the monitoring of discharge rates.

(8) Credit for a completion of transfer, whether loading or discharge, accrues only if the applicant participates in the topping-off at the loading port, or in the stripping of cargo tanks and the commencement of ballasting, if required by the vessel's transfer procedures, at the discharge port.

(9) Personnel desiring credit for transfers during off-duty hours may satisfy requirements of competence through incremental training periods that include segments of transfers. The cumulative number of transfers must equal the minimum specified in §§ 13.203(b) or 13.303(b) of this subchapter.

(c) Service on Articulated Tug Barges (ATBs). Service on ATBs with an aggregate tonnage of 1,600 GRT or more will be creditable on a case-by-case basis and with prior authorization by the Coast Guard, provided the ATB equipment is comparable to tank vessel equipment. The Coast Guard may issue blanket authorizations for classes of ATBs.
