
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.171-Immersion Suits
###### § 160.171-17 Approval testing for adult size immersion suit.
####### Field of vision.

(3)The immersion suit's field of vision must be tested as follows:

(i) While wearing a suit, each subject sits upright and faces straight ahead. An observer is positioned to one side of the subject at an angle of 60&#xB0; away from the subject's straight-ahead line of sight. The observer must be able to see the subject's closest eye at this position. The observer then walks past the front of the subject to a position on the subject's other side that is at an angle of 60&#xB0; away from the subject's straight-ahead line of sight. The suit must not obstruct the observer's view of the subject's eyes at any point between the two positions.

(ii) While wearing the suit, each subject stands upright and faces straight ahead. An observer is positioned to one side of the subject at an angle of 90&#xB0; away from the subject's straight-ahead line of sight. The subject then turns his or her head through an arc of 30&#xB0; toward the position of the observer. This procedure is repeated with the observer positioned on the other side of the subject at an angle of 90&#xB0; away from the subject's straight ahead line of sight. The suit must not obstruct the observer's view of the subject's eyes when the subject's head is turned 30&#xB0; toward the observer.

(iii) While wearing the suit, each subject stands upright and faces straight ahead. Through a combination of head and eye movement, the subject looks first at a spot directly overhead, then looks at a spot on or between the feet. An observer must verify that the subject can make the necessary head and eye movements while wearing the suit.
