
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.171-Immersion Suits
###### § 160.171-17 Approval testing for adult size immersion suit.
####### Test results.

(6)The test results must be prepared as follows:

(i) The total rectal temperature drop during the test period and the average lumbar, finger and toe temperature at the end of the test must be determined for each subject in the test, except subjects who did not complete testing for a reason stated in paragraph (d)(5)(i) or (d)(5)(ii) of this section. These temperatures and temperature drops must then be averaged. The average drop in rectal temperature must not be more than 2 &#xB0;C (3.6 &#xB0;F), and the average lumbar, toe and finger temperature must not be less than 5 &#xB0;C (41 &#xB0;F). Data from at least four subjects must be used in making these temperature calculations.

(ii) Rates of toe, finger, lumbar, and rectal temperature drop for each subject who did not complete testing for a reason stated in paragraph (d)(5)(iii) or (d)(5)(iv) of this section must be determined using the highest temperature measured and the temperature measured immediately before testing was terminated. These rates must be used to extrapolate to 6 hours the estimated rectal, finger, lumbar, and toe temperature at the end of that time. These estimated temperatures must be the temperatures used in computing the average temperatures described in paragraph (d)(6)(i) of this section.
