
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.171-Immersion Suits
###### § 160.171-17 Approval testing for adult size immersion suit.
####### Test equipment.

(1)The following equipment is required for this test:

(i) A sealed copper or aluminum can that has at least two parallel flat surfaces and that contains at least two liters (two quarts) or water and no air. One possible configuration of the can shown in figure 160.171-17(e)(1)(i).

(ii) A thermistor or thermocouple that has an accuracy of +/-0.1 &#xB0;C (+/-0.18 &#xB0;F) and that is arranged to measure the temperature of the water in the can.

(iii) A control sample of two flat pieces of 4.75 mm (3/16 in.) thick, closed cell neoprene foam of sufficient size to enclose the can between them. The control sample must have a thermal conductivity of not more than 0.055 watt/meter-&#xB0; K (0.38 Btu-in./hr.-sq.ft.- &#xB0;F). The thermal conductivity of the control sample must be determined in accordance with the procedures in ASTM C 177 or ASTM C 518 (incorporated by reference, see § 160.171-3).

(iv) Two flat pieces of suit material of sufficient size to enclose the can between them. The surface covering, surface treatment, and number of layers of the material tested must be the same as those of material used in the suit. If the material used in the suit varies in thickness or number of layers, the material tested must be representative of the portion of the suit having the least thickness or number of layers.

(v) A clamping arrangement to form a watertight seal around the edges of the material when the can is enclosed inside. A sealing compound may be used. Figure 160.171-17(e)(1)(v) shows one possible arrangement of the clamping arrangement.

(vi) A container of water deep enough to hold the entire assembly of the can, material, and clamp at least 1 meter (39 in.) below the surface of the water.

(vii) A means to control the temperature of the water in the container between 0 &#xB0;C (32 &#xB0;F) and 1 &#xB0;C (33.8 &#xB0;F).

(viii) A thermistor or thermocouple that has an accuracy of +/-0.1 &#xB0;C (0.18 &#xB0;F) and that is arranged to measure the temperature of the water in the container at the depth at which the can, material, and clamp are held.
