
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.171-Immersion Suits
###### § 160.171-17 Approval testing for adult size immersion suit.
####### Test procedure.

(2)The can is held under water (which can be at room temperature) and clamped between the two pieces of the neoprene control sample so that the assembly formed conforms as closely as possible to the shape of the can, and so that water fills all void spaces between the can and the sample. When the water temperature in the can is at or above 45 &#xB0;C (113 &#xB0;F), the assembly is then placed in the container and submerged to a depth of 1 m (39 in.) at the highest point of the assembly. The water temperature in the container must be between 0 &#xB0;C (32 &#xB0;F) and 1 &#xB0;C (33.8 &#xB0;F) and must be maintained within this range for the remainder of the test. No part of the assembly may touch the bottom or sides of the container. Every two minutes the assembly is shaken and then inverted from its previous position. The time for the water inside the can to drop from 45 &#xB0;C (113 &#xB0;F) to 33 &#xB0;C (91 &#xB0;F) is recorded. This procedure is performed three times using the control sample and then repeated three times using the suit material instead of the control sample. The shortest time for the drop in water temperature when the suit material is used must be greater than or equal to the shortest time when the neoprene control sample is used.
