
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 13 - CERTIFICATION OF TANKERMEN
##### Subpart F - Requirements for STCW Tankerman Endorsements
###### ยง 13.601 General.

(a) When all tankerman endorsements are issued, renewed, or otherwise modified, the Coast Guard will determine, upon request, whether the applicant meets the requirements for an STCW tankerman endorsement for service on seagoing vessels. If the applicant is qualified, the Coast Guard will issue the appropriate endorsement. An applicant for any STCW endorsement must hold the appropriate national endorsement unless otherwise specified.

(b) Applicants for an STCW tankerman endorsement must-

(1) Meet the training and service requirements for the endorsement sought; and

(2) Meet the appropriate standard of competence identified in the STCW Code (incorporated by reference, see ยง 13.103 of this part).

(c) The Coast Guard will accept the following as proof of meeting the standards of competence:

(1) In-service experience: Documentation of successful completion of assessments, approved or accepted by the Coast Guard, and signed by a qualified assessor, deck or engineering, as appropriate.

(2) Training ship experience: Documentation of successful completion of an approved training program involving formal training and assessment onboard a school ship.

(3) Simulator training: Documentation of successful completion of training and assessment from a Coast Guard-approved course involving maritime simulation.

(4) Training program: Documentation of successful completion of an approved training program involving formal training and assessments.

(d) The Coast Guard will publish guidelines that should be used to document successful demonstrations of competence. Organizations may develop alternative assessment documentation for demonstrations of competence ; however, such documentation must be approved by the Coast Guard prior to its use and submittal with an application.
