
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.171-Immersion Suits
###### § 160.171-25 Production testing.

(a) Immersion suit production testing is conducted under the procedures in this section and subpart 159.007 of this chapter.

(b) One out of every 100 immersion suits produced must be tested as prescribed in § 160.171-17(g) and must be given a complete visual examination. The suit must be selected at random from a production lot of 100 suits and tested by or under the supervision of the independent laboratory. A suit fails this test if-

(1) The measured buoyancy of the suit differs by more than 10% from the measured buoyancy of the suit tested for approval,

(2) The adjusted buoyancy of the suit calculated using the buoyancy loss factor determined during approval testing is less than that required in § 160.171-11(a)(1), or

(3) The visual examination shows that the suit does not conform to the approved design.

(c) If the suit fails to pass the test as prescribed in paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section, 10 additional suits from the same lot must be selected at random and subjected to the test. If a defect in the suit is detected upon visual examination, 10 additional suits from the same lot must be selected at random and examined for the defect.

(d) If one or more of the 10 suits fails to pass the test or examination, each suit in the lot must be tested or examined for the defect for which the lot was rejected. Only suits that pass the test or that are free of defects may be sold as Coast Guard approved.

(e) The manufacturer must ensure that the quality control procedure described in the test plans previously submitted for approval under § 159.005-9(a)(5)(iii) is followed.
