
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.174-Thermal Protective Aids
###### § 160.174-17 Approval testing.
####### Discarding test.

(3)If the thermal protective aid impairs the ability of the wearer to swim, it must be demonstrated that it can be discarded by the test subjects, when immersed in water, in not more than two minutes. Caution: During each of the in water tests prescribed in this section, a person ready to render assistance when needed should be near each subject in the water.

(i) Unless the manufacturer specifies in the instructions that the thermal protective aid does impair ability to swim and should always be discarded in the water, each subject, wearing a life preserver, enters the water and swims 25 meters. The subject, after sufficient rest to avoid fatigue, repeats this test wearing a thermal protective aid in addition to the life preserver. At least nine out of ten subjects must be able to swim this distance wearing the thermal protective aid in not more than 125% of the time taken to swim the distance wearing only a life preserver, or the aid will be determined to impair the ability to swim.

(ii) If the thermal protective aid is determined by the above test or specified by the manufacturer to impair the ability to swim, each subject, after entering the water from a height of one meter (three feet), attempts to remove the aid and discard it. At least nine out of ten subjects must be able to discard the device within two minutes.

(c) [Reserved]
