
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 13 - CERTIFICATION OF TANKERMEN
##### Subpart F - Requirements for STCW Tankerman Endorsements
###### ยง 13.607 Requirements to qualify for an STCW endorsement for advanced liquefied gas tanker cargo operations.

(a) Every applicant for an endorsement in advanced liquefied gas tanker cargo operations must:

(1) Qualify for a national endorsement as tankerman-PIC liquefied gas;

(2) Meet the standards of competence identified in Tables A-V/1-2-2 of the STCW Code (incorporated by reference, see ยง 13.103 of this part); and

(3) Provide evidence of 90 days of service on liquefied gas tankers. The Coast Guard will accept service submitted to qualify for a national endorsement as required in ยง 13.203 of this part, provided that the service was on liquefied gas tankers.

(b) Applicants may qualify for an endorsement in advanced liquefied gas tanker cargo operations with a limitation to non-self-propelled vessels. To qualify for this endorsement, an applicant must:

(1) Qualify for a national endorsement as tankerman-PIC (barge) liquefied gas;

(2) Provide evidence of meeting the standards of competence identified in Table A-V/1-2-2 of the STCW Code; and

(3) Provide evidence of at least 90 days of service, whether shore-based or vessel-based, on liquefied gas tankers. The Coast Guard will accept service submitted to qualify for a national endorsement as required in ยง 13.303 of this part, provided that the service was on liquefied gas tankers.

(c) Applicants may qualify for an endorsement in advanced liquefied gas tanker cargo operations with a limitation to maintenance and repair of cargo equipment. To qualify for this endorsement, an applicant must:

(1) Qualify for a national endorsement as tankerman-engineer;

(2) Provide evidence of meeting the standards of competence identified in Table A-V/1-2-2 of the STCW Code applicable to maintenance and repair of cargo equipment; and

(3) Provide evidence of-

(i) At least 90 days of service as an engineering officer on liquefied gas tankers;

(ii) At least 90 days of rating or cadet service on deck or in the engine department on liquefied gas tankers; or

(iii) A combination of the service in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) and (c)(3)(ii) of this section.

(d) Applicants holding an endorsement in advanced oil tanker cargo operations or advanced chemical tanker cargo operations may qualify for an endorsement in advanced liquefied gas tanker cargo operations by completing, in a supernumerary capacity, an approved training program onboard liquefied gas tankers. The program must be at least 1 month and include at least three loading and three discharge operations.
