
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.176-Inflatable Lifejackets
###### § 160.176-5 Approval procedures.
####### Modifications to general procedures.

(a)Subpart 159.005 of this chapter contains the approval procedures. Those procedures must be followed, except as modified in this paragraph.

(1) Preapproval review under §§ 159.005-5 and 159.005-7 may be omitted if a similar design has already been approved.

(2) The information required under § 159.005-5(a)(2) (i) through (iii) of this chapter must be included in the application.

(3) The application must also include the following:

(i) The Type of performance (i.e. Type I or Type V) that the lifejacket is designed to provide.

(ii) Any special purpose(s) for which the lifejacket is designed and the vessel(s) or vessel type(s) on which its use is planned.

(iii) Buoyancy and torque values along with tolerances to be allowed in production. The Coast Guard normally will approve tolerances of up to +/-10% unless prototypes are tested at greater extremes or greater tolerances are otherwise justified.

(iv) The text of any optional marking to be provided in addition to required text.

(v) The service manual and written guidelines required by §§ 160.176-19(c) and 160.176-19(d) of the part and the user's manual required by § 160.176-21 of this part.

(vi) A list of proposed servicing facilities.

(4) The description of quality control procedures required by § 159.005-9 of this chapter to be submitted with the test report may be omitted as long as the manufacturer's planned quality control procedures comply with § 160.176-15 of this part.

(5) The test report must include, in addition to information required by § 159.005-9 of this chapter, a report of inspection of each proposed servicing facility. The report must include the time, date, place, and name of the person doing the inspection and observations that show whether the facility meets §§ 160.176-19(b)(2), 160-176-19(b)(4), and 160.176-19(d) of this part.

(6) The certificate of approval, when issued, is accompanied by a letter to the manufacturer listing the servicing facilities that have been approved. Copies of the letter are also provided for each facility.

(7) An approval will be suspended or terminated under § 159.005-15 of this chapter if the manufacturer fails to maintain approved servicing facilities that meet § 160.176-19 of this part.
