
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.176-Inflatable Lifejackets
###### § 160.176-9 Construction.
####### General Features.

(a)Each inflatable lifejacket must-

(1) Have at least two inflation chambers;

(2) Be constructed so that the intended method of donning is obvious to an untrained wearer;

(3) If approved for use on a passenger vessel, be inside a sealed, non-reusable package that can be easily opened;

(4) Have a retainer for each adjustable closure to prevent any part of the closure from being easily removed from the lifejacket;

(5) Be universally sized for wearers weighing over 40 kg. (90 pounds) and have a chest size range of at least 76 to 120 cm. (30 to 52 in.);

(6) Unless the lifejacket is designed so that it can only be donned in one way, be constructed to be donned with either the inner or outer surface of the lifejacket next to the wearer (be reversible);

(7) Not have a channel that can direct water to the wearer's face to any greater extent than that of the reference vest defined in § 160.176-3(h) of this part;

(8) Not have edges, projections, or corners, either external or internal, that are sharp enough to damage the lifejacket or to cause injury to anyone using or maintaining the lifejacket;

(9) Have a means for drainage of entrapped water;

(10) Be primarily vivid reddish orange, as defined by sections 13 and 14 of the "Color Names Dictionary," on its external surfaces;

(11) Be of first quality workmanship;

(12) Unless otherwise allowed by the approval certificate-

(i) Not incorporate means obviously intended for attaching the lifejacket to the vessel; and

(ii) Not have any instructions indicating attachment to a vessel is intended; and

(13) Meet any additional requirements that the Commandant may prescribe, if necessary, to approve unique or novel designs.

(b) Inflation mechanisms. (1) Each inflatable lifejacket must have

(i) At least one automatic inflation mechanism;

(ii) At least two manual inflation mechanisms on separate chambers;

(iii) At least one oral inflation mechanism on each chamber; and

(iv) At least one manual inflation mechanism or one automatic inflation mechanism on each inflation chamber.

(2) Each inflation mechanism must

(i) Have an intended method of operation that is obvious to an untrained wearer;

(ii) Not require tools to activate the mechanism;

(iii) Be located outside its inflation chamber; and

(iv) Be in a ready to use condition.

(3) Each oral inflation mechanism must

(i) Be easily accessible after inflation for the wearer to "top off" each chamber by mouth;

(ii) Operate without pulling on the mechanism;

(iii) Not be able to be locked in the open or closed position; and

(iv) Have a non-toxic mouthpiece.

(4) Each manual inflation mechanism must

(i) Provide an easy means of inflation that requires only one deliberate action on the part of the wearer to actuate it;

(ii) Have a simple method for replacing its inflation medium cartridge; and

(iii) Be operated by pulling on an inflation handle that is marked "Jerk to Inflate" at two visible locations.

(5) Each automatic inflation mechanism must

(i) Have a simple method for replacing its inflation medium cartridge and water sensitive element;

(ii) Have an obvious method of indicating whether the mechanism has been activated; and

(iii) Be incapable of assembly without its water sensitive element.

(6) The marking required for the inflation handle of a manual inflation mechanism must be waterproof, permanent, and readable from a distance of 2.5 m (8 feet).
