
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.176-Inflatable Lifejackets
###### § 160.176-13 Approval Tests.
####### Temperature cycling tests.

(h)(1) Three uninflated lifejackets, 2 packed and 1 unpacked, are maintained at room temperature (20 +/-3 &#xB0;C (68 + 6 &#xB0;F)) for 4 hours and then at a temperature of 65 +/-2 &#xB0;C (150 +/-5 &#xB0;F) for 20 hours. The lifejackets are then maintained at room temperature for at least 4 hours, after which they are maintained at a temperature of minus 30 +/-2 &#xB0;C (-22 +/-5 &#xB0;F) for 20 hours. This cycle is then repeated once.

(2) Upon the completion of the conditioning in paragraph (h)(1) of this section all sealed or non-reusable packaging is removed from the two packed units. The lifejackets must show no functional deterioration after being inflated immediately after removal from the conditioning. The lifejackets must be inflated as follows:

(i) One unit which was packed during conditioning must fully inflate within 2 minutes using only oral inflation.

(ii) The other unit which was packed during conditioning must fully inflate within 45 seconds of submersion in water at 2 +/-2 &#xB0;C (37 +/-5 &#xB0;F) as a result of automatic inflation.

(iii) The unit which was unpacked during conditioning must fully inflate within 30 seconds of activation of the manual inflation mechanisms.

(3) The same 3 lifejackets used for the test in paragraph (h)(1) of this section are deflated and, with 2 repacked and 1 unpacked, are maintained at room temperature for 4 hours and then at a temperature of minus 30 +/-2 &#xB0;C (-22 +/-5 &#xB0;F) for 20 hours. The lifejackets are then stored at room temperature for at least 4 hours, after which they are maintained at a temperature of 65 +/-2 &#xB0;C (150 +/-5 &#xB0;F) for 20 hours. This cycle is then repeated once. The steps in paragraph (h)(2) of this section are then repeated, and the lifejackets must meet the criteria in that paragraph.

(i) [Reserved]
