
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.176-Inflatable Lifejackets
###### § 160.176-17 Manufacturer records.

(a) Each manufacturer of inflatable lifejackets must keep the records required by § 159.007-13 of this chapter except that they must be retained for at least 120 months after the month in which the inspection or test was conducted.

(b) Each record required by § 159.007-13 of this chapter must also include the following information:

(1) For each test, the serial number of the test instrument used if there is more than one available.

(2) For each test and inspection, the identification of the samples used, the lot number, the approval number, and the number of lifejackets in the lot.

(3) For each lot rejected, the cause for rejection, any corrective action taken, and the final disposition of the lot.

(c) The description or photographs of procedures and apparatus used in testing is not required for the records prescribed in § 159.007-13 of this chapter as long as the manufacturer's procedures and apparatus meet the requirements of this subpart.

(d) Each manufacturer of inflatable lifejackets must also keep the following records:

(1) Records for all materials used in production including the following:

(i) Name and address of the supplier.

(ii) Date of purchase and receipt.

(iii) Lot number.

(iv) Certification meeting § 160.176-8(a)(3) of this part.

(2) A copy of this subpart.

(3) Each document incorporated by reference in § 160.176-4 of this part.

(4) A copy of the approved plans and specifications required by § 160.176-5(a)(2) of this part.

(5) The approval certificate.

(6) Calibration of test equipment, including the identity of the agency performing the calibration, date of calibration, and results.

(7) A listing of current and formerly approved servicing facilities.

(e) The records required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section must be kept for at least 120 months after preparation. All other records required by paragraph (d) of this section must be kept for at least 60 months after the lifejacket approval expires or is terminated.
