
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.176-Inflatable Lifejackets
###### § 160.176-19 Servicing.
####### Servicing facilities.

(b)Each Coast Guard approved servicing facility must meet the requirements of this paragraph and paragraph (d) of this section in order to receive and keep its approval for each make and model of lifejacket. Approval is obtained according to § 160.176-5(c) of this part.

(1) Each servicing facility must conduct lifejacket servicing according to its servicing guidelines and follow the procedures in the service manual required by this section.

(2) Each servicing facility must have a suitable site for servicing which must be clean, well lit, free from excessive dust, drafts, and strong sunlight, and have appropriate temperature and humidity control as specified in the service manual.

(3) Each servicing facility must have the appropriate service, repair, and test equipment and spare parts for performing required tests and repairs.

(4) Each servicing facility must have a current manufacturer's service manual for each make and model of lifejacket serviced.

(5) A servicing facility may have more than one servicing site provided that each site meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(6) Each servicing facility must be inspected at intervals not exceeding six months by an accepted independent laboratory, and a report of the inspections must be submitted to the Commandant at least annually. The report must contain enough information to show compliance with paragraphs (b) (1) through (4) of this section and paragraph (d) of this section. Where a facility uses more than one site the report must show compliance at each site at least biennially.
