
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 160-LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 160.176-Inflatable Lifejackets
###### § 160.176-19 Servicing.
####### Service manual.

(c)(1) Each manufacturer of an approved inflatable lifejacket must prepare a service manual for the lifejacket. The service manual must be approved by the Commandant according to § 160.176-5(b) of this part.

(2) The manufacturer must make the service manual, service manual revisions, and service bulletins available to each approved servicing facility.

(3) Each service manual must contain the following:

(i) Detailed procedures for inspecting, servicing, and repackaging the lifejacket.

(ii) A list of approved replacement parts and materials to be used for servicing and repairs, if any.

(iii) A requirement to mark the date and servicing facility name on each lifejacket serviced.

(iv) Frequency of servicing.

(v) Any specific restrictions or special procedures prescribed by the Coast Guard or manufacturer.

(4) Each service manual revision and service bulletin which authorizes the modification of a lifejacket, or which affects a requirement under this subpart, must be approved by the Commandant. Other revisions and service bulletins are not required to be approved, but a copy of each must be sent to the Commandant when it is issued. At least once each year, the manufacturer must provide to the Commandant and to each servicing facility approved to service its lifejackets a bulletin listing each service manual revision and bulletin in effect.
