
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 14 - SHIPMENT AND DISCHARGE OF MERCHANT MARINERS
##### Subpart B - Shipment of Merchant Mariners
###### ยง 14.207 Content and form of shipping articles.

(a)(1) The content and form of shipping articles for each vessel of the United States of 100 GRT or more upon a foreign or intercoastal voyage must comply with the requirements of 46 U.S.C. 10302, 10303, 10304, and 10305. The articles must identify the nature of the voyage and specify at least the name, license, MMD or MMC number, capacity of service, time due onboard to begin work, name and address of the next of kin, and wages due to each merchant mariner, either who was discharged or whose services were otherwise terminated during the month.

(2) The content and form of articles for each such vessel upon a coastwise voyage (including a voyage on the Great Lakes) must also comply with the requirements of 46 U.S.C. 10502. The articles must specify at least the matter identified by paragraph (a)(1) of this section, except that they must not specify the wages due to the mariner. The wages section of the form must be left blank for coastwise voyages.

(b) Any shipping company that manually prepares the articles may, upon request, obtain a form from the Coast Guard.

(c) Any company that electronically prepares the articles may develop its own software or buy it off the shelf; but, in either of these cases, it must secure approval to use the software for these purposes from the National Maritime Center at any of the addresses provided in ยง 14.103 of this part.
