
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 161-ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 161.010-Floating Electric Waterlight
###### § 161.010-4 Procedure for approval.
####### https://www.uscg.mil/HQ/MSC

(a) A request for approval of an automatic floating electric waterlight must be submitted by visitors to the Commanding Officer, Marine Safety Center, U.S. Coast Guard, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593, or transmitted by mail to: Commanding Officer (MSC), Attn: Marine Safety Center, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7430, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7430, in a written or electronic format. Information for electronic submittals can be found at.

(b) All inspections and tests must be performed by an independent laboratory which meets the requirements of § 159.010-3 of this chapter. A list of independent laboratories accepted by the Coast Guard as meeting § 159.010-3 of this chapter may be obtained by contacting the Commanding Officer, USCG Marine Safety Center.

(c) Each request for approval must contain;

(1) The name and address of the applicant,

(2) One copy of all plans and specifications that meet the requirements of § 159.005-12 of this chapter,

(3) A pre-approval sample of the waterlight,

(4) An inspection and test report verifying compliance with the construction and test requirements of ANSI/UL 1196, and

(5) A statement by the manufacturer certifying that the waterlight complies with the requirements of this subpart.
