
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 162-ENGINEERING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 162.050-Pollution Prevention Equipment
###### § 162.050-5 Contents of application.

(a) An application for approval of a separator, oil content meter, or a bilge alarm must contain the following information:

(1) A brief description of the item submitted for approval.

(2) The name and address of the applicant and its manufacturing facility.

(3) A detailed description of quality control procedures, in-process and final inspections and tests followed in manufacturing the item, and construction and sales record keeping systems maintained.

(4) Arrangement drawings and piping diagrams of the item that give the information prescribed by § 56.01-10(d) of this chapter.

(5) Detailed electrical plans of the type described in § 110.25-1 of this chapter.

(6) An operating and maintenance manual containing detailed and easily understandable instructions on installation, operation, calibration, zeroing, and maintenance of the item.

(7) For each monitor and bilge alarm and each control on a separator, the vibration test report described in § 162.050-37.

(8) For each oil content meter, a statement of whether it is to be used with crude oils, refined products, or both.

(9) A list of the substances used in operating the item that require certification under part 147 of this chapter as articles of ships' stores and supplies.

(10) The name of the facility to conduct approval testing.

(11) If the applicant intends to use a test rig other than a test rig of the facility, a detailed description of the rig.

(b) An applicant may incorporate by reference in his application information that he has submitted in a previous application.
