
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 162-ENGINEERING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 162.050-Pollution Prevention Equipment
###### § 162.050-7 Approval procedures.
####### https://www.uscg.mil/HQ/MSC

(a) An application for approval of equipment under this subpart must either be delivered by visitors to the Commanding Officer, Marine Safety Center, U.S. Coast Guard, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593, or transmitted by mail to: Commanding Officer (MSC), Attn: Marine Safety Center, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7430, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7430, in a written or electronic format. Information for electronic submittals can be found at.

(b) The application is examined by the Coast Guard to determine whether the item complies with the design requirements and vibration standard prescribed in this subpart and to determine what probability the item has of passing the approval tests. The applicant is notified of the results of the examination.

(c) If examination of the application reveals that it is incomplete, it is returned to the applicant with a statement of reasons why it is incomplete.

(d) The applicant must make arrangements for approval testing directly with a testing facility and must provide the facility with a copy of the instructions manual for the equipment to be tested.

(e) If applications for approval of a separator have been made for more than one size, the applicant, in lieu of submitting each size for approval testing, may submit each size that has a capacity exceeding 50 cubic meters per hour throughput, if any, and two additional sizes that have a capacity of 50 cubic meters per hour throughput or less. One of the additional sizes must have a capacity that is in the highest quartile of capacities manufactured in the 0-50 cubic meters per hour throughput range and the other must be from the lowest quartile.

(f) The approval tests in this subpart must be performed by a facility designated under § 162.050-15. The facility must also be accepted as an independent laboratory by the Coast Guard under subpart 159.010 of this chapter. The facility must perform each test in accordance with the test conditions prescribed in this subpart for the test, prepare a test report for the item if it completes all of the tests, and send the report with three copies to the Commanding Officer, USCG Marine Safety Center. The applicant may observe the tests. If an item does not complete testing, a new application must be made before retesting.

(g) The Commanding Officer, USCG Marine Safety Center, sends a copy of the test report to the applicant and advises him whether the item is approved. If the item is approved, an approval certificate is sent to the applicant. The approval certificate lists conditions of approval applicable to the item.

(h) A separator is approved under this subpart if-

(1) It meets the design requirements in § 162.050-21 and is tested in accordance with this subpart;

(2) The oil content of each sample of separated water effluent taken during approval testing is 15 ppm or less;

(3) During Test No. 3A an oily mixture is not observed at the separated water outlet of the separator;

(4) During Test No. 5A its operation is continuous; and

(5) Any substance used in operating the separator that requires certification under part 147 of this chapter as an article of ships' stores or supplies has been certified.

(i) An oil content meter is approved under this subpart if-

(1) It meets the design requirements in § 162.050-25 and is tested in accordance with this subpart;

(2) Each oil content reading recorded during approval testing is +/-10 ppm or +/-10 percent, whichever is greater, of the oil content of the sample influent mixture taken at the time of the reading;

(3) Its response time is twenty (20) seconds or less in Test No. 3CM;

(4) The time intervals between successive readings recorded in Test No. 4CM are twenty (20) seconds or less; and

(5) Any substance used in operating the monitor that requires certification under part 147 of this chapter as an article of ships' stores or supplies has been certified.

(j) A bilge alarm is approved under this subpart if-

(1) It meets the design requirements in § 162.050-33 and is tested in accordance with this subpart;

(2) The oil content of each sample taken during approval testing is 15 ppm +/-5 ppm;

(3) Its response time is five seconds or less; and

(4) Any substance used in operating the alarm that requires certification under part 147 of this chapter as an article of ships' stores or supplies has been certified.
