
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 162-ENGINEERING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 162.050-Pollution Prevention Equipment
###### § 162.050-15 Designation of facilities.

(a) Each request for designation as a facility authorized to perform approval tests must be submitted to the Commandant (CG-ENG-3), Attn: Systems Engineering Division, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7509, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20593-7509.

(b) Each request must include the following:

(1) Name and address of the facility.

(2) Each type of equipment the facility proposes to test.

(3) A description of the facility's capability to perform approval tests including detailed information on the following:

(i) Management organization including personnel qualifications.

(ii) Equipment available for conducting sample analysis.

(iii) Materials available for approval testing.

(iv) Each of the facility's test rigs, if any.

(c) The Coast Guard reviews each request submitted to determine whether the facility meets the requirements of paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(4) of this section.

(d) If the facility meets the requirements in paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(4) of this section, they must obtain 12 samples containing mixtures of oil in water that are within a 10-to-30 ppm range that can be verified by an independent third-party source mutually acceptable to the applying lab and the Coast Guard prior to verification.

(e) The facility must measure the oil content of each sample using the method described in § 162.050-39 and report the value of each of the 12 measurements to the Commandant (CG-ENG-3), Systems Engineering Division, 2100 2nd St., SW., Stop 7126, Washington, DC 20593-7126.

(f) The measurements must meet the following criteria:

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the absolute value of Tn for each measurement, as determined by the American Society for Testing and Materials, "Standard Practice for Determination of Precision and Bias of Methods of Committee D-19 on Water", D 2777 (incorporated by reference, see § 162.050-4), must be less than or equal to 2.29 at a confidence level of 0.05.

(2) The absolute value of Tn for one measurement may exceed 2.29 if the Tn values for the other eleven measurements are less than or equal to 2.23 at a confidence level of 0.05. If the Tn value for one measurement exceeds 2.29, that measurement is not used in the method described in paragraph (f)(3) of this section.

(3) The absolute value of Xmust be smaller than u based on the following analysis of paired observations:

(i) Calculate the value of Xand S. This is the mean and standard deviation, respectively, of the differences between the known sample concentrations and the values obtained by the facility with their equipment. The value of Xfor the 12 measurements described in paragraph (e) of this section, or for 11 measurements if paragraph (f)(2) of this section applies, must be within the range 1 &#x2264; X&#x2264; + 1.

(ii) Determine the appropriate critical value of the Student's t-distribution with (n-1) degrees of freedom for a confidence level of &#x3B1; = 0.01. If all 12 samples meet the criteria of paragraph (f)(1) of this section then (n-1) = 11 and the critical value,

(iii) Compute the value of u, where

(iv) Compare the absolute value of Xto the value of u. If |X| <u, then the facility meets the criteria.

(g) To obtain authorization to conduct approval tests-

(1) A facility must have the management organization, equipment for conducting sample analysis, and the materials necessary to perform the tests;

(2) Each facility test rig must be of a type described in § 162.050-17 or § 162.050-19;

(3) The loss or award of a specific contract to test equipment must not be a substantial factor in the facility's financial well being;

(4) The facility must be free of influence and control of the manufacturers, suppliers, and vendors of the equipment; and

(5) The oil content measurements submitted to the Commandant must meet the criteria in paragraph (f) of this section.

(h) A facility may not subcontract for approval testing unless previously authorized by the Coast Guard. A request for authorization to subcontract must be sent to the Commandant (CG-ENG-3), Attn: Systems Engineering Division, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7509, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20593-7509.
