
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 162-ENGINEERING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 162.050-Pollution Prevention Equipment
###### § 162.050-21 Separator: Design specification.

(a) A separator must be designed to operate in each plane that forms an angle of 22.5&#xB0; with the plane of its normal operating position.

(b) The electrical components of a separator that are to be installed in an explosive atmosphere must be approved by an independent laboratory as components that Underwriters Laboratories Standard 913 (dated April 8, 1976) (incorporated by reference, see § 162.050-4) defines as intrinsically safe for use in a Class I, Group D hazardous location.

(c) Each separator component that is a moving part must be designed so that its movement during operation of the separator does not cause formation of static electricity.

(d) Each separator must be designed in accordance with the applicable requirements in subchapters F and J of this chapter.

(e) Each separator must be designed to be operated both automatically and manually. Each separator must be capable of operating automatically for at least 24 hours.

(f) Each separator must be designed so that adjustments to valves or other equipment are not necessary to start it.

(g) Each part of a separator that is susceptible to wear and tear must be readily accessible for maintenance in its installed position.

(h) A separator must be designed so that it does not rely in whole or in part on dilution of influent mixtures as a means of performing its function.
