
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 162-ENGINEERING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 162.050-Pollution Prevention Equipment
###### § 162.050-23 Separator: Approval tests.
####### Test Conditions.

(a)(1) Each test described in this section must be performed at a throughput and influent pressure equal to the maximum throughput and pressure at which the separator being tested is designed to operate. The tests and each of the steps in the tests must be carried out in the order described in this section. Each test must be performed without time delay between steps in the test.

(2) A test rig of the type described in § 162.050-17 must be used in performing each test.

(3) If a separator has a supply pump, it must be tested using that pump. If a separator does not have a supply pump, it must be tested using the mixture pump on the test rig.

(4) The influent water used in each test must be clean fresh water or clean fresh water in solution with sodium chloride. In either case, the relative density of the water must be no greater than 1.015 at 20 &#xB0;C.

(5) Each test must be conducted at an ambient temperature of between 10 &#xB0;C and 30 &#xB0;C.

(6) The oil content of each sample must be measured using the method described in § 162.050-39.

(7) Influent oil content must be determined during testing by measuring the flow rates of the oil and water that are mixed to form the influent or by use of an oil content meter on the inlet piping of the test rig. If an oil content meter is used, a sample of influent and a meter reading must be taken at the beginning of each test. If the meter reading is not within +/-10 percent of the oil content of the sample, the meter readings subsequently taken during the test are unacceptable test results.

(8) When collecting a sample at a sample point that has a stop cock, the first minute of fluid flow through the stop cock must not be included in the sample collected.

(9) In each test, the separator must be operated in accordance with the procedures described in its instruction manual.

(10) No maintenance, including replacement of parts, may be performed on a separator during or between the tests described in this section.

(11) A 1 liter sample of each oil to be used in testing must be taken and provided for use in the sample analysis required by § 162.050-39 .

(12) The separator may not be operated manually in Test No. 5A.

(13) If a separator has an integral bilge alarm, the separator must be tested with the bilge alarm installed.

(b) The following tests must be conducted using Test Fluid A:
