
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 162-ENGINEERING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 162.050-Pollution Prevention Equipment
###### § 162.050-25 Cargo monitor: Design specification.

(a) This section contains requirements that apply to cargo monitors.

(b) Each monitor must be designed so that it is calibrated by a means that does not involve manually mixing a known quantity of oil and a known quantity of water to form a mixture and manually feeding the mixture into the monitor.

(c) The electrical components of a monitor that are to be installed in an explosive atmosphere must be approved by an independent laboratory as components that Underwriters Laboratories Standard 913 (dated April 8, 1976) (incorporated by reference, see § 162.050-4) defines as intrinsically safe for use in a Class I, Group D hazardous location.

(d) Each monitor component that is a moving part must be designed so that its movement during operation of the monitor does not cause formation of static electricity.

(e) A monitor must be designed to operate in each plane that forms an angle of 22.5&#xB0; with the plane of its normal operating position.

(f) Each monitor must be designed in accordance with the applicable requirements contained in subchapters F and J of this chapter.

(g) Each monitor must be designed so that it records each change in oil content of the mixture it is measuring within 20 seconds after the change occurs.

(h) Each monitor must have a device that produces a warning signal and a signal that can be used to actuate valves in a vessel's fixed piping system, when-

(1) The oil content of the mixture being measured exceeds the concentration limit set by the operator of the monitor; and

(2) Malfunction, breakdown, or other failure of the monitor occurs.

(i) Each monitor must have a means to determine whether it is accurately calibrated.
