
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 162-ENGINEERING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 162.050-Pollution Prevention Equipment
###### § 162.050-27 Oil content meter: Approval tests.
####### Test conditions.

(a)(1) The tests and each step in the tests must be carried out in the order described in this section. Each test must be performed without time delay between steps in the test. No maintenance, including replacement of parts, may be performed on the meter during or between the tests described in this section.

(2) A test rig of the type described in § 162.050-19 must be used when performing each test.

(3) Each mixture used during the tests must be prepared by combining oil supplied from the oil injection pipe of the test rig and water supplied from the mixture tank of the test rig. However, if the flow of oil through the oil injection pipe becomes intermittent, oil and water may be combined in the mixture tank to form the mixture.

(4) A mixture may be circulated through a meter only once during testing.

(5) Unless otherwise provided in a specific test, the water used in each test must be clean, fresh water.

(6) The oil used in each test, except Test No. 2 in paragraph (c) of this section, must be Arabian light crude oil.

(7) Each test must be performed at an ambient temperature of between 10 &#xB0;C and 30 &#xB0;C.

(8) Unless otherwise provided in a specific test, each test must be performed at the maximum mixture pressure, the maximum flow rate, and the power supply ratings at which the meter is designed to operate.

(9) The particulate contaminant described in Test No. 5 in paragraph (f) of this section, if not attapulgite, must be of a type that does not lose more than 3 percent of its weight after ignition and must be insoluble in a 500 ppm mixture.

(10) In each test the meter must be operated in accordance with the procedures described in its instructions manual.

(11) Unless otherwise provided in a specific test, the centrifugal pump shown in Figure 162.050-19 in § 162.050-19 must be operated at 1,000 revolutions per minute or more in each test.

(12) Whenever the oil content of a mixture is recorded, a sample of the mixture must also be taken. The oil content of the sample must be measured using the method described in § 162.050-39.

(13) A one-liter sample of each oil to be used in testing must be taken and provided for use in the sample analysis required by § 162.050-39.
