
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 162-ENGINEERING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 162.050-Pollution Prevention Equipment
###### § 162.050-27 Oil content meter: Approval tests.
####### Test No. 2 Response to Different Oil Types Test.

(c)(1) If the meter is designed for use with crude oils, it is fed with a mixture of water and the first oil listed in Table 162.050-27(c) at the following concentrations: 15 ppm, 100 ppm, and a concentration that is 90 percent of the highest oil concentration in water that can be read on the meter. Each concentration is fed to the meter in the order listed until a steady reading occurs and is recorded. After each steady reading is recorded, the meter is fed with water for 15 minutes. At the end of each 15-minute period of feeding the meter with water, an oil content reading is again obtained and recorded, and a calibration curve must be created.

(2) The steps described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section are repeated using each of the other oils listed in Table 162.050-27(c). A calibration curve must be created for each oil tested.

(3) If any oil listed in Table 162.050-27(c) is unavailable, an oil with similar properties may be substituted in testing.

(4) If the meter will be used with refined oil products, the steps described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section are performed using each of the following:

(i) Leaded regular grade automotive gasoline;

(ii) Unleaded automotive gasoline;

(iii) Kerosene; and

(iv) Light diesel or No. 2 fuel oil.

(5) If the meter will be used with category C and D oil-like noxious liquid substances to meet the requirements of 33 CFR 151.41(b), the tests described in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section are to be performed using the substances for which approval is sought.
