
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 162-ENGINEERING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 162.050-Pollution Prevention Equipment
###### § 162.050-27 Oil content meter: Approval tests.
####### Test No. 4 Oil Fouling and Calibration Shift Test.

(e)(1) The meter is fed with water, zeroed, and then fed with a mixture containing 10 percent oil for one minute. The following must be recorded:

(i) Time at which the meter first detects oil;

(ii) Time of reading 15 ppm;

(iii) Time of reading 100 ppm;

(iv) Time of exceeding the highest oil concentration that can be read on the meter;

(v) Time of returning to the highest oil concentration that can be read on the meter;

(vi) Time of returning to a reading of 100 ppm;

(vii) Time of returning to a reading of 15 ppm; and

(viii) Time of returning to the lowest steady oil content reading.

(2) The oil content of the mixture at the lowest steady reading described in paragraph (e)(1)(viii) of this section is recorded.

(3) The meter is fed with water, zeroed, and then fed with oil for 1 minute after which the flow of water is resumed. The times described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section are recorded.

(4) If it is necessary to clean the meter after each oil-fouling test for it to return to a zero reading, this fact and the time required to clean and recalibrate the meter must be noted and recorded in the test report.

(5) The meter is fed with a 100 ppm mixture until a steady oil content reading is obtained and recorded.
