
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 15 - MANNING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart A - Purpose and Applicability
###### § 15.103 Incorporation by reference.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(a) Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved material is available for inspection at the Coast Guard, Office of Merchant Mariner Credentialing (CG-MMC), U.S. Coast Guard, Stop 7509, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7509, 202-372-1492, and is available from the sources listed below. It is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030 or go to

(b) International Maritime Organization (IMO), 4 Albert Embankment, London, SE1 7SR England:

(1) The International Convention on Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping for Seafarers, 1978, as amended, 2011 (STCW Convention), incorporation by reference approved for §§ 15.403, 15.404, 15.1103, 15.1105, and 15.1109.

(2) The Seafarers' Training, Certification and Watchkeeping Code, as amended, 2011 (STCW Code), incorporation by reference approved for § 15.1109.

(3) The International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, 1974 (SOLAS), approved for incorporation by reference in §§ 15.818 and 15.1103.
