
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 162-ENGINEERING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 162.050-Pollution Prevention Equipment
###### § 162.050-33 Bilge alarm: Design specification.

(a) This section contains requirements that apply to bilge alarms.

(b) Each bilge alarm must be designed to meet the requirements for an oil content meter in § 162.050-25(b) through (f) and 162.050-25(i), and the requirements in this section.

(c) Each bilge alarm must have a device that produces a warning signal, and a signal that can be used to actuate stop valves in a vessel's fixed piping system, when-

(1) the oil content of the mixture being measured by the bilge alarm exceeds 15 ppm +/-5 ppm, and

(2) malfunction, breakdown, or other failure of the bilge alarm occurs.

(d) Each bilge alarm must have a ppm display. Emulsions and/or the type of oil must not affect the ppm display. Calibrating the bilge alarm must not be necessary once installed on board the vessel, however, onboard testing in accordance with the manufacturer's operating instructions is permitted for the purposes of checking instrument drift and repeatability of the instrument reading, as well as the ability to re-zero the instrument. The accuracy of the readings must at all times remain within the limits described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(e) Each bilge alarm must be designed so that it displays each change in oil content of the mixture it is measuring within 5 seconds after the change occurs.

(f) Access to the bilge alarm must require the breaking of a seal, except when-

(1) Re-zeroing the instrument;

(2) Checking the instrument drift; or

(3) Checking the repeatability of the instrument reading.

(g) Each bilge alarm must activate its alarm whenever clean water is used for cleaning or zeroing purposes.

(h) The bilge alarm must record date, time, alarm status, and operating status of the 15 ppm bilge separator. The recording device must also store data for at least 18 months and be able to display or print a protocol. In the event the 15 ppm bilge alarm is replaced, means must be provided to ensure the data recorded remains available on board for 18 months.
