
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 162-ENGINEERING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 162.050-Pollution Prevention Equipment
###### § 162.050-35 Bilge alarm: Approval tests.
####### Test No. 3A Sample Pressure or Flow Test.

(d)(1) The bilge alarm is fed with a mixture of Test Fluid B and water and the test fluid content of the mixture is increased until the bilge alarm actuates. The ppm display is recorded and a sample of the mixture causing actuation of the alarm is taken.

(2) If the alarm has a positive displacement mixture pump, the mixture pressure is reduced to one-half of the alarm's maximum design pressure. If the alarm has a centrifugal mixture pump or is not equipped with a mixture pump, the mixture flow rate is reduced to one-half of the alarm's maximum design flow rate. After reduction of pressure or flow rate, the oil content in the mixture is increased until the alarm actuates. The ppm display is recorded and a sample of the mixture causing actuation of the alarm is taken.

(3) If the alarm has a positive displacement mixture pump, the influent pressure is increased to twice the alarm's minimum design pressure. If the alarm has a centrifugal mixture pump or if the alarm is not equipped with a mixture pump, the influent flow rate is increased to twice the alarm's maximum design flow rate. After increasing the pressure or flow rate, the oil content in the mixture is increased until the alarm actuates. The ppm display is recorded and a sample of the mixture causing actuation is taken.
