
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Merchant Marine Officers and Seamen
#### PART 15 - MANNING REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart A - Purpose and Applicability
###### ยง 15.105 General.

(a) The regulations in this part apply to all vessels that are subject to the manning requirements contained in the navigation and shipping laws of the United States, including uninspected vessels (46 U.S.C. 7101-9308).

(b) The navigation and shipping laws state that a vessel may not be operated unless certain manning requirements are met. In addition to establishing a minimum number of officers and rated crew to be carried onboard certain vessels, they establish minimum qualifications concerning licenses and MMC endorsements, citizenship, and conditions of employment. It is the responsibility of the owner, charterer, managing operator, master, or person in charge or in command of the vessel to ensure that appropriate personnel are carried to meet the requirements of the applicable navigation and shipping laws and regulations.

(c) Inspected vessels are issued a Certificate of Inspection (COI) which indicates the minimum complement of officers and crew (including lifeboatmen) considered necessary for safe operation. The COI complements the statutory requirements but does not supersede them.

(d) Uninspected vessels operating on an international voyage may be issued a safe manning certificate indicating the minimum complement of qualified mariners necessary for safe operation.

(e) The regulations in subpart K of this part apply to seagoing vessels subject to the International Convention on Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping for Seafarers, 1978, as amended (STCW).

(f) Persons serving on any of the following vessels, or any owner or operator of any of these vessels, do not need to meet the requirements of subpart K of this part, because the vessels are exempt from application of STCW:

(1) Fishing vessels as defined in 46 U.S.C. 2101(12).

(2) Fishing vessels used as fish-tender vessels as defined in 46 U.S.C. 2101(14).

(3) Barges as defined in 46 U.S.C. 102, including non-self-propelled mobile offshore drilling units.

(4) Vessels operating exclusively on the Great Lakes or on the inland waters of the U.S. in the Straits of Juan de Fuca or on the Inside Passage between Puget Sound and Cape Spencer.

(5) Pilot vessels engaged on pilotage duty.

(g) Owners and operators, and personnel serving on the following small vessels engaged exclusively on domestic, near-coastal voyages are in compliance with subpart K of this part and are, therefore, not subject to further requirements for the purposes of the STCW Convention:

(1) Small passenger vessels subject to subchapter T or K of 46 CFR chapter I.

(2) Vessels of less than 200 GRT, other than passenger vessels subject to subchapter H of 46 CFR chapter I.

(3) Uninspected passenger vessels (UPVs) as defined in 46 U.S.C. 2101(42)(B).

(h) Personnel serving on vessels identified in paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section may be issued, without additional proof of qualification, an appropriate STCW endorsement on their license or MMC when the Coast Guard determines that such an endorsement is necessary to enable the vessel to engage on a single international voyage of a non-routine nature. The STCW endorsement will be expressly limited to service on the vessel or the class of vessels and will not establish qualification for any other purpose.
