
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 162-ENGINEERING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 162.050-Pollution Prevention Equipment
###### § 162.050-37 Vibration test.

(a) Equipment submitted for Coast Guard approval must first be tested under the conditions prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section. The test must be performed at an independent laboratory that has the equipment to subject the item under test to the vibrating frequencies and amplitudes prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section. The test report submitted with the application for Coast Guard approval must be prepared by the laboratory and must contain the test results.

(b)(1) Each oil content meter and bilge alarm and each control of a separator must be subjected to continuous sinusoidal vibration in each of the following directions for a 2 hour period in each direction:

(i) Vertically up and down;

(ii) Horizontally from side to side; and

(iii) Horizontally from end to end.

(2) The vibrating frequency must be 80 Hz, except that the vibrating frequency of equipment that has a resonant frequency between 2 Hz and 80 Hz must be the resonant frequency. If the vibrating frequency is between 2 Hz and 13.2 Hz, the displacement amplitude must be +/-1 mm. If the vibrating frequency is between 13.2 Hz and 80 Hz, the acceleration amplitude must be +/-[(.7)(gravity)].

(c) After completion of the tests specified in paragraph (b) of this section, a search must again be made for resonance and any significant change in the vibration pattern must be noted in the test report.
