
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 162-ENGINEERING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 162.060-Ballast Water Management Systems
###### § 162.060-5 Incorporation by reference.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_zlocations.html.

(a) Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. To enforce any edition other than that specified in this section, the Coast Guard must publish notice of change in theand the material must be available to the public. All approved material is available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030 or go toAlso, it is available for inspection from the at Coast Guard Headquarters. Contact Commandant (CG-5PS), Attn: Director of Commercial Regulations, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7509, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7509. The material is also from the sources listed in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section.

(b) International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC), 3 rue Varembe, P.O. Box 131, 1211 Geneva 20, Switzerland.

(1) IEC 60529, Classification of Degrees of Protection by Enclosures (IP Code), Edition 2.1 consolidated with amendment 1:1999 (dated February, 2001), IBR approved for § 162.060-30.

(2) [Reserved]

(c) International Organization for Standardization (ISO), ISO Central Secretariat, 1, ch. de la Voie-Creuse, Case postale 56 CH-1211 Geneva 20, Switzerland.

(1) ISO/IEC 17025:2005(E), General Requirements for the Competence of Calibration and Testing Laboratories, Second Edition (dated May 15, 2005), IBR approved for § 162.060-36.

(2) ISO/IEC 17025:2005/Cor.1:2006(E), General Requirements for the Competence of Testing and Calibration Laboratories, Technical Corrigendum 1, (dated August 15, 2006), IBR approved for § 162.060-36.

(d) U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Environmental Technology Verification Program, National Risk Management Research Laboratory Office of Research and Development, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 2890 Woodbridge Avenue (MS-104), Edison, New Jersey 08837.

(1) EPA/600/R-10/146, Generic Protocol for the Verification of Ballast Water Treatment Technologies, version 5.1, (dated September 2010), IBR approved for §§ 162.060-26 and 162.060-28 (ETV Protocol).

(2) [Reserved]
