
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 162-ENGINEERING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 162.060-Ballast Water Management Systems
###### § 162.060-10 Approval procedures.
####### msc@uscg.mil:

(a) Not less than 30 days before initiating any testing of a ballast water management system (BWMS), the results of which are intended for use in an application for type approval, the manufacturer must submit a Letter of Intent (LOI) providing as much of the following information as possible to the Commanding Officer (MSC), Attn: Marine Safety Center, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7430, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7430, or by email to

(1) Manufacturer's name, address, and point of contact, with telephone number or email address.

(2) Name and location of independent laboratory and associated test facilities and subcontractors, plus expected dates and locations for actual testing.

(3) Model name, model number, and type of BWMS.

(4) Expected date of submission of full application package to the Coast Guard.

(5) Name, type of vessel, and expected geographic locations for shipboard testing.

(b) The manufacturer must ensure evaluation, inspection, and testing of the BWMS is conducted by an independent laboratory, accepted by the Coast Guard, in accordance with §§ 162.060-20 through 162.060-40 of this subpart. Testing may begin 30 days after submission of the LOI unless otherwise directed by the Coast Guard.
