
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 162-ENGINEERING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 162.060-Ballast Water Management Systems
###### § 162.060-26 Land-based testing requirements.
####### see

(a) Each ballast water management system (BWMS) must undergo land-based tests and evaluations that meet the requirements of the ETV Protocol (incorporated by reference,§ 162.060-5). The land-based testing will determine if the biological efficacy of the BWMS under consideration for approval is sufficient to meet the applicable ballast water discharge standard (BWDS) and validate those aspects of the operating and maintenance parameters presented by the manufacturer that are appropriate for assessment under the relatively short-term, but well-controlled, circumstances of a land-based test.

(b) The test set up must operate as described in the ETV Protocol Test Plan requirements during at least five consecutive, valid, and successful replicate test cycles. No adjustments to the BWMS are permitted unless specifically detailed in the Operation, Maintenance and Safety Manual. The BWMS must be operated by independent laboratory or independent laboratory subcontractor personnel.

(c) Each valid test cycle must include-

(1) Uptake of source water by pumping at a minimum of 200 m/hr;

(2) Treatment of a minimum of 200 mof challenge water with the BWMS;

(3) Pumping of a minimum of 200 mof control water through the test facility in a manner that is in all ways identical to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, except that the BWMS is not used to treat the water;

(4) Retention of the treated and control water in separate tanks for a minimum of 24 hours; and

(5) Discharge of the treated and control water by pumping.

(d) The BWMS must be tested in water conditions for which it will be approved. For each set of test cycles, a salinity range must be chosen. With respect to the salinity of water bodies where the BWMS is intended to be used, the challenge water used in the test set-up must have dissolved and particulate content as described in the ETV Protocol.

(e) The approval certificate issued in accordance with § 162.060-10(g) will list the salinity ranges for which the BWMS is approved.

(f) The BWMS must be tested at its rated capacity or as specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section for each test cycle and must function to the manufacturer's specifications during the test.

(1) Treatment equipment may be downsized for land-based testing, but only when the following criteria are met:

(i) Treatment equipment with a treatment rated capacity (TRC) equal to or less than 200 m/h must not be downscaled.

(ii) Treatment equipment with a TRC greater than 200 m/h but less than 1,000 m/h may be downscaled to a maximum of 1:5 scale, but must not be less than 200 m/h.

(iii) Treatment equipment with a TRC equal to or greater than 1,000 m/h may be downscaled to a maximum of 1:100 scale, but must not be less than 200 m/h.

(iv) The manufacturer of the BWMS must demonstrate by using mathematical modeling, computational fluid dynamics modeling, and/or by calculations, that any downscaling will not affect the ultimate functioning and effectiveness onboard a vessel of the type and size for which the BWMS will be approved.

(2) Greater scaling may be applied and lower flow rates used other than those described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section if the manufacturer can provide evidence from full-scale shipboard testing, in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(iv) of this section, that greater scaling and lower flow rates will not adversely affect the testing's ability to predict full-scale compliance with the BWDS. The procedures of § 162.060-10(b)(1) of this subpart must be followed before scaling of flow rates other than those provided in paragraph (f)(1) of this section may be used.

(g) The test set-up, TRC, and scaling of all tests (including mathematical and computational fluid dynamics modeling) must be clearly identified in the Experimental Design section of the Test Plan.
