
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 162-ENGINEERING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 162.060-Ballast Water Management Systems
###### § 162.060-28 Shipboard testing requirements.

(a) The ballast water management system (BWMS) manufacturer is responsible for making all arrangements for a vessel on which to conduct shipboard tests, including the provision and installation of a BWMS.

(b) Shipboard tests must be conducted throughout a period of operation of at least 6 months. During the period of testing, all ballast water discharged to waters of the United States must be treated by the BWMS.

(c) BWMS approved under this subpart must undergo shipboard tests and evaluations that meet the requirements of this section. The shipboard testing will verify-

(1) That the BWMS under consideration for approval, when installed and operated in the vessel in a location and configuration consistent with its final intended use on operating vessels (e.g., in the engine room or pump room), consistently results in the routine discharge of ballast water that meets the ballast water discharge standard (BWDS) requirements of 33 CFR part 151, subparts C and D; and

(2) That the operating and maintenance parameters identified by the manufacturer in the Operation, Maintenance, and Safety Manual (OMSM) are consistently achieved.

(d) The BWMS to be tested must be installed and operated in the vessel in a location and configuration consistent with its final intended use on operating vessels. Vessel crew must operate the BWMS during testing.

(e) The vessel used as a platform for shipboard testing under this section must be selected to meet the following criteria:

(1) The volumes and rates of ballast water used and treated are representative of the upper end of the treatment rated capacity for which the BWMS is intended to be used. Vessel tank size and flow rates must be equal to or exceed those used during land-based tests.

(2) The circumstances of the vessel's operation during the period of shipboard testing provide an acceptable range of geographic and seasonal variability conditions.

(i) The source water used for testing is representative of harbor or coastal waters. Testing must include temperate, semi-tropical, or tropical locations with ambient organism concentrations that will provide a significant challenge to the efficacy of the BWMS.

(ii) Concentrations of organisms greater than or equal to 50 micrometers, and organisms less than 50 micrometers and greater than or equal to 10 micrometers in the source water must exceed 10 times the maximum permitted values in the BWDS.

(3) The ports that the vessel visits provide adequate availability of transportation and scientific support needed to accomplish the necessary sampling and analytical procedures during the shipboard tests.
