
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 162-ENGINEERING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 162.060-Ballast Water Management Systems
###### § 162.060-28 Shipboard testing requirements.
####### see

(f) The vessel's ballast water system must be provided with sampling ports arranged in order to collect representative samples of the vessel's ballast water. In addition to the sampling ports designed and installed in accordance with the specifications in the ETV Protocol (incorporated by reference,§ 162.060-5), sampling ports must be located-

(1) As close as practicable to the BWMS prior to treatment to determine concentrations of living organisms upon uptake;

(2) As close as practicable to the BWMS overboard outlet prior to the discharge point to determine concentrations of living organisms prior to discharge; and

(3) Elsewhere as necessary to ascertain the proper functioning of the BWMS.

(g) All test results must be reported in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section. The efficacy of the BWMS must be confirmed during at least five consecutive valid test cycles.

(1) A test cycle entails-

(i) The uptake of ballast water by the vessel;

(ii) The storage of ballast water on the vessel;

(iii) Treatment of the ballast water by the BWMS, except in control tanks, if used, with no fine-tuning or adjustment of the system except as specifically detailed in the OMSM; and

(iv) The discharge of ballast water from the vessel.

(2) All test cycles must include quantification of the water quality parameters on uptake.

(3) All test cycles must include discharge tests and quantification of the concentration of living organisms in the treated ballast water on discharge. Sampling and analysis for living organisms will be in accordance with the ETV Protocol.

(4) A test cycle must meet the following criteria in order to be considered valid:

(i) The uptake of the source water must be conducted in accordance with paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section.

(ii) Source waters must be analyzed for organisms greater than or equal to 50 micrometers and organisms less than 50 micrometers and greater than or equal to 10 micrometers. To simplify the testing program, these source water samples need only be collected and properly preserved and transported for counting by trained microscopists in land-based laboratories. The reported data by taxa (to the lowest reasonably identifiable taxonomic grouping) will be used to characterize the source water biological test conditions.

(iii) The BWMS must operate successfully as designed, maintaining control of all set points and treatment processes, including any pre-discharge conditioning to remove or neutralize residual treatment chemicals or by-products.

(iv) All design or required water quality parameters must be met for the discharged water.
