
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 162-ENGINEERING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 162.060-Ballast Water Management Systems
###### § 162.060-28 Shipboard testing requirements.
####### http://www.epa.gov/npdes/pubs/vessel_vgp_permit.pdf).

(v) Whole effluent toxicity testing must be conducted in accordance with the December 2008 Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Vessel General Permit (VGP) requirements (VGP Section 5.8; available at

(5) The source water for all test cycles must be characterized by measurement of water quality parameters as follows:

(i) For all BWMS tests, salinity, temperature, and turbidity must be measured either continuously during or at the beginning, middle, and end of the period of ballast water uptake, as appropriate and practicable for the parameters to be measured.

(ii) Water quality parameters (e.g., dissolved and particulate organic material, pH, etc.) that may affect the efficacy of BWMS that make use of active substances or other processes, or water quality parameters identified by the manufacturer and/or the independent laboratory as being critical, must be measured either continuously during or at the beginning, middle, and end of the period of ballast water uptake, as appropriate and practicable for the parameters to be measured.

(h) Samples of ballast water must be collected from in-line sampling ports in accordance with the sampling specifications in the ETV Protocol.

(i) The following information must be documented during the entire period of BWMS testing operations conducted on the vessel:

(1) All ballast water operations, including volumes and locations of uptake and discharge.

(2) All test cycles, even those in which the BWMS failed to meet the BWDS, must be documented. The possible reasons for an unsuccessful test cycle must be investigated and included in the Test Report.

(3) All weather conditions and resultant effects on vessel orientation and vibration.

(4) Scheduled maintenance performed on the BWMS.

(5) Unscheduled maintenance and repair performed on the BWMS.

(6) Data for all engineering parameters monitored as appropriate to the specific BWMS.

(7) Consumption of all solutions, preparations, or other consumables necessary for the effective operation of the BWMS.

(8) All parameters necessary for tracking the functioning of the control and monitoring equipment.

(9) All instrument calibration methods and frequency of calibration.

(j) All measurements for numbers and viability of organisms, water quality parameters, engineering performance parameters, and environmental conditions must be conducted in accordance with the ETV Protocol. Where alternative methods are necessary, given constraints of the BWMS and/or the vessel, standard methods from recognized bodies such as EPA (in 40 CFR part 136), the International Standards Organization, or others accepted by the scientific community must be used, and must be accepted in advance by the Coast Guard.

(k) Test vessels discharging treated ballast water into the waters of the United States must be enrolled in the U.S. Coast Guard's Shipboard Technology Evaluation Program. Test vessels discharging treated ballast water into waters of other countries must secure all necessary approvals and permits required for discharges of treated ballast water.
