
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 162-ENGINEERING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 162.060-Ballast Water Management Systems
###### § 162.060-30 Testing requirements for ballast water management system (BWMS) components.

(a) The electrical and electronic components, including each alarm and control and monitoring device of the BWMS, must be subjected to the following environmental tests when in the standard production configuration:

(1) A resonance search vertically up and down, horizontally from side to side, and horizontally from end to end, at a rate sufficiently low as to permit resonance detection made over the following ranges of oscillation frequency and amplitude:

(i) At 2 to 13.3 Hz with a vibration amplitude of +/-1 mm.

(ii) At 13.2 to 80 Hz with an acceleration amplitude of +/-0.7 g.

(2) The components must be vibrated in the planes specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section at each major resonant frequency for a period of 4 hours.

(3) In the absence of any resonant frequency, the components must be vibrated in each of the planes specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section at 30 Hz with an acceleration of +/-0.7 g for a period of 4 hours.

(4) Components that may be installed in exposed areas on the open deck or in enclosed spaces not environmentally controlled must be subjected to a low temperature test of -25 &#xB0;C and a high temperature test of 55 &#xB0;C for a period of 2 hours at each temperature. At the end of each test, the components are to be switched on and must function normally under the test conditions.

(5) Components that may be installed in enclosed spaces that are environmentally controlled, including an engine room, must be subjected to a low temperature test at 0 &#xB0;C and a high temperature test at 55 &#xB0;C, for a period of 2 hours at each temperature. At the end of each test, the components are to be switched on and must function normally under the test conditions.

(6) Components must be switched off for a period of 2 hours at a temperature of 55 &#xB0;C in an atmosphere with a relative humidity of 90 percent. At the end of this period, the components must be switched on and must operate satisfactorily for 1 hour under the test conditions.
