
# Title 46 - Shipping
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter Q—Equipment, Construction, and Materials: Specifications and Approval
#### PART 162-ENGINEERING EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart 162.060-Ballast Water Management Systems
###### § 162.060-30 Testing requirements for ballast water management system (BWMS) components.
####### see

(7) Components that may be installed in exposed areas on the open deck must be subjected to tests for protection against heavy seas in accordance with IP 56 of publication IEC 60529 (incorporated by reference,§ 162.060-5) or its equivalent.

(8) Components must operate satisfactorily with a voltage variation of +/-10 percent together with a simultaneous frequency variation of +/-5 percent, and a transient voltage of +/-20 percent together with a simultaneous transient frequency of +/-10 percent and transient recovery time of 3 seconds.

(9) The components of a BWMS must be designed to operate when the vessel is upright and inclined at any angle of list up to and including 15&#xB0; either way under static conditions and 22.5&#xB0; under dynamic, rolling conditions either way and simultaneously inclined dynamically (pitching) 7.5&#xB0; by bow or stern. Deviation from these angles may be permitted only upon approval of a written waiver submitted to the Coast Guard in accordance with § 162.060-10(b)(1) of this subpart, taking into consideration the type, size, and service conditions and locations of the vessels and operational functioning of the equipment for where the system will be used. Any deviation permitted must be documented in the type-approval certificate.

(10) The same component(s) must be used for each test required by this section and testing must be conducted in the order in which the tests are described, unless otherwise authorized by the Coast Guard.

(b) There must be no cracking, softening, deterioration, displacement, breakage, leakage, or damage of components or materials that affect the operation or safety of the BWMS after each test. The components must remain operable after all tests.
