
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### credits allowable under sections 30 through 45D
###### § 1.42-12 Effective dates and transitional rules.
####### Additional effective dates affecting utility allowances.

(5)(i) The following provisions apply to a building owner's taxable years beginning on or after March 3, 2016-

(A) The second sentence in § 1.42-10(a);

(B) Section 1.42-10(b)(3);

(C) The first sentence in § 1.42-10(b)(4)(ii)(A);

(D) Section 1.42-10(b)(4)(ii)(E); and

(E) Section 1.42-10(e), except as provided in paragraph (a)(5)(iii) of this section.

(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(5)(iii) of this section, a building owner may apply the provisions described in paragraphs (a)(5)(i)(A) through (E) of this section to the building owner's taxable years beginning before March 3, 2016. Otherwise, the utility allowance provisions that apply to those taxable years are contained in § 1.42-10, as contained in 26 CFR part 1, revised as of April 1, 2015.

(iii) The provisions in § 1.42-10(e)(1)(i) introductory text, (e)(1)(i)(B) through (D), and (e)(1)(iv)(B) apply to a building owner's taxable years beginning on or after March 4, 2019. A building owner, however, may apply these provisions to earlier taxable years. Otherwise, the submetering provisions that apply to taxable years beginning after March 3, 2016, and before March 4, 2019, are contained in § 1.42-10 and § 1.42-10T as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2016. In addition, a building owner may apply those submetering provisions to taxable years beginning before March 3, 2016.
