
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.168(k)-2 Additional first year depreciation deduction for property acquired and placed in service after September 27, 2017.
####### Example 4.,BG,,CH,CH,BG,BG.,BG,BG,BG,BG,BG

(iv)(A) In March 2017,a calendar year taxpayer, entered into a written contract withforto construct a building forto use in its retail business. This written contract does not meet the definition of a binding contract in paragraph (b)(5)(iii) of this section. In September 2019, the construction of the building was completed and placed in service byThe total cost is $10,000,000. Of this amount, $3,000,000 is the total cost for all section 1245 properties constructed as part of the building, and $7,000,000 is for the building. Under section 168(e), section 1245 properties in the total amount of $2,400,000 are 5-year property and in the total amount of $600,000 are 7-year property. The building is nonresidential real property under section 168(e). Before September 28, 2017,acquired or self-constructed certain components and the total cost of these components is $500,000 for the section 1245 properties and $3,000,000 for the building.incurred these costs before September 28, 2017. After September 27, 2017,acquired or self-constructed the remaining components of the section 1245 properties and these components cost $2,500,000.incurred these costs of $2,500,000 after September 27, 2017. On its timely filed Federal income tax return for 2019,made the election specified in this paragraph (c).
