
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### § 1.168A-1 Amortization of emergency facilities; general rule.

(a) A person (including an estate or trust (see section 642(f) and § 1.642(f)-1) and a partnership (see section 703 and § 1.703-1)) is entitled, by election, to a deduction with respect to the amortization of the adjusted basis (for determining gain) of an emergency facility, such amortization to be based on a period of 60 months. As to the adjusted basis of an emergency facility, see § 1.168A-5. The taxpayer may elect to begin the 60-month amortization period with (1) the month following the month in which such facility was completed or acquired, or (2) the taxable year succeeding that in which such facility was completed or acquired (see § 1.168A-2). The date on which, or the month within which, an emergency facility is completed or acquired is to be determined upon the facts in the particular case. Ordinarily, the taxpayer is in possession of all the facts and, therefore, in a position to ascertain such date. A statement of the date ascertained by the taxpayer, together with a statement of the pertinent facts relied upon, should be filed with the taxpayer's election to take amortization deductions with respect to such facility.

(b) Generally, an amortization deduction will not be allowed with respect to an emergency facility for any taxable year unless such facility has been certified before the date of filing of the taxpayer's income tax return for such taxable year. However, this limitation does not apply in the case of a certificate made after August 22, 1957, for an emergency facility to provide primary processing for uranium ore or uranium concentrate under a program of the Atomic Energy Commission for the development of any sources of uranium ore or uranium concentrate, if application for such certificate was filed either (1) before September 2, 1958, and before the expiration of six months after the beginning of construction, reconstruction, erection, or installation or the date of acquisition of the facility, or (2) after September 1, 1958, and on or before December 2, 1958.

(c) In general, with respect to each month of the 60-month period which falls within the taxable year, the amortization deduction is an amount equal to the adjusted basis of the facility at the end of each month divided by the number of months (including the particular month for which the deduction is computed) remaining in the 60-month period. The adjusted basis at the end of any month shall be computed without regard to the amortization deduction for such month. The total amortization deduction with respect to an emergency facility for a particular taxable year is the sum of the amortization deductions allowable for each month of the 60-month period which falls within such taxable year. The amortization deduction taken for any month is in lieu of the deduction for depreciation which would otherwise be allowable under section 167. See, however, § 1.168A-6, relating to depreciation with respect to any portion of the emergency facility not subject to amortization.

(d) This section may be illustrated by the following examples:
