
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.168A-5 Adjusted basis of emergency facility.
####### In general.

(a)(1) The adjusted basis of an emergency facility for the purpose of computing the amortization deduction may differ from what would otherwise constitute the adjusted basis of such emergency facility in that it shall be the adjusted basis for determining gain (see Part II (section 1011 and following), Subchapter 0, Chapter 1 of the Code) and in that it may be only a portion of what would otherwise constitute the adjusted basis. It will be only a portion of such other adjusted basis if only a portion of the basis (unadjusted) is attributable to certified construction, reconstruction, erection, installation, or acquisition taking place after December 31, 1949. Also, it will be only a portion of what would otherwise constitute the adjusted basis of the emergency facility if only a portion of the basis (unadjusted) is certified as attributable to defense purposes or, in the case of a certification after August 22, 1957, if only a portion of the basis (unadjusted) is certified as attributable to the national defense program. It is therefore necessary first to determine the unadjusted basis of the emergency facility from which the adjusted basis for amortization purposes is derived.

(2) The unadjusted basis for amortization purposes is the same as the unadjusted basis otherwise determined only when the entire construction, reconstruction, erection, installation, or acquisition takes place after December 31, 1949, and is certified in its entirety by the certifying authority.

(3) In cases in which only a portion of the construction, reconstruction, erection, installation, or acquisition takes place after December 31, 1949, and that portion is certified in its entirety by the certifying authority, the unadjusted basis for the purpose of amortization is so much of the entire unadjusted basis as is attributable to the certified construction, reconstruction, erection, installation, or acquisition which takes place after December 31, 1949. For example, the X Corporation begins the construction of a facility on November 15, 1949, and such facility is completed on April 1, 1952, at a cost of $5,000,000, of which $4,600,000 is attributable to construction after December 31, 1949. The entire construction after December 31, 1949, is certified by the certifying authority. The unadjusted basis of the emergency facility for amortization purposes is therefore $4,600,000. For depreciation of the remaining portion ($400,000) of the cost see ยง 1.168A-6.

(4) If the certifying authority certifies only a portion of the construction, reconstruction, erection, installation, or acquisition of property which takes place after December 31, 1949, the unadjusted basis for amortization purposes is limited to such portion so certified. Assuming the same facts as in the example in subparagraph (3) of this paragraph, except that only 50 percent of the construction, reconstruction, erection, installation, or acquisition after December 31, 1949, is certified, the unadjusted basis for amortization purposes is 50 percent of $4,600,000, or $2,300,000.

(5) The adjusted basis of an emergency facility for amortization purposes is the unadjusted basis for amortization purposes less the adjustments properly applicable thereto. Such adjustments are those specified in sections 1016 and 1017, except that no adjustments are to be taken into account which increase the adjusted basis. (See paragraph (b) of this section.) If the taxpayer constructs, reconstructs, erects, installs, or acquires an emergency facility pursuant to a cost reimbursement contract with an obligation for reimbursement by the United States of all or a part of the cost of such facility, the unadjusted basis of such facility for amortization purposes shall not include that part of the cost for which the taxpayer is entitled to reimbursement, and the amount received as reimbursement shall be treated as a capital receipt. However, amounts received by a taxpayer which represent in fact compensation by reason of termination of a government contract or payment for articles under such a contract, though denominated reimbursements for all or a part of the cost of an emergency facility, are not to be treated as capital receipts but are to be taken into account in computing income, and are therefore not to be applied in reduction of the basis of such facility.

(6) The following examples will illustrate the computation of the adjusted basis of an emergency facility for amortization purposes:
