
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.168A-2 Election of amortization.
####### General rule.

(a)An election by the taxpayer to take amortization deductions with respect to an emergency facility and to begin the 60-month amortization period either with the month following the month in which such facility was completed or acquired, or with the taxable year succeeding the taxable year in which such facility was completed or acquired, shall be made by a statement to that effect in its return for the taxable year in which falls the first month of the 60-month amortization period so elected. However, if the facility is described in section 168(e)(2)(C) and an application for a certificate is filed within the period prescribed by section 9(c) of the Technical Amendments Act of 1958 (72 Stat. 1609) and paragraph (b) of ยง 1.168A-1, the election may be made by a statement in an amended income tax return for the taxable year in which falls the first month of the 60-month amortization period so elected. The statement and amended return in such case must be filed not later than 90 days after the date the certificate is made or not later than April 4, 1960, whichever is later. Amended income tax returns or claims for credit or refund should also be filed for other taxable years which are within such amortization period and which precede the taxable year in which the election is made. Nothing in this paragraph should be construed as extending the time specified in section 6511 within which a claim for credit or refund may be filed.
