
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.169-1 Amortization of pollution control facilities.
####### Depreciation subsequent to discontinuance or in the case of revocation of amortization.

(6)A taxpayer which elects in the manner prescribed under paragraph (b) (1) of ยง 1.169-4 to discontinue amortization deductions or under paragraph (b) (2) of ยง 1.169-4 to revoke an election under section 169(a) with respect to a certified pollution control facility is entitled, if such facility is of a character subject to the allowance for depreciation provided in section 167, to a deduction for depreciation (to the extent allowable) with respect to such facility. In the case of an election to discontinue an amortization deduction, the deduction for depreciation shall begin with the first month as to which such amortization deduction is not applicable and shall be computed on the adjusted basis of the property as of the beginning of such month (see section 1011 and the regulations thereunder). Such depreciation deduction shall be based upon the remaining portion of the period authorized under section 167 for the facility as determined, as of the first day of the first month as of which the amortization deduction is not applicable. If the taxpayer so elects to discontinue the amortization deduction under section 169(a), such taxpayer shall not be entitled to any further amortization deduction under this section and section 169(a) with respect to such pollution control facility. In the case of a revocation of an election under section 169(a), the deduction for depreciation shall begin as of the time such depreciation deduction would have been taken but for the election under section 169(a). See paragraph (b)(2) of ยง 1.169-4 for rules as to filing amended returns for years for which amortization deductions have been taken.
