
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.169-2 Definitions.
####### b

() The term "structural components" includes, for example, chimneys, and other components relating to the operating or maintenance of a building. However, the term "structural components" does not include machinery or a device which serves no function other than the abatement or control of water or atmospheric pollution.

(ii) For purposes of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, a building and its structural components will be considered to be exclusively a treatment facility if its only function is the abatement or control of air or water pollution. However, the incidental recovery of profits from wastes or otherwise shall not be deemed to be a function other than the abatement or control of air or water pollution. A building and its structural components which serve no function other than the treatment of wastes will be considered to be exclusively a treatment facility even if it contains areas for employees to operate the treatment facility, rest rooms for such workers, and an office for the management of such treatment facility. However, for example, if a portion of a building is used for the treatment of sewage and another portion of the building is used for the manufacture of machinery, the building is not exclusively a treatment facility. The Federal certifying authority will not certify as to what is a building and its structural components within the meaning of subdivision (i) of this subparagraph.
