
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### § 1.169-3 Amortizable basis.
####### In general.

(a)The amortizable basis of a certified pollution control facility for the purpose of computing the amortization deduction under section 169 is the adjusted basis of the facility for purposes of determining gain (see part II (section 1011 and following), subchapter O, chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code), in conjunction with paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section. The adjusted basis for purposes of determining gain (computed without regard to paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section) of a facility that performs a function in addition to pollution control, or that is used in connection with more than one plant or other property, or both, is determined under § 1.169-2(a)(3). For rules as to additions and improvements to such a facility, see paragraph (f) of this section. Before computing the amortization deduction allowable under section 169, the adjusted basis for purposes of determining gain for a facility that is placed in service by a taxpayer after September 10, 2001, and that is qualified property under section 168(k)(2) or § 1.168(k)-1, 50-percent bonus depreciation property under section 168(k)(4) or § 1.168(k)-1, or qualified New York Liberty Zone property under section 1400L(b) or § 1.1400L(b)-1 must be reduced by the amount of the additional first year depreciation deduction allowed or allowable, whichever is greater, under section 168(k) or section 1400L(b), as applicable, for the facility. Further, before computing the amortization deduction allowable under section 169, the adjusted basis for purposes of determining gain for a facility that is acquired and placed in service after September 27, 2017, and that is qualified property under section 168(k), as amended by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, Public Law 115-97 (131 Stat. 2054 (December 22, 2017)) (the "Act"), or § 1.168(k)-2, must be reduced by the amount of the additional first year depreciation deduction allowed or allowable, whichever is greater, under section 168(k), as amended by the Act.
