
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.169-4 Time and manner of making elections.
####### Election to discontinue or revoke amortization,Election to discontinue.

(b)-(1)An election to discontinue the amortization deduction provided by section 169(c) and paragraph (a)(1) of ยง 1.169-1 shall be made by a statement in writing filed with the district director, or with the director of the internal revenue service center, with whom the return of the taxpayer is required to be filed for its taxable year in which falls the first month for which the election terminates. Such statement shall specify the month as of the beginning of which the taxpayer elects to discontinue such deductions. Unless the election to discontinue amortization is one to which subparagraph (2) of this paragraph applies, such statement shall be filed before the beginning of the month specified therein. In addition, such statement shall contain a description clearly identifying the certified pollution control facility with respect to which the taxpayer elects to discontinue the amortization deduction, and, if a certification has previously been issued, a copy of the certification by the Federal certifying authority. If at the time of such election a certification has not been issued (or if one has been issued it has not been filed as provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section), the taxpayer shall file, with respect to any taxable year or years for which a deduction under section 169 has been taken, a copy of such certification within 90 days after receipt thereof. For purposes of this paragraph, notification to the Secretary or his delegate from the Federal certifying authority that the facility no longer meets the requirements under which certification was originally granted by the State or Federal certifying authority shall have the same effect as a notice from the taxpayer electing to terminate amortization as of the month following the month such facility ceased functioning in accordance with such requirements.
