
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations (Continued)
###### ยง 1.170A-9 Definition of section 170(b)(1)(A) organization.
####### Certain medical research organizations,Introduction.

(2)-(i)A medical research organization is described in section 170(b)(1)(A)(iii) if the principal purpose or functions of such organization are medical research and if it is directly engaged in the continuous active conduct of medical research in conjunction with a hospital. In addition, for purposes of the 50 percent limitation of section 170(b)(1)(A) with respect to a contribution, during the calendar year in which the contribution is made such organization must be committed to spend such contribution for such research before January 1 of the fifth calendar year which begins after the date such contribution is made. An organization need not receive contributions deductible under section 170 to qualify as a medical research organization and such organization need not be committed to spend amounts to which the limitation of section 170(b)(1)(A) does not apply within the 5-year period referred to in this paragraph (d)(2)(i). However, the requirement of continuous active conduct of medical research indicates that the type of organization contemplated in this paragraph (d)(2) is one which is primarily engaged directly in the continuous active conduct of medical research, as compared to an inactive medical research organization or an organization primarily engaged in funding the programs of other medical research organizations. As in the case of a hospital, since an organization is ordinarily not described in section 170(b)(1)(A)(iii) as a hospital unless it functions primarily as a hospital, similarly a medical research organization is not so described unless it is primarily engaged directly in the continuous active conduct of medical research in conjunction with a hospital. Accordingly, the rules of this paragraph (d)(2) shall only apply with respect to such medical research organizations.
