
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations (Continued)
###### ยง 1.170A-9 Definition of section 170(b)(1)(A) organization.
####### Special rules.

(vi)The following rules shall apply in determining whether a substantial part of an organization's assets are devoted to, or its endowment is expended for, the continuous active conduct of medical research activities:

(A) An organization may satisfy the tests of paragraph (d)(2)(v)(B) of this section by meeting such tests either for a computation period consisting of the immediately preceding taxable year, or for the computation period consisting of the immediately preceding four taxable years. In addition, for taxable years beginning in 1970, 1971, 1972, 1973, and 1974, if an organization meets such tests for the computation period consisting of the first four taxable years beginning after December 31, 1969, an organization will be treated as meeting such tests, not only for the taxable year beginning in 1974, but also for the preceding four taxable years. Thus, for example, if a calendar year organization failed to satisfy such tests for a computation period consisting of 1969, 1970, 1971, and 1972, but on the basis of a computation period consisting of the years 1970 through 1973, it expended funds equaling 3.5 percent or more of the fair market value of its endowment for the continuous active conduct of medical research, such organization will be considered to have expended a significant percentage of its endowment for such purposes for the taxable years 1970 through 1974. In applying such tests for a four-year computation period, although the organization's expenditures for the entire four-year period shall be aggregated, the fair market value of its endowment for each year shall be summed, even though, in the case of an asset held throughout the four-year period, the fair market value of such an asset will be counted four times. Similarly, the fair market value of an organization's assets for each year of a four-year computation period shall be summed.

(B) Any property substantially all the use of which is "substantially related" (within the meaning of section 514(b)(1)(A)) to the exercise or performance of the organization's medical research activities will not be treated as part of its endowment.

(C) The valuation of assets must be made with commonly accepted methods of valuation. A method of valuation made in accordance with the principles stated in the regulations under section 2031 constitutes an acceptable method of valuation. Assets may be valued as of any day in the organization's taxable year to which such valuation applies, provided the organization follows a consistent practice of valuing such asset as of such date in all taxable years. For purposes of paragraph (d)(2)(v) of this section, an asset held by the organization for part of a taxable year shall be taken into account by multiplying the fair market value of such asset by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in such taxable year that the organization held such asset and the denominator of which is the number of days in such taxable year.
