
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations (Continued)
###### ยง 1.170A-9 Definition of section 170(b)(1)(A) organization.
####### Definition of support; meaning of general public,In general.,2,indirect contributions from the general public,contributions

(6)-(i)In determining whether the 33percent support test or the 10 percent support limitation described in paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section is met, contributions by an individual, trust, or corporation shall be taken into account as support from direct or indirect contributions from the general public only to the extent that the total amount of the contributions by any such individual, trust, or corporation during the period described in paragraph (f)(4)(i) or paragraph (f)(4)(ii) of this section does not exceed two percent of the organization's total support for such period, except as provided in paragraph (f)(6)(ii) of this section. Therefore, for example, any contribution by one individual will be included in full in the denominator of the fraction determining the 33percent support or the 10 percent support limitation, but will be includible in the numerator of such fraction only to the extent that such amount does not exceed two percent of the denominator. In applying the two percent limitation, all contributions made by a donor and by any person or persons standing in a relationship to the donor that is described in section 4946(a)(1)(C) through (a)(1)(G) and the related regulations shall be treated as made by one person. The two percent limitation shall not apply to support received from governmental units referred to in section 170(c)(1) or to contributions from organizations described in section 170(b)(1)(A)(vi), except as provided in paragraph (f)(6)(v) of this section. For purposes of paragraphs (f)(2), (f)(3)(i), and (f)(7)(iii)(A)() of this section, the termincludes contributions received by the organization from organizations (such as section 170(b)(1)(A)(vi) organizations) that normally receive a substantial part of their support from direct contributions from the general public, except as provided in paragraph (f)(6)(v) of this section. See the examples in paragraph (f)(9) of this section for the application of this paragraph (f)(6)(i). For purposes of this paragraph (f), the termincludes qualified sponsorship payments (as defined in ยง 1.513-4) in the form of money or property (but not services).
