
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations (Continued)
###### ยง 1.170A-9 Definition of section 170(b)(1)(A) organization.
####### Community trust; introduction.

(10)Community trusts have often been established to attract large contributions of a capital or endowment nature for the benefit of a particular community or area, and often such contributions have come initially from a small number of donors. While the community trust generally has a governing body comprised of representatives of the particular community or area, its contributions are often received and maintained in the form of separate trusts or funds, which are subject to varying degrees of control by the governing body. To qualify as a "publicly supported" organization, a community trust must meet the 33percent support test, or, if it cannot meet that test, be organized and operated so as to attract new and additional public or governmental support on a continuous basis sufficient to meet the facts and circumstances test. Such facts and circumstances test includes a requirement of attraction of public support in paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section which, as applied to community trusts, generally will be satisfied if they seek gifts and bequests from a wide range of potential donors in the community or area served, through banks or trust companies, through attorneys or other professional persons, or in other appropriate ways that call attention to the community trust as a potential recipient of gifts and bequests made for the benefit of the community or area served. A community trust is not required to engage in periodic, community-wide, fundraising campaigns directed toward attracting a large number of small contributions in a manner similar to campaigns conducted by a community chest or united fund. Paragraph (f)(11) of this section provides rules for determining the extent to which separate trusts or funds may be treated as component parts of a community trust, fund, or foundation (herein collectively referred to as a "community trust," and sometimes referred to as an "organization") for purposes of meeting the requirements of this paragraph for classification as a publicly supported organization. Paragraph (f)(12) of this section contains rules for trusts or funds that are prevented from qualifying as component parts of a community trust by paragraph (f)(11) of this section.
