
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations (Continued)
###### ยง 1.170A-9 Definition of section 170(b)(1)(A) organization.
####### Community trusts; treatment of trusts and not-for-profit corporations and associations not included as components.

(12)(i) For purposes of sections 170, 501, 507, 508, 509, and Chapter 42, any trust or not-for-profit corporation or association that is alleged to be a component part of a community trust, but that fails to meet the requirements of paragraph (f)(11)(ii) of this section, shall not be treated as a component part of a community trust and, if a trust, shall be treated as a separate trust and be subject to the provisions of section 501, section 4947(a)(1), or section 4947(a)(2), as the case may be. If such organization is a not-for-profit corporation or association, it will be treated as a separate entity, and, if it is described in section 501(c)(3), it will be treated as a private foundation unless it is described in section 509(a)(1), section 509(a)(2), section 509(a)(3), or section 509(a)(4). In the case of a fund that is ultimately treated as not being a component part of a community trust pursuant to this paragraph (f)(12), if the Forms 990 filed annually by the community trust included financial information with respect to such fund and treated such fund in the same manner as other component parts thereof, such returns filed by the community trust prior to the taxable year in which the Commissioner notifies such fund that it will not be treated as a component part will be treated as its separate return for purpose of Subchapter A of Chapter 61 of Subtitle F, and the first such return filed by the community trust will be treated as the notification required of the separate entity for purposes of section 508(a).

(ii) If a transfer is made in trust to a community trust to make income or other payments for a period of a life or lives in being or a term of years to any individual or for any noncharitable purpose, followed by payments to or for the use of the community trust (such as in the case of a charitable remainder annuity trust or a charitable remainder unitrust described in section 664 or a pooled income fund described in section 642(c)(5)), such trust will be treated as a component part of the community trust upon the termination of all intervening noncharitable interests and rights to the actual possession or enjoyment of the property if such trust satisfies the requirements of paragraph (f)(11) of this section at such time. Until such time, the trust will be treated as a separate trust. If a transfer is made in trust to a community trust to make income or other payments to or for the use of the community trust, followed by payments to any individual or for any noncharitable purpose, such trust will be treated as a separate trust rather than as a component part of the community trust. See section 4947(a)(2) and the related regulations for the treatment of such split-interest trusts. The provisions of this paragraph (f)(12)(ii) provide rules only for determining when a charitable remainder trust or pooled income fund may be treated as a component part of a community trust and are not intended to preclude a community trust from maintaining a charitable remainder trust or pooled income fund. For purposes of grantors and contributors, a pooled income fund of a publicly supported community trust shall be treated no differently than a pooled income fund of any other publicly supported organization.

(iii) An organization described in section 170(b)(1)(F)(iii) will not ordinarily satisfy the requirements of paragraph (f)(11)(ii) of this section because of the unqualified right of the donor to designate the recipients of the income and principal of the trust. Such organization will therefore ordinarily be treated as other than a component part of a community trust under paragraph (f)(12)(i) of this section. However, see section 170(b)(1)(F)(iii) and the related regulations with respect to the treatment of contributions to such organizations.
