
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations (Continued)
###### ยง 1.170A-9 Definition of section 170(b)(1)(A) organization.
####### Special rules.

(2)In applying subparagraph (1) of this paragraph:

(i) For purposes of section 170(b)(1)(A)(vii), an organization described in section 170(b)(1)(E)(ii) must distribute all contributions received in any year, whether of cash or property. However, solely for purposes of section 170(e)(1)(B)(ii), an organization described in section 170(b)(1)(E)(ii) is required to distribute all contributions of property only received in any year. Contributions for purposes of this paragraph do not include bequests, legacies, devises, or transfers within the meaning of section 2055 or 2106(a)(2) with respect to which a deduction was not allowed under section 170.

(ii) Any distributions made by a private foundation pursuant to subparagraph (1) of this paragraph with respect to a particular taxable year shall be treated as made first out of contributions of property and then out of contributions of cash received by such foundation in such year.

(iii) A private foundation is not required to trace specific contributions of property, or amounts into which such contributions are converted, to specific distributions.

(iv) For purposes of satisfying the requirements of section 170(b)(1)(D)(ii), except as provided to the contrary in this subdivision (iv), the fair market value of contributed property, determined on the date of contribution, is required to be used for purposes of determining whether an amount equal in value to 100 percent of the contribution received has been distributed. However, reasonable selling expenses, if any, incurred by the foundation in the sale of the contributed property may be deducted from the fair market value of the contributed property on the date of contribution, and distribution of the balance of the fair market value will satisfy the 100 percent distribution requirement. If a private foundation receives a contribution of property and, within 30 days thereafter, either sells the property or makes an in kind distribution of the property to a public charity, then at the choice of the private foundation the gross amount received on the sale (less reasonable selling expenses incurred) or the fair market value of the contributed property at the date of its distribution to the public charity, and not the fair market value of the contributed property on the sale of contribution (less reasonable selling expenses, if any), is considered to be the amount of the fair market value of the contributed property for purposes of the requirements of section 170(b)(1)(D)(ii).

(v) A private foundation may satisfy the requirements of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph for a particular taxable year by electing (pursuant to section 4942(h)(2) and the regulations thereunder) to treat a portion or all of one or more distributions, made not later than the 15th day of the third month after the close of such year, as made out of corpus.
