
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations (Continued)
###### ยง 1.170A-10 Charitable contributions carryovers of individuals.
####### In general.

(a)(1) Section 170(d)(1), relating to carryover of charitable contributions in excess of 50 percent of contribution base, and section 170(b)(1)(D)(ii), relating to carryover of charitable contributions in excess of 30 percent of contribution base, provide for excess charitable contributions carryovers by individuals of charitable contributions to section 170(b)(1)(A) organizations described in ยง 1.170A-9. These carryovers shall be determined as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. No excess charitable contributions carryover shall be allowed with respect to contributions "for the use of," rather than "to," section 170(b)(1)(A) organizations or with respect to contributions "to" or "for the use of" organizations which are not section 170(b)(1)(A) organizations. See ยง 1.170A-8(a)(2) for definitions of "to" or "for the use of" a charitable organization.

(2) The carryover provisions apply with respect to contributions made during a taxable year in excess of the applicable percentage limitation even though the taxpayer elects under section 144 to take the standard deduction in that year instead of itemizing the deduction allowable in computing taxable income for that year.

(3) For provisions requiring a reduction of the excess charitable contribution computed under paragraph (b)(1) or (c)(1) of this section when there is a net operating loss carryover to the taxable year, see paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(4) The provisions of section 170 (b)(1)(D)(ii) and (d)(1) and this section do not apply to contributions by an estate; nor do they apply to a trust unless the trust is a private foundation which, pursuant to ยง 1.642(c)-4, is allowed a deduction under section 170 subject to the provisions applicable to individuals.
