
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### credits allowable under sections 30 through 45D
###### ยง 1.42-17 Qualified allocation plan.
####### Agency evaluation.

(3)Section 42(m)(2)(A) requires that the housing credit dollar amount allocated to a project is not to exceed the amount the Agency determines is necessary for the financial feasibility of the project and its viability as a qualified low-income housing project throughout the credit period. In making this determination, the Agency must consider-

(i) The sources and uses of funds and the total financing planned for the project. The taxpayer must certify to the Agency the full extent of all federal, state, and local subsidies that apply (or which the taxpayer expects to apply) to the project. The taxpayer must also certify to the Agency all other sources of funds and all development costs for the project. The taxpayer's certification should be sufficiently detailed to enable the Agency to ascertain the nature of the costs that will make up the total financing package, including subsidies and the anticipated syndication or placement proceeds to be raised. Development cost information, whether or not includible in eligible basis under section 42(d), that should be provided to the Agency includes, but is not limited to, site acquisition costs, construction contingency, general contractor's overhead and profit, architect's and engineer's fees, permit and survey fees, insurance premiums, real estate taxes during construction, title and recording fees, construction period interest, financing fees, organizational costs, rent-up and marketing costs, accounting and auditing costs, working capital and operating deficit reserves, syndication and legal fees, and developer fees;

(ii) Any proceeds or receipts expected to be generated by reason of tax benefits;

(iii) The percentage of the housing credit dollar amount used for project costs other than the costs of intermediaries. This requirement should not be applied so as to impede the development of projects in hard-to-develop areas under section 42(d)(5)(C); and

(iv) The reasonableness of the developmental and operational costs of the project.
