
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations (Continued)
###### § 1.181-1 Deduction for qualified film and television production costs.
####### Deduction,In general.

(a)-(1)(i) An owner (as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section) of any film or television production (production, as defined in § 1.181-3(b)) that the owner reasonably expects will be, upon completion, a qualified film or television production (as defined in § 1.181-3(a)) may elect to treat production costs paid or incurred by that owner (subject to the limits imposed under paragraph (b) of this section) as an expense that is deductible for the taxable year in which the costs are paid (for an owner who uses the cash receipts and disbursements method of accounting) or incurred (for an owner who uses an accrual method of accounting). The deduction under section 181 is subject to recapture if the owner's expectations are later determined to be inaccurate.

(ii) This section provides rules for determining the owner of a production, the production costs (as defined in paragraph (a)(3) of this section), the maximum amount of aggregate production costs (as defined in paragraph (a)(4) of this section) that may be paid or incurred for a pre-amendment production (as defined in paragraph (a)(5) of this section) for which the owner makes an election under section 181, and the maximum amount of aggregate production costs that may be claimed as a deduction for a post-amendment production (as defined in paragraph (a)(6) of this section) for which the owner makes an election under section 181. Section 1.181-2 provides rules for making the election under section 181. Section 1.181-3 provides definitions and rules concerning qualified film and television productions. Section 1.181-4 provides special rules, including rules for recapture of the deduction. Section 1.181-5 provides examples of the application of §§ 1.181-1 through 1.181-4, while § 1.181-6 provides the effective date of §§ 1.181-1 through 1.181-5.
