
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations (Continued)
###### § 1.181-1 Deduction for qualified film and television production costs.
####### Production costs.,production costs

(3)(i) For purposes of this section and §§ 1.181-2 through 1.181-6, the termmeans all costs that are paid or incurred by an owner in producing a production that are required, absent the provisions of section 181, to be capitalized under section 263A, or that would be required to be capitalized if section 263A applied to the owner, and, if applicable, all costs that are paid or incurred by an owner in acquiring a production prior to its initial release or broadcast. Production costs include, but are not limited to, participations and residuals paid or incurred, compensation paid or incurred for services, compensation paid or incurred for property rights, non-compensation costs, and costs paid or incurred in connection with obtaining financing for the production (for example, premiums paid or incurred to obtain a completion bond for the production).

(ii) Production costs do not include costs paid or incurred to distribute or exploit a production (including advertising and print costs).

(iii) Production costs do not include the costs to prepare a new release or new broadcast of an existing production after the initial release or broadcast of the production (for example, the preparation of a DVD release of a theatrically-released film, or the preparation of an edited version of a theatrically-released film for television broadcast). Costs paid or incurred to prepare a new release or a new broadcast of a production after its initial release or broadcast, therefore, are not taken into account for purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, and may not be deducted under this paragraph (a).

(iv) If a pre-amendment production is acquired from any person prior to its initial release or broadcast, the acquiring person must use as its initial aggregate costs the greater of-

(A) The cost of acquisition; or

(B) The seller's aggregate production costs.

(v) Production costs do not include costs that the owner has deducted or begun to amortize prior to the taxable year the owner makes an election under § 1.181-2 for the production (for example, costs described in § 1.181-2(a)(2)). These costs, however, are included in aggregate production costs to the extent they would have been treated as production costs by the owner notwithstanding this paragraph (a)(3)(v).
