
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations (Continued)
###### ยง 1.182-4 Definition of "land suitable for use in farming", etc.
####### land suitable for use in farming,livestock

For purposes of section 182, the termmeans land which, as a result of the land clearing activities described in paragraph (a) of ยง 1.182-3, could be used by the taxpayer or his tenant for the production of crops, fruits, or other agricultural products, including fish, or for the sustenance of livestock. The termincludes cattle, hogs, horses, mules, donkeys, sheep, goats, captive fur-bearing animals, chickens, turkeys, pigeons, and other poultry. Land used for the sustenance of livestock includes land used for grazing such livestock. Expenditures are considered to be for the purpose of making land suitable for use in farming by the taxpayer or his tenant only if made to prepare the land which is cleared for use by the taxpayer or his tenant in farming. Thus, if the taxpayer pays or incurs expenditures to clear land for the purpose of sale (whether or not for use in farming by the purchaser) or to be held by the taxpayer or his tenant other than for use in farming, section 182 does not apply to such expenditures. Whether the land is cleared for the purpose of making it suitable for use in farming by the taxpayer or his tenant, is a question of fact which must be resolved on the basis of all the relevant facts and circumstances. For purposes of section 182, it is not necessary that the land cleared actually be used in farming following the clearing activities. However, the fact that following the clearing operation, the land is used by the taxpayer or his tenant in the business of farming will, in most cases, constitute evidence that the purpose of the clearing was to make land suitable for use in farming by the taxpayer or his tenant. On the other hand, if the land cleared is sold or converted to nonfarming use soon after the taxpayer has completed his clearing activities, there will be a presumption that the expenditures were not made for the purpose of making the land suitable for use in farming by the taxpayer or his tenant. Other factors which will be considered in determining the taxpayer's purpose for clearing the land are, for example, the acreage, location, and character of the land cleared, the nature of the taxpayer's farming operation, and the use to which adjoining or nearby land is put.
