
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations (Continued)
###### ยง 1.182-3 Definition, exceptions, etc., relating to deductible expenditures.
####### Expenditures not allowed as a deduction under section 182.

(b)(1) Section 182 applies only to expenditures for nondepreciable items. Accordingly, a taxpayer may not deduct expenditures for the purchase, construction, installation, or improvement of structures, appliances, or facilities which are of a character which is subject to the allowance for depreciation under section 167 and the regulations thereunder. Expenditures in respect of such depreciable property include those for materials, supplies, wages, fuel, freight, and the moving of earth, paid or incurred with respect to tanks, reservoirs, pipes, conduits, canals, dams, wells, or pumps constructed of masonry, concrete, tile, metal, wood, or other nonearthen material.

(2) Expenditures which are deductible without regard to section 182 are not deductible under section 182. Thus, such expenditures are deductible without being subject to the limitations imposed by section 182(b) and ยง 1.182-5. For example, section 182 does not apply to the ordinary and necessary expenses incurred in the business of farming which are deductible under section 162 even though they might otherwise be considered to be clearing of land expenditures. Section 182 also does not apply to interest (deductible under section 163) nor to taxes (deductible under section 164). Similarly, section 182 does not apply to any expenditures (whether or not currently deductible) paid or incurred for the purpose of soil or water conservation in respect of land used in farming, or for the prevention of erosion of land used in farming, within the meaning of section 175 and the regulations thereunder, nor to expenditures deductible under section 180 and the regulations thereunder, relating to expenditures for fertilizer, etc.
