
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations (Continued)
###### ยง 1.187-1 Amortization of certain coal mine safety equipment.
####### Depreciation subsequent to discontinuance or in the case of revocation of amortization.

(3)(i) A taxpayer who elects in the manner prescribed under subparagraph (1) of this section to discontinue amortization deductions under section 187(a) or under subparagraph (2) of this paragraph to revoke an election made prior to August 11, 1971 with respect to an item of certified coal mine safety equipment may be entitled to a deduction for depreciation with respect to such equipment. See section 167 and the regulations thereunder.

(ii) In the case of an election to discontinue an amortization deduction under section 187, the deduction for depreciation shall be computed beginning with the first month as to which such amortization deduction is not applicable, and shall be based upon the adjusted basis (see section 1011 and the regulations thereunder) of the property as of the beginning of such month. Such depreciation deduction shall be based upon the remaining portion of the period authorized under section 167 for the facility, as determined as of the first day of the first month as of which the amortization deduction is not applicable.

(iii) In the case of a revocation of an election under section 187 referred to in paragraph (c)(2) of this section the deduction for depreciation shall begin as of the time such depreciation deduction would have been taken but for the election under section 187. See subparagraph (2) of this section for rules as to filing amended returns for years for which amortization deductions have been taken.
