
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations (Continued)
###### ยง 1.187-1 Amortization of certain coal mine safety equipment.
####### Election to discontinue or revoke amortization,Election to discontinue.

(c)-(1)(i) Under section 187(c), if a taxpayer has elected to take the amortization deduction provided by section 187(a) with respect to any certified coal mine safety equipment, he may, after such election and prior to the expiration of the 60-month amortization period, elect to discontinue the amortization deduction for the remainder of the 60-month period for such equipment.

(ii) An election to discontinue the amortization deduction shall be made by a statement in writing filed with the District Director or with the director of the Internal Revenue Service center with whom the return of the taxpayer is required to be filed for its taxable year in which falls the first month for which the election terminates. In addition, a copy of such statement shall be attached to the taxpayer's income tax return filed for such taxable year. Such statement shall specify the month as of the beginning of which the taxpayer elects to discontinue such deductions, and shall be filed before the beginning of the month specified therein. In addition, such notice shall contain a description clearly identifying the certified coal mine safety equipment with respect to which the taxpayer elects to discontinue the amortization deduction. If the taxpayer so elects to discontinue the amortization deduction, he shall not be entitled to any further amortization deductions under section 187 with respect to such equipment.
