
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations (Continued)
###### ยง 1.188-1 Amortization of certain expenditures for qualified on-the-job training and child care facilities.
####### facility

(iii) If directly or indirectly funded to any extent by the United States, established and operated in compliance with the requirements contained in Part 71 of title 45 of the Code of Federal Regulations, relating to Federal Interagency Day Care Requirements. For purposes of this subparagraph, aconsists of the buildings, or portions or structural components thereof, in which children receive such personal care protection, and supervision in the absence of their parents as may be required to meet their needs, and the equipment or other personal property necessary to render such services. Whether or not a facility, or any component property thereof, is particularly suited for the needs of the children being cared for depends upon the facts and circumstances of each individual case. Generally, a building and its structural component, or a room therein, and equipment are particulary suitable for furnishing child care service if they are designed or adapted for such use or satisfy requirements under local law for such use as a condition to granting a license for the operation of the facility. For example, such property includes special kitchen or toilet facilities connected to the building or room in which the services are rendered and equipment such as children's desks, chairs, and play or instructional equipment. Such property would not include general purpose rooms used for many purposes (for example, a room used as an employee recreation center during the evening) nor would it include a room or a part of a room which is simply screened off for use by children during the day. For purposes of this section, a facility is considered to be specifically used as a child care facility if such facility is actually used for such purpose and is not used in a significant manner for any purpose other than child care. For purposes of this subparagraph, a child care facility is used by an employer to provide child care services primarily for children of employees of the employer if, for any month, no more than 20 percent of the average daily enrolled or attending children for such month are other than children of such employees.
