
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations (Continued)
###### ยง 1.190-2 Definitions.
####### Toilet rooms.

(10)(i) A toilet room shall have sufficient space to allow traffic of individuals in wheelchairs.

(ii) A toilet room shall have at least one toilet stall that:

(A) Is at least 36 inches wide;

(B) Is at least 56 inches deep;

(C) Has a door, if any, that is at least 32 inches wide and swings out;

(D) Has handrails on each side, 33 inches high and parallel to the floor, 1inches in outside diameter, 1inches clearance between rail and wall, and fastened securely at ends and center; and

(E) Has a water closet with a seat 19 to 20 inches from the finished floor.

(iii) A toilet room shall have, in addition to or in lieu of a toilet stall described in (ii), at least one toilet stall that:

(A) Is at least 66 inches wide;

(B) Is at least 60 inches deep;

(C) Has a door, if any, that is at least 32 inches wide and swings out;

(D) Has a handrail on one side, 33 inches high and parallel to the floor, 1inches in outside diameter, 1inches clearance between rail and wall, and fastened securely at ends and center; and

(E) Has a water closet with a seat 19 to 20 inches from the finished floor, centerline located 18 inches from the side wall on which the handrail is located.

(iv) A toilet room shall have lavatories with narrow aprons. Drain pipes and hot water pipes under a lavatory shall be covered or insulated.

(v) A mirror and a shelf above a lavatory shall be no higher than 40 inches above the floor, measured from the top of the shelf and the bottom of the mirror.

(vi) A toilet room for men shall have wall-mounted urinals with the opening of the basin 15 to 19 inches from the finished floor or shall have floor-mounted urinals that are level with the main floor of the toilet room.

(vii) Towel racks, towel dispensers, and other dispensers and disposal units shall be mounted no higher than 40 inches from the floor.
