
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations (Continued)
###### ยง 1.190-2 Definitions.
####### Standards for rapid and light rail vehicles.

(21)(i) Passenger doorways on the vehicle sides shall have clear openings at least 32 inches wide.

(ii) Audible or visual warning signals shall be provided to alert handicapped and elderly persons of closing doors.

(iii) Handrails and stanchions shall be sufficient to permit safe boarding, onboard circulation, seating and standing assistance, and unboarding by handicapped and elderly persons. On a levelentry vehicle, handrails, stanchions, and seats shall be located so as to allow a wheelchair user to enter the vehicle and position the wheelchair in a location which does not obstruct the movement of other passengers. On a vehicle that requires the use of steps in the boarding process, handrails and stanchions shall be provided in the entranceway to the vehicle in a configuration that allows handicapped and elderly persons to grasp such assists from outside the vehicle while starting to board, and to continue using such assists throughout the boarding process.

(iv) Floors shall have nonslip surfaces. Step edges on a light rail vehicle shall have a band of bright contrasting color running the full width of the step.

(v) A stepwell immediately adjacent to the driver shall have, when the door is open, at least 2 foot-candles of illumination measured on the step tread. Other stepwells shall have, at all times, at least 2 foot-candles of illumination measured on the step tread.

(vi) Doorways on a light rail vehicle shall have outside lighting that provides at least 1 foot-candle of illumination on the street surface for a distance of 3 feet from all points on the bottom step tread edge. Such lighting shall be located below window level and shall be shielded to protect the eyes of entering and exiting passengers.
