
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations (Continued)
###### ยง 1.190-2 Definitions.
####### Standards for buses.

(20)(i) A bus shall have a level change mechanism (e.g., lift or ramp) to enter the bus and sufficient clearance to permit a wheelchair user to reach a secure location.

(ii) A bus shall have a wheelchair securement device. However, the preceding sentence does not require a wheelchair securement device which is itself a barrier or hazard.

(iii) The vertical distance from a curb or from street level to the first front door step shall not exceed 8 inches; the riser height for each front doorstep after the first step up from the curb or street level shall also not exceed 8 inches; and the tread depth of steps at front and rear doors shall be no less than 12 inches.

(iv) A bus shall contain clearly legible signs that indicate that seats in the front of the bus are priority seats for handicapped or elderly persons, and that encourage other passengers to make such seats available to handicapped and elderly persons who wish to use them.

(v) Handrails and stanchions shall be provided in the entranceway to the bus in a configuration that allows handicapped and elderly persons to grasp such assists from outside the bus while starting to board and to continue to use such assists throughout the boarding and fare collection processes. The configuration of the passenger assist system shall include a rail across the front of the interior of the bus located to allow passengers to lean against it while paying fares. Overhead handrails shall be continuous except for a gap at the rear doorway.

(vi) Floors and steps shall have nonslip surfaces. Step edges shall have a band of bright contrasting color running the full width of the step.

(vii) A stepwell immediately adjacent to the driver shall have, when the door is open, at least 2 foot-candles of illumination measured on the step tread. Other stepwells shall have, at all times, at least 2 foot-candles of illumination measured on the step tread.

(viii) The doorways of the bus shall have outside lighting that provides at least 1 foot-candle of illumination on the street surface for a distance of 3 feet from all points on the bottom step tread edge. Such lighting shall be located below window level and shall be shielded to protect the eyes of entering and exiting passengers.

(ix) The fare box shall be located as far forward as practicable and shall not obstruct traffic in the vestibule.
