
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations (Continued)
###### ยง 1.197-1T Certain elections for intangible property (temporary).
####### Content of the election statement.

(2)The written election statement must include the information in paragraphs (e)(2) (i) through (vi) and (ix) of this section in the case of a retroactive election, and the information in paragraphs (e)(2) (i) and (vii) through (ix) of this section in the case of a binding contract election. The required information should be arranged and identified in accordance with the following order and numbering system-

(i) The name, address and taxpayer identification number (TIN) of the electing taxpayer (and the common parent if a consolidated return is filed).

(ii) A statement that the taxpayer is making the retroactive election.

(iii) Identification of the transition period property affected by the retroactive election, the name and TIN of the person from which the property was acquired, the manner and date of acquisition, the basis at which the property was acquired, and the amount of depreciation, amortization, or other cost recovery under section 167 or any other provision of the Code claimed with respect to the property.

(iv) Identification of each taxpayer under common control (as defined in paragraph (b)(6) of this section) with the electing taxpayer by name, TIN, and Internal Revenue Service Center where the taxpayer's income tax return is filed.

(v) If any persons are required to be notified of the retroactive election under paragraph (c)(6) of this section, identification of such persons and certification that written notification of the election has been provided to such persons.

(vi) A statement that the transition period property being amortized under section 197 is not subject to the anti-churning rules of section 197(f)(9).

(vii) A statement that the taxpayer is making the binding contract election.

(viii) Identification of the property affected by the binding contract election, the name and TIN of the person from which the property was acquired, the manner and date of acquisition, the basis at which the property was acquired, and whether any of the property is subject to depreciation under section 167 or to amortization or other cost recovery under any other provision of the Code.

(ix) The signature of the taxpayer or an individual authorized to sign the taxpayer's Federal income tax return.
