
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations (Continued)
###### ยง 1.199A-2 Determination of W-2 wages and unadjusted basis immediately after acquisition of qualified property.
####### Example 9.

(ix)(A) LLC, a partnership, operates a trade or business that is not an SSTB. On January 5, 2011, LLC purchases Machinery Z for $30,000 and places it in service in LLC's trade or business. LLC's basis in Machinery Z under section 1012 is $30,000. Machinery Z is qualified property within the meaning of section 199A(b)(6). Assume that Machinery Z's recovery period under section 168(c) is 10 years, and LLC depreciates Machinery Z under the general depreciation system by using the straight-line depreciation method, a 10-year recovery period, and the half-year convention. As of December 31, 2018, LLC's basis in Machinery Z, as adjusted under section 1016(a)(2) for depreciation deductions under section 168(a), is $7,500. On January 1, 2019, LLC distributes Machinery Z to Partner A in full liquidation of Partner A's interest in LLC. Partner A's outside basis in LLC is $35,000.

(B) For purposes of section 199A(b)(2)(B)(ii) and this section, LLC's UBIA of Machinery Z from 2011 through 2018 is its $30,000 cost basis under section 1012, regardless of any later depreciation deductions under section 168(a) and resulting basis adjustments under section 1016(a)(2). Prior to the distribution to Partner A, LLC's basis of Machinery Z is $7,500. Under section 732(b), Partner A's basis in Machinery Z is $35,000. Pursuant to paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section, upon distribution of Machinery Z, Partner A's UBIA of Machinery Z is $30,000, which was LLC's UBIA of Machinery Z.
