
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### credits allowable under sections 30 through 45D
###### ยง 1.42A-1 General tax credit for taxable years ending after December 31, 1975, and before January 1, 1979.
####### Nonresident alien individuals.

(2)The credit provided by section 42 and this section shall not be allowed in the case of any nonresident alien individual. As used in this subparagraph, the term "nonresident alien individual" has the meaning provided by ยง 1.871-2. See, however, section 6013(g) for election to treat nonresident alien individual as resident of the United States. The credit shall be allowed to an alien individual who is a resident of the United States for part of the taxable year. See ยง 1.871-2(b) for rules relating to the determination of residence of an alien individual. For purposes of paragraphs (a) (1)(i) and (2)(i) of this section, the credit allowed shall be computed by taking into account only that portion of the individual's taxable income which is attributable to the period of his residence in the United States. For purposes of paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, the credit allowed shall be computed by taking into account only the total number of deductions for personal exemptions to which the individual is entitled under section 151 (b) and (e) for the period of his residence in the United States. For purposes of paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, the credit allowed shall be computed by taking into account only the total number of deductions for personal exemptions to which the individual is entitled under section 151 for the period of his residence in the United States. See ยง 1.871-13 for rules relating to changes of residence status during a taxable year.
