
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations (Continued)
###### § 1.199A-6 Relevant passthrough entities (RPEs), publicly traded partnerships (PTPs), trusts, and estates.
####### Computational rules.

(2)Using the following four rules, an RPE must determine the items necessary for individuals who own interests in the RPE to calculate their section 199A deduction under § 1.199A-1(c) or (d). An RPE that chooses to aggregate trades or businesses under the rules of § 1.199A-4 may determine these items for the aggregated trade or business.

(i) First, the RPE must determine if it is engaged in one or more trades or businesses. The RPE must also determine whether any of its trades or businesses is an SSTB under the rules of § 1.199A-5.

(ii) Second, the RPE must apply the rules in § 1.199A-3 to determine the QBI for each trade or business engaged in directly.

(iii) Third, the RPE must apply the rules in § 1.199A-2 to determine the W-2 wages and UBIA of qualified property for each trade or business engaged in directly.

(iv) Fourth, the RPE must determine whether it has any qualified REIT dividends as defined in § 1.199A-3(c)(1) earned directly or through another RPE. The RPE must also determine the amount of qualified PTP income as defined in § 1.199A-3(c)(2) earned directly or indirectly through investments in PTPs.
