
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Additional Itemized Deductions for Individuals
###### ยง 1.213-1 Medical, dental, etc., expenses.
####### Allowance of deduction.

(a)(1) Section 213 permits a deduction of payments for certain medical expenses (including expenses for medicine and drugs). Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section (relating to special rule for decedents) a deduction is allowable only to individuals and only with respect to medical expenses actually paid during the taxable year, regardless of when the incident or event which occasioned the expenses occurred and regardless of the method of accounting employed by the taxpayer in making his income tax return. Thus, if the medical expenses are incurred but not paid during the taxable year, no deduction for such expenses shall be allowed for such year.

(2) Except as provided in subparagraphs (4)(i) and (5)(i) of this paragraph, only such medical expenses (including the allowable expenses for medicine and drugs) are deductible as exceed 3 percent of the adjusted gross income for the taxable year. For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1966, the amounts paid during the taxable year for insurance that constitute expenses paid for medical care shall, for purposes of computing total medical expenses, be reduced by the amount determined under subparagraph (5)(i) of this paragraph. For the amounts paid during the taxable year for medicine and drugs which may be taken into account in computing total medical expenses, see paragraph (b) of this section. For the maximum deduction allowable under section 213 in the case of certain taxable years, see paragraph (c) of this section. As to what constitutes "adjusted gross income", see section 62 and the regulations thereunder.

(3)(i) For medical expenses paid (including expenses paid for medicine and drugs) to be deductible, they must be for medical care of the taxpayer, his spouse, or a dependent of the taxpayer and not be compensated for by insurance or otherwise. Expenses paid for the medical care of a dependent, as defined in section 152 and the regulations thereunder, are deductible under this section even though the dependent has gross income equal to or in excess of the amount determined pursuant to ยง 1.151-2 applicable to the calendar year in which the taxable year of the taxpayer begins. Where such expenses are paid by two or more persons and the conditions of section 152(c) and the regulations thereunder are met, the medical expenses are deductible only by the person designated in the multiple support agreement filed by such persons and such deduction is limited to the amount of medical expenses paid by such person.

(ii) An amount excluded from gross income under section 105 (c) or (d) (relating to amounts received under accident and health plans) and the regulations thereunder shall not constitute compensation for expenses paid for medical care. Exclusion of such amounts from gross income will not affect the treatment of expenses paid for medical care.

(iii) The application of the rule allowing a deduction for medical expenses to the extent not compensated for by insurance or otherwise may be illustrated by the following example in which it is assumed that neither the taxpayer nor his wife has attained the age of 65:

(4)(i) For taxable years beginning before January 1, 1967, where either the taxpayer or his spouse has attained the age of 65 before the close of the taxable year, the 3-percent limitation on the deduction for medical expenses does not apply with respect to expenses for medical care of the taxpayer or his spouse. Moreover, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1959, and before January 1, 1967, the 3-percent limitation on the deduction for medical expenses does not apply to amounts paid for the medical care of a dependent (as defined in sec. 152) who is the mother or father of the taxpayer or his spouse and who has attained the age of 65 before the close of the taxpayer's taxable year. For taxable years beginning before January 1, 1964, and for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1966, all amounts paid by the taxpayer for medicine and drugs are subject to the 1-percent limitation provided by section 213(b). For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1963, and before January 1, 1967, the 1-percent limitation provided by section 213(b) does not apply, under certain circumstances, to amounts paid by the taxpayer for medicine and drugs for the taxpayer and his spouse or for a dependent (as defined in sec. 152) who is the mother or father of the taxpayer or of his spouse. (For additional provisions relating to the 1-percent limitation with respect to medicine and drugs, see paragraph (b) of this section.) For taxable years beginning before January 1, 1967, whether or not the 3-percent or 1-percent limitation applies, the total medical expenses deductible under section 213 are subject to the limitations described in section 213(c) and paragraph (c) of this section and, where applicable, to the limitations described in section 213(g) and ยง 1.213-2.

(ii) The age of a taxpayer shall be determined as of the last day of his taxable year. In the event of the taxpayer's death, his taxable year shall end as of the date of his death. The age of a taxpayer's spouse shall be determined as of the last day of the taxpayer's taxable year, except that, if the spouse dies within such taxable year, her age shall be determined as of the date of her death. Likewise, the age of the taxpayer's dependent who is the mother or father of the taxpayer or of his spouse shall be determined as of the last day of the taxpayer's taxable year but not later than the date of death of such dependent.

(iii) The application of subdivision (i) of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

(5)(i) For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1966, there may be deducted without regard to the 3-percent limitation the lesser of-(a) One-half of the amounts paid during the taxable year for insurance which constitute expenses for medical care for the taxpayer, his spouse, and dependents; or (b) $150.

(ii) The application of subdivision (i) of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following example:
