
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Additional Itemized Deductions for Individuals
###### ยง 1.213-1 Medical, dental, etc., expenses.
####### Taxable years beginning after December 31, 1963.

(2)(i) Except as otherwise provided in subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph, amounts paid during taxable years beginning after December 31, 1963, for medicine and drugs are to be taken into account in computing the allowable deduction for medical expenses paid during the taxable year only to the extent that the aggregate of such amounts exceeds 1 percent of the adjusted gross income for the taxable year. Thus, if the aggregate of the amounts paid for medicine and drugs which are subject to the 1-percent limitation exceeds 1 percent of adjusted gross income, the excess is added to other medical expenses for the purpose of computing the medical expense deduction.

(ii) The 1-percent limitation provided by section 213 does not apply to amounts paid by a taxpayer during a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1963, and before January 1, 1967, for medicine and drugs for the medical care of the taxpayer and his spouse if either has attained the age of 65 before the close of the taxable year. Moreover, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1963, and before January 1, 1967, the 1-percent limitation with respect to medicine and drugs does not apply to amounts paid for the medical care of a dependent (as defined in sec. 152) who is the mother or father of the taxpayer or of his spouse and who has attained the age of 65 before the close of the taxpayer's taxable year. Amounts paid for medicine and drugs which are not subject to the limitation on medicine and drugs are added to other medical expenses of a taxpayer and his spouse or the dependent (as the case may be) for the purpose of computing the medical expense deduction.

(iii) The application of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following examples:
