
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Additional Itemized Deductions for Individuals
###### ยง 1.213-1 Medical, dental, etc., expenses.
####### Limitation with respect to medicine and drugs,Taxable years beginning before January 1, 1964.

(b)-(1)(i) Amounts paid during taxable years beginning before January 1, 1964, for medicine and drugs are to be taken into account in computing the allowable deduction for medical expenses paid during the taxable year only to the extent that the aggregate of such amounts exceeds 1 percent of the adjusted gross income for the taxable year. Thus, if the aggregate of the amounts paid for medicine and drugs exceeds 1 percent of adjusted gross income, the excess is added to other medical expenses for the purpose of computing the medical expense deduction. The application of this subdivision may be illustrated by the following example:

(ii) For taxable years beginning before January 1, 1964, the 1-percent limitation is applicable to all amounts paid by a taxpayer during the taxable year for medicine and drugs. Moreover, this limitation applies regardless of the fact that the amounts paid are for medicine and drugs for the taxpayer, his spouse, or dependent parent (the mother or father of the taxpayer or of his spouse) who has attained the age of 65 before the close of the taxable year. In a case where either a taxpayer or his spouse has attained the age of 65 and the taxpayer pays an amount in excess of 1 percent of adjusted gross income for medicine and drugs for himself, his spouse, and his dependents, it is necessary to apportion the 1 percent of adjusted gross income (the portion which is not taken into account as expenses paid for medical care) between the taxpayer and his spouse on the one hand and his dependents on the other. The part of the 1 percent allocable to the taxpayer and his spouse is an amount which bears the same ratio to 1 percent of his adjusted gross income which the amount paid for medicine and drugs for the taxpayer and his spouse bears to the total amount paid for medicine and drugs for the taxpayer, his spouse, and his dependents. The balance of the 1 percent shall be allocated to his dependents. The amount paid for medicine and drugs in excess of the allocated part of the 1 percent shall be taken into account as payments for medical care for the taxpayer and his spouse on the one hand and his dependents on the other, respectively. A similar apportionment must be made in the case of a dependent parent (65 years of age or over) of the taxpayer or his spouse. The application of this subdivision (ii) may be illustrated by the following example:
