
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Additional Itemized Deductions for Individuals
###### ยง 1.216-1 Amounts representing taxes and interest paid to cooperative housing corporation.
####### Right of occupancy.

(2)Each stockholder of the corporation, whether or not the stockholder qualifies as a tenant-stockholder under section 216(b)(2) and paragraph (f) of this section, must be entitled to occupy for dwelling purposes an apartment in a building or a unit in a housing development owned or leased by such corporation. The stockholder is not required to occupy the premises. The right as against the corporation to occupy the premises is sufficient. Such right must be conferred on each stockholder solely by reasons of his or her ownership of stock in the corporation. That is, the stock must entitle the owner thereof either to occupy the premises or to a lease of the premises. The fact that the right to continue to occupy the premises is dependent upon the payment of charges to the corporation in the nature of rentals or assessments is immaterial. For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1986, the fact that, by agreement with the cooperative housing corporation, a person or his nominee may not occupy the house or apartment without the prior approval of such corporation will not be taken into account for purposes of this paragraph in the following cases.

(i) In any case where a person acquires stock of the cooperative housing corporation by operation of law, by inheritance, or by foreclosure (or by instrument in lieu of foreclosure),

(ii) In any case where a person other than an individual acquires stock in the cooperative housing corporation, and

(iii) In any case where the person from whom the corporation has acquired the apartments or houses (or leaseholds therein) acquires any stock of the cooperative housing corporation from the corporation not later than one year after the date on which the apartments or houses (or leaseholds therein) are transferred to the corporation by such person. For purposes of the preceding sentence, paragraphs (e)(2) (i) and (ii) of this section will not apply to acquisitions of stock by foreclosure by the person from whom the corporation has acquired the apartments or houses (or leaseholds therein).
