
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Additional Itemized Deductions for Individuals
###### ยง 1.217-1 Deduction for moving expenses paid or incurred in taxable years beginning before January 1, 1970.
####### Commencement of work.,principal place of work,commencement

(2)To be deductible, the moving expenses must be paid or incurred by the taxpayer in connection with the commencement of work by him at a new principal place of work (see paragraph (c)(3) of this section for a discussion of the term). While it is not necessary that the taxpayer have a contract or commitment of employment prior to his moving to a new location, the deduction is not allowable unless employment actually does occur. The termincludes (i) the beginning of work by a taxpayer for the first time or after a substantial period of unemployment or part-time employment, (ii) the beginning of work by a taxpayer for a different employer, or (iii) the beginning of work by a taxpayer for the same employer at a new location. To qualify as being in connection with the commencement of work, the move for which moving expenses are incurred must bear a reasonable proximity both in time and place to such commencement. In general, moving expenses incurred within one year of the date of the commencement of work are considered to be reasonably proximate to such commencement. Moving expenses incurred in relocating the taxpayer's residence to a location which is farther from his new principal place of work than was his former residence are not generally to be considered as incurred in connection with such commencement of work. For example, if A is transferred by his employer from place X to place Y and A's old residence while he worked at place X is 25 miles from Y, A will not generally be entitled to deduct moving expenses in moving to a new residence 40 miles from Y even though the minimum distance limitation contained in section 217(c)(1) is met. If, however, A is required, as a condition of his employment, to reside at a particular place, or if such residency will result in an actual decrease in his commuting time or expense, the expenses of the move may be considered as incurred in connection with his commencement of work at place Y.
