
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Additional Itemized Deductions for Individuals
###### ยง 1.217-1 Deduction for moving expenses paid or incurred in taxable years beginning before January 1, 1970.
####### Allowance of deduction,In general.,employee

(a)-(1)Section 217(a) allows a deduction from gross income for moving expenses paid or incurred by the taxpayer during the taxable year in connection with the commencement of work as an employee at a new principal place of work. Except as provided in section 217, no deduction is allowable for any expenses incurred by the taxpayer in connection with moving himself, the members of his family or household, or household goods and personal effects. The deduction allowable under this section is only for expenses incurred after December 31, 1963, in taxable years ending after such date and beginning before January 1, 1970, except in cases where a taxpayer makes an election under paragraph (g) of ยง 1.217-2 with respect to moving expenses paid or incurred before January 1, 1971, in connection with the commencement of work by such taxpayer as an employee at a new principal place of work of which such taxpayer has been notified by his employer on or before December 19, 1969. To qualify for the deduction the expenses must meet the definition of the term "moving expenses" provided in section 217(b); the taxpayer must meet the conditions set forth in section 217(c); and, if the taxpayer receives a reimbursement or other expense allowance for an item of expense, the deduction for the portion of the expense reimbursed is allowable only to the extent that such reimbursement or other expense allowance is included in his gross income as provided in section 217(e). The deduction is allowable only to a taxpayer who pays or incurs moving expenses in connection with his commencement of work as an employee and is not allowable to a taxpayer who pays or incurs such expenses in connection with his commencement of work as a self-employed individual. The termas used in this section has the same meaning as in ยง 31.3401(c)-1 of this chapter (Employment Tax Regulations). All references to section 217 in this section are to section 217 prior to the effective date of section 231 of the Tax Reform Act of 1969 (83 Stat. 577).
