
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Additional Itemized Deductions for Individuals
###### ยง 1.217-1 Deduction for moving expenses paid or incurred in taxable years beginning before January 1, 1970.
####### Principal place of work.

(3)(i) A taxpayer's "principal place of work" usually is the place at which he spends most of his working time. Generally, where a taxpayer performs services as an employee, his principal place of work is his employer's plant, office, shop, store or other property. However, a taxpayer may have a principal place of work even if there is no one place at which he spends a substantial portion of his working time. In such case, the taxpayer's principal place of work is the place at which his business activities are centered-for example, because he reports there for work, or is otherwise required either by his employer or the nature of his employment to "base" his employment there. Thus, while a member of a railroad crew, for example, may spend most of his working time aboard a train, his principal place of work is his home terminal, station, or other such central point where he reports in, checks out, or receives instructions. In those cases where the taxpayer is employed by a number of employers on a relatively short-term basis, and secures employment by means of a union hall system (such as a construction or building trades worker), the taxpayer's principal place of work would be the union hall.
