
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Additional Itemized Deductions for Individuals
###### ยง 1.217-1 Deduction for moving expenses paid or incurred in taxable years beginning before January 1, 1970.
####### Residence.,former residence,new residence,new place of residence,former residence, new residence,new place of residence

(5)The termrefers to the taxpayer's principal residence before his departure for his new principal place of work. The termrefers to the taxpayer's principal residence within the general location of his new principal place of work. Thus, neither term includes other residences owned or maintained by the taxpayer or members of his family or seasonal residences such as a summer beach cottage. Whether or not property is used by the taxpayer as his residence, and whether or not property is used by the taxpayer as his principal residence (in the case of a taxpayer using more than one property as a residence), depends upon all the facts and circumstances in each case. Property used by the taxpayer as his principal residence may include a houseboat, a house trailer, or similar dwelling. The termgenerally includes the area within which the taxpayer might reasonably be expected to commute to his new principal place of work. The application of the termsandas defined in this paragraph and as used in section 217(b)(1) may be illustrated in the following manner: Expenses of moving household goods and personal effects are moving expenses when paid or incurred for transporting such items from the taxpayer's former residence to the taxpayer's new residence (such as from one street address to another). Expenses of traveling, on the other hand, are limited to those incurred between the taxpayer's former residence (a geographic point) and his new place of residence (a commuting area) up to and including the date of arrival. The date of arrival is the day the taxpayer secures lodging within that commuting area, even if on a temporary basis.
