
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Additional Itemized Deductions for Individuals
###### ยง 1.217-1 Deduction for moving expenses paid or incurred in taxable years beginning before January 1, 1970.
####### general location,new place of residence

(ii) It is not necessary that the taxpayer remain in the employ of the same employer for 39 weeks, but only that he be employed in the same general location of his new principal place of work during such period. Theof the new principal place of work refers to the area within which an individual might reasonably be expected to commute to such place of work, and will usually be the same area as is known as the; see paragraph (b)(5) of this section.

(iii) Only a week during which the taxpayer is a full-time employee qualifies as a week of work for purposes of the 39-week requirement of section 217(c)(2). Whether an employee is a full-time employee during any particular week depends upon the customary practices of the occupation in the geographic area in which the taxpayer works. In the case of occupations where employment is on a seasonal basis, weeks occuring in the off-season when no work is required or available (as the case may be) may be counted as weeks of full-time employment only if the employee's contract or agreement of employment covers the off-season period and the off-season period is less than 6 months. Thus, a school teacher whose employment contract covers a 12-month period and who teaches on a full-time basis for more than 6 months in fulfillment of such contract is considered a full-time employee during the entire 12-month period. A taxpayer will not be deemed as other than a full-time employee during any week merely because of periods of involuntary temporary absence from work, such as those due to illness, strikes, shutouts, layoffs, natural disasters, etc.

(iv) In the case of taxpayers filing a joint return, either spouse may satisfy this 39-week requirement. However, weeks worked by one spouse may not be added to weeks worked by the other spouse in order to satisfy such requirement.

(v) The application of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following examples:
