
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Additional Itemized Deductions for Individuals
###### ยง 1.217-1 Deduction for moving expenses paid or incurred in taxable years beginning before January 1, 1970.
####### Election of deduction before 39-week test is satisfied.

(2)(i) Paragraph (2) of section 217(d) provides a special rule which applies in those cases where a taxpayer paid or incurred, in a particular taxable year, moving expenses which would be deductible in that taxable year except for the fact that the 39-week employment condition of section 217(c)(2) has not been satisfied before the time prescribed by law (including extensions thereof) for filing the return for such taxable year. The rule provides that where a taxpayer has paid or incurred moving expenses and as of the date prescribed by section 6072 for filing his return for such taxable year, including extensions thereof as may be allowed under section 6081, there remains unexpired a sufficient portion of the 12-month period so that it is still possible for the taxpayer to satisfy the 39-week requirement, then the taxpayer may elect to claim a deduction for such moving expenses on the return for such taxable year. The election shall be exercised by taking the deduction on the return filed within the time prescribed by section 6072 (including extensions as may be allowed under section 6081). It is not necessary that the taxpayer wait until the date prescribed by law for filing his return in order to make the election. He may make the election on an early return based upon the facts known on the date such return is filed. However, an election made on an early return will become invalid if, as of the date prescribed by law for filing the return, it is not possible for the taxpayer to satisfy the 39-week requirement.

(ii) In the event that a taxpayer does not elect to claim a deduction for moving expenses on the return for the taxable year in which such expenses were paid or incurred in accordance with (i) of this subparagraph, and the 39-week employment condition of section 217(c)(2) (as well as all other requirements of section 217) is subsequently satisfied, then the taxpayer may file an amended return for the taxable year in which such moving expenses were paid or incurred on which he may claim a deduction under section 217. The taxpayer may, in lieu of filing an amended return, file a claim for refund based upon the deduction allowable under section 217.

(iii) The application of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following examples:
