
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Additional Itemized Deductions for Individuals
###### ยง 1.217-1 Deduction for moving expenses paid or incurred in taxable years beginning before January 1, 1970.
####### Disallowance of deduction with respect to reimbursements not included in gross income.

(e)Section 217(e) provides that no deduction shall be allowed under section 217 for any item to the extent that the taxpayer receives reimbursement or other expense allowance for such item unless the amount of such reimbursement or other expense allowance is included in his gross income. A reimbursement or other allowance to an employee for expenses of moving, in the absence of a specific allocation by the employer, is allocated first to items deductible under section 217(a) and then, if a balance remains, to items not so deductible. For purposes of this section, moving services furnished in-kind, directly or indirectly, by a taxpayer's employer to the taxpayer or members of his household are considered as being a reimbursement or other allowance received by the taxpayer for moving expenses. If a taxpayer pays or incurs moving expenses and either prior or subsequent thereto receives reimbursement or other expense allowance for such item, no deduction is allowed for such moving expenses unless the amount of the reimbursement or other expense allowance is included in his gross income in the year in which such reimbursement or other expense allowance is received. In those cases where the reimbursement or other expense allowance is received by a taxpayer for an item of moving expense subsequent to his having claimed a deduction for such item, and such reimbursement or other expense allowance is properly excluded from gross income in the year in which received, the taxpayer must file an amended return for the taxable year in which the moving expenses were deducted and decrease such deduction by the amount of the reimbursement or other expense allowance not included in gross income. This does not mean, however, that a taxpayer has an option to include or not include in his gross income an amount received as reimbursement or other expense allowance in connection with his move as an employee. This question remains one which must be resolved under section 61(a) (relating to the definition of gross income).
