
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Additional Itemized Deductions for Individuals
###### ยง 1.217-2 Deduction for moving expenses paid or incurred in taxable years beginning after December 31, 1969.
####### Minimum distance.

(2)For purposes of applying the minimum distance condition of section 217(c)(1) all taxpayers are divided into one or the other of the following categories: Taxpayers having a former principal place of work, and taxpayers not having a former principal place of work. Included in this latter category are individuals who are seeking fulltime employment for the first time either as an employee or on a self- employed basis (for example, recent high school or college graduates), or individuals who are reentering the labor force after a substantial period of unemployment or part-time employment.

(i) In the case of a taxpayer having a former principal place of work, section 217(c)(1)(A) provides that no deduction is allowable unless the distance between the former residence and the new principal place of work exceeds by at least 35 miles (50 miles in the case of expenses paid or incurred in taxable years beginning before January 1, 1977) the distance between the former residence and the former principal place of work.

(ii) In the case of a taxpayer not having a former principal place of work, section 217(c)(1)(B) provides that no deduction is allowable unless the distance between the former residence and the new principal place of work is at least 35 miles (50 miles in the case of expenses paid or incurred in taxable years beginning before January 1, 1977).

(iii) For purposes of measuring distances under section 217(c)(1) the distance between two geographic points is measured by the shortest of the more commonly traveled routes between such points. The shortest of the more commonly traveled routes refers to the line of travel and the mode or modes of transportation commonly used to go between two geographic points comprising the shortest distance between such points irrespective of the route used by the taxpayer.
