
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Additional Itemized Deductions for Individuals
###### ยง 1.217-2 Deduction for moving expenses paid or incurred in taxable years beginning after December 31, 1969.
####### Individuals other than taxpayer.

(10)(i) In addition to the expenses set forth in subparagraphs (A) through (D) of section 217(b)(1) attributable to the taxpayer alone, the same type of expenses attributable to certain individuals other than the taxpayer, if paid or incurred by the taxpayer, are deductible. These other individuals must be members of the taxpayer's household, and have both the taxpayer's former residence and his new residence as their principal place of abode. A member of the taxpayer's household includes any individual residing at the taxpayer's residence who is neither a tenant nor an employee of the taxpayer. Thus, for example, a member of the taxpayer's household may not be an individual such as a servant, governess, chauffeur, nurse, valet, or personal attendant. However, for purposes of this paragraph, a tenant or employee will be considered a member of the taxpayer's household where the tenant or employee is a dependent of the taxpayer as defined in section 152.

(ii) In addition to the expenses set forth in section 217(b)(2) paid or incurred by the taxpayer attributable to property sold, purchased, or leased by the taxpayer alone, the same type of expenses paid or incurred by the taxpayer attributable to property sold, purchased, or leased by the taxpayer's spouse or by the taxpayer and his spouse are deductible providing such property is used by the taxpayer as his principal place of residence.
