
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Additional Itemized Deductions for Individuals
###### ยง 1.217-2 Deduction for moving expenses paid or incurred in taxable years beginning after December 31, 1969.
####### Election in cases of expenses paid or incurred before January 1, 1971, in connection with certain moves,In general.

(3)-(i)A taxpayer who was notified by his employer on or before December 19, 1969, of a transfer to a new principal place of work and who pays or incurs moving expenses after December 31, 1969, but before January 1, 1971, in connection with such transfer may elect to have the rules governing moving expenses in effect prior to the effective date of section 231 of the Tax Reform Act of 1969 (83 Stat. 577) govern such expenses. If such election is made, this section and section 82 and the regulations thereunder do not apply to such expenses. A taxpayer is considered to have been notified on or before December 19, 1969, by his employer of a transfer, for example, if before such date the employer has sent a notice to all employees or a reasonably defined group of employees, which includes such taxpayer, of a relocation of the operations of such employer from one plant or facility to another plant or facility. An employee who is transferred to a new principal place of work for the benefit of his employer and who makes an election under this paragraph is permitted to exclude amounts received or accrued, directly or indirectly, as payment for or reimbursement of expenses of moving household goods and personal effects from the former residence to the new residence and of traveling (including meals and lodging) from the former residence to the new place of residence. Such exclusion is limited to amounts received or accrued, directly or indirectly, as a payment for or reimbursement of the expenses described above. Amounts in excess of actual expenses paid or incurred must be included in gross income. No deduction is allowable under section 217 for expenses representing amounts excluded from gross income. Also, an employee who is transferred to a new principal place of work which is less than 50 miles but at least 20 miles farther from his former residence than was his former principal place of work and who is not reimbursed, either directly or indirectly, for the expenses described above is permitted to deduct such expenses providing all of the requirements of section 217 and the regulations thereunder prior to the effective date of section 231 of the Tax Reform Act of 1969 (83 Stat. 577) are satisfied.
