
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Additional Itemized Deductions for Individuals
###### ยง 1.221-2 Deduction for interest due and paid on qualified education loans before January 1, 2002.
####### In general.

(a)Under section 221, an individual taxpayer may deduct from gross income certain interest due and paid by the taxpayer during the taxable year on a qualified education loan. The deduction is allowed only with respect to interest due and paid on a qualified education loan during the first 60 months that interest payments are required under the terms of the loan. See paragraph (e) of this section for rules relating to the 60-month rule. See paragraph (b)(4) of this section for rules on payments of interest by third parties. The rules of this section are applicable to interest due and paid on qualified education loans after January 21, 1999, if paid before January 1, 2002. Taxpayers also may apply the rules of this section to interest due and paid on qualified education loans after December 31, 1997, but before January 21, 1999. To the extent that the effective date limitation ("sunset") of the 2001 amendment remains in force unchanged, section 221 before amendment in 2001, to which this section relates, also applies to interest due and paid on qualified education loans in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2010. For rules applicable to periods governed by section 221 as amended in 2001, which relates to deductions for interest paid on qualified education loans after December 31, 2001, in taxable years ending after December 31, 2001, and before January 1, 2011, see ยง 1.221-1.
