
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Additional Itemized Deductions for Individuals
###### ยง 1.221-2 Deduction for interest due and paid on qualified education loans before January 1, 2002.
####### 60-month rule,In general.

(e)-(1)A deduction for interest paid on a qualified education loan is allowed only for payments made during the first 60 months that interest payments are required on the loan. The 60-month period begins on the first day of the month that includes the date on which interest payments are first required and ends 60 months later, unless the 60-month period is suspended for periods of deferment or forbearance within the meaning of paragraph (e)(3) of this section. The 60-month period continues to run regardless of whether the required interest payments are actually made. The date on which the first interest payment is required is determined under the terms of the loan agreement or, in the case of a loan issued or guaranteed under a federal postsecondary education loan program (such as loan programs under title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070) and titles VII and VIII of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 292., and 42 U.S.C. 296)) under applicable Federal regulations. For a discussion of interest, see paragraph (h) of this section. For special rules relating to loan refinancings, consolidated loans, and collapsed loans, see paragraph (i) of this section.
