
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Deductions for Corporations
###### ยง 1.243-4 Qualifying dividends.
####### Election,Manner and time of making election,General.

(c)-(1)-(i)The election provided by section 243(b)(2) shall be made for an affiliated group by the common parent corporation and shall be made for a particular taxable year of the common parent corporation. Such election may not be made for any taxable year of the common parent corporation for which a multiple surtax exemption election under section 1562 is effective. The election shall be made by means of a statement, signed by any person who is duly authorized to act on behalf of the common parent corporation, stating that the affiliated group elects under section 243(b)(2) for such taxable year. The statement shall be filed with the district director for the internal revenue district in which is located the principal place of business or principal office or agency of the common parent. The statement shall set forth the name, address, taxpayer account number, and taxable year of each corporation (including wholly-owned subsidiaries) that is a member of the affiliated group at the time the election is filed. The statement may be filed at any time, provided that, with respect to each corporation the tax liability of which for its matching taxable year of election (or for any subsequent taxable year) would be increased because of the election, at the time of filing there is at least 1 year remaining in the statutory period (including any extensions thereof) for the assessment of a deficiency against such corporation for such year. (If there is less than 1 year remaining with respect to any taxable year, the district director for the internal revenue district in which is located the principal place of business or principal office or agency of the corporation will ordinarily, upon request, enter into an agreement to extend such statutory period for assessment and collection of deficiencies.
