
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Deductions for Corporations
###### ยง 1.245A-5 Limitation of section 245A deduction and section 954(c)(6) exception.
####### Limitation of amount eligible for section 954(c)(6) when there is an extraordinary disposition account with respect to a lower-tier CFC,In general.

(d)-(1)If an upper-tier CFC receives a dividend from a lower-tier CFC, then the dividend is eligible for the exception to foreign personal holding company income under section 954(c)(6) (provided all other applicable requirements are satisfied) with respect to the portion of the dividend that exceeds the disqualified amount. With respect to the portion of the dividend that does not exceed the disqualified amount, the exception to foreign personal holding company income under section 954(c)(6) is allowed (provided all other applicable requirements are satisfied) only for the amount equal to 50 percent of the portion of the dividend that does not exceed the disqualified amount. The disqualified amount is the quotient of the amounts described in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) The sum of each section 245A shareholder's tiered extraordinary disposition amount with respect to the lower-tier CFC.

(ii) The percentage of stock of the upper-tier CFC (by value) owned, in the aggregate, by U.S. tax residents that include in gross income their pro rata share of the upper-tier CFC's subpart F income under section 951(a) on the last day of the upper-tier CFC's taxable year. If a U.S. tax resident is a direct or indirect partner in a domestic partnership that is a United States shareholder of the upper-tier CFC, the amount of stock owned by the U.S. tax resident for purposes of the preceding sentence is determined under the principles of paragraph (g)(3) of this section.
