
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### credits allowable under sections 30 through 45D
###### ยง 1.44-2 Property to which credit for purchase of new principal residence applies.
####### Construction.

(a)The construction of the residence must have begun before March 26, 1975. For this purpose construction is considered to have commenced in the following circumstances:

(1)(i) Except as provided in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, construction is considered to commence when actual physical work of a significant amount has occurred on the building site of the residence. A significant amount of construction requires more than drilling to determine soil conditions, preparation of an architect's sketches, securing of a building permit, or grading of the land. Land preparation and improvements such as the clearing and grading (excavation or filling), construction of roads and sidewalks, and installation of sewers and utilities are not considered commencement of construction of the residence even though they might involve a significant expenditure. However, driving pilings for the foundation, digging of the footings, excavation of the building foundation, pouring of floor slabs, or construction of compacted earthen pads when specifically prepared and designed for a particular residential structure and not merely as a part of the overall land preparation, constitute a significant amount of construction of the residence. In the case of a housing or condominium development construction of recreational facilities no matter how extensive does not by itself constitute commencement of construction of any residential unit. However, where residential units are part of a building structure, as in the case of certain condominium and cooperative housing units, then digging of the footings or excavation of the building foundation constitutes commencement of construction for all units in that building.

(ii) The rules in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph are illustrated by the following examples:

(2) Construction of a factory-made home (as defined in paragraph (e) of ยง 1.44-5) is considered to have commenced when construction of important parts of the factory-made home has commenced. For this purpose, commencement of construction of important parts means the cutting and shaping or welding of structural components for a specific identifiable factory-made home, whether the work was done by the manufacturer of the home or by a subcontractor thereof.
