
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### credits allowable under sections 30 through 45D
###### ยง 1.44-2 Property to which credit for purchase of new principal residence applies.
####### Acquisition and occupancy.

(b)The residence must be acquired and occupied by the taxpayer after March 12, 1975, and before January 1, 1977. For this purpose a taxpayer "acquires" a residence when legal title to it is conveyed to him at settlement, or he has possession of it pursuant to a binding purchase contract under which he makes periodic payments until he becomes entitled under the contract to demand conveyance of title. A taxpayer "occupies" a residence when he or his spouse physically occupies it. Thus, for example, moving of furniture or other household effects into the residence or physical occupancy by a dependent child of the taxpayer is not "occupancy" for purposes of this paragraph. The credit may be claimed when both the acquisition and occupancy tests have been satisfied. Thus, where a taxpayer meets the acquisition and occupancy tests set forth above after March 12, 1975, and before January 1, 1976, the credit is allowable for 1975. Where a taxpayer occupied a residence prior to March 13, 1975, without having acquired it (as where his occupancy was pursuant to a leasing arrangement pending settlement under a binding contract to purchase or pursuant to a leasing arrangement where a written option to purchase was contained in the original lease agreement) he will nonetheless satisfy the acquisition and occupancy tests set forth above if he acquires the residence and continues to occupy it after March 12, 1975, and before January 1, 1977.
