
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### credits allowable under sections 30 through 45D
###### ยง 1.44-3 Certificate by seller.
####### Offer to sell.

(c)(1) For purposes of section 44(e)(4) and this section, an offer to sell is limited to an offer to sell a specified residence at a specified purchase price.

(2) An "offer" includes any written offer, whether made to a particular purchaser or to the public, and any offer by means of advertising. Advertising includes an offer to sell published by billboards, flyers, brochures, price lists (unless the lists are exclusively for the internal use of the seller and are not made available to the public), mailings, newspapers, periodicals, radio, or television. The listing of a property with a real estate agency, the filing of a prospectus and the registration of construction plans and price lists with the appropriate authorities (in the case of condominiums or cooperative housing developments) are to be considered offers made to the public.

(3) An offer to sell a specified residence includes:

(i) Both an offer to sell an existing residence and an offer to build and sell a residence of substantially the same design or model as that purchased by the taxpayer on the same lot as that on which the taxpayer's new principal residence was constructed. It does not include an offer to sell the same model residence on a different lot. Where a residence of a particular design or model is offered at a specific base price, additions of property to the residence, no matter how extensive, will not result in the residence being treated as a different residence for the purpose of determining the lowest offer (as defined in paragraph (f) of ยง 1.44-5).

(ii) In the case of a condominium or cooperative housing development where units are offered for sale on the basis of models (e.g., all Model C two-bedroom apartments sell at a specified base price), an offer to sell a specified residence includes an offer to sell a specific type of unit (with appropriate adjustments to be made for the location of such unit and as provided in paragraph (d) of this section).
