
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### credits allowable under sections 30 through 45D
###### ยง 1.44-3 Certificate by seller.
####### i.e.,

(iii) In the case of a factory-made home, an offer to sell a specified residence includes an offer to sell the same model home as that purchased by the taxpayer, provided that the offer is made after the seller has the right to sell the home purchased by the taxpayer (has that specific home in his inventory). However, it does not include an offer to sell such home with land which is not included in the taxpayer's purchase nor an offer to sell such home without land which is included in the taxpayer's purchase. Appropriate adjustments to a prior offer shall be made as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, including adjustments for any delivery and installation charges as provided in paragraph (d)(3).

(iv) The rules of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

(4) A specified purchase price means a stated definite price for a particular residence or a specific base price for a residence of a particular model or design. An offer to sell for an indefinite price (e.g., an advertisement that all houses sell in the $40,000's) is not considered an offer to sell at a specified purchase price.

(5) An offer to sell includes an offer to sell subject to special conditions imposed by the seller. Thus, if the lowest price at which a house was advertised was "at $40,000 for March only", the $40,000 price would be the lowest offer. However, certain conditions may necessitate adjustments in determining the lowest offer. See paragraph (d) of this section.

(6) An offer to sell two or more residences together as for example, in a bulk sale shall be disregarded, even though each residence is assigned a specific purchase price for the purpose of such a sale. With regard to factory-made homes an offer to sell does not include an offer made by the manufacturer to a dealer in such homes.

(7)(i) Where new residences are purchased at a foreclosure sale (including a conveyance by the owner in lieu of foreclosure) and prior to the foreclosure sale such residences had been offered for sale by the foreclosure seller at specified prices, the foreclosure purchaser is bound by such prices in determining the lowest offer. He is not bound by the prices paid to the foreclosure seller since such prices do not constitute voluntary offers.

(ii) For this purpose, if the foreclosure seller and foreclosure purchaser are not related parties (as defined in subdivision (iii) of this subparagraph), and if the foreclosure purchaser does not have knowledge of the date of commencement of construction and the lowest offer made by such seller with respect to each of the foreclosed residences, the foreclosure purchaser must request and try to obtain from the foreclosure seller a certificate specifying such facts. Upon a subsequent sale of a particular residence by the foreclosure purchaser, he must certify whether the price is the lowest offer for that particular residence based on the certification of the foreclosure seller, a copy of which must be attached to the certification of the foreclosure purchaser. If the foreclosure seller refuses to so certify, the foreclosure purchaser must make a reasonable effort to determine the date construction commenced and the lowest offer made by the foreclosure seller. For this purpose, reasonable effort includes the effort to locate and examine advertising and listings published or used by the foreclosure seller. If the foreclosure seller and foreclosure purchaser are related parties (as defined in subdivision (iii) of this subparagraph), the foreclosure purchaser will be considered as having knowledge of the date of the commencement of construction and the lowest offer made by such seller with respect to each of the foreclosed residences, and, upon a subsequent sale of a particular residence by the foreclosure purchaser, he must comply with the certification requirements prescribed by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.

(iii) For purposes of this subparagraph related parties shall include the relationships described in subparagraph (2) of ยง 1.44-5(c), and the constructive ownership rules of section 318 shall apply, but family members for this purpose shall include spouses, ancestors, and lineal descendants.
