
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### credits allowable under sections 30 through 45D
###### ยง 1.44-3 Certificate by seller.
####### Adjustments in determining lowest price.

(d)(1)(i) In determining whether a residence was sold at the lowest offer appropriate adjustment shall be made for differences in the property offered and in the terms of the sale. Where the sale to the taxpayer includes property which was not the subject of the prior offer or excludes property which was included in the prior offer, the amount of the prior offer shall be adjusted to reflect the fair market value of such property, provided that, in the case of property included in the sale which was not a part of the residence at the time of execution of the contract of purchase, the taxpayer had the option to require inclusion or exclusion of such property. The fair market value of any excluded property is to be determined at the time of the prior offer, while all additions are to be valued at their fair market value on the date of execution of the contract of sale. If a seller increases his present offer to include financing or other costs of the seller in connection with his ownership of the residence, the present offer does not qualify as being the lowest offer.

(ii) The rules in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph are illustrated by the following examples:

(2) Appropriate adjustment to a prior offer to sell shall be made for differences in financing terms and closing costs which increase the seller's actual net proceeds and the purchaser's actual costs. A seller may pass on to the purchaser without affecting the purchase price only those additional amounts he is required to expend in connection with such differences. The seller may not by changing the financing terms or closing costs indirectly increase the purchase price. For these purposes closing costs include all charges paid at settlement for obtaining the mortgage loan and transferring real estate title. Thus, for example, where a seller previously offered a residence for sale for $40,000 and agreed to pay financing "points" required by the mortgagee, and now offers the same residence also for $40,000 but requires the purchaser to pay the points, the present offer does not constitute the lowest offer. On the other hand, a prior offer to sell based upon a large down payment by the prospective purchaser may be adjusted to reflect the additional costs to the seller of accepting a small down payment from the taxpayer. For purposes of determining the seller's net proceeds, proceeds received by all related parties within the meaning of section 318 must be taken into account. For purposes of determining the lowest offer, where an offer provided for a rebate (e.g., of cash or of a contribution toward mortgage payments) or included, without additional charge or at less than fair market value, property not normally included in the sale of a residence (e.g., an automobile), such offer must be reduced by the amount of such rebate or by the amount by which the fair market value of such property at the time of the offer exceeds the amount paid for it by the purchaser. Thus, where a residence was advertised for sale at $40,000, but the seller agreed to pay $200 a month on the purchaser's mortgage for 10 months, such residence is considered to have been offered for sale at $38,000.

(3) In the case of a factory-made home, where delivery and installation costs are included in the specified base price of such home an appropriate adjustment is to be made in such specified base price for differences in the fair market value of the delivery and installation in determining the lowest offer.
