
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Deductions for Corporations
###### ยง 1.247-1 Deduction for dividends paid on preferred stock of public utilities.
####### Amount of deduction.

(a)(1) A deduction is provided in section 247 for dividends paid during the taxable year by certain public utility corporations (see paragraph (b) of this section) on certain preferred stock (see paragraph (c) of this section). This deduction is an amount equal to the product of a specified fraction times the lesser of (i) the amount of the dividends paid during the taxable year by a public utility on its preferred stock (as defined in paragraph (c) of this section), or (ii) the taxable income of the public utility for such taxable year (computed without regard to the deduction allowed by section 247). The specified fraction for any taxable year is the fraction the numerator of which is 14 and the denominator of which is the sum of the corporation normal tax rate and the surtax rate for such taxable year specified in section 11. Since section 11 provides that for the calendar year 1954 the corporation normal tax rate is 30 percent and the surtax rate is 22 percent, the sum of the two tax rates is 52 percent and the specified fraction for the calendar year 1954 is 14/52. If, for example, section 11 should specify that the corporation's normal tax rate is 25 percent and the surtax rate is 22 percent for the calendar year, the sum of the two tax rates will be 47 percent and the specified fraction for the calendar year will be 14/47. If Corporation A, a public utility which files its income tax return on the calendar year basis, pays $100,000 dividends on its preferred stock in the calendar year 1954 and if its taxable income for such year is greater than $100,000 the deduction allowable to Corporation A under section 247 for 1954 is $100,000 times 14/52, or $26,923.08. If in 1954 Corporation A's taxable income, computed without regard to the deduction provided in section 247, had been $90,000 (that is, less than the amount of the dividends which it paid on its preferred stock in that year), the deduction allowable under section 247 for 1954 would have been $90,000 times 14/52, or $24,230.77.

(2) For the purpose of determining the amount of the deduction provided in section 247(a) and in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, the amount of dividends paid in a given taxable year shall not include any amount distributed in such year with respect to dividends unpaid and accumulated in any taxable year ending before October 1, 1942. If any distribution is made in the current taxable year with respect to dividends unpaid and accumulated for a prior taxable year, such distribution will be deemed to have been made with respect to the earliest year or years for which there are dividends unpaid and accumulated. Thus, if a public utility makes a distribution with respect to a prior taxable year, it shall be considered that such distribution was made with respect to the earliest year or years for which there are dividends unpaid and accumulated, whether or not the public utility states that the distribution was made with respect to such year or years and even though the public utility stated that the distribution was made with respect to a later year. Even though it has dividends unpaid and accumulated with respect to a taxable year ending before October 1, 1942, a public utility may, however, include the dividends paid with respect to the current taxable year in computing the deduction under section 247. If there are no dividends unpaid and accumulated with respect to a taxable year ending before October 1, 1942, a public utility may include the dividends paid with respect to a prior taxable year which ended after October 1, 1942, in computing the deduction under section 247; such public utility in addition may include the dividends paid with respect to the current taxable year in computing the deduction under section 247. However, if local law or its own charter requires a public utility to pay all unpaid and accumulated dividends before any dividends can be paid with respect to the current taxable year, such public utility may not include any distribution in the current year in computing the deduction under section 247 to the extent that there are dividends unpaid and accumulated with respect to taxable years ending before October 1, 1942.

(3) If a corporation which is engaged in one or more of the four types of business activities (called utility activities in this section) enumerated in section 247(b)(1) (the furnishing of telephone service or the sale of electrical energy, gas, or water) is also engaged in some other business that does not fall within any of the enumerated categories, the deduction under section 247 is allowable only for such portion of the amount computed under section 247(a) as is allocable to the income from utility activities. For this purpose, the allocation may be made on the basis of the ratio which the total income from the utility activities bears to total income from all sources (total income being considered either gross income or gross receipts, whichever method results in the higher deduction). However, if such an allocation reaches an inequitable result and the books of the corporation are so kept that the taxable income attributable to the utility activities can be readily determined, particularly where the books of the corporation are required by governmental bodies to be so kept for rate making or other purposes, the allocation may be made upon the basis of taxable income. No such apportionment will be required if the income from sources other than utility activities is less than 20 percent of the total income of the corporation, irrespective of the method used in determining such total income.
