
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Deductions for Corporations
###### ยง 1.250(b)-1 Computation of foreign-derived intangible income (FDII).
####### ii,Allocation and apportionment of R&E deductions.

()To determine FDDEI, DC must allocate and apportion its R&E expense of $300x ($250x incurred directly by DC and $50x incurred indirectly through DC's interest in PRS). In accordance with ยง 1.861-17, R&E expenses are first allocated to a class of gross income related to a three-digit SIC group code. DC's R&E expenses related to products in Group AAA are $90x ($40x incurred directly by DC and $50x incurred indirectly through DC's interest in PRS) and its expenses related to Group BBB are $210x. See paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section. Accordingly, all R&E expense attributable to a particular SIC group code is apportioned on the basis of the amounts of sales within that SIC group code. Total sales within Group AAA were $500x ($300x directly by DC and $200x attributable to DC's interest in PRS), $300x of which were made to foreign persons ($100x directly by DC and $200x attributable to DC's interest in PRS). Therefore, the $90x of R&E expense related to Group AAA is apportioned $54x to gross FDDEI ($90x x $300x/$500x) and $36x to gross RDEI ($90x x $200x/$500x). Total sales within Group BBB were $1,200x, $400x of which were made to foreign persons. Therefore, the $210x of R&E expense related to products in Group BBB is apportioned $70x to gross FDDEI ($210x x $400x/$1,200x) and $140x to gross RDEI ($210x x $800x/$1,200x). Accordingly, DC's FDDEI for the tax year is $106x ($230x gross FDDEI minus $124x of R&E ($54x + $70x) allocated and apportioned to gross FDDEI).
