
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Deductions for Corporations
###### § 1.250(b)-1 Computation of foreign-derived intangible income (FDII).
####### 2,Analysis.

()The sale of property by PRS to FC is described in § 1.250(b)-4(b) without regard to the application of § 1.250(b)-6, since the sale is to a foreign person (as determined under § 1.250(b)-4(c)) for a foreign use (as determined under § 1.250(b)-4(d)). However, FC is a foreign related party of PRS within the meaning of section 250(b)(5)(D) and § 1.250(b)-3(b)(6), because FC and PRS are members of a modified affiliated group within the meaning of paragraph (c)(17) of this section. Therefore, the sale by PRS to FC is a related party sale within the meaning of § 1.250(b)-6(b)(1). Under section 250(b)(5)(C)(i) and § 1.250(b)-6(c), because FC did not sell the property, or use the property in connection with other property sold or the provision of a service, to a foreign unrelated party before the property was subject to a domestic use, the sale by PRS to FC is not a FDDEI sale. See § 1.250(b)-6(c)(1). Accordingly, the gain from the sale ($20x) is included in PRS's gross DEI but not its gross FDDEI, and DC's share of PRS's gain ($5x) is included in DC's gross DEI but not gross FDDEI. This is the result notwithstanding that FC is not a related party of DC because FC and DC are not members of a modified affiliated group within the meaning of paragraph (c)(17) of this section.
