
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Deductions for Corporations
###### ยง 1.250(b)-3 Foreign-derived deduction eligible income (FDDEI) transactions.
####### Facts.

(A)During a taxable year, DC, a domestic corporation, manufactures products A and B in the United States. DC sells product A and product B to Y, a foreign person that is a distributor, for $200x and $800x, respectively. DC knows or has reason to know that all of its sales of product A and product B will ultimately be sold to end users located outside the United States. Y provides DC with a statement that satisfies the substantiation requirement of paragraph (f)(1) of this section and ยง 1.250(b)-4(d)(3)(ii) that establishes that its sales of product B are for a foreign use but does not obtain substantiation establishing that any sales of product A are for a foreign use. DC's cost of goods sold is $450x. For purposes of determining gross FDDEI, under ยง 1.250(b)-1(d)(1) DC attributes $250x of cost of goods sold to product A and $200x of cost of goods sold to product B, and then attributes the cost of goods sold for each product ratably between the gross receipts of such product sold to foreign persons and the gross receipts of such product not sold to foreign persons. The manner in which DC attributes the cost of goods sold is a reasonable method. DC has no other items of income, loss, or deduction.
