
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Deductions for Corporations
###### ยง 1.250(b)-4 Foreign-derived deduction eligible income (FDDEI) sales.
####### ii,Analysis.

()FP is not the end user or treated as an end user (as defined in ยง 1.250(b)-3(b)(2) and paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(A) of this section) of the intangible property because FP is not the end user of the general property in which the patent is embedded (the silicon chips). FP2 is also not the end user (as defined in ยง 1.250(b)-3(b)(2) and paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(A) of this section) of the intangible property because FP2 is not the end user of the silicon chips. Under paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(A) of this section, the customers of the retailers that purchase from the unrelated party wholesalers are the end users. Because the wholesalers located outside the United States only sell to retailers located outside the United States that sell to end users located outside the United States, the location of the wholesalers is a reliable basis for determining the location of the end users. Revenue from royalties paid for the patent is earned from end users outside the United States to the extent the sale of the general property is for a foreign use under paragraph (d)(1) of this section. A portion of the sales to the unrelated party wholesalers qualify as foreign use under paragraph (d)(1) of this section and the sales to the unrelated party manufacturers qualify as foreign use under paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section. Accordingly, revenue from royalties FP pays to DC is from a FDDEI sale to the extent of such sales to the unrelated party manufacturers and such portion of sales to unrelated party wholesalers that qualify for foreign use. As a result, $200x of annual royalties paid by FP to DC during the taxable year ((($15,000x of sales to wholesalers located outside the United States plus $5,000x of sales to manufacturers located outside the United States) divided by $30,000x total sales) x $300x) is included in DC's gross FDDEI for the taxable year.
