
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Deductions for Corporations
###### ยง 1.250(b)-4 Foreign-derived deduction eligible income (FDDEI) sales.
####### 10,Example 10: License of intangible property followed by a sale of general property in which the intangible property is embedded; related parties,i,Facts.,9,i,Example 9

()-()The facts are the same as in paragraph (d)(2)(iv)(B)()() of this section (the facts in), except that FP and FP2 are foreign related parties with respect to DC. FP2 sells and ships computers, tablets, and smartphones it manufactures with the silicon chips it purchases from FP to unrelated party wholesalers located within and outside the United States. The wholesalers within the United States only sell to retailers located within the United States and the wholesalers outside the United States only sell to retailers located outside the United States. The retailers within the United States only sell to customers located within the United States and the retailers located outside the United States only sell to customers located outside the United States. FP2 earns $15,000x of revenue from sales to unrelated party wholesalers located outside the United States and $10,000x of revenue from sales to unrelated party wholesalers located within the United States. FP2 also sells and ships motherboards with the silicon chips it purchases from FP to unrelated party manufacturers located outside the United States. FP2 does not sell motherboards with the silicon chips it purchases from FP to unrelated party manufacturers located within the United States. FP2 earns $5,000x of revenue from the sales of these motherboards to manufacturers located outside the United States. For purposes of this example, these manufacturers subject the motherboards to manufacture, assembly, or other processing outside the United States as provided in paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section.
