
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Deductions for Corporations
###### ยง 1.250(b)-4 Foreign-derived deduction eligible income (FDDEI) sales.
####### 12,Example 12: License of intangible property used to provide a service,i,Facts.

()-()DC licenses to FP worldwide rights to the copyrights on movies in exchange for an annual royalty of $100x. FP also licenses copyrights on movies from persons other than DC. FP provides a streaming service that meets the definition of an electronically supplied service in ยง 1.250(b)-5(c)(5) to its customers within the United States and foreign countries. FP's streaming service provides its customers a catalog of movies to choose to stream. These movies include the copyrighted movies FP licenses from DC. FP does not provide DC with data showing how much revenue FP earned from streaming services during the taxable year, even after DC requests that FP provide it with such information. DC also is unable to determine how much revenue FP earned from streaming services to customers within the United States from the data it has with respect to FP and publicly available data with respect to FP. However, DC's economic analysis of the revenue DC expected it could earn annually from use of the copyrights as part of determining the annual payments DC would receive from FP from the license of the copyrights supports a determination that $10,000x of revenue would be earned during the taxable year from customers worldwide, and that 40 percent of that revenue would be earned from customers located outside the United States. During an examination of DC's return for the taxable year, DC provides the IRS with data explaining the economic analysis, inputs, and results from its valuation of the copyrights used in determining the amount of annual payments agreed to by DC and FP.
