
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### ยง 1.263(a)-3 Amounts paid to improve tangible property.
####### Lessor improvements,Requirement to capitalize.

(3)-(i)A taxpayer lessor must capitalize the related amounts, as determined under paragraph (g)(3) of this section, that it pays directly, or indirectly through a construction allowance to the lessee, to improve, as defined in paragraph (d) of this section, a leased property when the lessor is the owner of the improvement or to the extent that section 110 applies to the construction allowance. A lessor must also capitalize the related amounts that the lessee pays to improve a leased property, as defined in paragraph (e) of this section, when the lessee's improvement constitutes a substitute for rent. See ยง 1.61-8(c) for treatment of expenditures by lessees that constitute a substitute for rent. Amounts capitalized by the lessor under this paragraph (f)(3)(i) may not be capitalized by the lessee. If a lessor improvement is comprised of an entire building erected on leased property, then the amount paid for the building is treated as an amount paid by the lessor to acquire or produce a unit of property under ยง 1.263(a)-2(d)(1). See paragraph (e)(2) of this section for the unit of property for a building and paragraph (e)(3) of this section for the unit of property for real or personal property other than a building.
