
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### § 1.263(a)-3 Amounts paid to improve tangible property.
####### Removal costs,In general.

(2)-(i)If a taxpayer disposes of a depreciable asset, including a partial disposition under Prop. Reg. § 1.168(i)-1(e)(2)(ix) (September 19, 2013), or § 1.168(i)-8(d), for Federal income tax purposes and has taken into account the adjusted basis of the asset or component of the asset in realizing gain or loss, then the costs of removing the asset or component are not required to be capitalized under this section. If a depreciable asset is included in a general asset account under section 168(i)(4), and neither the regulations under section 168(i)(4) and § 1.168(i)-1(e)(3), apply to a disposition of such asset, or a portion of such asset under § 1.168(i)-1(e)(1)(ii), a loss is treated as being realized in the amount of zero upon the disposition of the asset solely for purposes of this paragraph (g)(2)(i). If a taxpayer disposes of a component of a unit of property, but the disposal of the component is not a disposition for Federal tax purposes, then the taxpayer must deduct or capitalize the costs of removing the component based on whether the removal costs directly benefit or are incurred by reason of a repair to the unit of property or an improvement to the unit of property. But see § 1.280B-1 for the rules applicable to demolition of structures.
