
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### ยง 1.263(e)-1 Expenditures in connection with certain railroad rolling stock.
####### Time and manner of making election.

(3)(i) An election by a taxpayer under section 263(e) shall be made by a statement to that effect attached to its income tax return or amended income tax return for the taxable year for which the election is made if such return or amended return is filed no later than the time prescribed by law (including extensions thereof) for filing the return for the taxable year of election. An election under section 263(e) may be made with respect to one or more of the units of railroad rolling stock owned by the taxpayer. If an election is not made within the time and in the manner prescribed in this subparagraph, no election may be made (by the filing of an amended return or in any other manner) with respect to the taxable year.

(ii) If the taxpayer has filed a return on or before March 14, 1973, and has claimed a deduction under section 162 or 212 by reason of section 263(e), and if the taxpayer does not desire to make an election under section 263(e) for the taxable year with respect to which such return was filed, the taxpayer shall file an amended return for such taxable year on or before May 14, 1973, and shall pay any additional tax due for such year. The taxpayer shall also file an amended return for each taxable year which is affected by the filing of an amended return under the preceding sentence and shall pay any additional tax due for such year. Nothing in this subdivision shall be construed as extending the time specified in section 6511 within which a claim for credit or refund may be filed.

(iii) If an election under section 263(e) was not made at the time the return for a taxable year was filed, and it is subsequently determined that an expenditure was erroneously treated as an expenditure which was not in connection with rehabilitation (as determined under paragraph (c) of this section), an election under section 263(e) may be made with respect to the unit of railroad rolling stock for which such expenditure was made for such taxable year, notwithstanding any provision in this subparagraph (3) to the contrary. Nothing in this subdivision shall be construed as extending the time specified in section 6511 within which a claim for credit or refund may be filed.

(iv) The statement required by subdivision (i) of this subparagraph shall include the following information:
