
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### ยง 1.263(e)-1 Expenditures in connection with certain railroad rolling stock.
####### Definitions,Basis.

(b)-(1)(i) In general, for purposes of section 263(e) the basis of a unit of railroad rolling stock shall be the adjusted basis of such unit determined without regard to the adjustments provided in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of section 1016(a) and section 1017. Thus, the basis of property would generally be its cost without regard to adjustments to basis such as for depreciation or for capital improvements. If the basis of a unit in the hands of a transferee is determined in whole or in part by reference to its basis in the hands of the transferor, for example, by reason of the application of section 362 (relating to basis to corporations), 374 (relating to gain or loss not recognized in certain railroad reorganizations), or 723 (relating to the basis of property contributed to a partnership), then the basis of such unit in the hands of the transferor for purposes of section 263(e) shall be its basis for purposes of section 263(e) in the hands of the transferee. Similarly, when the basis of a unit of railroad rolling stock in the hands of the taxpayer is determined in whole or in part by reference to the basis of another unit, for example, by reason of the application of the first sentence of section 1033(c) (relating to involuntary conversions), then the basis of the latter unit for purposes of section 263(e) shall be the basis for purposes of section 263(e) of the former unit. The question whether a capital expenditure in connection with a unit of railroad rolling stock results in the retirement of such unit and the creation of another unit of railroad rolling stock shall be determined without regard to rules under the uniform system of accounts prescribed by the Interstate Commerce Commission.

(ii) For example, if a unit of railroad rolling stock has a cost to M of $10,000 and because of depreciation adjustments of $4,000 and capital expenditures of $3,000, such unit has an adjusted basis in the hands of M of $9,000, the basis for purposes of section 263(e) of such unit in the hands of M is $10,000. Further, if M transfers such unit to N in a transaction in which no gain or loss is recognized such as, for example, a transaction to which section 351(a) (relating to a transfer to a corporation controlled by the transferor) applies, the basis of such unit for purposes of section 263(e) is $10,000 in the hands of N.
