
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### ยง 1.263A-1 Uniform capitalization of costs.
####### Burden rate and standard cost meth- ods,Burden rate method,In gen- eral.

(3)-(i)-(A)A burden rate method allocates an appropriate amount of indirect costs to property produced or property acquired for resale during a taxable year using predetermined rates that approximate the actual amount of indirect costs incurred by the taxpayer during the taxable year. Burden rates (such as ratios based on direct costs, hours, or similar items) may be developed by the taxpayer in accordance with acceptable accounting principles and applied in a reasonable manner. A taxpayer may allocate different indirect costs on the basis of different burden rates. Thus, for example, the taxpayer may use one burden rate for allocating the cost of rent and another burden rate for allocating the cost of utilities. Any periodic adjustment to a burden rate that merely reflects current operating conditions, such as increases in automation or changes in operation or prices, is not a change in method of accounting under section 446(e). A change, however, in the concept or base upon which such rates are developed, such as a change from basing the rates on direct labor hours to basing them on direct machine hours, is a change in method of accounting to which section 446(e) applies.
