
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### ยง 1.263A-1 Uniform capitalization of costs.
####### Production cost allocation ratio.

(5)(i) Producers may use the production cost allocation ratio, computed as follows:

(ii) Section 263A production costs are defined as the total costs (excluding mixed service costs and interest) allocable to property produced (and property acquired for resale if the producer is also engaged in resale activities) under section 263A that are incurred in the taxpayer's trade or business during the taxable year. Total costs are defined as all costs (excluding mixed service costs and interest) incurred in the taxpayer's trade or business during the taxable year. Total costs include all direct and indirect costs allocable to property produced (and property acquired for resale if the producer is also engaged in resale activities) as well as all other costs of the taxpayer's trade or business, including, but not limited to: salaries and other labor costs of all personnel; all depreciation taken for federal income tax purposes; research and experimental expenditures; and selling, marketing, and distribution costs. Such costs do not include, however, taxes described in paragraph (e)(3)(iii)(F) of this section. For example, taxpayer H, a producer, incurs $1,000 of total mixed service costs in the taxable year. H's section 263A production costs are $10,000 and its total costs are $20,000. Under the production cost allocation ratio, H's capitalizable mixed service costs are $500 (i.e., $1,000 x ($10,000 divided by $20,000)).
