
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### ยง 1.263A-3 Rules relating to property acquired for resale.
####### Method of accounting,Adoption and use.

(iii)-(A)The election to use the historic absorption ratio is a method of accounting. A taxpayer using the simplified resale method may elect the historic absorption ratio in any taxable year if permitted under this paragraph (d)(4), provided the taxpayer has not obtained the Commissioner's consent to revoke the historic absorption ratio election within its prior six taxable years. The election is to be effected on a cut-off basis, and thus, no adjustment under section 481(a) is required or permitted. The use of a historic absorption ratio has no effect on other methods of accounting adopted by the taxpayer and used in conjunction with the simplified resale method in determining its section 263A costs. Accordingly, in computing its actual combined absorption ratios, the taxpayer must use the same methods of accounting used in computing its historic absorption ratio during its most recent test period unless the taxpayer obtains the consent of the Commissioner. Finally, for purposes of this paragraph (d)(4)(iii)(A), the recomputation of the historic absorption ratio during an updated test period and the change from a historic absorption ratio to an actual combined absorption ratio during an updated test period by reason of the requirements of this paragraph (d)(4) are not considered changes in methods of accounting under section 446(e) and, thus, do not require the consent of the Commissioner or any adjustments under section 481(a).
