
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### § 1.263A-7 Changing a method of accounting under section 263A.
####### Definition of change in method of accounting.

(5)For purposes of this section, a change in method of accounting has the same meaning as provided in § 1.446-1(e)(2)(ii). Changes in method of accounting for costs subject to section 263A include changes to methods required or permitted by section 263A and the regulations thereunder. Changes in method of accounting may be described in the preceding sentence irrespective of whether the taxpayer's previous method of accounting resulted in the capitalization of more (or fewer) costs than the costs required to be capitalized under section 263A and the regulations thereunder, and irrespective of whether the taxpayer's previous method of accounting was a permissible method under the law in effect when the method was being used. However, changes in method of accounting for costs subject to section 263A do not include changes relating to factors other than those described therein. For example, a change in method of accounting for costs subject to section 263A does not include a change from one inventory identification method to another inventory identification method, such as a change from the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method to the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method, or vice versa, or a change from one inventory valuation method to another inventory valuation method under section 471, such as a change from valuing inventory at cost to valuing the inventory at cost or market, whichever is lower, or vice versa. In addition, a change in method of accounting for costs subject to section 263A does not include a change within the LIFO inventory method, such as a change from the double extension method to the link-chain method, or a change in the method used for determining the number of pools. Further, a change from the modified resale method set forth in Notice 89-67 (1989-1 C.B. 723), see § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter, to the simplified resale method set forth in § 1.263A-3(d) is not a change in method of accounting within the meaning of § 1.446-1(e)(2)(ii) and is therefore not subject to the provisions of this section. However, a change from the simplified resale method set forth in former § 1.263A-1T(d)(4) to the simplified resale method set forth in § 1.263A-3(d) is a change in method of accounting within the meaning of § 1.446-1(e)(2)(ii) and is subject to the provisions of this section.
