
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### ยง 1.263A-7 Changing a method of accounting under section 263A.
####### Weighted average method for specific goods LIFO taxpayers,1,In general.

(C)-()This paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(C) sets forth the mechanics of the weighted average method as applicable to LIFO taxpayers using the specific goods method of valuing inventories. Under the weighted average method, the inventory layers with respect to an item for which data is available are revalued under this section and the increase or decrease in amount for each layer is expressed as a percentage of change from the cost in the layer as originally valued. A weighted average of the percentage of change for all layers for each type of good is computed and applied to all earlier layers for each type of good that lack sufficient data to allow for revaluation. In the case of earlier layers for which sufficient data exists, such layers are to be revalued using actual data. In cases where sufficient data is not available to make a weighted average estimate with respect to a particular item of inventory, a weighted average increase or decrease is to be determined using all other inventory items revalued by the taxpayer in the same specific goods grouping. This percentage increase or decrease is then used to revalue the cost of the item for which data is lacking. If the taxpayer lacks sufficient data to revalue any of the inventory items contained in a specific goods grouping, then the weighted average increase or decrease of substantially similar items (as determined by principles similar to the rules applicable to dollar-value LIFO taxpayers in ยง 1.472-8(b)(3)) must be applied in the revaluation of the items in such grouping. If insufficient data exists with respect to all the items in a specific goods grouping and to all items that are substantially similar (or such items do not exist), then the weighted average for all revalued items in the taxpayer's inventory must be applied in revaluing items for which data is lacking.
