
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### ยง 1.263A-7 Changing a method of accounting under section 263A.
####### Consecutive year requirement.

(B)Under the 3-year average method, if sufficient data is available to calculate the revaluation factor for more than three years, the taxpayer may use data from such additional years in determining the average percentage increase or decrease only if the additional years are consecutive to and prior to the year of change. The requirement under the preceding sentence to use consecutive years is applicable under this method regardless of whether any inventory costs in beginning inventory as of the year of change are viewed as incurred in, or attributable to, those consecutive years under the LIFO inventory method. Thus, the requirement to use data from consecutive years may result in using information from a year in which no LIFO increment occurred. For example, if a taxpayer is changing its method of accounting in 1997 and has sufficient data to revalue its inventory for the years 1991 through 1996, the taxpayer may calculate the revaluation factor using all six years. If, however, the taxpayer has sufficient data to revalue its inventory for the years 1990 through 1992, and 1994 through 1996, only the three years consecutive to the year of change, that is, 1994 through 1996, may be used in determining the revaluation factor. Similarly, for example, a taxpayer with LIFO increments in 1995, 1993, and 1992 may not calculate the revaluation factor based on the data from those years alone, but instead must use the data from consecutive years for which the taxpayer has information.
