
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### ยง 1.263A-7 Changing a method of accounting under section 263A.
####### 3-year average method,In general.,2,i,2,ii

(v)-(A)A taxpayer using the dollar-value LIFO method of accounting for inventories may revalue all existing LIFO layers of a trade or business based on the 3-year average method as provided in this paragraph (c)(2)(v). The 3-year average method is based on the average percentage change (the 3-year revaluation factor) in the current costs of inventory for each LIFO pool based on the three most recent taxable years for which the taxpayer has sufficient information (typically, the three most recent taxable years of such trade or business). The 3-year revaluation factor is applied to all layers for each pool in beginning inventory in the year of change. The 3-year average method is available to any dollar-value taxpayer that complies with the requirements of this paragraph (c)(2)(v) regardless of whether such taxpayer lacks sufficient data to revalue its inventory costs under the facts and circumstances revaluation method prescribed in paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section. The 3-year average method must be applied with respect to all inventory in a taxpayer's trade or business. A taxpayer is not permitted to apply the method for the revaluation of some, but not all, inventory costs on the basis of pools, business units, or other measures of inventory amounts that do not constitute a separate trade or business. Generally, a taxpayer revaluing its inventory using the 3-year average method must establish a new base year. See, paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(A)()() of this section. However, a dollar-value LIFO taxpayer using the 3-year average method and either the simplified production method or the simplified resale method to revalue its inventory is permitted, but not required, to establish a new base year. See, paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(A)()() of this section. If a taxpayer lacks sufficient information to otherwise apply the 3-year average method under this paragraph (c)(2)(v) (for example, the taxpayer is unable to revalue the costs of any of its LIFO pools for three years due to a lack of information), then the taxpayer must use reasonable estimates and procedures, as described in the facts and circumstances revaluation method under paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section, to whatever extent is necessary to allow the taxpayer to apply the 3-year average method.
