
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### ยง 1.263A-7 Changing a method of accounting under section 263A.
####### Intercompany items,Revaluing intercompany transactions.

(3)-(i)Pursuant to any change in method of accounting for costs subject to section 263A, taxpayers are required to revalue the amount of any intercompany item resulting from the sale or exchange of inventory property in an intercompany transaction to an amount equal to the intercompany item that would have resulted, had the cost of goods sold for that inventory property been determined under the taxpayer's new method. The requirement of the preceding sentence applies with respect to both inventory produced by a taxpayer and inventory acquired by the taxpayer for resale. In addition, the requirements of this paragraph (c)(3) apply only to any intercompany item of the taxpayer as of the beginning of the year of change in method of accounting. See ยง 1.1502-13(b)(2)(ii). A taxpayer must revalue the amount of any intercompany item only if the inventory property sold in the intercompany transaction is held as inventory by a buying member as of the date the taxpayer changes its method of accounting under section 263A. Corresponding changes to the adjustment required under section 481(a) must be made with respect to any adjustment of the intercompany item required under this paragraph (c)(3). Moreover, the requirements of this paragraph (c)(3) apply regardless of whether the taxpayer has any items in beginning inventory as of the year of change in method of accounting. See ยง 1.1502-13 for the definition of intercompany transaction.
