
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### ยง 1.263A-9 The avoided cost method.
####### Selection of computation period and measurement dates and application of averaging conventions,Computation period,In general.

(f)-(1)-(i)A taxpayer may (but is not required to) make the avoided cost calculation on the basis of a full taxable year. If the taxpayer uses the taxable year as the computation period, a single avoided cost calculation is made for each unit of designated property for the entire taxable year. If the taxpayer uses a computation period that is shorter than the full taxable year, an avoided cost calculation is made for each unit of designated property for each shorter computation period within the taxable year. If the taxpayer uses a shorter computation period, the computation period may not include portions of more than one taxable year and, except as provided in the case of short taxable years, each computation period within a taxable year must be the same length. In the case of a short taxable year, a taxpayer may treat a period shorter than the taxpayer's regular computation period as the first or last computation period, or as the only computation period for the year if the year is shorter than the taxpayer's regular computation period. A taxpayer must use the same computation periods for all designated property produced during a single taxable year.
