
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### ยง 1.263A-11 Accumulated production expenditures.
####### When costs are first taken into account,In general.

(b)-(1)Except as provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, costs are taken into account in the computation of accumulated production expenditures at the time and to the extent they would otherwise be taken into account under the taxpayer's method of accounting (e.g., after applying the requirements of section 461, including the economic performance requirement of section 461(h)). Costs that have been incurred and capitalized with respect to a unit of property prior to the beginning of the production period are taken into account as accumulated production expenditures beginning on the date on which the production period of the property begins (as defined in ยง 1.263A-12(c)). Thus, for example, the cost of raw land acquired for development, the cost of a leasehold in mineral properties acquired for development, and the capitalized cost of planning and design activities are taken into account as accumulated production expenditures beginning on the first day of the production period. For purposes of determining accumulated production expenditures on any measurement date during a computation period, the interest required to be capitalized for the computation period is deemed to be capitalized on the day immediately following the end of the computation period. For any subsequent measurement dates and computation periods, that interest is included in accumulated production expenditures. If the cost of land or common features is allocated among planned units of property that are completed in phases, any portion of the cost properly allocated to completed units is not reallocated to any incomplete units of property.
