
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### ยง 1.263A-12 Production period.
####### Suspension of production period,In general.

(g)-(1)If production activities related to the production of a unit of designated property cease for at least 120 consecutive days (cessation period), a taxpayer may suspend the capitalization of interest with respect to the unit of designated property starting with the first measurement period that begins after the first day in which production ceases. The taxpayer must resume the capitalization of interest with respect to a unit beginning with the measurement period during which production activities resume. In addition, production activities are not considered to have ceased if they cease because of circumstances inherent in the production process, such as normal adverse weather conditions, scheduled plant shutdowns, or delays due to design or construction flaws, the obtaining of a permit or license, or the settlement of groundfill to construct property. Interest incurred on debt that is traced debt with respect to a unit of designated property during the suspension period is subject to capitalization with respect to the production of other units of designated property as interest on nontraced debt. See ยง 1.263A-9(c)(5)(i) of this section. For applications of the avoided cost method after the end of the suspension period, the accumulated production expenditures for the unit include the balance of accumulated production expenditures as of the beginning of the suspension period, plus any additional capitalized costs incurred during the suspension period. No further suspension of interest capitalization may occur unless the requirements for a new suspension period are satisfied.
