
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### ยง 1.265-2 Interest relating to tax exempt income.
####### Special rule for certain financial institutions.

(b)(1) No deduction shall be disallowed, for taxable years ending after February 26, 1964, under section 265(2) for interest paid or accrued by a financial institution which is a face-amount certificate company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1 and following) and which is subject to the banking laws of the State in which it is incorporated, on face-amount certificates (as defined in section 2(a)(15) of the Investment Company Act of 1940) issued by such institution and on amounts received for the purchase of such certificates to be issued by the institution, if the average amount of obligations, the interest on which is wholly exempt from the taxes imposed by Subtitle A of the Code, held by such institution during the taxable year, does not exceed 15 percent of the average amount of the total assets of such institution during such year. See subparagraph (3) of this paragraph for treatment of interest paid or accrued on face-amount certificates where the figure is in excess of 15 percent. Interest expense other than that paid or accrued on face-amount certificates or on amounts received for the purchase of such certificates does not come within the rules of this paragraph.

(2) This subparagraph is prescribed under the authority granted the Secretary or his delegate under section 265(2) to prescribe regulations governing the determination of the average amount of tax-exempt obligations and of the total assets held during an institution's taxable year. The average amount of tax-exempt obligations held during an institution's taxable year shall be the average of the amounts of tax-exempt obligations held at the end of each month ending within such taxable year. The average amount of total assets for a taxable year shall be the average of the total assets determined at the beginning and end of the institution's taxable year. If the Commissioner, however, determines that any such amount is not fairly representative of the average amount of tax-exempt obligations or total assets, as the case may be, held by such institution during such taxable year, then the Commissioner shall determine the amount which is fairly representative of the average amount of tax-exempt obligations or total assets, as the case may be. The percentage which the average amount of tax-exempt obligations is of the average amount of total assets is determined by dividing the average amount of tax-exempt obligations by the average amount of total assets, and multiplying by 100. The amount of tax-exempt obligations means that portion of the total assets of the institution which consists of obligations the interest on which is wholly exempt from tax under Subtitle A of the Code, and valued at their adjusted basis, appropriately adjusted for amortization of premium or discount. Total assets means the sum of the money, plus the aggregate of the adjusted basis of the property other than money held by the taxpayer in good faith for the purpose of the business. Such adjusted basis for any asset is its adjusted basis for determining gain upon sale or exchange for Federal income tax purposes.

(3) If the percentage computation required by subparagraph (2) of this paragraph results in a figure in excess of 15 percent for the taxable year, there is interest that does not come within the special rule for certain financial institutions contained in section 265(2). The amount of such interest is obtained by multiplying the total interest paid or accrued for the taxable year on face-amount certificates and on amounts received for the purchase of such certificates by the percentage figure equal to the excess of the percentage figure computed under subparagraph (2) of this paragraph over 15 percent. See paragraph (a) for the disallowance of interest on indebtedness incurred or continued to purchase or carry obligations the interest on which is wholly exempt from tax under Subtitle A of the Code.

(4) Every financial institution claiming the benefits of the special rule for certain financial institutions contained in section 265(2) shall file with its return for the taxable year:

(i) A statement showing that it is a face-amount certificate company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1 and following) and that it is subject to the banking laws of the State in which it is incorporated.

(ii) A detailed schedule showing the computation of the average amount of tax-exempt obligations, the average amount of total assets of such institutions, and the total amount of interest paid or accrued on face-amount certificates and on amounts received for the purchase of such certificates for the taxable year.
