
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### ยง 1.267A-6 Examples.
####### Example 12. Imported mismatch rule-application first with respect to certain hybrid deductions, then with respect to other hybrid deductions,Facts.

(12)-(i)FX holds all the interests of FZ, and FZ holds all the interests of each of US1 and FE. The tax law of Country E contains hybrid mismatch rules. FX holds an instrument issued by FZ that is treated as equity for Country X tax purposes and indebtedness for Country Z tax purposes (the FX-FZ instrument). In accounting period 1, FZ pays $10x to FX pursuant to the FX-FZ instrument. The amount is treated as an excludible dividend for Country X tax purposes (by reason of the Country X participation exemption) and as interest for Country Z tax purposes. Also in accounting period 1, FZ is allowed a $90x notional interest deduction with respect to its equity under Country Z tax law. In addition, in accounting period 1, US1 pays $100x to FZ pursuant to an instrument (the FZ-US1 instrument); the amount is treated as interest for U.S. tax purposes and Country Z tax purposes, and is included in FZ's income. Further, in accounting period 1, FE pays $40x to FZ pursuant to an instrument (the FZ-FE instrument); the amount is treated as interest for Country E and Country Z tax purposes, is included in FZ's income, and is subject to disallowance under a provision of Country E hybrid mismatch rules substantially similar to ยง 1.267A-4. Lastly, neither the FZ-US1 instrument nor the FZ-FE instrument was entered into pursuant to a plan or series of related transactions that includes the transaction pursuant to which the FX-FZ instrument was entered into.
