
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### ยง 1.270-1 Limitation on deductions allowable to individuals in certain cases.
####### farm

(2) For the purpose of subparagraph (1)(iv) of this paragraph, an individual is engaged in the "trade or business of farming" if he cultivates, operates, or manages a farm for gain or profit, either as owner or tenant. An individual who receives a rental (either in cash or in kind) which is based upon farm production is engaged in the trade or business of farming. However, an individual who receives a fixed rental (without reference to production) is engaged in the trade or business of farming only if he participates to a material extent in the operation or management of the farm. An individual engaged in forestry or the growing of timber is not thereby engaged in the trade or business of farming. An individual cultivating or operating a farm for recreation or pleasure rather than a profit is not engaged in the trade or business of farming. The termis used in its ordinarily accepted sense and includes stock, dairy, poultry, fruit, crop, and truck farms, and also plantations, ranches, ranges, and orchards. An individual is engaged in the trade or business of farming if he is a member of a partnership engaged in the trade or business of farming.

(3) In order for losses and expenses of the trade or business of farming to qualify as specially treated deductions under subparagraph (1)(iv) of this paragraph such losses and expenses must be directly attributable to drought conditions and not to other causes such as faulty management or unfavorable market conditions. In general, the following are the types of losses and expenses which, if otherwise deductible, may qualify as specially treated deductions under subparagraph (1)(iv) of this paragraph:

(i) Losses for damages to or destruction of property as a result of drought conditions, if such property is used in the trade or business of farming or is purchased for resale in the trade or business of farming;

(ii) Expenses directly related to raising crops or livestock which are destroyed or damaged by drought. Included in this category are, for example, payments for labor, fertilizer, and feed used in raising such crops or livestock. If such crops or livestock to which the expenditures relate are only partially destroyed or damaged by drought then only a proportionate part of the expenditures is regarded as specially treated deductions; and

(iii) Expenses which would not have been incurred in the absence of drought conditions, such as expenses for procuring pasture or additional supplies of water or feed.

(4) The expenditures referred to in subparagraph (1)(vi) of this paragraph include, but are not limited to, intangible drilling and development costs in the case of oil and gas wells as provided in section 263(c) and the regulations thereunder, and expenditures for the development of a mine or other natural deposit (other than an oil or gas well) as provided in section 616 and the regulations thereunder.

(5) The provisions of section 270(b) do not operate to make an expenditure a deductible item if it is not otherwise deductible under the law applicable to the particular year in which it was incurred. Thus, for example, if it is necessary, pursuant to the provisions of section 270, to recompute the taxable or net income of an individual for the taxable years 1950 through 1954, the individual in making the recomputation may not deduct expenditures paid or incurred in the years 1950 through 1953 which must be capitalized under the law applicable to those years, even though the expenditures are deductible under the Code.
