
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### ยง 1.270-1 Limitation on deductions allowable to individuals in certain cases.
####### Recomputation of taxable income.

(a)(1) Under certain circumstances, section 270 limits the deductions (other than certain deductions described in subsection (b) thereof) attributable to a trade or business carried on by an individual which are otherwise allowable to such individual under the provisions of chapter 1 of the Code or the corresponding provisions of prior revenue laws. If, in each of five consecutive taxable years (including at least one taxable year beginning after December 31, 1953, and ending after August 16, 1954), the deductions attributable to a trade or business carried on by an individual (other than the specially treated deductions described in paragraph (b) of this section) exceed the gross income derived from such trade or business by more than $50,000, the taxable income computed under section 63 (or the net income computed under the corresponding provisions of prior revenue laws) of such individual shall be recomputed for each of such taxable years.

(2) In recomputing the taxable income (or the net income, in the case of taxable years which are otherwise subject to the Internal Revenue Code of 1939) for each of the five taxable years, the deductions (other than the specially treated deductions described in paragraph (b) of this section with the exception of the net operating loss deduction) attributable to the trade or business carried on by the individual shall be allowed only to the extent of (i) the gross income derived from such trade or business, plus (ii) $50,000. The specially treated deductions described in paragraph (b) of this section (other than the net operating loss deduction) shall each be allowed in full. The net operating loss deduction, to the extent attributable to such trade or business, shall be disallowed in its entirety. Thus, a carryover or a carryback of a net operating loss so attributable, either from a year within the period of five consecutive taxable years or from a taxable year outside of such period, shall be ignored in making the recomputation of taxable income or net income, as the case may be.

(3) The limitations on deductions provided by section 270 are also applicable in determining under section 172, or the corresponding provisions of prior revenue laws, the amount of any net operating loss carryover or carryback from any year which falls within the provisions of section 270 to any year which does not fall within such provisions. Also, in determining under section 172, or the corresponding provisions of prior revenue laws, the amount of any net operating loss carryover from a year which falls within the provisions of section 270 to a year which does not fall within such provisions, the amount of net operating loss is to be reduced by the taxable income or net income, as the case may be (computed as provided in ยง 1.172-5, or 26 CFR (1939) 39.122-4(c) (Regulations 118), as the case may be and, in the case of any taxable year which falls within the provisions of section 270, determined after the application of section 270), of any taxable year preceding or succeeding the taxable year of the net operating loss to which such loss must first be carried back or carried over under the provisions of section 172(b), or the corresponding provisions of prior revenue laws, even though the net operating loss deduction is not an allowable deduction for such preceding or succeeding taxable year.

(4) If an individual carries on several trades or businesses, the deductions attributable to such trades or businesses and the gross income derived therefrom shall not be aggregated in determining whether the deductions (other than the specially treated deductions) exceed the gross income derived from such trades or businesses by more than $50,000 in any taxable year. For the purposes of section 270, each trade or business shall be considered separately. However, where a particular business of an individual is conducted in one or more forms such as a partnership, joint venture, or individual proprietorship, the individual's share of the profits and losses from each business unit must be aggregated to determine the applicability of section 270. See paragraphs (a)(8)(ii) and (b) of ยง 1.702-1, relating to applicability of section 270 to a partner. Where it is established that for tax purposes a husband and wife are partners in the same trade or business or that each is participating independently of the other in the same trade or business with his and her own money, the husband's gross income and deductions from that trade or business shall be considered separately from the wife's gross income and deductions from that trade or business even though they file a joint return. Where a taxpayer is engaged in a trade or business in a community property State under circumstances such that the income therefrom is considered to be community income, the taxpayer and his spouse are treated for purposes of section 270 as two individuals engaged separately in the same trade or business and the gross income and deductions attributable to the trade or business are allocated one-half to the taxpayer and one-half to the spouse. Where several business activities emanate from a single commodity, such as oil or gas or a tract of land, it does not necessarily follow that such activities are one business for the purposes of section 270. However, in order to be treated separately, it must be established that such business activities are actually conducted separately and are not closely interrelated with each other. For the purposes of section 270, the trade or business carried on by an individual must be the same in each of the five consecutive years in which the deductions (other than the specially treated deductions) exceed the gross income derived from such trade or business by more than $50,000.

(5) For the purposes of section 270, a taxable year may be part of two or more periods of five consecutive taxable years. Thus, if the deductions (other than the specially treated deductions) attributable to a trade or business carried on by an individual exceed the gross income therefrom by more than $50,000 for each of six consecutive taxable years, the fifth year of such six consecutive taxable years shall be considered to be a part both of a five-year period beginning with the first and ending with the fifth taxable year and of a five-year period beginning with the second and ending with the sixth taxable year.

(6) For the purposes of section 270, a short taxable year required to effect a change in accounting period constitutes a taxable year. In determining the applicability of section 270 in the case of a short taxable year, items of income and deduction are not annualized.
