
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### ยง 1.272-1 Expenditures relating to disposal of coal or domestic iron ore.
####### In general.,income

(b)(1) Where the disposal of coal or iron ore is covered by section 631(c), the provisions of section 272 and this section shall be applicable for a taxable year in which there is income under the contract of disposal. (For purposes of section 272 and this section, the termmeans gross amounts received or accrued which are royalties or bonuses in connection with a contract to which section 631(c) applies.) All expenditures paid or incurred by the taxpayer during the taxable year which are attributable to the making and administering of the contract disposing of the coal or iron ore and all expenditures paid or incurred during the taxable year in order to preserve the owner's economic interest retained under the contract shall be disallowed as deductions in computing taxable income for the taxable year. The sum of such expenditures and the adjusted depletion basis of the coal or iron ore disposed of in the taxable year shall be used in determining the amount of gain or loss with respect to the disposal. See ยง 1.631-3. For special rule in case of loss, see paragraph (c) of this section. Section 272 and this section do not apply to capital expenditures, and such expenditures are not taken into account in computing gain or loss under section 631(c) except to the extent they are properly part of the depletable basis of the coal or iron ore.

(2) The expenditures covered under section 272 and this section are disallowed as a deduction only with respect to a taxable year in which income is realized under the coal royalty contract (or iron ore royalty contract) to which such expenditures are attributable. Where no income is realized under the contract in a taxable year, these expenditures shall be deducted as expenses for the production of income, or as a business expense, or they may be treated under section 266 (relating to taxes and carrying charges) if applicable.

(3) The provisions of section 272 and this section apply to a taxable year in which income from the disposal by the owner of coal or iron ore held by him for more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977) is subject to the provisions of section 631(c) even though the actual mining of coal or iron ore under the coal royalty contract (or iron ore royalty contract) does not take place during the taxable year. Where the right under the contract to mine coal or iron ore for which advance payment has been made expires, terminates, or is abandoned before the coal or iron ore is mined, and paragraph (c) of ยง 1.631-3 requires the owner to recompute his tax with respect to such payment, the recomputation must be made without applying the provisions of section 272 and this section.
