
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### ยง 1.272-1 Expenditures relating to disposal of coal or domestic iron ore.
####### Introduction.

(a)Section 272 provides special treatment for certain expenditures paid or incurred by a taxpayer in connection with a contract (hereafter sometimes referred to as a "coal royalty contract" or "iron ore royalty contract") for the disposal of coal or iron ore the gain or loss from which is treated under section 631(c) as a section 1231 gain or loss on the sale of coal or iron ore. See paragraph (e) of ยง 1.631-3 for special rules relating to iron ore. The expenditures covered by section 272 are those which are attributable to the making and administering of such a contract or to the preservation of the economic interest retained under the contract. For examples of such expenditures, see paragraph (d) of this section. For a taxable year in which gross royalty income is realized under the contract of disposal, such expenditures shall not be allowed as a deduction. Instead, they are to be added to the adjusted depletion basis of the coal or iron ore disposed of in the taxable year in computing gain or loss under section 631(c). However, where no gross royalty income is realized under the contract of disposal in a particular taxable year, such expenditure shall be treated without regard to section 272.
