
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### ยง 1.272-1 Expenditures relating to disposal of coal or domestic iron ore.
####### Examples of expenditures.

(d)(1) The expenditures referred to in section 272 include, but are not limited to, the following items, if such items are attributable to the making or administering of the contract or preserving the economic interest therein: Ad valorem taxes imposed by State or local authorities, costs of fire protection, costs of insurance (other than liability insurance), costs incurred in administering the contract (including costs of bookkeeping and technical supervision), interest on loans, expenses of flood control, legal and technical expenses, and expenses of measuring and checking quantities of coal or iron ore disposed of under the contract. Whether the interest on loans is attributable to the making or administering of the contract or preserving the economic interest therein will depend upon the use to which the borrowed monies are put.

(2) Any expenditure referred to in this section which is applicable to more than one coal royalty contract or iron ore royalty contract shall be reasonably apportioned to each of such contracts. Furthermore, if an expenditure applies only in part to the making or administering of the contract or the preservation of the economic interest, then only such part shall be treated under section 272. The apportionment of the expenditure shall be made on a reasonable basis. For example, where a taxpayer has other income (such as income from oil or gas royalties, rentals, right of way fees, interest, or dividends) as well as income under section 631(c), and where the salaries of some of its employees or other expenses relate to both classes of income, such expenses shall be allocated reasonably between the income subject to section 631(c) and the other income. Where a taxpayer has more than one coal royalty contract or iron ore royalty contract, expenditures under this section relating to a contract from which no income has been received in the taxable year may not be allocated to income from another contract from which income has been received in the taxable year.

(3) The taxpayer may have expenses which are not attributable even partly to making and administering a coal royalty contract or iron ore royalty contract or to the preservation of the economic interest retained under the contract and, accordingly, are not included in the expenditures described in section 272. These include such items as ad valorem taxes imposed by State or local authorities on property not covered by the contract, salaries, wages, or other expenses entirely incident to the ownership and protection of such property and depreciation of improvements thereon, fire insurance on such property, charitable contributions, and similar expenses unrelated to the making or to the administering of coal royalty contracts or iron ore royalty contracts or preserving the taxpayer's economic interest retained therein.
