
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### ยง 1.274-5 Substantiation requirements.
####### List of vehicles.

(ii)Vehicles which are qualified nonpersonal use vehicles include the following:

(A) Clearly marked police, fire, and public safety officer vehicles (as defined and to the extent provided in paragraph (k)(3) of this section).

(B) Ambulances used as such or hearses used as such.

(C) Any vehicle designed to carry cargo with a loaded gross vehicle weight over 14,000 pounds.

(D) Bucket trucks (cherry pickers).

(E) Cement mixers.

(F) Combines.

(G) Cranes and derricks.

(H) Delivery trucks with seating only for the driver, or only for the driver plus a folding jump seat.

(I) Dump trucks (including garbage trucks).

(J) Flatbed trucks.

(K) Forklifts.

(L) Passenger buses used as such with a capacity of at least 20 passengers.

(M) Qualified moving vans (as defined in paragraph (k)(4) of this section).

(N) Qualified specialized utility repair trucks (as defined in paragraph (k)(5) of this section).

(O) Refrigerated trucks.

(P) School buses (as defined in section 4221(d)(7)(c)).

(Q) Tractors and other special purpose farm vehicles.

(R) Unmarked vehicles used by law enforcement officers (as defined in paragraph (k)(6) of this section) if the use is officially authorized.

(S) Such other vehicles as the Commissioner may designate.
