
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### ยง 1.274-12 Limitation on deductions for certain food or beverage expenses paid or incurred after December 31, 2017.
####### Recreational expenses for employees,In general.

(iii)-(A)In accordance with section 274(e)(4), any food or beverage expense paid or incurred by a taxpayer for a recreational, social, or similar activity, primarily for the benefit of a taxpayer's employees (other than employees who are highly compensated employees (within the meaning of section 414(q))) is not subject to the deduction limitations in paragraph (a) of this section. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(2)(iii), an employee owning less than a 10-percent interest in the taxpayer's trade or business is not considered a shareholder or other owner, and for such purposes an employee is treated as owning any interest owned by a member of the employee's family (within the meaning of section 267(c)(4)). Any expense for food or beverages that is made under circumstances which discriminate in favor of highly compensated employees is not considered to be made primarily for the benefit of employees generally. An expense for food or beverages is not to be considered outside of the exception of this paragraph (c)(2)(iii) merely because, due to the large number of employees involved, the provision of food or beverages is intended to benefit only a limited number of employees at one time, provided the provision of food or beverages does not discriminate in favor of highly compensated employees. This exception applies to expenses paid or incurred for events such as holiday parties, annual picnics, or summer outings. This exception does not apply to expenses for meals the value of which is excluded from employees' income under section 119 because the meals are provided for the convenience of the employer and are therefore not primarily for the benefit of the taxpayer's employees.
