
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### ยง 1.274-12 Limitation on deductions for certain food or beverage expenses paid or incurred after December 31, 2017.
####### 4,Example 4.

()Employer N has a written policy that employees in a certain medical services-related position must be available for emergency calls due to the nature of the position that requires frequent emergency responses. Because these emergencies can and do occur during meal periods, N furnishes food and beverages to employees in this position without charge in a cafeteria on N's premises. N excludes food and beverage expenses from the employees' income as meals provided for the convenience of the employer excludable under section 119. Because these food and beverages are furnished for the employer's convenience, and therefore are not primarily for the benefit of the employees, the exception in section 274(e)(4) and this paragraph (c)(2)(iii) does not apply, even if some socializing related to the food and beverages provided occurs. Further, the exception in section 274(e)(2) and paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section does not apply. Thus, unless another exception in section 274(n)(2) and paragraph (c)(2) of this section applies, N may deduct only 50 percent of the expenses for food and beverages provided to employees in the cafeteria under paragraph (a)(2) of this section. In addition, the limitations in section 274(k)(1) and paragraph (a)(1) of this section apply because none of the exceptions in section 274(k)(2) and paragraph (c)(2) of this section apply.
