
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### ยง 1.274-12 Limitation on deductions for certain food or beverage expenses paid or incurred after December 31, 2017.
####### 2,Example 2.,1,Example 1),

()The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(B)() of this section (except that Employer L invites only highly-compensated employees to the holiday party, and the invoice provided by the hotel lists the costs for food and beverages separately from the cost of the rental of the ballroom. The costs reflect the venue's usual selling price for food or beverages. The exception in this paragraph (c)(2)(iii) does not apply to the rental of the ballroom or the food and beverage expenses because L invited only highly-compensated employees to the holiday party. However, under ยง 1.274-11(b)(1)(ii), the food and beverage expenses are not treated as entertainment. Therefore, L is not subject to the full disallowance for its separately stated food and beverage expense under section 274(a)(1) and ยง 1.274-11(a). Unless another exception in section 274(n)(2) and paragraph (c)(2) of this section applies, L may deduct only 50 percent of the food and beverage costs under paragraph (a)(2) of this section. In addition, the limitations in section 274(k)(1) and paragraph (a)(1) of this section apply because none of the exceptions in section 274(k)(2) and paragraph (c)(2) of this section apply.
