
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### ยง 1.274-13 Disallowance of deductions for certain qualified transportation fringe expenditures.
####### Qualified parking limit methodology.

(A)A taxpayer that uses the qualified parking limit methodology in this paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(A) must calculate the disallowance of deductions for qualified transportation fringe parking expenses by multiplying the total number of spaces used by employees during the peak demand period, or the total number of taxpayer's employees, by the section 132(f)(2) monthly per employee limitation on exclusion (adjusted for inflation), for each month in the taxable year. The result is the amount of the taxpayer's expenses that are disallowed under section 274(a)(4). In applying this methodology, a taxpayer calculates the disallowed amount as required under this paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(A), regardless of the actual amount of the taxpayer's total parking expenses. This methodology may be used only if the taxpayer includes the value of the qualified transportation fringe in excess of the sum of the amount, if any, paid by the employee for the qualified transportation fringe and the applicable statutory monthly limit in section 132(f)(2) as compensation paid to the employee under chapter 1 of the Code (chapter 1) and as wages to the employee for purposes of withholding under chapter 24 of the Code (chapter 24), relating to collection of Federal income tax at source on wages. In addition, the exception to the disallowance for amounts treated as employee compensation provided for in section 274(e)(2) and in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section cannot be applied to reduce a section 274(a)(4) disallowance calculated using this methodology. A taxpayer using this methodology may not use the aggregation rule in paragraph (c) of this section.
