
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### ยง 1.274-13 Disallowance of deductions for certain qualified transportation fringe expenditures.
####### Example 3.

(3)(i) Taxpayer C leases from a third party a parking facility that includes 200 parking spaces at a rate of $500 per space, per month in 2020. C's annual lease payment for the parking spaces is $1,200,000 ((200 x $500) x 12 = $1,200,000). The number of available parking spaces used by C's employees during the peak demand period is 200.

(ii) C uses the qualified parking limit methodology described in paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(A) of this section to determine the disallowance under section 274(a)(4). Under this methodology, the section 274(a)(4) disallowance is calculated by multiplying the number of available parking spaces used by employees during the peak demand period, 200, the section 132(f)(2) monthly per employee limitation on exclusion, $270, and 12, the number of months in the applicable taxable year. The amount subject to the section 274(a)(4) disallowance is $648,000 (200 x $270 x 12 = $648,000). This amount is excludible from C's employees' gross incomes under section 132(a)(5) and none of the exceptions in section 274(e) or paragraph (e) of this section are applicable to this amount. The excess $552,000 ($1,200,000-$648,000) for which C is not disallowed a deduction under 274(a)(4) is included in C's employees' gross incomes because it exceeds the section 132(f)(2) monthly per employee limitation on exclusion.
