
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### ยง 1.274-13 Disallowance of deductions for certain qualified transportation fringe expenditures.
####### Example 11.

(11)Taxpayer K operates an industrial plant with a parking facility in a rural area in which no commercial parking is available. K provides qualified parking at the plant to its employees free of charge. Further, an individual other than an employee ordinarily would not consider paying any amount to park in the plant's parking facility. Although K does not charge its employees for the qualified parking, the exception in section 274(e)(8) and this paragraph (e)(3)(iii) will apply to K's total parking expenses if in a bona fide transaction, the adequate and full consideration for the qualified parking is zero. In order to treat the adequate and full consideration as zero, K bears the burden of proving that the parking has no objective value. K is treated as satisfying this burden because the parking is provided in a rural area in which no commercial parking is available and in which an individual other than an employee ordinarily would not consider paying any amount to park in the parking facility. Therefore, the exception in paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section applies to K's total parking expenses and a deduction for the expenses is not disallowed by reason of section 274(a)(4).
