
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### ยง 1.274-13 Disallowance of deductions for certain qualified transportation fringe expenditures.
####### Example 10.

(10)(i) Taxpayer J, a manufacturer, owns a parking facility and incurs the following mixed parking expenses (along with other parking expenses): Property taxes, utilities, insurance, security expenses, and snow removal expenses. In accordance with paragraph (b)(12)(i) and (ii) of this section, J determines its total parking expenses by allocating 5% of its property tax, utilities, and insurance expenses to its parking facility. J uses a reasonable methodology to allocate to its parking facility an applicable portion of its security and snow removal expenses. J determines that it incurred $100,000 of total parking expenses in 2020. J's parking facility has 500 spaces that are used by its visitors and employees. The number of total parking spaces used by J's employees during the peak demand period is 475.

(ii) J uses the cost per space methodology described in paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(C) of this section to determine the amount of parking expenses that are disallowed under section 274(a)(4). Under this methodology, J multiplies the cost per space by the number of total parking spaces used by J's employees during the peak demand period. J calculates the cost per space by dividing total parking expenses by the number of total parking spaces ($100,000/500 = $200). J determines that $95,000 ($200 x 475 = $95,000) of J's total parking expenses is subject to the section 274(a)(4) disallowance and none of the exceptions in section 274(e) or paragraph (e) of this section are applicable.
