
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### ยง 1.276-1 Disallowance of deductions for certain indirect contributions to political parties.
####### Advertising in convention program,General rule.

(b)-(1)(i) Except as provided in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, no deduction shall be allowed for an expenditure for advertising in a convention program of a political party. For purposes of this subparagraph it is immaterial who publishes the convention program or to whose use the proceeds of the program inure (or are intended to inure). A convention program is any written publication (as defined in paragraph (c) of this section) which is distributed or displayed in connection with or at a political convention, conclave, or meeting. Under certain conditions payments to a committee organized for the purpose of bringing a political convention to an area are deductible under paragraph (b) of ยง 1.162-15. This rule is not affected by the provisions of this section. For example, such payments may be deductible notwithstanding the fact that the committee purchases from a political party the right to publish a pamphlet in connection with a convention and that the deduction of costs of advertising in the pamphlet is prohibited under this section.

(ii) The application of the provisions of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following example:
