
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### ยง 1.276-1 Disallowance of deductions for certain indirect contributions to political parties.
####### Amounts paid or incurred on or after January 1, 1968, for advertising in programs of certain national political conventions.

(2)(i) Subject to the limitations in subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph, a deduction may be allowed for any amount paid or incurred on or after January 1, 1968, for advertising in a convention program of a political party distributed in connection with a convention held for the purpose of nominating candidates for the offices of President and Vice President of the United States, if the proceeds from the program are actually used solely to defray the costs of conducting the convention (or are set aside for such use at the next convention of the party held for such purpose) and if the amount paid or incurred for the advertising is reasonable. If such amount is not reasonable or if any part of the proceeds is used for a purpose other than that of defraying such convention costs, no part of the amount is deductible. Whether or not an amount is reasonable shall be determined in light of the business the taxpayer may expect to receive either directly as a result of the advertising or as a result of the convention being held in an area in which the taxpayer has a principal place of business. For these purposes, an amount paid or incurred for advertising will not be considered as reasonable if it is greater than the amount which would be paid for comparable advertising in a comparable convention program of a nonpolitical organization. Institutional advertising (e.g., advertising of a type not designed to sell specific goods or services to persons attending the convention) is not advertising which may be expected to result directly in business for the taxpayer sufficient to make the expenditures reasonable. Accordingly, an amount spent for institutional advertising in a convention program may be deductible only if the taxpayer has a principal place of business in the area where the convention is held. An official statement made by a political party after a convention as to the use made of the proceeds from its convention program shall constitute prima facie evidence of such use.

(ii) No deduction may be taken for any amount described in this subparagraph which is not otherwise allowable as a deduction under section 162, relating to trade or business expenses. Therefore, in order for any such amount to be deductible, it must first satisfy the requirements of section 162, and, in addition, it must also satisfy the more restrictive requirements of this subparagraph.
