
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### ยง 1.279-3 Corporate acquisition indebtedness.
####### Asset acquisition.

(4)(i) For purposes of section 279, an acquisition in which the issuing corporation issues an obligation to provide consideration directly or indirectly for the acquisition of assets of an acquired corporation pursuant to a plan under which at least two-thirds of the gross value of all the assets (excluding money) used in trades and businesses carried on by such acquired corporation are acquired shall be treated as an asset acquisition within the meaning of section 279(b)(1)(B). For purposes of section 279(b)(1)(B), the gross value of any acquired asset shall be its fair market value as of the day of its acquisition. In determining the fair market value of an asset, no reduction shall be made for any liabilities, mortgages, liens, or other encumbrances to which the asset or any part thereof may be subjected. For purposes of this subparagraph, an asset which has been actually used in the trades and businesses of a corporation but which is temporarily not being used in such trades and businesses shall be treated as if it is being used in such manner. For purposes of this paragraph, the day of acquisition will be determined by reference to the facts and circumstances surrounding the transaction.

(ii) For purposes of the two-thirds test described in section 279(b)(1)(B), the stock of any corporation which is controlled by the acquired corporation shall be considered as an asset used in the trades and businesses of such acquired corporation.
