
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### ยง 1.279-3 Corporate acquisition indebtedness.
####### Stock acquisition.

(3)(i) For purposes of section 279, an acquisition in which the issuing corporation issues an obligation to provide consideration directly or indirectly for the acquisition of stock in the acquired corporation shall be treated as a stock acquisition within the meaning of section 279(b)(1)(A). Where the stock of one corporation is acquired from another corporation and such stock constitutes at least two-thirds (in value) of all the assets (excluding money) of the latter corporation, such acquisition shall be deemed an asset acquisition as described in section 279(b)(1)(B) and subparagraph (4) of this section. If the issuing corporation acquires less than two-thirds (in value) of all the assets (excluding money) used in trades or businesses carried on by the acquired corporation within the meaning of section 279(b)(1)(B) and subparagraph (4) of this paragraph and such assets include stock of another corporation, the acquisition of such stock is a stock acquisition within the meaning of section 279(b)(1)(A) and of this subparagraph. In such a case the amount of the obligation which is characterized as corporate acquisition indebtedness shall bear the same relationship to the total amount of the obligation issued as the fair market value of the stock acquired bears to the total of the fair market value of the assets acquired and stock acquired, as of the date of acquisition. For rules with respect to acquisitions of stock, where the total amount of stock of the acquired corporation held by the issuing corporation never exceeded 5 percent of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the acquired corporation entitled to vote, see ยง 1.279-4(b)(1).

(ii) If the issuing corporation acquired stock of an acquired corporation in an acquisition described in section 279(b)(1)(A), and liquidated the acquired corporation under section 334(b)(2) and the regulations thereunder before the last day of the taxable year in which such stock acquisition is made, such obligation issued to provide consideration directly or indirectly to acquire such stock of the acquired corporation shall be considered as issued in an acquisition described in section 279(b)(1)(B).
