
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### ยง 1.279-5 Rules for application of section 279(b).
####### Ratio of debt to equity, projected earnings, and annual interest to be paid or incurred.

(2)(i) Under section 279(c)(1), the determination of whether an obligation meets the conditions of section 279(b)(4) is first to be made as of the last day of the taxable year of the issuing corporation in which it issues the obligation to provide consideration directly or indirectly for an acquisition described in section 279(b)(1) of stock in, or assets of, the acquired corporation. An obligation which is not corporate acquisition indebtedness only because it does not satisfy the test of section 279(b)(4) in the taxable year of the issuing corporation in which the obligation is issued for stock in, or assets of, the acquired corporation may be subjected to the test of section 279(b)(4) again. A retesting will occur in any subsequent taxable year of the issuing corporation in which the issuing corporation issues any obligation to provide consideration directly or indirectly for an acquisition described in section 279(b)(1) with respect to the same acquired corporation, irrespective of whether such subsequent obligation is itself classified as corporate acquisition indebtedness. If the issuing corporation is a member of an affiliated group, then in accordance with section 279(g) the affiliated group shall be treated as the issuing corporation. Thus, if any member of the affiliated group issues an obligation to acquire additional stock in, or assets of, the acquired corporation, this paragraph shall apply.

(ii) For purposes of section 279(b)(4) and this paragraph, in any case where the issuing corporation is a member of an affiliated group (see section 279(g) and ยง 1.279-6 for rules regarding application of section 279 to certain affiliated groups) which does not file a consolidated return and all the members of which do not have the same taxable year, determinations with respect to the ratio of debt to equity of, and projected earnings of, and annual interest to be paid or incurred by, any member of the affiliated group shall be made as of the last day of the taxable year of the corporation which in fact issues the obligation to provide consideration for an acquisition described in section 279(b)(1).
