
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### ยง 1.279-5 Rules for application of section 279(b).
####### d

() Distributions to which section 301(c)(1) apply (other than such distributions from the acquired corporation to the issuing corporation), and reduced to an annual average for such 3-year period. For the rules to determine the amount of earnings and profits of any corporation, see section 312 and the regulations thereunder.

(ii) Except as provided for in subdivision (iii) of this subparagraph, for purposes of subdivision (i) of this subparagraph in the case of any corporation, the earnings and profits for such 3-year period shall be reduced to an annual average by dividing such earnings and profits by 36 and multiplying the quotient by 12. If a corporation was not in existence during the entire 36-month period as of the close of the taxable year referred to in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph, its average annual earnings shall be determined by dividing its earnings and profits for the period of its existence by the number of whole calendar months in such period and multiplying the quotient by 12.

(iii) Where the issuing corporation acquires substantially all of the properties of an acquired corporation, the computation of earnings and profits of such acquired corporation shall be made for the period of such corporation beginning with the first day of the 3-year period of the issuing corporation and ending with the last day prior to the date on which substantially all of the properties were acquired. In determining the number of whole calendar months for such acquired corporation where the period for determining its earnings and profits includes 2 months which are not whole calendar months and the total number of days in such 2 fractional months exceeds 30 days, the number of whole calendar months for such period shall be increased by one. Where the number of days in the 2 fractional months total 30 days or less such fractional months shall be disregarded. After the number of whole calendar months is determined, the calculation for average annual earnings shall be made in the same manner as described in the last sentence of subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph.
