
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Not Deductible
###### ยง 1.280F-4T Special rules for listed property (temporary).
####### Limitations on allowable recovery deductions in subsequent taxable years,Subsequent taxable years affected by reason of personal use in prior years.

(a)-(1)For purposes of computing the amount of the recovery deduction for "listed property" for a subsequent taxable year, the amount that would have been allowable as a recovery deduction during an earlier taxable year if all of the use of the property was use described in section 168(c) is treated as the amount of the recovery deduction allowable during that earlier taxable year. The preceding sentence applies with respect to all earlier taxable years, beginning with the first taxable year in which some or all use of the "listed property" is use described in section 168(c). For example, on July 1, 1984, B purchases and places in service listed property (other than a passenger automobile) which is 5-year recovery property under section 168. B selects the use of the accelerated percentages under section 168. B's business/investment use of the property (all of which is qualified business use as defined in section 280F(d)(6)(B) and ยง 1.280F-6(d)(2)) in 1984 through 1988 is 80 percent, 70 percent, 60 percent, and 55 percent, respectively, and B claims recovery deductions for those years based on those percentages. B's qualified business use for the property for 1989 and taxable years thereafter increases to 100 percent. Pursuant to this rule, B may not claim a recovery deduction in 1989 (or for any subsequent taxable year) for the increase in business use because there is no adjusted basis remaining to be recovered for cost recovery purposes after 1988.
