
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.45Q-1 Credit for Carbon Oxide Sequestration.
####### Example 1.

(i)Taxpayer X owns qualified facility QF. In 2017, X placed in service three units of carbon capture equipment-CC1, CC2, and CC3-to capture carbon dioxide emitted by QF. Each of CC1, CC2, and CC3 are capable of capturing 50,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide. In 2017, X entered into a binding written contract with Y to provide 80,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide annually for Y to dispose of in secure geological storage. X operates CC1 and CC2 to capture carbon dioxide pursuant to the binding written contract with Y, leaving CC3 idle. In 2020, X enters into a binding written contract with Z to provide 40,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide annually for Z to dispose of in secure geological storage. X operates CC3 to capture carbon dioxide pursuant to the binding written contract with Z. CC3 is not additional carbon capture equipment under paragraph (g)(2) of this section simply because it began operating CC3 in 2020. X merely increased the amount of carbon dioxide captured by existing carbon capture equipment. As a result, any section 45Q credits attributable to the carbon dioxide captured by CC3 and disposed of by Z are calculated under section 45Q(a)(1) and paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, and are subject to the 75,000,000 metric ton limitation described in section 45Q(g) and paragraph (f) of this section.
