
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Terminal Railroad Corporations and Their Shareholders
###### ยง 1.281-3 Definitions.
####### Terminal railroad corporation.,terminal railroad corporation

(a)The termmeans a corporation which, in the taxable year, meets all of the following conditions:

(1) The corporation and each of its shareholders must be domestic corporations. Thus, all of the shareholders of the corporation, as well as the corporation itself, must be corporations which were organized or created in the United States, including only the States and the District of Columbia, or under the law of the United States or of any State or territory.

(2) All of the shareholders must be railroad corporations which are subject to Part I of the Interstate Commerce Act. Thus, if any shareholder of the corporation, regardless of the class or percentage of stock owned, is not subject to the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission under part I of that Act, the corporation cannot qualify as a terminal railroad corporation.

(3) The corporation must not be a member of an affiliated group of corporations (as defined in section 1504), other than as a common parent corporation. For this purpose it is immaterial whether or not the affiliated group has ever made a consolidated income tax return. Thus, if the X railroad corporation owns 80 percent of all of the outstanding stock of the Y railroad corporation, the X railroad corporation may qualify, but the Y railroad corporation cannot qualify, as a terminal railroad corporation.

(4) The primary business of the corporation must be that of providing to domestic railroad corporations subject to Part I of the Interstate Commerce Act and to the shippers and passengers of such railroad corporations one or more of the following facilities or services: (i) Railroad terminal facilities, (ii) railroad switching facilities, (iii) railroad terminal services, or (iv) railroad switching services. The designated facilities and services include the furnishing of terminal trackage, the operation of stockyards or a union passenger or freight station, and the operation of railroad bridges and ferries. The providing of the designated facilities includes the leasing of those facilities. A corporation shall be considered as having established that its primary business is that of providing the designated facilities and services if more than 50 percent of its gross income (computed without regard to section 281, and excluding dividends and gains and losses from the disposition of capital assets or property described in section 1231(b)) for the taxable year is derived from those sources. The fact that income from a service or facility is included within the definition of related terminal income is immaterial for purposes of determining whether that service or facility is one which is designated in this subparagraph. Thus, although income from the operation of a commuter railroad line may be related terminal income, a corporation whose primary business is the operation of that facility is not a terminal railroad corporation, since its primary business is not the providing of the designated facilities or services.

(5) A substantial part of the services rendered by the corporation for the taxable year must be rendered to one or more of its shareholders. For purposes of this requirement, providing the use of facilities shall be considered the rendering of services.

(6) Each shareholder of the corporation must compute its taxable income on the basis of a taxable year which either begins or ends on the same day as the taxable year of the corporation.
