
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.45Q-1 Credit for Carbon Oxide Sequestration.
####### Election to allow the section 45Q credit to another taxpayer.

(3)The taxpayer described in paragraph (h)(1) of this section as the person to whom the section 45Q credit is attributable (electing taxpayer) may elect to allow the person that enters into a contract with the electing taxpayer to dispose of the qualified carbon oxide (disposer), utilize the qualified carbon oxide (utilizer), or use the qualified carbon oxide as a tertiary injectant (injector) to claim the credit (credit claimant) (section 45Q(f)(3)(B) election). However, the electing taxpayer may not elect or otherwise allow the section 45Q credit to a contractor or subcontractor that physically captures carbon oxide on behalf of the taxpayer. For purposes of this paragraph (h)(3), the disposer or injector that is eligible to be a credit claimant is the party that obtains the permit to dispose of the qualified carbon oxide in secure geological storage. In the case of an injector that is itself a joint venture (not a federal tax partnership), only those taxpayers that hold a working interest in the joint venture may be credit claimants. A credit claimant may not allow the section 45Q credit to a subcontractor that performs the disposal, utilization, or injection for the credit claimant. The electing taxpayer may not claim any section 45Q credits that are allowable to a credit claimant. An electing taxpayer may elect to allow a credit claimant to claim the full amount or a partial amount of section 45Q credits arising during the taxable year. An electing taxpayer may elect to allow a single credit claimant or multiple credit claimants to claim section 45Q credits in the same taxable year. If an electing taxpayer elects to allow multiple credit claimants to claim section 45Q credits, the maximum amount of section 45Q credits allowable to each credit claimant is proportional to the amount of qualified carbon oxide disposed of, utilized, or used as a tertiary injectant by the credit claimant. A credit claimant may receive allowances of section 45Q credits from multiple electing taxpayers in the same taxable year. In the case of an electing taxpayer with multiple qualified facilities, the electing taxpayer must make a separate election for each qualified facility.
