
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### § 1.45Q-2 Definitions for Purposes of §§ 1.45Q-1 through 1.45Q-5.
####### Example 2.

(ii)(A) A natural underground reservoir contains a gas that is comprised of 95 percent carbon dioxide and 5 percent helium by volume. The raw gas is not usable without the application of a separation process to create two gases that are primarily carbon dioxide and helium. Taxpayer C determines that the extraction of helium is economically viable even if there were no commercial market for carbon dioxide or any section 45Q credit. An independent registered engineer attests to Taxpayer C's determination. Taxpayer C constructs processing equipment that separates the raw gas into carbon dioxide and helium. The helium is sold to various customers for use in commercial and industrial applications. The carbon dioxide is sold to a third party for use in a qualified enhanced oil recovery project. Any carbon dioxide which the third party cannot accept is returned to the reservoir or vented in accordance with applicable permits.

(B) Because the extraction of helium is economically viable even if there were no commercial market for carbon dioxide or any section 45Q credit, the reservoir will not be considered a natural carbon dioxide-bearing formation or a naturally occurring subsurface spring within the meaning of paragraph (d)(1) and the separation process applied to the gases is a manufacturing process within the meaning of paragraph (d)(3). Taxpayer C may claim the section 45Q credit with respect to the carbon dioxide sold to the third party and which the third party uses in ad oil recovery project during the taxable year. Taxpayer C may not claim the section 45Q credit with respect to the carbon dioxide that is returned to the reservoir or vented.
