
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.45Q-3 Secure Geological Storage.
####### Certification.,Form 8933,Form 1065,,Forms 1065,,Form 8933,Form 1065,,Forms 1065,

(d)For qualified enhanced oil or natural gas recovery projects in which the taxpayer reported volumes of carbon oxide to the Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to 40 CFR part 98 subpart RR, the taxpayer may self-certify the volume of qualified carbon oxide claimed for purposes of section 45Q. For qualified enhanced oil or natural gas recovery projects in which the taxpayer determined volumes pursuant to CSA/ANSI ISO 27916:2019, a taxpayer may prepare documentation as outlined in CSA/ANSI ISO 27916:2019 internally, but all such documentation must be provided to a qualified independent engineer or geologist, who then must certify that the documentation provided, including the mass balance calculations as well as information regarding monitoring and containment assurance, is accurate and complete. The qualified independent engineer or geologist certifying a project must be duly registered or certified in any State. The certification must contain an affidavit from the certifying engineer or geologist stating that he or she is independent from the taxpayer (and if a section 45Q(f)(3)(B) election has been made, the affidavit must state that he or she is independent from both the electing taxpayer and the credit claimant). Certifications must be made annually and under penalties of perjury. For any leaked amount of qualified carbon oxide (as defined in ยง 1.45Q-5(c)) that is determined pursuant to CSA/ANSI ISO 27916:2019, the certification must also include a statement that the quantity was determined in accordance with sound engineering principles. Taxpayers that capture qualified carbon oxide giving rise to the section 45Q credit must filewith a timely filed Federal income tax return orincluding extensions or for the purpose of this rule, amendments to Federal income tax returns,or on AARs, as applicable. Taxpayers that dispose of, inject, or utilize qualified carbon oxide must also filewith a timely filed Federal income tax return orincluding extensions or for the purpose of this rule, amendments to Federal income tax returns,or on AARs, as applicable. If the volume of carbon oxide certified and reported is a negative amount, see ยง 1.45Q-5 for rules regarding recapture.
