
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.45Q-5 Recapture of Credit.
####### Example 1.

(i)(A) A owns direct air capture Facility X. No other taxpayer has owned Facility X, and A has never allowed another taxpayer to claim any section 45Q credits with respect to qualified carbon oxide captured by Facility X. Facility X captured 100,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide in each of 2021, 2022, and 2023. All captured carbon dioxide was sold to B for use a tertiary injectant in a qualified enhanced oil recovery project. B provided contractual assurance that the carbon dioxide would be disposed of in secure geological storage. A claimed section 45Q credit amounts of $2,268,000 in 2021, $2,515,000 in 2022, and $2,761,000 in 2023 using the statutory rates in ยง 1.45Q-1(d)(3). In 2024, A captured and sold another 100,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide to B, which B used as a tertiary injectant in a qualified enhanced oil recovery project. In late 2024, B determined that 10,000 metric tons of qualified carbon dioxide injected during 2021 had leaked from the containment area of the reservoir and were released into the atmosphere.

(B) Because the leakage determined in 2024 (10,000 metric tons) did not exceed the presumed amount stored in 2024 (100,000 metric tons), a recapture event did not occur in 2024. B's actual storage in 2024 is 90,000 metric tons of qualified carbon oxide. A's section 45Q credit for 2024 is $2,706,300 (net 90,000 metric tons of qualified carbon oxide captured, disposed of in secure geological storage, and used as a tertiary injectant multiplied by the statutory credit rate for 2024 of $30.07).
