
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.45Q-5 Recapture of Credit.
####### Example 2.

(ii)(A) Assume same facts as in Example 1. Additionally, in 2025, B determines that 190,000 metric tons of qualified carbon dioxide injected in 2021 and 2022 had leaked and were released into the atmosphere. No injection of carbon dioxide takes place in 2025.

(B) Because the leakage determined in 2025 (190,000 metric tons) exceeds the amount stored in 2025 (0 metric tons), a recapture event occurred in 2025. A's credit for 2025 is $0 because the net amount of carbon dioxide captured, disposed of in secure geological storage, and used as a tertiary injectant in 2025 was 0 metric tons. The 2025 recapture amount is calculated by multiplying the 190,000 metric tons of recaptured qualified carbon oxide by the appropriate statutory credit rate using the LIFO method. The first 90,000 metric tons of recaptured qualified carbon oxide is deemed attributable to 2024, and is recaptured at the 2024 statutory rate of $30.07 per metric ton. The remaining 100,000 metric tons of recaptured qualified carbon oxide are deemed attributable to 2023. The credits attributable to 2023 are recaptured at the 2023 statutory rate of $27.61 per metric ton. Thus, the total recapture amount is $5,467,300, and is added to A's tax due for 2025.
