
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### effects on shareholders and security holders
###### ยง 1.355-7 Recognition of gain on certain distributions of stock or securities in connection with an acquisition.
####### Controlling shareholder.

(3)(i) A controlling shareholder of a corporation the stock of which is listed on an established market is a five-percent shareholder who actively participates in the management or operation of the corporation. For purposes of this paragraph (h)(3)(i), a corporate director will be treated as actively participating in the management of the corporation.

(ii) A controlling shareholder of a corporation the stock of which is not listed on an established market is any person that owns stock possessing voting power representing a meaningful voice in the governance of the corporation. For purposes of determining whether a person owns stock possessing voting power representing a meaningful voice in the governance of the corporation, the person shall be treated as owning the stock that such person owns actually and constructively under the rules of section 318 (without regard to section 318(a)(4)). In addition, if the exercise of an option (whether by itself or in conjunction with the deemed exercise of one or more other options) would cause the holder to own stock possessing voting power representing a meaningful voice in the governance of the corporation, then the option will be treated as exercised.

(iii) If a distribution precedes an acquisition, Controlled's controlling shareholders immediately after the distribution and Distributing are included among Controlled's controlling shareholders at the time of the distribution.
