
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### effects on corporation
###### ยง 1.367(a)-3 Treatment of transfers of stock or securities to foreign corporations.
####### Exception.

(3)The general rule of paragraph (e)(2) of this section shall not apply if the conditions of paragraphs (e)(3)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section are satisfied.

(i) The conditions set forth in ยง 1.367(a)-7(c) are satisfied with respect to the section 361 exchange.

(ii) If the transferred stock or securities are of a domestic corporation, the U.S. target company (as defined in paragraph (c)(1) of this section) complies with the reporting requirements of paragraph (c)(6) of this section, and the conditions of paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (ii), and (iv) of this section are satisfied with respect to the transferred stock or securities.

(iii) If the U.S. transferor owns (applying the attribution rules of section 318, as modified by section 958(b)) five percent or more of the total voting power or the total value of the stock of the transferee foreign corporation immediately after the transfer of the transferred stock or securities in the section 361 exchange, then the conditions set forth in paragraphs (e)(3)(iii)(A), (B), and (C) of this section are satisfied.

(A) Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (e)(3)(iii)(A), each U.S. transferor shareholder that is a qualified U.S. person (as defined in paragraph (e)(6)(vii) of this section) owning (applying the attribution rules of section 318, as modified by section 958(b)) five percent or more of the total voting power or the total value of the stock of the transferee foreign corporation immediately after the reorganization enters into a gain recognition agreement that satisfies the conditions of paragraph (e)(6) of this section and ยง 1.367(a)-8. A U.S. transferor shareholder is not required to enter into a gain recognition agreement pursuant to this paragraph if the amount of gain that would be subject to the gain recognition agreement (as determined under paragraph (e)(6)(i) of this section) is zero.

(B) With respect to non-control group members that are not described in paragraph (e)(3)(iii)(A) of this section, the U.S. transferor recognizes gain equal to the product of the aggregate ownership interest percentage of such non-control group members multiplied by the gain realized by the U.S. transferor on the transfer of the transferred stock or securities.

(C) With respect to each control group member that is not described in paragraph (e)(3)(iii)(A) of this section, the U.S. transferor recognizes gain equal to the product of the ownership interest percentage of such control group member multiplied by the gain realized by the U.S. transferor on the transfer of the transferred stock or securities.
