
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### effects on corporation
###### § 1.367(a)-3 Treatment of transfers of stock or securities to foreign corporations.
####### Effective/applicability dates,Rules of applicability.

(g)-(1)(i) Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (g), the rules in paragraphs (a), (b), and (d) of this section apply to transfers occurring on or after July 20, 1998.

(ii) The following rules apply to transactions occurring on or after January 23, 2006-

(A) The rules in paragraphs (a) and (d) of this section, as they apply to section 368(a)(1)(A) reorganizations (including reorganizations described in section 368(a)(2)(D) or (E)) involving a foreign acquiring or foreign acquired corporation;

(B) The rules in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section;

(C) The rules in paragraph (d) of this section, as they apply to section 368(a)(1)(G) reorganizations (including reorganizations described in section 368(a)(2)(D));

(D) The rules of paragraph (d)(1) and (d)(2)(iv), as they relate to exchanges by a U.S. person of securities of an acquired corporation for voting stock or securities of a foreign corporation in control of the acquiring corporation in a triangular section 368(a)(1)(B) reorganization;

(E) The rules in paragraph (d)(1) and (d)(2)(iv) of this section, as they relate to exchanges by a U.S. person of stock or securities of an acquired corporation for voting stock or securities of a domestic corporation in control of the foreign acquiring corporation in a triangular section 368(a)(1)(B) reorganization; and

(F) The rules in paragraph (d)(2)(vii) of this section.

(iii) The rules of paragraph (a) of this section that apply to transfers of securities in a section 354 or 356 exchange (pursuant to a section 368(a)(1)(E) reorganization or an asset reorganization that is not treated as an indirect stock transfer) that is not subject to section 367(a) apply only to transfers occurring after January 5, 2005 (although taxpayers may apply such provision to transfers of securities occurring on or after July 20, 1998, and on or before January 5, 2005, if done consistently to all transactions).

(iv) The rules in paragraph (d)(1)(v) of this section apply to:

(A) A reorganization described in section 368(a)(1)(C) followed by a controlled asset transfer if such reorganization occurs on or after July 20, 1998;

(B) A reorganization described in section 368(a)(1)(D) followed by a controlled asset transfer if such reorganization occurs after December 9, 2002 (for additional guidance concerning such reorganizations that occur on or after July 20, 1998 and on or before December 9, 2002, see Rev. Rul. 2002-85 (2002-2 C.B. 986) and § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter); and

(C) A reorganization described in section 368(a)(1)(A), (F), or (G) followed by a controlled asset transfer if such reorganization occurs on or after January 23, 2006.

(v) The rules of paragraph (d)(2)(vi) of this section apply only to transactions occurring on or after January 23, 2006. See § 1.367(a)-3(d)(2)(vi), as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2005, for transactions occurring on or after July 20, 1998 and before January 23, 2006.

(A) Except as provided in paragraphs (g)(1)(v)(B) of this section and § 1.367(a)-3T(g)(1)(ix), the rules of paragraph (d)(2)(vi) of this section apply only to transactions occurring on or after January 23, 2006. See § 1.367(a)-3(d)(2)(vi), as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2005, for transactions occurring on or after July 20, 1998, and before January 23, 2006.
