
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### effects on corporation
###### § 1.367(a)-3 Treatment of transfers of stock or securities to foreign corporations.
####### Special requirements for gain recognition agreements.

(6)A gain recognition agreement filed by a U.S. transferor shareholder pursuant to paragraph (e)(3)(iii)(A) of this section is, in addition to the terms and conditions of § 1.367(a)-8, subject to the conditions of this paragraph (e)(6).

(i) The amount of gain subject to the gain recognition agreement shall equal the product of the ownership interest percentage of the U.S. transferor shareholder multiplied by the gain realized by the U.S. transferor on the transfer of the transferred stock or securities, reduced (but not below zero) by the sum of the amounts described in paragraphs (e)(6)(i)(A),(B), (C), and (D) of this section.

(A) Gain recognized by the U.S. transferor with respect to the transferred stock or securities under section 367(a)(1) (including any portion treated as a deemed dividend under section 1248(a)) that is attributable to such U.S. transferor shareholder pursuant to § 1.367(a)-7(c)(2) or (e)(5).

(B) A deemed dividend included in the income of the U.S. transferor with respect to the transferred stock under § 1.367(b)-4(b)(1)(i) that is attributable to such U.S. transferor shareholder pursuant to § 1.367(a)-7(e)(4).

(C) If the U.S. transferor shareholder is subject to an election under § 1.1248(f)-2(c)(1), a deemed dividend included in the income of the U.S. transferor pursuant to § 1.1248(f)-2(c)(3) that is attributable to the U.S. transferor shareholder.

(D) If the U.S. transferor shareholder is not subject to an election under § 1.1248(f)-2(c)(1), the hypothetical section 1248 amount (as defined in § 1.1248(f)-1(c)(4)) with respect to the stock of each foreign corporation transferred in the section 361 exchange attributable to the U.S. transferor shareholder.

(ii) The gain recognition agreement shall include the election described in § 1.367(a)-8(c)(2)(vi).

(iii) The gain recognition agreement shall designate the U.S. transferor shareholder as the U.S. transferor for purposes of § 1.367(a)-8.

(iv) If the transfer of the transferred stock or securities in the section 361 exchange is pursuant to a triangular asset reorganization, the gain recognition agreement shall include appropriate provisions that are consistent with the principles of § 1.367(a)-8 for gain recognition agreements involving multiple parties. See § 1.367(a)-8(j)(9).

(v) The gain recognition agreement shall not be eligible for termination upon a taxable disposition pursuant to § 1.367(a)-8(o)(1) unless the value of the stock or securities received by the U.S. transferor shareholder in exchange for the stock or securities of the U.S. transferor under section 354 or 356 is at least equal to the amount of gain subject to the gain recognition agreement filed by such U.S. transferor shareholder.

(vi) Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (e)(6)(vi), if gain is subsequently recognized by the U.S. transferor shareholder under the terms of the gain recognition agreement pursuant to § 1.367(a)-8(c)(1)(i), the increase in stock basis provided under § 1.367(a)-8(c)(4)(i) with respect to the stock received by the U.S. transferor shareholder shall not exceed the amount of the stock basis adjustment made pursuant to § 1.367(a)-7(c)(3) with respect to the stock received by the U.S. transferor shareholder. This paragraph (e)(6)(vi) shall not apply if the U.S. transferor shareholder and the U.S. transferor are members of the same consolidated group at the time of the reorganization.

(vii) For purposes of this section, a qualified U.S. person means a U.S. person, as defined in § 1.367(a)-1T(d)(1), but for this purpose does not include domestic partnerships, regulated investment companies (as defined in section 851(a)), real estate investment trusts (as defined in section 856(a)), and S corporations (as defined in section 1361(a)).
