
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### effects on corporation
###### § 1.367(a)-3 Treatment of transfers of stock or securities to foreign corporations.
####### 3,1

() For transactions occurring on or after August 19, 2008, and before March 18, 2013, the following condition also applies: To the extent any of the retransferred assets constitute property to which section 367(d) applies, the exception under paragraph (d)(2)(iv)(B)() of this section, as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2007, applies only if the property to which section 367(d) applies is treated as property subject to section 367(a) for purposes of satisfying the conditions and requirements of section 367(a)(5).

(vi) With respect to certain transfers of domestic stock or securities, the rules in paragraph (c) of this section are generally applicable for transfers occurring after January 29, 1997. See § 1.367(a)-3(c)(11). For transition rules regarding certain transfers of domestic stock or securities after December 16, 1987, and before January 30, 1997, and transfers of foreign stock or securities after December 16, 1987, and before July 20, 1998, see paragraph (j) of this section.

(vii)(A) Except as provided in this paragraph (g)(1)(vii), the rules of paragraph (e) of this section apply to transfers of stock or securities occurring on or after April 17, 2013. For matters covered in this section for periods before April 17, 2013, but on or after March 13, 2009, see § 1.367(a)-3(e) as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2012. For matters covered in this section for periods before March 13, 2009, but on or after March 7, 2007, see § 1.367(a)-3T(e) as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2007. For matters covered in this section for periods before March 7, 2007, but on or after July 20, 1998, see § 1.367(a)-8(f)(2)(i) as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2006.

(B) Taxpayers may apply the rules of § 1.367(a)-3(e) to transfers occurring before March 13, 2009, and during a taxable year for which the period of limitations on assessments under section 6501(a) has not closed, if done consistently to all such transfers occurring during each taxable year. A taxpayer applies the rules of § 1.367(a)-3(e) to transfers occurring before March 13, 2009, and during a taxable year for which the period of limitations on assessments under section 6501(a) has not closed, by including the gain recognition agreement, annual certification, or other information filing, that is required as a result of the rules of § 1.367(a)-3(e) applying to such a transfer, with an amended tax return for the taxable year in which the transfer occurs that is filed on or before August 10, 2009. A taxpayer that wishes to apply the rules of § 1.367(a)-3(e) to transfers occurring before March 13, 2009, and during a taxable year for which the period of limitations on assessments under section 6501(a) has not closed but that fails to meet the filing requirement described in the preceding sentence must request relief for reasonable cause for such failure as provided in § 1.367(a)-8.

(viii) Paragraph (a)(2)(iv) of this section applies to exchanges occurring on or after May 17, 2011. For exchanges that occur prior to May 17, 2011, see § 1.367(a)-3T(b)(2)(i)(C) as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2011.
