
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### effects on corporation
###### ยง 1.367(a)-6T Transfer of foreign branch with previously deducted losses (temporary).
####### Previously deducted losses,In general.

(d)-(1)This paragraph (d) provides rules for determining, for purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the previously deducted losses of a foreign branch any of whose assets are transferred to a foreign corporation in an exchange described in section 367(a)(1). Initially, the two previously deducted losses of a foreign branch for a taxable year are the total ordinary loss ("previously deducted branch ordinary loss") and the total capital loss ("previously deducted branch capital loss") that were realized by the foreign branch in that taxable year (a "branch loss year") prior to the transfer and that were or will be reflected on a U.S. income tax return of the transferor. The previously deducted branch ordinary loss for each branch loss year is reduced by expired net ordinary losses under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, while the previously deducted capital loss for each loss year is reduced by expired net capital losses under paragraph (d)(3) of this section. For each branch loss year, the remaining previously deducted branch ordinary loss and the remaining previously deducted branch capital loss are then reduced, proceeding from the first branch loss year to the last branch loss year, to reflect expired foreign tax credits under paragraph (d)(4) of this section. The reductions are made in the order of the taxable years in which the foreign tax credits arose. Finally, similar reductions are made to reflect expired investment credits under paragraph (d)(5) of this section.
