
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### effects on corporation
###### ยง 1.367(a)-7 Outbound transfers of property described in section 361(a) or (b).
####### Scope and purpose.

(a)This section provides rules under section 367(a)(5) that apply to the transfer of certain property (including stock or securities) by a domestic corporation (U.S. transferor) to a foreign corporation (foreign acquiring corporation) in a section 361 exchange. This section applies only to the transfer of section 367(a) property. See section 367(d) for rules applicable to transfers of section 367(d) property. Paragraph (b) of this section provides the general rule requiring the recognition of gain on the transfer of section 367(a) property, while paragraph (c) of this section provides an elective exception to the general rule that is available if certain requirements are satisfied. Paragraph (d) of this section provides rules for applying the elective exception to a section 361 exchange followed by successive distributions to which section 355 applies. Paragraph (e) of this section provides rules for recognizing gain on section 367(a) property, not willful relief provisions, an anti-abuse rule, and special rules that take into account income inclusions under ยง 1.367(b)-4 and gain recognition under ยง 1.367(a)-6. Paragraph (f) of this section provides definitions, and paragraph (g) of this section provides examples. Paragraph (h) of this section provides applicable cross-references, paragraph (i) of this section is reserved, and paragraph (j) of this section provides effective/applicability dates.
