
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### effects on corporation
###### ยง 1.367(a)-6T Transfer of foreign branch with previously deducted losses (temporary).
####### More than one branch.

(2)If a U.S. person carries on more than one branch operation outside the United States, then the rules of this section must be separately applied with respect to each foreign branch that is transferred to a foreign corporation. Thus, the previously deducted losses of one branch may not be offset, for purposes of determining the gain required to be recognized under the rules of this section, by the income of another branch that is also transferred to a foreign corporation. Similarly, the losses of one branch shall not be recaptured upon a transfer of the assets of a separate branch. Whether the foreign activities of a U.S. person are carried out through more than one branch must be determined under all of the facts and circumstances. In general, a separate branch exists if a particular group of activities is sufficiently integrated to constitute a single business that could be operated as an independent enterprise. For purposes of determining the combination of activities that constitute a branch operation as defined in this paragraph (g), the nominal relationship among those activities shall not be controlling. Factors suggesting that nominally separate business operations constitute a single foreign branch include a substantial identity of products, customers, operational facilities, operational processes, accounting and record-keeping functions, management, employees, distribution channels, or sales and purchasing forces. For examples of the application of the principles of this paragraph (g)(2), see Revenue Ruling 81-82, 1981-1 C.B. 127.
