
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### effects on corporation
###### ยง 1.367(a)-7 Outbound transfers of property described in section 361(a) or (b).
####### Relief for certain failures to comply that are not willful,In general.

(2)-(i)A control group member or U.S. transferor's failure to comply with any requirement of this section will be deemed not to have occurred for purposes of satisfying the requirements of this section if the control group member or U.S. transferor (or the foreign acquiring corporation on behalf of the U.S. transferor), as applicable, demonstrates that the failure was not willful using the procedure set forth in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section. For this purpose, willful is to be interpreted consistent with the meaning of that term in the context of other civil penalties, which would include a failure due to gross negligence, reckless disregard, or willful neglect. Whether the failure to comply was a willful failure will be determined by the Director of Field Operations, Cross Border Activities Practice Area of Large Business & International (or any successor to the roles and responsibilities of such person) (Director) based on all the facts and circumstances. The control group member or U.S. transferor (or the foreign acquiring corporation on behalf of the U.S. transferor), as applicable, must submit a request for relief and an explanation as provided in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section. Although a U.S transferor whose failure to comply is determined not to be willful will not be subject to gain recognition under this section, the U.S. transferor will be subject to a penalty under section 6038B if the U.S. transferor fails to demonstrate that the failure was due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect. See ยง 1.6038B-1(b) and (f). The determination of whether the failure to comply was willful under this section has no effect on any request for relief made under ยง 1.6038B-1(f).
