
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### effects on corporation
###### ยง 1.367(a)-8 Gain recognition agreement requirements.
####### Scope.

(a)This section provides the terms and conditions for a gain recognition agreement entered into by a United States person pursuant to ยง 1.367(a)-3(b) through (e) in connection with a transfer of stock or securities to a foreign corporation pursuant to an exchange that would otherwise be subject to section 367(a)(1). Paragraph (b) of this section provides definitions and special rules. Paragraphs (c) through (h) of this section identify the form, content, and other conditions of a gain recognition agreement. Paragraph (i) of this section is reserved. Paragraph (j) of this section identifies certain events that may require gain to be recognized under a gain recognition agreement. Paragraph (k) of this section provides exceptions for certain events that would otherwise require gain to be recognized under a gain recognition agreement. Paragraph (l) of this section is reserved. Paragraph (m) of this section provides rules that require gain to be recognized under a gain recognition agreement in connection with certain events to which an exception under paragraph (k) of this section otherwise applies. Paragraph (n) of this section provides special rules in the case of a distribution of property with respect to stock to which section 301 applies. Paragraph (o) of this section provides rules for certain transactions that terminate or reduce the amount of gain subject to a gain recognition agreement. Paragraph (p) of this section provides relief for certain failures to file an initial gain recognition agreement (as defined in paragraph (b)(1)(vi) of this section) or to comply with the requirements of this section with respect to a gain recognition agreement (as described in paragraph (c) of this section). Paragraph (q) of this section provides examples that illustrate the rules of the section. Paragraph (r) of this section provides effective dates for the provisions of this section.
