
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### effects on corporation
###### § 1.367(a)-8 Gain recognition agreement requirements.
####### Description of transferred stock or securities and other information.

(3)The gain recognition agreement shall include the following:

(i) A description of the transferred stock or securities including-

(A) The type or class, amount, and characteristics of the transferred stock or securities;

(B) A calculation of the amount of the built-in gain in the transferred stock or securities that are subject to the gain recognition agreement, reflecting the basis and fair market value on the date of the initial transfer;

(C) The amount of any gain recognized by the U.S. transferor on the initial transfer; and

(D) The percentage (by voting power and value) that the transferred stock (if any) represents of the total stock outstanding of the transferred corporation on the date of the initial transfer.

(ii) The name, address, place of incorporation, and taxpayer identification number (if any) of the transferred corporation.

(iii) The date on which the U.S. transferor acquired the transferred stock or securities.

(iv) The name, address and place of incorporation of the transferee foreign corporation, and a description of the stock or securities received by the U.S. transferor in the initial transfer, including the percentage of stock (by vote and value) of the transferee foreign corporation received in such exchange.

(v) If the initial transfer is described in § 1.367(a)-3(e), a statement that the conditions of section 367(a)(5) and any regulations under that section have been satisfied, and a description of any adjustments to the basis of the stock received in the transaction or other adjustments made pursuant to section 367(a)(5) and any regulations under that section.

(vi) If the transferred corporation is domestic, a statement describing the application of section 7874 to the transaction, and indicating that the requirements of § 1.367(a)-3(c)(1) are satisfied.

(vii) If the transferred corporation is foreign, a statement indicating whether the U.S. transferor was a section 1248 shareholder (as defined in § 1.367(b)-2(b)) of the transferred corporation immediately before the initial transfer, and whether the U.S. transferor is a section 1248 shareholder with respect to the transferee foreign corporation immediately after the initial transfer, and whether any reporting requirements or other rules contained in regulations under section 367(b) are applicable, and, if so, whether they have been satisfied.

(viii) If the initial transfer involves a transfer by a partnership (see § 1.367(a)-1(c)(3)(i)) or a transfer of a partnership interest (see section 367(a)(4) and § 1.367(a)-1(c)(3)(ii)) a complete description of the transfer, including a description of the partners in the partnership.

(ix) If the transaction involved the transfer of property other than the transferred stock or securities and the transaction was subject to the indirect stock transfer rules of § 1.367(a)-3(d), a statement indicating whether-

(A) The reporting requirements under section 6038B have been satisfied with respect to the transfer of such other property;

(B) Whether gain was recognized under section 367(a)(1);

(C) Whether section 367(d) applied to the transfer of such property; and

(D) Whether the other property transferred qualified for the active foreign trade or business exception under section 367(a)(3).
