
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### effects on corporation
###### ยง 1.367(a)-8 Gain recognition agreement requirements.
####### Content of gain recognition agreement.

(2)The gain recognition agreement must be entitled "GAIN RECOGNITION AGREEMENT UNDER ยง 1.367(a)-8" and include the information described in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (viii) of this paragraph with the corresponding paragraph numbers. The information required under this paragraph (c)(2) and paragraph (c)(3) of this section must be included in the gain recognition agreement as filed.

(i) A statement that the document constitutes an agreement by the U.S. transferor to recognize gain in accordance with the requirements of this section.

(ii) A description of the transferred stock or securities and other information as required in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(iii) A statement that the U.S. transferor agrees to comply with all the conditions and requirements of this section, including to recognize gain under the gain recognition agreement in accordance with paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, to extend the period of limitations on assessment of tax as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, to file the certification described in paragraph (g) of this section, and, as provided in paragraph (j)(8) of this section, to treat a failure to comply (as described in paragraph (j)(8) of this section) as extending the period of limitations on assessment of tax for the taxable year in which gain is required to be reported.

(iv) A statement that arrangements have been made to ensure that the U.S. transferor is informed of any events that affect the gain recognition agreement, including triggering events or other gain recognition events.

(v) In the case of a new gain recognition agreement filed under this section-

(A) A description of the event (such as a triggering event) and the applicable exception, if any, that gave rise to the new gain recognition agreement (such as a triggering event exception), including the date of the event and the name, address, and taxpayer identification number (if any) of each person that is a party to the event;

(B) As applicable, a description of the class, amount, and characteristics of the stock, securities or partnership interest received in the transaction; and

(C) As applicable, a calculation of the amount of gain that remains subject to the new gain recognition agreement as a result of the application of paragraph (m), (n), or (o) of this section.

(vi) A statement whether the U.S. transferor elects to include in income any gain recognized under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section in the taxable year during which a gain recognition event occurs. See paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section for a rule that requires, in certain cases, for the gain recognized pursuant to a new gain recognition agreement to be included in income during the taxable year in which the gain recognition event occurs.

(vii) A statement whether a gain recognition event has occurred during the taxable year of the initial transfer.

(viii) A statement describing any disposition of assets of the transferred corporation during such taxable year other than in the ordinary course of business.
