
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### effects on corporation
###### ยง 1.367(a)-8 Gain recognition agreement requirements.
####### Terms and conditions of a new gain recognition agreement,General rule.

(5)-(i)A new gain recognition agreement entered into pursuant to this section shall replace the existing gain recognition agreement, which shall terminate without further effect. The term of the new gain recognition agreement shall be the remaining term of the existing gain recognition agreement. The amount of gain subject to the new gain recognition agreement shall equal the amount of gain subject to the existing gain recognition agreement, reduced by any gain recognized under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section with respect to the existing gain recognition agreement by reason of the gain recognition event that gives rise to the new gain recognition agreement. The new gain recognition agreement shall, as applicable, be subject to the conditions and requirements of this section to the same extent as the existing gain recognition agreement. For example, a triggering event with respect to the new gain recognition agreement will generally include a disposition of the transferred stock or securities or of substantially all the assets of the transferred corporation. If, however, the transferred stock is canceled or redeemed pursuant to the disposition or other event that gives rise to the new gain recognition agreement (for example, pursuant to a liquidation where the transferee foreign corporation is the corporate distributee (within the meaning of section 334(b)(2)), or an asset reorganization where the transferee foreign corporation is the acquiring corporation) the transferred stock is not subject to the new gain recognition agreement.
