
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### effects on corporation
###### ยง 1.367(a)-8 Gain recognition agreement requirements.
####### Annual certification.

(g)Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, the U.S. transferor must include with its timely-filed return for each of the five full taxable years following the taxable year of the initial transfer a certification (annual certification) that includes the information described in paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section, as appropriate. The annual certification must be signed by a person authorized under paragraph (e)(1) of this section to sign the gain recognition agreement for the initial transfer. The inclusion of an unsigned copy of the annual certification with the relevant timely-filed return of the U.S. transferor shall satisfy the signature requirement of paragraph (e)(1) of this section provided the U.S. transferor retains the original signed certification in the manner specified by ยง 1.6001-1(e).

(1) A statement of whether a gain recognition event has or has not occurred during such taxable year. If a gain recognition event has occurred during such taxable year, the annual certification must state:

(i) The amount of gain subject to the gain recognition agreement at the time of the gain recognition event;

(ii) The amount of gain recognized under the gain recognition agreement by reason of the gain recognition event; and

(iii) A calculation of the reduction to the amount of gain subject to the gain recognition agreement by reason of the gain recognition event (for example, in the case of a gain recognition event described in paragraph (n)(2) of this section).

(2) A complete description of any event occurring during such taxable year that has terminated or reduced the amount of gain subject to the gain recognition agreement (for example, an event described in paragraph (o) of this section), including a calculation of any reduction to the amount of gain subject to the gain recognition agreement.

(3) A statement describing any disposition of assets of the transferred corporation during the taxable year not in the ordinary course of business.
