
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### effects on corporation
###### ยง 1.367(a)-8 Gain recognition agreement requirements.
####### Transfers of stock of the transferee foreign corporation to a corporation or partnership.

(1)A disposition of stock of the transferee foreign corporation received in the initial transfer pursuant to an exchange to which section 351, 354 (but only in a reorganization described in section 368(a)(1)(B) that is not a triangular reorganization), 361 (but only in a divisive reorganization to which section 355 applies), or 721 applies, shall not constitute a triggering event if a new gain recognition agreement is entered into in accordance with paragraphs (k)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section, as applicable. In the case of an exchange to which section 354 applies that is pursuant to a triangular reorganization described in section 368(a)(1)(B), see paragraph (k)(14) of this section and paragraph (q)(2)(iv) of this section.

(i) In the case of an exchange to which section 351 or 354 applies in which stock of a foreign acquiring corporation is received, the U.S. transferor includes with the new gain recognition agreement a statement that a complete or partial disposition of the stock of the foreign acquiring corporation received in the exchange shall constitute a triggering event. The principles of paragraph (o)(1)(i) or (ii), as appropriate, shall be applied to determine whether a subsequent complete or partial disposition of the stock of the foreign acquiring corporation received in the exchange shall instead terminate or reduce the amount of the new gain recognition agreement.

(ii) In the case of an exchange to which section 351 or 354 applies in which stock of a domestic acquiring corporation is received, the domestic acquiring corporation enters into the new gain recognition agreement, which must designate the domestic acquiring corporation as the U.S. transferor for purposes of this section. For an illustration of the rule provided by this paragraph (k)(1)(ii), see paragraph (q)(2)(iii) of this section.

(iii) In the case of a section 361 exchange that is pursuant to a divisive reorganization to which section 355 applies and in which stock of a domestic corporation (domestic controlled corporation) is received, the domestic controlled corporation enters into the new gain recognition agreement, which must designate the domestic controlled corporation as the U.S. transferor for purposes of this section. For an illustration of the rule provided by this paragraph (k)(1)(iii), see paragraph (q)(2)(xi) of this section.

(iv) In the case of an exchange to which section 721 applies, the U.S. transferor includes with the new gain recognition agreement a statement that a complete or partial disposition of the partnership interest received in the exchange shall constitute a triggering event for purposes of the new gain recognition agreement.
