
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### effects on corporation
###### ยง 1.367(a)-8 Gain recognition agreement requirements.
####### Certain triangular reorganizations,Transferee foreign corporation.

(7)-(i)If substantially all of the assets of the transferee foreign corporation are transferred to a foreign acquiring corporation in a section 361 exchange that is pursuant to a triangular asset reorganization, the exchanges made pursuant to the reorganization shall not constitute triggering events if a new gain recognition agreement is entered into in accordance with paragraphs (k)(7)(i)(A) through (C) of this section. If the acquiring corporation is domestic, see paragraph (k)(14) of this section. For rules that apply to gain recognition agreements entered into as a result of an indirect stock transfer, see ยง 1.367(a)-3(d)(2)(iv) and paragraph (j)(9) of this section.

(A) If P is foreign, the new gain recognition agreement designates P as the transferee foreign corporation and includes a statement that the U.S. transferor agrees to treat a complete or partial disposition of the S stock held by P as a triggering event.

(B) Except as provided in paragraph (k)(7)(i)(C) of this section, if P is domestic, P enters into the new gain recognition agreement that designates P as the U.S. transferor and S as the transferee foreign corporation.

(C) If the triangular asset reorganization is described in section 368(a)(1)(A) by reason of section 368(a)(2)(E) and the transferee foreign corporation is the merged corporation, the U.S. transferor enters into the new gain recognition agreement and designates the surviving corporation as the transferee foreign corporation.
