
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### effects on corporation
###### ยง 1.367(a)-8 Gain recognition agreement requirements.
####### Other dispositions or events.

(14)A disposition or other event that would constitute a triggering event, without regard to this paragraph (k)(14), shall not constitute a triggering event if the conditions of paragraph (k)(14)(i) through (iii) of this section, as applicable, are satisfied. See paragraphs (q)(2)(iv), (vi), (x), (xii), (xvii), (xxi), and (xxiii) of this section for illustrations of the rules provided by this paragraph (k)(14).

(i) The disposition qualifies as a nonrecognition transaction.

(ii) Immediately after the disposition or other event, a U.S. transferor retains a direct or indirect interest in the transferred stock or securities or, as applicable, in substantially all of the assets of the transferred corporation (for example, in a case where the transferred corporation has been liquidated pursuant to section 332). If, as a result of the disposition or other event, a foreign corporation acquires the transferred stock or securities or, as applicable, substantially all the assets of the transferred corporation, the condition of this paragraph (k)(14)(ii) is satisfied only if the U.S. transferor owns at least five percent (applying the attribution rules of section 318, as modified by section 958(b) but without applying section 318(a)(3)(A), (B), and (C) so as to consider the U.S. transferor as owning stock which is owned by a person who is not a United States person) of the total voting power and the total value of the outstanding stock of such foreign corporation.

(iii) A new gain recognition agreement is entered into by the U.S. transferor described in paragraph (k)(14)(ii) of this section that includes-

(A) An explanation of why this paragraph (k)(14) applies to the disposition or other event; and

(B) A description of each subsequent disposition or other event that would constitute a triggering event, other than those described in paragraph (j) of this section, with respect to the new gain recognition agreement based on the principles of paragraphs (j) and (k) of this section including, for example, an indirect disposition of the transferred stock or securities.

(l) [Reserved]
