
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### effects on corporation
###### ยง 1.367(a)-8 Gain recognition agreement requirements.
####### Relief for certain failures to file or failures to comply that are not willful,In general.

(p)-(1)This paragraph (p) provides relief if there is a failure to file an initial gain recognition agreement as required under paragraph (d)(1) of this section (failure to file), or a failure to comply that is a triggering event under paragraph (j)(8) of this section (failure to comply). A failure to file or failure to comply will be deemed not to have occurred for purposes of paragraph (d)(1) of this section or paragraph (j)(8) of this section if the U.S. transferor demonstrates that the failure was not willful using the procedure set forth in this paragraph (p). For this purpose, willful is to be interpreted consistent with the meaning of that term in the context of other civil penalties, which would include a failure due to gross negligence, reckless disregard, or willful neglect. Whether a failure to file or failure to comply was willful will be determined by the Director (as described in paragraph (j)(8) of this section) based on all the facts and circumstances. The U.S. transferor must submit a request for relief and an explanation as provided in paragraph (p)(2)(i) of this section. Although a U.S. transferor whose failure to file or failure to comply is determined not to be willful will not be subject to gain recognition under paragraph (b), (c), or (e) of ยง 1.367(a)-3 or paragraph (c)(1) of this section, as applicable, the U.S. transferor will be subject to a penalty under section 6038B if the U.S. transferor fails to satisfy the reporting requirements under that section and does not demonstrate that the failure was due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect. See ยง 1.6038B-1(b)(2) and (f). The determination of whether the failure to file or failure to comply was willful under this section has no effect on any request for relief made under ยง 1.6038B-1(f).
