
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### effects on corporation
###### ยง 1.367(a)-8 Gain recognition agreement requirements.
####### Examples.

(3)The following examples illustrate the application of this paragraph (p). All of the examples are based solely on the following facts and any additional facts stated in the particular example. DC, a domestic corporation, wholly owns FS and FA, each a foreign corporation. In Year 1, pursuant to a transaction qualifying both as an exchange under section 351 and a reorganization under section 368(a)(1)(B), DC transferred all the FS stock to FA solely in exchange for voting stock of FA (FS Transfer). The fair market value of the FS stock exceeded DC's tax basis in the stock at the time of the FS transfer. Absent the application of section 367 to the transaction, DC's exchange of the FS stock for the stock of FA qualified as a tax-free exchange under sections 351(a) and section 354. Immediately after the transaction, both FA and FS were controlled foreign corporations (as defined in section 957). Furthermore, DC was a section 1248 shareholder (as defined in ยง 1.367(b)-2(b)) with respect to FA and FS, and a 5-percent shareholder with respect to FA for purposes of ยง 1.367(a)-3(b)(ii). Thus, DC was required to recognize gain under section 367(a)(1) by reason of the FS Transfer unless DC timely filed an initial gain recognition agreement (GRA) as required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section and complies in all material respects with the requirements of this section throughout the term of the GRA. The application of section 6038B is not addressed in these examples. DC may be subject to a penalty under section 6038B even if DC demonstrates under this section that a failure to file or failure to comply was not willful. See ยง 1.6038B-1(b) and (f) for the application of section 6038B.
