
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### effects on corporation
###### ยง 1.367(a)-8 Gain recognition agreement requirements.
####### Example 2. Taxpayer's course of conduct is taken into account in determination,Facts.

(ii)-(A)DC filed its tax return for the year of the FS Transfer, reporting no gain with respect to the exchange of the FS stock, but failed to file a GRA. DC, through its tax department, was aware of the requirement to file a GRA in order for DC to avoid recognizing gain with respect to the FS Transfer under section 367(a)(1). DC had not consistently and in a timely manner filed GRAs in the past, and also had an established history of failing to timely file other tax and information returns for which it was subject to penalties. In a year subsequent to Year 1, DC transferred stock of another foreign subsidiary with respect to which DC had a built-in gain (FS2) to FA in a transaction that qualified as both a reorganization under section 368(a)(1)(B) and an exchange described under section 351 (FS2 Transfer). DC was required to recognize gain on the FS2 Transfer under section 367(a)(1) unless DC timely filed a GRA as required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section and complied with the requirements of this section during the term of the GRA. DC reported no gain on the FS2 Transfer on its tax return, but failed to file a GRA. At the time of the FS2 Transfer, DC was already aware of its failure to file the GRA required for the prior FS Transfer, but had not implemented any safeguards to ensure that it would timely file GRAs for future transactions. DC filed an amended return to file the GRA for the FS2 Transfer and complied with the procedures set forth under paragraph (p)(2) of this section promptly after it became aware of the failure. DC asserts that its failure to timely file a GRA with respect to the FS2 Transfer was due to an isolated oversight similar to the one that occurred with respect to the FS Transfer. At issue is DC's failure to timely file a GRA for the FS2 Transfer.
