
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### effects on corporation
###### ยง 1.367(a)-8 Gain recognition agreement requirements.
####### Examples,Presumed facts and references.

(q)-(1)For purposes of the examples in paragraph (q)(2) of this section, and except where otherwise indicated, the following is presumed.

(i) UST, USP, and DC are domestic corporations that each use a calendar taxable year.

(ii) USP wholly owns UST and is the common parent of the consolidated group of which UST is a member.

(iii) TFC, TFD, F1, and FA are foreign corporations.

(iv) UST wholly owns TFD.

(v) In a section 351 exchange, UST transfers all of the stock of TFD (TFD stock) to TFC in exchange solely for stock of TFC (the initial transfer).

(vi) Pursuant to ยง 1.367(a)-3(b)(1)(ii) and this section, UST enters into a gain recognition agreement in connection with the initial transfer and makes the election described under paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section with respect to the gain recognition agreement.

(vii) As applicable, the section 1248 amount (within the meaning of ยง 1.367(b)-2(c)) or all earnings and profits amount (within the meaning of ยง 1.367(b)-2(d)) attributable to the stock of a foreign corporation is zero.

(viii) All transactions are respected under general principles of tax law, including the step transaction doctrine.

(ix) References to a U.S. transferor entering into a gain recognition agreement mean, where applicable, that the common parent of the consolidated group of which the U.S. transferor is a member has filed the gain recognition agreement on behalf of the U.S. transferor in accordance with paragraph (d)(3) of this section.

(x) Taxable years during the GRA term are referred to, for example, as year 1 and year 2.
