
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### effects on corporation
###### ยง 1.367(a)-8 Gain recognition agreement requirements.
####### Example 1. Basis adjustments from gain recognized under the gain recognition agreement,Facts.

(i)-(A)TFC wholly owns F1. In year 3, pursuant to a section 351 exchange, TFC transfers all of the TFD stock to F1 in exchange solely for voting stock of F1. UST enters into a new gain recognition agreement with respect to the initial transfer under paragraph (k)(3) of this section, and therefore the transfer by TFC of the TFD stock to F1 is not a triggering event. Under paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section, the existing gain recognition agreement terminates without further effect. In year 4, in an exchange to which section 721 applies, UST contributes the TFC stock received in the initial transfer to PRS, a domestic partnership, in exchange for a partnership interest. UST enters into a new gain recognition agreement with respect to the initial transfer under paragraph (k)(1) of this section, and therefore the transfer by UST of the TFC stock to PRS is not a triggering event. Under paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section, the new gain recognition agreement filed by UST in year 3 terminates without further effect. In year 5, TFD disposes of substantially all of its assets in a transaction that constitutes a triggering event under paragraph (j)(2)(i) of this section. Under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, UST recognizes the gain realized but not recognized on the initial transfer by reason of entering into the gain recognition agreement.
