
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### effects on corporation
###### ยง 1.367(a)-8 Gain recognition agreement requirements.
####### Result.,1,Successive section 351 transfers.

(B)()Under section 367(a)(4) and ยง 1.367(a)-1T(c)(3)(ii), the transfer of the PRS interest by UST to TFC is treated, for purposes of section 367(a), as a transfer by UST to TFC of its proportionate share of the TFD stock held by PRS (the initial transfer). The initial transfer by UST of the TFD stock to TFC is subject to the general rule of section 367(a)(1), unless UST enters into a gain recognition agreement with respect to such transfer pursuant to ยง 1.367(a)-3(b)(1)(ii) and this section. Under paragraph (c)(3)(viii) of this section, the gain recognition agreement must include a complete description of the transfer, including a description of the partners of PRS. Even if UST enters into a gain recognition agreement with respect to the initial transfer, under paragraph (j)(3) of this section, the subsequent transfer by TFC of the PRS interest to F1 is a triggering event unless UST enters into a new gain recognition agreement with respect to the initial transfer under paragraph (k)(14) that provides that, in addition to the triggering events provided in paragraph (j) of this section, a complete or partial disposition of the F1 stock received by TFC in exchange for the PRS interest shall constitute a triggering event for purposes of the gain recognition agreement. The new gain recognition agreement must also provide that any other disposition that is inconsistent with the principles of paragraph (k), including an indirect disposition of the TFD stock or of substantially all of the assets of TFD, shall constitute a triggering event for purposes of the new gain recognition agreement. Under paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, UST is permitted to enter into a single gain recognition agreement with respect to the initial transfer and the subsequent transfer by TFC of the PRS interest, but the agreement must include a complete description of the initial transfer and the subsequent transfer of the PRS interest.
