
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### effects on corporation
###### ยง 1.367(a)-8 Gain recognition agreement requirements.
####### Example 17. Successive section 351 exchanges, section 301 distributions, and transactions involving partnerships,Facts.

(xvii)-(A)UST owns a 40 percent capital and profits interest in a foreign partnership (PRS). PRS wholly owns TFD and other assets with basis equal to fair market value. The TFD stock has a $50x basis and $200x fair market value. TFC wholly owns F1. On day 1 of year 1, in a section 351 exchange, UST transfers its PRS interest to TFC in exchange solely for stock of TFC (initial transfer). On that same day, in a section 351 exchange, TFC transfers the PRS interest received from UST to F1 in exchange solely for stock of F1. In year 3, PRS receives a $150x distribution from TFD to which section 301 applies. Under section 301(c), $25x of the distribution constitutes a dividend, $50x is applied against and reduces the basis of the TFD stock held by PRS, and the remaining $75x is treated as gain from the sale or exchange of property. With respect to the TFD stock deemed transferred by UST in the initial transfer, under section 301(c), $10x (40% of $25x) of the distribution constitutes a dividend, $20x (40% of $50x) is applied against and reduces the basis of TFD stock, and $30x (40% of $75x) is treated as gain from the sale or exchange of property. In year 5, pursuant to a distribution to which section 731 applies, PRS distributes all of the TFD stock to F1.
