
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### effects on corporation
###### ยง 1.367(a)-8 Gain recognition agreement requirements.
####### Alternate facts. Intercompany transaction followed by section 351 transfer to member.,Example 20

(F)The facts are the same as in paragraph (q)(2)(xx)(A) of this section (the facts in this), except that, in year 3, in a section 351 exchange UST transfers all of the TFC stock to USS in exchange for $10x cash and $80x of stock of USS. USS is a member of the USP consolidated group immediately after the exchange. The transfer of the TFC stock by UST to USS is an intercompany transaction. Under section 351(b), UST must generally recognize $10x gain (intercompany item) in connection with the transfer; however, under the provisions of ยง 1.1502-13, UST does not take the $10x gain into account in year 3. Under paragraph (k)(12) of this section, as result of the intercompany transaction creating an intercompany item ($10x gain), the existing gain recognition agreement ($50x gain) must be divided between UST and USS. UST shall remain subject to a gain recognition agreement of $10x (equal to the amount of the intercompany item). The amount of the gain recognition agreement entered into by USS under paragraph (k)(1) of this section is $40x (equal to the amount of the existing gain recognition agreement, reduced by the amount of the of the gain recognition agreement to which UST remains subject).
