
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### effects on corporation
###### § 1.367(a)-8 Gain recognition agreement requirements.
####### Applicability dates,General rule,Transfers occurring on or after March 13, 2009; relief for certain failures that are not willful.

(r)-(1)-(i)The rules of this section apply to gain recognition agreements filed with respect to transfers of stock or securities occurring on or after March 13, 2009. However, the rules of this section do not apply to gain recognition agreements filed with respect to any such transfer occurring on or after March 13, 2009, if such transfer was entered into pursuant to a written agreement that was (subject to customary conditions) binding before February 11, 2009, and at all times thereafter. Solely for purposes of this paragraph (r), a transfer described in the preceding sentence shall be deemed to be a transfer occurring before March 13, 2009 to which the rules of § 1.367(a)-8 (see 26 CFR part 1, revised April 1, 2006) apply. See paragraph (r)(2)(iii) of this section for the ability to apply the rules of this section with respect to gain recognition agreements filed for taxable years ending before March 13, 2009. The eleventh sentence of paragraph (a) and paragraphs (b)(1)(iv), (b)(1)(vi), (b)(1)(xiii), (d)(1), (j)(8), and (p) of this section will apply to gain recognition agreement documents that are required to be filed on or after November 19, 2014, as well as to requests for relief submitted on or after November 19, 2014. Paragraph (k)(14)(ii) of this section applies to transfers occurring on or after October 1, 2019, and to transfers occurring before October 1, 2019, that result from an entity classification election made under § 301.7701-3 of this chapter that is filed on or after October 1, 2019. For transfers occurring before October 1, 2019, other than transfers occurring before October 1, 2019, that result from an entity classification election made under § 301.7701-3 of this chapter that is filed on or after October 1, 2019, a taxpayer may apply paragraph (k)(14)(ii) of this section to transfers occurring during the last taxable year of a transferee foreign corporation beginning before January 1, 2018, and each subsequent taxable year of the foreign corporation, provided that the taxpayer and United States persons that are related (within the meaning of section 267 or 707) to the taxpayer consistently apply such paragraph with respect to all foreign corporations. For transfers occurring before October 1, 2019, other than transfers occurring before October 1, 2019, that result from an entity classification election made under § 301.7701-3 of this chapter that is filed on or after October 1, 2019, where the taxpayer does not apply paragraph (k)(14)(ii) of this section as described in the preceding sentence, see paragraph (k)(14)(ii) of this section as in effect and contained in 26 CFR part 1, as revised April 1, 2020.
