
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### effects on corporation
###### ยง 1.367(b)-2 Definitions and special rules.
####### Ordering rules.

(3)In the case of an exchange of stock in which the exchanging shareholder is treated as receiving a deemed dividend from a foreign corporation, the following ordering rules concerning the timing, treatment, and effect of such a deemed dividend shall apply. See also paragraph (j)(2) of this section.

(i) For purposes of the section 367(b) regulations, the gain realized by an exchanging shareholder shall be determined before increasing (as provided in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section) the basis in the stock of the foreign corporation by the amount of the deemed dividend.

(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section, the deemed dividend shall be considered to be received immediately before the exchanging shareholder's receipt of consideration for its stock in the foreign corporation, and the shareholder's basis in the stock exchanged shall be increased by the amount of the deemed dividend. Such basis increase shall be taken into account before determining the gain otherwise recognized on the exchange (for example, under section 356), the basis that the exchanging shareholder takes in the property that it receives in the exchange (under section 358(a)(1)), and the basis that the transferee otherwise takes in the transferred stock (under section 362).

(iii) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section, the earnings and profits of the appropriate foreign corporation shall be reduced by the deemed dividend amount before determining the consequences of the recognition of gain in excess of the deemed dividend amount (for example, under section 356(a)(2) or sections 356(a)(1) and 1248).
