
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### effects on corporation
###### ยง 1.367(b)-4 Acquisition of foreign corporate stock or assets by a foreign corporation in certain nonrecognition transactions.
####### Applicability date of certain paragraphs in this section.

(h)Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (h), paragraphs (a), (b) introductory text, (b)(1)(i)(C), (d)(1), (e), (f), and (g) of this section apply to exchanges completed on or after September 22, 2014, but only if the inversion transaction was completed on or after September 22, 2014. Paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section applies to exchanges completed on or after November 19, 2015, but only if the inversion transaction was completed on or after September 22, 2014. The portion of paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section that requires the exchanging shareholder to be an expatriated entity or an expatriated foreign subsidiary apply to exchanges completed on or after April 4, 2016, but only if the inversion transaction was completed on or after September 22, 2014. For inversion transactions completed on or after September 22, 2014, however, taxpayers may elect to apply the portion of paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section that requires the exchanging shareholder to be an expatriated entity or an expatriated foreign subsidiary to exchanges completed on or after September 22, 2014, and before April 4, 2016. Paragraphs (f) and (g)(5) of this section apply to transfers completed on or after April 4, 2016, but only if the inversion transaction was completed or after September 22, 2014. See ยง 1.367(b)-4, as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2016, for exchanges completed before September 22, 2014. Paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section applies to exchanges completed in taxable years of exchanging shareholders ending on or after November 2, 2020, and to taxable years of exchanging shareholders ending before November 2, 2020, resulting from an entity classification election made under ยง 301.7701-3 of this chapter that was effective on or before November 2, 2020, but was filed on or after November 2, 2020.
