
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Changes in Rates During a Taxable Year
###### ยง 1.25-4T Qualified mortgage credit certificate program (Temporary).
####### Certification procedure.

(2)The official making the certification described in this paragraph (d) need not perform an independent investigation to determine whether the issuer has met the requirements of section 103A(g). In determining the aggregate amount of qualified mortgage bonds previously issued by that issuer during the calendar year the official may rely on copies of prior elections under paragraph (c) of this section made by the issuer for that year, together with an affidavit executed by an official of the issuer who is responsible for issuing bonds stating that the issuer has not, to date, issued any other issues of qualified mortgage bonds during the calendar year and stating the amount, if any, of the issuer's applicable limit that it has surrendered to other issuers during the calendar year; for any calendar year prior to 1985, the official may rely on an affidavit executed by a duly authorized official of the issuer who states the aggregate amount of qualified mortgage bonds issued by the issuer during the year. In determining the aggregate amount of qualified mortgage bonds that the issuer has previously elected not to issue during that calendar year, the official may rely on copies of any elections not to issue qualified mortgage bonds filed by the issuer for that calendar year, together with an affidavit executed by an official of the issuer responsible for issuing mortgage credit certificates stating that the issuer has not, to date, made any other elections not to issue qualified mortgage bonds. If, based on such information, the certifying official determines that the issuer has not, as of the date on which the certification is provided, exceeded its applicable limit for the year, the official may certify that the issue meets the requirements of section 103A(g). The fact that the certification described in this paragraph (d) is provided does not ensure that the issuer has met the requirements of section 103A(g) and the regulations thereunder, nor does it preclude the application of the penalty for over-issuance of mortgage credit certificates if such over-issuance actually occurs. See ยง 1.25-5T.
