
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### effects on corporation
###### ยง 1.367(b)-10 Acquisition of parent stock or securities for property in triangular reorganizations.
####### Analysis.

(ii)The triangular reorganization is described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. P is a domestic corporation and FS is a foreign corporation. In connection with FS purchasing the $100x of P stock in exchange for property (cash), FS uses the P stock to acquire the FT property in a triangular reorganization, and US1 receives the P stock in an exchange to which section 354 applies. Furthermore, none of the exceptions of paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section apply. Therefore, pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, adjustments are made that have the effect of a deemed distribution of property (with no built-in gain or loss) in the amount of $100x from FS to P under section 301. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, adjustments are made that have the effect of a deemed contribution of property (with no built-in gain or loss) in the amount of $100x by P to FS. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the adjustments described in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section are made as if the deemed distribution and deemed contribution, respectively, are separate transactions occurring immediately before FS's purchase of the P stock on the open market. Generally applicable provisions apply to FS's purchase of the P stock on the open market (see, for example, section 304) and in determining certain tax consequences to P and FS as a result of the triangular reorganization (see, for example, ยง 1.358-6(d) and ยง 1.1032-2(c)).
