
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### effects on corporation
###### § 1.367(d)-1 Transfers of intangible property to foreign corporations.
####### Example.

(iii)Property subject to section 367(d) is transferred from USP, a domestic corporation, to FA, a foreign corporation wholly owned by USP. The useful life of the transferred property, inclusive of derivative works, at the time of transfer is indefinite but is reasonably anticipated to exceed 20 years. In the first five years following the transfer, sales related to the property are expected to be $100x, $130x, $160x, $180x and $187.2x, respectively. Thereafter, for the remainder of the property's useful life, sales are expected to grow by four percent annually. In the first five years following the transfer, operating profits attributable to the property are expected to be $5x, $8x, $11x, $12.5x, and $13x, respectively. Thereafter, for the remainder of the property's useful life, operating profits are expected to grow by four percent annually. It is determined that the appropriate discount rate for sales and operating profits is 10 percent. The present value of operating profits through the property's indefinite useful life is $185x. The present value of sales through the property's indefinite useful life is $2698x. Accordingly, the sales based royalty rate during the property's useful life is 6.8 percent ($185x/$2698x). The taxpayer may choose to take income inclusions into account over a 20-year period. The present value of sales through the 20-year period is $1787x. Accordingly, the sales based royalty rate under the 20-year option is increased to 10.3 percent ($185x/$1787x).

(c)(4) through (g)(2) (introductory text) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.367(d)-1T(c)(4) through (g)(2) (introductory text).

(g)(2)(i) The intangible property transferred constitutes an operating intangible, as defined in § 1.367(a)-1(d)(6).

(g)(2)(ii) through (iii)(D) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.367(d)-1T(g)(2)(ii) through (iii)(D).

(E) The transferred intangible property will be used in the active conduct of a trade or business outside of the United States within the meaning of § 1.367(a)-2 and will not be used in connection with the manufacture or sale of products in or for use or consumption in the United States.

(g)(2)(iii) undesignated concluding paragraph [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.367(d)-1T(g)(2)(iii) undesignated concluding paragraph.
