
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.46-1 Determination of amount.
####### Manner of apportionment.

(2)(i) In the case of corporations which are component members of a controlled group on a particular December 31, the $25,000 amount may be apportioned among such members for their taxable years that include such December 31 in any manner the component members may select, provided that each such member less than 100 percent of whose stock is owned, in the aggregate, by the other component members of the group on such December 31 consents to an apportionment plan. The consent of a component member to an apportionment plan with respect to a particular December 31 shall be made by means of a statement, signed by a person duly authorized to act on behalf of the consenting member, stating that such member consents to the apportionment plan with respect to such December 31. The statement shall set forth the name, address, employer identification number, and taxable year of each component member of the group on such December 31, the amount apportioned to each such member under the plan, and the location of the Service Center where the statement is to be filed. The consent of more than one component member may be incorporated in a single statement. The statement shall be timely filed with the Service Center where the component member having the taxable year first ending on or after such December 31 files its return for such taxable year and shall be irrevocable after such filing. If two or more component members have the same such taxable year, a statement of consent may be filed by any one of such members. However, if the due date (including any extensions of time) of the return of such member is on or before December 15, 1971, the required statement shall be considered as timely filed if filed on or before March 15, 1972. Each component member of the group on such December 31 shall keep as a part of its records a copy of the statement containing all the required consents.

(ii) An apportionment plan adopted by a controlled group with respect to a particular December 31 shall be valid only for the taxable year of each member of the group which includes such December 31. Thus, a controlled group must file a separate consent to an apportionment plan with respect to each taxable year which includes a December 31 as to which an apportionment plan is desired.

(iii) If the apportionment plan is not timely filed, the $25,000 amount specified in section 46(a)(3) shall be reduced for each component member of the controlled group, for its taxable year which includes a December 31, to an amount equal to $25,000 divided by the number of component members of such group on such December 31.

(iv) If a component member of the controlled group makes its income tax return on the basis of a 52-53-week taxable year, the principles of section 441(f)(2)(A)(ii) and ยง 1.441-2 apply in determining the last day of such taxable year.
