
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### effects on corporation
###### ยง 1.367(d)-1T Transfers of intangible property to foreign corporations (temporary).
####### Purpose and scope.,related person

(a)This section provides rules under section 367(d) concerning transfers of intangible property by U.S. persons to foreign corporations pursuant to section 351 or 361. Paragraph (b) of this section specifies the transfers that are subject to section 367(d) and the rules of this section, while paragraph (c) provides rules concerning the consequences of such a transfer. In general, the U.S. transferor will be treated as receiving annual payments contingent on productivity or use of the transferred property, over the useful life of the property (regardless of whether such payments are in fact made by the transferee). Paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section provide rules for cases in which there is a later direct or indirect disposition of the intangible property transferred. In general, deemed annual license payments will continue if a transfer is made to a related person, while gain must be recognized immediately if the transfer is to an unrelated person. Paragraph (g) of this section provides several special rules, including a rule allowing appropriate adjustments where deemed payments under section 367(d) are not in fact received by the U.S. transferor of the intangible property, and a rule providing for a limited election to treat certain transfers of intangible property as sales at fair market value (in lieu of applying the general useful life-contingent payment rule). In addition, paragraph (g) of this section provides rules coordinating the application of section 367(d) with other relevant Code sections. Paragraph (h) of this section defines the termfor purposes of this section. Finally, paragraph (i) of this section provides the effective date of this section. For rules concerning transfers of intangible property pursuant to section 332, see ยง 1.367(a)-5T(e). For purposes of determining whether a U.S. person has made a transfer of intangible property that is subject to the rules of section 367(d), the rules of ยง 1.367(a)-1T(c) shall apply.

(b) [Reserved]
