
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### effects on corporation
###### ยง 1.367(e)-1 Distributions described in section 367(e)(1).
####### Stock owned through partnerships, disregarded entities, trusts, and estates.

(2)For purposes of this section, distributing corporation stock or securities owned by or for a partnership (whether foreign or domestic) are owned proportionately by its partners. A partner's proportionate share of the stock or securities of the distributing corporation shall be equal to the partner's distributive share of the gain that would have been recognized had the partnership sold the stock or securities (at a taxable gain) immediately before the distribution. The partner's distributive share of gain shall be determined under the rules and principles of sections 701 through 761 and the regulations thereunder. For purposes of this section, stock or securities owned by or for an entity that is disregarded as an entity separate from its owner (disregarded entity) under ยง 301.7701-3 of this chapter are owned directly by the owner of such disregarded entity. For purposes of this section, stock or securities owned by or for a trust or estate (whether foreign or domestic) are owned proportionately by the persons who would be treated as owning such stock or securities under section 318(a)(2)(A) and (B). In applying section 318(a)(2)(B)(i), if a trust includes interests that are not actuarially ascertainable, all such interests shall be considered to be owned by foreign persons. In a case where an interest holder in a partnership, a disregarded entity, trust, or estate that (directly or indirectly) owns stock of the distributing corporation is itself a partnership, disregarded entity, trust, or estate, the rules of this paragraph (b)(2) apply to such interest holder.
