
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### effects on corporation
###### ยง 1.367(e)-2 Distributions described in section 367(e)(2).
####### Purpose and scope,In general.

(a)-(1)This section provides rules requiring gain and loss recognition by a corporation on its distribution of property to a foreign corporation in a complete liquidation described in section 332. Paragraph (b)(1) of this section contains the general rule that gain and loss are recognized when a domestic corporation makes a distribution of property in complete liquidation under section 332 to a foreign corporation that meets the stock ownership requirements of section 332(b) with respect to stock in the domestic corporation. Paragraph (b)(2) of this section provides the only exceptions to the gain and loss recognition rule of paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Paragraph (b)(3) of this section refers to other consequences of distributions described in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section. Paragraph (c)(1) of this section contains the general rule that gain and loss are not recognized when a foreign corporation makes a distribution of property in complete liquidation under section 332 to a foreign corporation that meets the stock ownership requirements of section 332(b) with respect to stock in the foreign liquidating corporation. Paragraph (c)(2) of this section provides the only exceptions to the nonrecognition rule of paragraph (c)(1) of this section. Paragraph (c)(3) of this section refers to other consequences of distributions described in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section. Paragraph (d) of this section contains an anti-abuse rule. Paragraph (e) of this section provides rules regarding failures to file statements or other documents required under this section or failures to comply with the requirements of this section. Paragraph (f) of this section provides relief for certain failures to file or comply. Finally, paragraph (g) of this section specifies the effective/applicability dates for the rules of this section. The rules of this section are issued pursuant to the authority conferred by section 367(e)(2).
