
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.46-1 Determination of amount.
####### Property placed in service before January 1, 1987, and property qualifying for a transitional rule.

(B)For purposes of paragraphs (q)(1) (iii) and (iv) of this section, if part of a building meets the definition of a "40-year building" and part of the building is an addition that was placed in service less than forty years before physical work on the rehabilitation began but more than thirty years before such date, then the qualified rehabilitation expenditures made to the building shall be allocated between the forty year old portion of the building and the thirty year old portion of the building, and a 20 percent rehabilitation percentage shall be applied to the forty year old portion of the building and a 15 percent rehabilitation percentage shall be applied to the thirty year old portion. This allocation shall be made using the principles in ยง 1.48-12(c)(10)(ii). If an allocation cannot be made between the expenditures to the forty year old portion of the building and the thirty year old portion of the building, then the building will be considered to be a 30-year building. Furthermore, for purposes of this paragraph (q), a building (other than a certified historic structure) is not a qualified rehabilitated building to the extent of that portion of the building that is less than 30 years old. If rehabilitation expenditures are incurred with respect to an addition to a qualified rehabilitated building, but the addition is not considered to be part of the qualified rehabilitated building because the addition does not meet the age requirement in section 48(g)(1)(B) (as in effect prior to its amendment by the Tax Reform Act of 1986) and ยง 1.48-12(b)(4)(i)(B), then no rehabilitation percentage will be applied to the expenditures attributable to the rehabilitation of the addition. Thus, for purposes of paragraphs (q)(1) (iii) and (iv) of this section, it may be necessary to allocate rehabilitation expenditures incurred with respect to a building between the original portion of the building and the addition.
