
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### effects on corporation
###### ยง 1.367(e)-2 Distributions described in section 367(e)(2).
####### Procedures for establishing that a failure to file or failure to comply was not willful,Time and manner of submission.,5

(2)-(i)A taxpayer's statement that a failure to file or failure to comply was not willful will be considered only if, promptly after the taxpayer becomes aware of the failure, an amended return is filed for the taxable year to which the failure relates that includes the information that should have been included with the original return for such taxable year or that otherwise complies with the rules of this section, and that includes a written statement explaining the reasons for the failure. In the case of a liquidating distribution described in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, the taxpayer must file, with the amended return, a Form 8838 extending the period of limitations on assessment of tax with respect to the gain realized but not recognized with respect to the liquidating distribution to the close of the third full taxable year ending after the date on which the required information is provided to the Director. In the case of a liquidating distribution described in paragraph (b)(2)(i) or (c)(2)(i)(B) of this section, the taxpayer must file, with the amended return, a Form 8838 extending the period of limitations on the assessment of tax with respect to the gain realized but not recognized with respect to the liquidating distribution to the later of: the date provided in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C)(), taking into account paragraph (c)(2)(i)(C) and (D), as applicable (date one); or, the close of the third full taxable year ending after the date on which the required information is provided to the Director (date two). However, the taxpayer is not required to file a Form 8838 with the amended return if both date one is later than date two and a Form 8838 was previously filed extending the period of limitations on assessment of tax with respect to the gain realized but not recognized with respect to the liquidating distribution to date one. If a Form 8838 is not required to be filed pursuant to the previous sentence, a copy of the previously filed Form 8838 must be filed with the amended return. The amended return and either a Form 8838 or a copy of the previously filed Form 8838, as the case may be, must be filed with the Internal Revenue Service at the location where the taxpayer filed its original return. The taxpayer may submit a request for relief from the penalty under section 6038B as part of the same submission. See ยง 1.6038B-1(f).
