
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Carryovers
###### ยง 1.381(c)(1)-1 Net operating loss carryovers in certain corporate acquisitions.
####### Carryover requirement.

(a)(1) Section 381(c)(1) requires the acquiring corporation to succeed to, and take into account, the net operating loss carryovers of the distributor or transferor corporation. To determine the amount of these carryovers as of the close of the date of distribution or transfer, and to integrate them with any carryovers and carrybacks of the acquiring corporation for purposes of determining the taxable income of the acquiring corporation for taxable years ending after the date of distribution or transfer, it is necessary to apply the provisions of section 172 in accordance with the conditions and limitations of section 381(c)(1) and this section. See also section 382(b) and the regulations thereunder.

(2) The net operating loss carryovers and carrybacks of the acquiring corporation determined as of the close of the date of distribution or transfer shall be computed without reference to any net operating loss of a distributor or transferor corporation. The net operating loss carryovers of a distributor or transferor corporation as of the close of the date of distribution or transfer shall be determined without reference to any net operating loss of the acquiring corporation.

(3) For purposes of the tax imposed under section 56, the acquiring corporation succeeding to and taking into account any net operating loss carryovers of the distributor or transferor corporation shall also succeed to and take into account along with such net operating loss carryforward any deferred tax liability under section 56(b) and the regulations thereunder attributable to such net operating loss carryover.
