
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Carryovers
###### ยง 1.381(c)(1)-1 Net operating loss carryovers in certain corporate acquisitions.
####### First taxable year to which carryovers apply.

(c)(1) The net operating loss carryovers available to the distributor or transferor corporation as of the close of the date of distribution or transfer shall first be carried to the first taxable year of the acquiring corporation ending after that date. This rule applies irrespective of whether the date of distribution or transfer is on the last day, or any other day, of the acquiring corporation's taxable year. Thus, such net operating loss carryovers shall first be used by the acquiring corporation with respect to the computation of its net operating loss deduction under section 172(a), and its taxable income determined under the provisions of section 172(b)(2), for such first taxable year. However, see paragraph (f) of this section.

(2) The net operating loss carryovers available to the distributor or transferor corporation as of the close of the date of distribution or transfer shall be carried to the acquiring corporation without diminution by reason of the fact that the acquiring corporation does not acquire 100 percent of the assets of the distributor or transferor corporation. Thus, if a parent corporation owning 80 percent of all classes of stock of its subsidiary corporation were to acquire its share of the assets of the subsidiary corporation upon a complete liquidation described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of ยง 1.381(a)-1, then, subject to the conditions and limitations of this section, 100 percent of the net operating loss carryovers available to the subsidiary corporation as of the close of the date of distribution would be carried over to the parent corporation.
