
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Carryovers
###### ยง 1.381(c)(1)-1 Net operating loss carryovers in certain corporate acquisitions.
####### Net operating loss deduction.

(6)After obtaining the taxable income of the preacquisition part year and of the postacquisition part year in the manner described in subparagraph (5) of this paragraph, it is necessary to compute the net operating loss deduction for each such part year. This deduction shall be determined in the manner prescribed by section 172(b)(2)(B) but subject to the provisions of this subparagraph. The net operating loss deduction for the preacquisition part year shall, for purposes of section 172(b)(2) only, be determined in the same manner as that prescribed by section 172(b)(2)(B) but shall be computed without taking into account any net operating loss of the distributor or transferor corporation. Therefore, only net operating loss carryovers and carrybacks of the acquiring corporation to the preacquisition part year shall be taken into account in computing the net operating loss deduction for such part year. The net operating loss deduction for the post- acquisition part year shall, for purposes of section 172(b)(2) only, be determined in the same manner as that prescribed by section 172(b)(2)(B) and shall be computed by taking into account all the net operating loss carryovers available to the distributor or transferor corporation as of the close of the date of distribution or transfer, as well as the net operating loss carryovers and carrybacks of the acquiring corporation to the postacquisition part year. The sequence in which the net operating losses of the two corporations shall be applied for purposes of this subparagraph shall be determined in the manner prescribed in paragraph (e) of this section.
