
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Carryovers
###### ยง 1.381(c)(1)-1 Net operating loss carryovers in certain corporate acquisitions.
####### Taxable year considered as two taxable years.

(2)Such taxable year of the acquiring corporation shall be considered as though it were two taxable years, but only for the limited purpose of applying section 172(b)(2). The first of such two taxable years shall be referred to in this section as the preacquisition part year; the second, as the postacquisition part year. For purposes of section 172(b)(2), a net operating loss of the acquiring corporation shall be carried to the preacquisition part year and then to the postacquisition part year, whereas a net operating loss of a distributor or transferor corporation shall be carried to the postacquisition part year and then to the acquiring corporation's subsequent taxable years. In determining under section 172(b)(2) and this paragraph the portion of any net operating loss of a distributor or transferor corporation which is carried to any taxable year of the acquiring corporation ending after the postacquisition part year, the taxable income (as determined under this paragraph) of the postacquisition part year shall be taken into account but the taxable income of the preacquisition part year (as so determined) shall not be taken into account. Though considered as two separate taxable years for purposes of section 172(b)(2), the preacquisition part year and the postacquisition part year are treated as one taxable year in determining the years to which a net operating loss is carried under section 172(b)(1). See paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
