
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### § 1.46-3 Qualified investment.
####### In general.,See

(a)(1) With respect to any taxable year, the qualified investment of the taxpayer is the aggregate (expressed in dollars) of (i) the applicable percentage of the basis of each new section 38 property placed in service by the taxpayer during such taxable year, plus (ii) the applicable percentage of the cost of each used section 38 property placed in service by the taxpayer during such taxable year. With respect to any section 38 property, qualified investment means the applicable percentage of the basis (or cost) of such property. Section 38 property placed in service by the taxpayer during the taxable year includes the taxpayer's share of the basis (or cost) of section 38 property placed in service by a partnership in the taxable year of such partnership ending with or within the taxpayer's taxable year. In the case of a shareholder of an electing small business corporation (as defined in section 1371(b)), or a beneficiary of an estate or trust, see §§ 1.48-5 and 1.48-6, respectively, for apportionment of the basis (or cost) of section 38 property placed in service by such corporation, estate, or trust. For the definitions of new section 38 property and used section 38 property, see §§ 1.48-2 and 1.48-3, respectively.§ 1.46-5 for special rules for progress expenditure property.

(2) The basis (or cost) of section 38 property placed in service during a taxable year shall not be taken into account in determining qualified investment for such year if such property is disposed of or otherwise ceases to be section 38 property during such year, except where § 1.47-3 applies. Thus, if individual A places in service during a taxable year section 38 property and later in the same year sells such property, the basis (or cost) of such property shall not be taken into account in determining A's qualified investment. On the other hand, if A places in service section 38 property during a taxable year and dies later in the same year, the basis (or cost) of such property would be taken into account in computing qualified investment. Similarly, if section 38 property is destroyed by fire in the same year in which it is placed in service and paragraph (h) of this section applies to reduce the basis (or cost) of replacement property, the basis (or cost) of the destroyed property would be taken into account in computing qualified investment. In order to determine whether section 38 property is disposed of or otherwise ceases to be section 38 property see § 1.47-2.

(3) Qualified investment is reduced in the case of property which is "public utility property" (see paragraph (h) of this section), and in the case of property of organizations to which section 593 applies, regulated investment companies or real estate investment trusts subject to taxation under subchapter M, chapter 1 of the Code, and cooperative organizations described in section 1381(a) (see § 1.46-4).
