
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Carryovers
###### ยง 1.381(c)(3)-1 Capital loss carryovers.
####### Carryover requirement.

(a)(1) Section 381(c)(3) requires the acquiring corporation in a transaction to which section 381(a) applies to succeed to, and take into account, the capital loss carryovers of the distributor or transferor corporation. To determine the amount of these carryovers as of the close of the date of distribution or transfer, and to integrate them with the capital loss carryovers of the acquiring corporation for purposes of determining the taxable income of the acquiring corporation for taxable years ending after the date of distribution or transfer, it is necessary to apply the provisions of section 1212 in accordance with the conditions and limitations of section 381(c)(3) and this section.

(2) The capital loss carryovers of the acquiring corporation as of the close of the date of distribution or transfer shall be determined without reference to any capital gains or capital losses of the distributor or transferor corporation. The capital loss carryovers of a distributor or transferor corporation as of the close of the date of distribution or transfer shall be determined without reference to any capital gains or capital losses of the acquiring corporation.

(3) This section contains rules applicable to capital loss carryovers determined without reference to the amendment of section 1212(a) made by section 7 of the Act of September 2, 1964 (Public Law 88-571, 78 Stat. 860) in respect of foreign expropriation capital losses. If the distributor, transferor, or acquiring corporation sustains a net capital loss in a taxable year ending after December 31, 1958, any portion of which is attributable to a foreign expropriation capital loss, such portion shall be carried over to each of the ten succeeding taxable years consistently with the rules prescribed in this section and paragraph (a)(2) of ยง 1.1212-1.
