
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Carryovers
###### ยง 1.381(c)(4)-1 Method of accounting.
####### Principal method,In general.

(c)-(1)For each integrated trade or business, the principal method is generally the method of accounting used by the component trade or business of the acquiring corporation immediately prior to the date of distribution or transfer. If, however, the component trade or business of the distributor or transferor corporation is larger than the component trade or business of the acquiring corporation on the date of distribution or transfer, the principal method is the method used by the component trade or business of the distributor or transferor corporation immediately prior to that date. If the larger component trade or business does not have a special method of accounting for a particular item immediately prior to the date of distribution or transfer, the principal method for that item is the method of accounting used by the component trade or business that does have a special method of accounting for that item. See paragraph (e)(9) of this section for special rules concerning methods of accounting that are elected on a project-by-project, job-by-job, or other similar basis. For each integrated trade or business, the component trade or business of the distributor or transferor corporation is larger than the component trade or business of the acquiring corporation on the date of distribution or transfer if-

(i) The aggregate of the adjusted bases of the assets held by each component trade or business of the distributor or transferor corporation (determined under section 1011 and any applicable Income Tax Regulations) exceeds the aggregate of the adjusted bases of the assets of each component trade or business of the acquiring corporation immediately prior to the date of distribution or transfer, and

(ii) The aggregate of the gross receipts for a representative period of each component trade or business of the distributor or transferor corporation exceeds the aggregate of the gross receipts for the same period of each component trade or business of the acquiring corporation. See paragraph (e)(5) of this section for rules on determining the representative period.
