
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Carryovers
###### ยง 1.381(c)(4)-1 Method of accounting.
####### Other applicable provisions.

(7)This section does not preempt any other provision of the Internal Revenue Code or the Income Tax Regulations that is applicable to the acquiring corporation's circumstances. For example, income, deductions, credits, allowances, and exclusions may be allocated among the parties to a section 381(a) transaction and other taxpayers under sections 269 and 482, if appropriate. Similarly, transfers of contracts accounted for using a long-term contract method of accounting are governed by the rules provided in ยง 1.460-4(k). Further, if other paragraphs of section 381(c) apply for purposes of determining the methods of accounting to be used following the date of distribution or transfer, section 381(c)(4) and this ยง 1.381(c)(4)-1 will not apply to the tax treatment of the items. For example, this section does not apply to inventories that an acquiring corporation obtains in a transaction to which section 381(a) applies. Instead, the rules of section 381(c)(5) govern the inventory method to be used by the acquiring corporation after the distribution or transfer. Similarly, if the acquiring corporation assumes an obligation of the distributor or transferor corporation that gives rise to a liability after the date of distribution or transfer and to which ยง 1.381(c)(16)-1 applies, the deductibility of the item is determined under this section only after the rules of section 381(c)(16) are applied.
