
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Carryovers
###### ยง 1.381(c)(5)-1 Inventory method.
####### Conclusion.

(B)Because after the date of distribution or transfer X Corporation operates the food and beverages business as a separate and distinct trade or business, under paragraph (a)(2) of this section X Corporation must use the carryover methods for each continuing trade or business, unless either the carryover methods are impermissible and must be changed under paragraph (a)(4) of this section or X Corporation changes the carryover methods in accordance with paragraph (a)(5) of this section. As defined in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the carryover methods for the food and beverages business are the FIFO method, the cost basis of valuation, and X Corporation's methods of capitalizing costs under section 263A immediately prior to the date of distribution or transfer. The carryover methods for the sporting equipment business are the FIFO method and the cost basis of valuation. There is no change in method of accounting, and X Corporation need not secure the Commissioner's consent to use any carryover method. However, because X Corporation does not qualify for the small business taxpayer exception under section 263A for its sporting equipment business, X Corporation's method of not capitalizing additional section 263A costs is an impermissible carryover method under paragraph (a)(4) of this section. X Corporation must secure the Commissioner's consent to change to a permissible method of capitalizing costs under section 263A for the sporting equipment business as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
