
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Carryovers
###### ยง 1.381(c)(5)-1 Inventory method.
####### Procedures for changing a method of accounting,Change made to principal method under paragraph (a)(3) of this section,Section 481(a) adjustment,In general.

(d)-(1)-(i)-(A)An acquiring corporation that changes its method of accounting or the distributor or transferor corporation's method of accounting under paragraph (a)(3) of this section does not need to secure the Commissioner's consent to use a principal method. To the extent the use of a principal method constitutes a change in method of accounting, the change in method is treated as a change initiated by the acquiring corporation for purposes of section 481(a)(2). Any change to a principal method, whether the change relates to a trade or business of the acquiring corporation or a trade or business of the distributor or transferor corporation, must be reflected on the acquiring corporation's federal income tax return for the taxable year that includes the date of distribution or transfer. The amount of the section 481(a) adjustment and the adjustment period, if any, necessary to implement a change to the principal method are determined under ยง 1.446-1(e) and the applicable administrative procedures that govern voluntary changes in methods of accounting under section 446(e). If the Internal Revenue Code, the Income Tax Regulations, or administrative procedures require that a method of accounting be implemented on a cut-off basis, the acquiring corporation must implement the change, on a cut-off basis as of the date of distribution or transfer, on its federal income tax return for the taxable year that includes the date of distribution or transfer. If the Internal Revenue Code, the Income Tax Regulations, or administrative procedures require a section 481(a) adjustment, the acquiring corporation must determine the section 481(a) adjustment and include the appropriate amount of the section 481(a) adjustment on its federal income tax return for the taxable year that includes the date of distribution or transfer and subsequent taxable year(s), as necessary. This adjustment is determined by the acquiring corporation as of the beginning of the day that is immediately after the date of distribution or transfer.
