
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Carryovers
###### ยง 1.381(c)(6)-1 Depreciation method.
####### Distributions in taxable years ending after July 24, 1969.

(2)(i) Section 381(c)(6) provides that if, in a transaction in a taxable year ending after July 24, 1969, to which section 381(a) applies, an acquiring corporation acquires depreciable property from a distributor or transferor corporation which computes its allowances for the depreciation of the property under subsection (b), (j), or (k) of section 167, the acquiring corporation shall compute its depreciation allowance by the same method used by the distributor or transferor corporation with respect to such property. Thus, if the distributor or transferor corporation used the straight line method under section 167(b)(1) with respect to an asset distributed or transferred to an acquiring corporation, the acquiring corporation will be required to use the straight line method with respect to such asset. Similarly, if the distributor or transferor corporation elected to compute depreciation under section 167(k) with respect to property attributable to rehabilitation expenditures, and such property is transferred to an acquiring corporation, the acquiring corporation will be required to compute depreciation under section 167(k) with respect to the property acquired. The computation of the depreciation allowance with respect to the property acquired shall be made under the provisions of section 167 and the regulations thereunder.

(ii) The rules provided in section 381(c)(6) and subdivision (i) of this subparagraph shall apply only with respect to that part or all of the basis of the property in the hands of the acquiring corporation immediately after the date of distribution or transfer as does not exceed the basis of the property in the hands of the distributor or transferor corporation on the date of the distribution or transfer. For this purpose, the basis of the property in the hands of the distributor or transferor corporation shall be the adjusted basis provided in section 1011 for the purpose of determining gain on the sale or other disposition of such property. For provisions defining the date of distribution or transfer see ยง 1.38(b)-1(b).
