
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Carryovers
###### § 1.381(c)(13)-1 Involuntary conversions.
####### Replacement period.

(2)The period during which the purchase of similar property or stock must be made in order to prevent the recognition of gain on the involuntary conversion terminates 2 years (or, in the case of a disposition occurring before Dec. 31, 1969, 1 year) after the close of the first taxable year in which any part of the gain upon the conversion is realized, or at the close of such later date as may be designated pursuant to an application of the taxpayer. See paragraph (c)(3) of § 1.1033(a)-2. Therefore, if, in a case to which this subparagraph applies, the first taxable year in which gain is realized is the taxable year of the distributor or transferor corporation ending with the close of the date of distribution or transfer, the acquiring corporation will have a maximum of only 2 years (or, in the case of a disposition occurring before Dec. 31, 1969, 1 year) after that date in which to purchase the similar property or stock, unless an extension of time has been granted upon application by the distributor, transferor, or acquiring corporation within the time prescribed. See paragraph (a) of § 1.381(b)-1 as to the termination of the taxable year of the distributor or transferor corporation. See paragraph (c)(3) of § 1.1033(a)-2 as to applications to extend the period within which to replace the converted property. In addition to the information otherwise required under paragraph (c)(3) of § 1.1033(a)-2, the application shall contain sufficient detail in connection with the distribution or transfer to establish that section 381(c)(13) applies to the involuntary conversion involved.
