
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Carryovers
###### ยง 1.381(c)(16)-1 Obligations of distributor or transferor corporation.
####### Deduction allowed to acquiring corporation.

(a)(1) If, in a transaction to which section 381(a) applies, the acquiring corporation assumes an obligation of a distributor or transferor corporation which gives rise to a liability after the date of distribution or transfer and if the distributor or transferor corporation would be entitled to deduct such liability in computing taxable income were it paid or accrued after that date by such corporation, then, under the provisions of section 381(c)(16) and this section, the acquiring corporation shall be entitled to deduct such liability as if it were the distributor or transferor corporation. However, in the case of a transaction to which section 381(a)(2) applies, section 381(c)(16) shall not apply to an obligation which is reflected in the amount of consideration, that is, the stock, securities, or other property, transferred by the acquiring corporation to a transferor corporation or its shareholders in exchange for the property of that transferor corporation. An obligation which is so reflected in the amount of consideration will be treated as an item or tax attribute not specified in section 381(c)(16). Such an obligation is subject to section 381(c)(4). See subparagraph (2) of this paragraph. Any deduction allowed under section 381(c)(16) to the acquiring corporation shall be taken by that corporation in the taxable year ending after the date of distribution or transfer in which the liability is paid or accrued by that corporation, as the case may be.

(2) In order to determine whether, in the case of obligations of a distributor or transferor corporation assumed by an acquiring corporation, section 381(c)(16) and this section, or section 381(c)(4) and the regulations thereunder, apply, the following rules shall govern:

(i) If the obligation gave rise to a liability before the date of distribution or transfer, see section 381(c)(4) and the regulations thereunder.

(ii) If the obligation gives rise to a liability after the date of distribution or transfer, and the obligation was not reflected in the amount of consideration transferred by the acquiring corporation to the distributor or transferor corporation or its shareholders in exchange for the property of the distributor or transferor corporation, then section 381(c)(16) and this section shall apply.

(iii) In the case of a transaction to which section 381(a)(1) applies, if the obligation gives rise to a liability after the date of a distribution, and the obligation was reflected in the amount of consideration transferred by the acquiring corporation to the distributor corporation or its shareholders in exchange for the property of the distributor corporation, then section 381(c)(16) and this section shall apply.

(iv) In the case of a transaction to which section 381(a)(2) applies, if the obligation gives rise to a liability after the date of a transfer, and the obligation was reflected in the amount of consideration transferred by the acquiring corporation to the transferor corporation or its shareholders in exchange for the property of the transferor corporation, then see section 381(c)(4) and the regulations thereunder.

(3) The rules of this section apply to obligations assumed by agreement of the parties as well as by operation of law.

(4) For purposes of this section, an obligation of a distributor or transferor corporation gives rise to a liability when the liability would be accruable by a taxpayer using the accrual method of accounting notwithstanding the fact that the distributor or transferor corporation is not using the accrual method of accounting. See paragraph (a)(2) of ยง 1.461-1.

(5) In the case of a transaction to which section 381(a)(2) applies, the determination as to whether or not an obligation was reflected in the amount of consideration transferred by the acquiring corporation to the transferor corporation or its shareholders in exchange for the property of the transferor corporation shall be made on the basis of all the facts of each particular transfer. Where, on the date of distribution or transfer, the parties were aware of the existence of a specific obligation and reduced the amount of consideration to be transferred by the acquiring corporation by a specific amount because of the existence of such obligation, then such obligation shall be considered to have been reflected in the amount of consideration transferred. In the absence of such facts, it shall be presumed that the obligation was not reflected in the amount of consideration transferred.
