
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Carryovers
###### ยง 1.381(c)(22)-1 Successor life insurance company.
####### Items required to be taken into account by acquiring corporation.

(b)If a transaction meets the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, the acquiring corporation shall, except as otherwise provided, take into account as of the close of the date of distribution or transfer the following items of the distributor or transferor corporation:

(1) The operations loss carryovers (as determined under section 812), subject to conditions and limitations consistent with the conditions and limitations prescribed in section 381(c)(1) and the regulations thereunder. For example, a loss from operations for a loss year of a distributor or transferor corporation which ends on or before the last day of a loss year of the acquiring corporation shall be considered to be a loss from operations for a year prior to such loss year of the acquiring corporation. All references in section 381(c)(1) and the regulations thereunder to section 172 shall be construed as referring to the appropriate corresponding provisions of section 812. Thus, a reference to section 172(b) shall be construed as referring to section 812 (b) and (d). In determining the span of years for which a loss from operations may be carried, the number of taxable years for which the distributor or transferor corporation was authorized to do business as an insurance company shall be taken into account. For purposes of this determination, the taxable year of the distributor or transferor corporation which ends on the date of distribution or transfer shall be taken into account even though such taxable year is a period of less than 12 months.

(2)(i) The investment yield and the beginning of the year asset balance for the distributor or transferor corporation's taxable year ending with the close of the date of distribution or transfer. Such items shall be integrated with the investment yield and beginning of the year asset balance of the acquiring corporation for its first taxable year ending after such date of distribution or transfer for purposes of determining the current earnings rate of the acquiring corporation for such taxable year. Furthermore, for purposes of determining the average earnings rate of the acquiring corporation, the investment yield and mean of the assets of the distributor or transferor corporation for its 4 taxable years immediately preceding its taxable year which closes with the date of distribution or transfer shall be integrated with the investment yield and mean of the assets of the acquiring corporation for such corresponding taxable years.

(ii) The provisions of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

(3) To the extent there are any amounts accrued for discounts in the nature of interest which have not been included as interest paid under section 805(e)(3), the acquiring corporation shall be treated as the distributor or transferor corporation for purposes of including such amounts as interest paid.

(4) Any adjustment required by section 806(b) with respect to an item described in section 810(c) shall be made by the acquiring corporation in its first taxable year which begins after the date of distribution or transfer.

(5) The amount of the deduction provided by section 809(d)(6), as limited by section 809(f), for all taxable years of the distributor or transferor corporation which end on and before the date of distribution or transfer (irrespective of whether or not the distributor or transferor corporation claimed this deduction for such taxable years) for the purpose of determining the limitation under section 809(d)(6).

(6) [Reserved]
