
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Carryovers
###### ยง 1.381(c)(23)-1 Investment credit carryovers in certain corporate acquisitions.
####### Computation of carryovers and carrybacks.

(c)(1) Subject to the modifications set forth in this paragraph, the provisions of ยง 1.46-2 shall apply in computing carryovers and carrybacks of unused credits to taxable years of the acquiring corporation.

(2)(i) The investment credit carryovers available to the distributor or transferor corporation as of the close of the date of distribution or transfer shall first be carried to the first taxable year of the acquiring corporation ending after that date. This rule applies whether the date of distribution or transfer is on the last day, or any other day, of the acquiring corporation's taxable year.

(ii) The investment credit carryovers available to the distributor or transferor corporation as of the close of the date of distribution or transfer shall be carried to the acquiring corporation without diminution by reason of the fact that the acquiring corporation does not acquire 100 percent of the assets of the distributor or transferor corporation.

(3) An unused credit of a distributor or transferor corporation for a taxable year which ends on or before the last day of a taxable year of the acquiring corporation shall be considered to be an unused credit for a year prior to such taxable year of the acquiring corporation. If the acquiring corporation has acquired the assets of two or more distributor or transferor corporations on the same date of distribution or transfer, the unused credit years of the distributor or transferor corporations shall be taken into account in the order in which such years terminate. If any one of the unused credit years of a distributor or transferor corporation ends on the same day as the unused credit year of another distributor or transferor corporation, either unused credit year may be taken into account before the other.

(4) The extent to which an investment credit carryover of a distributor or transferor corporation or of an acquiring corporation from an unused credit year ending before January 1, 1971, may be taken into account by the acquiring corporation for a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1970, shall be determined without regard to the credit earned by the acquiring corporation for such year. Thus, in such a case, the amount of unused credit from such unused credit years which may be taken into account in a taxable year of the acquiring corporation beginning after December 31, 1970, shall be determined solely with reference to the limitation based on amount of tax for such taxable year (without reduction for the credit earned for such year).
