
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.46-3 Qualified investment.
####### Nonregulated communication property.

(iv)"Nonregulated communication property" is property that is clearly the same type of property (and is used by the taxpayer predominantly for the same type of communication purposes) as communication property, but it is used by the taxpayer predominantly in a trade or business that is not a public utility activity. For purposes of this paragraph (g)(2)(iv), of this section, communication property is property ordinarily used for communication purposes by persons who provide regulated telephone or microwave communication services described in section 46(c)(3)(B)(iii). The determination of whether property is clearly of this same type and is used predominantly for these same communication purposes as communication property is made on the basis of the facts and circumstances of each particular case, including the current state of technology in the communications industry and the range and type of services permitted or required to be provided by the regulated telephone and microwave communication industry. As of 1978, wires or cables used predominantly to distribute to subscribers the signals of one or more television broadcast stations or cablecast stations (such as in a CATV system) are not used for the same type of communication purposes as communication property. Communication property includes microwave transmission equipment, private communication equipment (other than land mobile radio equipment for which the operator must obtain a license from the Federal Communications Commission), private switchboard (PBX) equipment, communications terminal equipment connected to telephone networks, data transmission equipment, and communications satellites. Communication property does not include (as of 1978) computer terminals or facsimile reproduction equipment that is connected to telephone lines to transmit data. It also does not include office furniture stands for communication property, tools, repair vehicles, and similar property, even if such property is exclusively used in providing regulated telephone or microwave communication services.
