
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Carryovers
###### ยง 1.382-2 General rules for ownership change.
####### End of separate accounting for losses and credits of distributor or transferor loss corporation.

(iv)The separate tracking of owner shifts of the stock of an acquiring corporation required by paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section with respect to the net operating loss carryovers and other attributes described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section ends when a fold-in event occurs. A fold-in event is either an ownership change of the distributor or transferor corporation in connection with, or after, the transaction to which section 381(a) applies, or a period of 5 consecutive years following the section 381(a) transaction during which the distributor or transferor corporation has not had an ownership change. Starting on the day after the earlier of the change date (but not earlier than the day of the section 381(a) transaction) or the last day of the 5 consecutive year period, the losses and other attributes of the distributor or transferor corporation are treated as losses and attributes of the acquiring corporation for purposes of determining whether an ownership change occurs with respect to such losses. Also, for purposes of determining the beginning of the acquiring corporation's testing period, such losses are considered to arise either in a taxable year that begins not earlier than the later of the day following the change date or the day of the section 381(a) transaction, or in a taxable year that begins 3 years before the end of the 5 consecutive year period. Pre-change losses of a distributor or transferor corporation that are subject to a limitation under section 382 continue to be subject to the limitation notwithstanding the occurrence of a fold-in event. Any ownership change that occurs in connection with, or subsequent to, the section 381 transaction may result in an additional, lesser limitation with respect to such pre-change losses.
