
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Carryovers
###### ยง 1.382-2T Definition of ownership change under section 382, as amended by the Tax Reform Act of 1986 (temporary).
####### Events requiring a determination of whether an ownership change has occurred,Testing dates prior to November 5, 1992.

(2)-(i)Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (a)(2)(i), a loss corporation is required to determine whether an ownership change has occurred immediately after any owner shift, any equity structure shift, or any transaction in which an option with respect to stock of the loss corporation is-

(A) Transferred to (or by) a 5-percent shareholder (or a person who would be 5-percent shareholder if the option were treated as exercised), or

(B) Issued by the loss corporation, a first tier entity, or a higher tier entity that owns five percent or more of the loss corporation (determined without regard to the application of paragraph (h)(2)(i)(A) of this section). Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, any transfer of stock of the loss corporation (or an option with respect to such stock) in any of the circumstances described in section 382(l)(3)(B), or any equity structure shift that is not also an owner shift, is not an event that requires the loss corporation to make a determination of whether an ownership change has occurred. For purposes of this section, each date on which a loss corporation is required to make a determination of whether an ownership change has occurred is referred to as a testing date, all computations of increases in percentage ownership are to be made as of the close of the testing date, and any transactions described in this paragraph (a)(2)(i) that occur on that date are treated as occurring simultaneously at the close of the testing date. See paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section for the respective definitions of owner shift and equity structure shift. See paragraphs (f)(9) and (14) of this section for the respective definitions of first tier entity and higher tier entity. See paragraph (m)(4)(vii) of this section for special rules regarding the effective date of the provisions of this paragraph (a)(2)(i).

(ii) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see ยง 1.382-11(a).
