
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Carryovers
###### ยง 1.382-2T Definition of ownership change under section 382, as amended by the Tax Reform Act of 1986 (temporary).
####### Ownership change,In general.

(a)-(1)A corporation is a new loss corporation and thus subject to limitation under section 382 only if an ownership change has occurred with respect to such corporation. An ownership change occurs with respect to a corporation if it is a loss corporation on a testing date and, immediately after the close of the testing date, the percentage of stock of the corporation owned by one or more 5-percent shareholders has increased by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of stock of such corporation owned by such shareholders at any time during the testing period. See paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section for the definition of testing date. See paragraph (d) of this section for the definition of testing period. See ยง 1.382-2(a)(1) and paragraph (f)(3) of this section for the respective definition of loss corporation and new loss corporation. See paragraph (g) of this section for the definition of 5-percent shareholder. See section 383 and ยง 1.383-1 for rules relating to loss corporations that have an ownership change and have capital loss carryovers, excess foreign taxes carried over under section 904(c), carryovers of general business credits under section 39, or unused minimum tax credits under section 53.
