
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Carryovers
###### ยง 1.382-2T Definition of ownership change under section 382, as amended by the Tax Reform Act of 1986 (temporary).
####### Identification of the public groups treated as 5-percent shareholders,Analysis of highest tier entities.,i.e.,

(iv)-(A)The loss corporation must identify first tier entities and higher tier entities in order to identify any highest tier entities that must be identified under paragraph (k)(3) of this section. The loss corporation must then identify any 5-percent owners of each such highest tier entity who indirectly own, at any time during the testing period, five percent or more of the loss corporation through the ownership interest in such highest tier entity. Under paragraph (g)(1)(i)(B) of this section, any such 5-percent owner is a 5-percent shareholder. See paragraph (k)(3) of this section for rules explaining the extent of the obligation of the loss corporation to determine the identity of its shareholders. Each person who has an ownership interest in any highest tier entity and who is not treated as a 5-percent shareholder (persons who are public owners or 5-percent owners who are not 5-percent shareholders) is a member of the public group of that highest tier entity. A public group, so identified, that indirectly owns five percent or more of the loss corporation on the testing date is treated under paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section as a 5-percent shareholder. If the public group so identified owns less than five percent of the loss corporation on the testing date, such public group is treated as part of the public group of the next lower tier entity.
