
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.46-4 Limitations with respect to certain persons.
####### Noncorporate lessors.

(d)(1) In the case of a lease entered into after September 22, 1971, a credit is allowed under section 38 to a noncorporate lessor of property with respect to the leased property only if-

(i) Such property has been manufactured or produced by the lessor in the ordinary course of his business, or

(ii) The term of the lease (taking into account any options to renew) is less than 50 percent of the estimated useful life of the property (determined under ยง 1.46-3(e)), and for the period consisting of the first 12 months after the date on which the property is transferred to the lessee the sum of the deductions with respect to such property which are allowable to the lessor solely by reason of section 162 (other than rents and reimbursed amounts with respect to such property) exceeds 15 percent of the rental income produced by such property.

(2) For purposes of subparagraph (1)(ii) of this paragraph, if at the time the lessor files his income tax return for the taxable year in which the property is placed in service, the lessor is unable to show that the more-than-15-percent test has been satisfied, then no credit may be claimed by the lessor on such return with respect to such property unless (i) taking into account the lessor's obligations under the lease it is reasonable to believe that the more-than-15-percent test will be satisfied, and (ii) the lessor files a statement with his return from which it may be determined that he expects to satisfy the more-than-15-percent test. If the more-than-15-percent test is not satisfied with respect to the property, the taxpayer must file an amended return for the year in which the property is placed in service.

(3)(i) The more-than-15-percent test described in subparagraph (1)(ii) of this paragraph is based on the relationship of the expenses of the lessor relating to or attributable to the property to the gross income from rents of the taxpayer produced by the property. The test is applied with respect to such expenses and gross income as are properly attributable to the period consisting of the first 12 months after the date on which the property is transferred to the lessee. When more than one property is subject to a single lease and, pursuant to subparagraph (4) of this paragraph, the arrangement is considered to be a separate lease of each property, the test is applied separately to each such lease by making an apportionment of the payments received and expenses incurred with respect to each such property, considering all relevant factors. Such apportionment is made in accordance with any reasonable method selected and consistently applied by the taxpayer. For example, under subparagraph (4) of this paragraph, where a taxpayer leases an airplane which he owns to an airline along with a baggage truck, he is treated as having made two separate leases, one covering the airplane and one covering the baggage truck. Thus, the test will be applied by apportioning the related income and expenses between the two leases. Similarly, where a taxpayer leases a factory building erected by him containing section 38 property (machinery and equipment), the test will be applied to the taxpayer as though he had leased (to the lessee) the building and the section 38 property separately. Thus, the rental income and expenses are apportioned between the building and the section 38 property.

(ii) Only those deductions allowable solely by reason of section 162 are taken into account in applying the more-than-15-percent test. Hence, depreciation allowable by reason of section 167 (including amortization allowable in lieu of depreciation); interest allowable by reason of section 163; taxes allowable by reason of section 164; and depletion allowable by reason of section 611 are examples of deductions which are not taken into account in applying the test. Moreover, rents and reimbursed amounts paid or payable by the lessor are not taken into account notwithstanding that a deduction in respect of such rents or reimbursed amounts is allowable solely by reason of section 162. For purposes of this paragraph, a reimbursed amount is any expense for which the lessee or some other party is obligated to reimburse the lessor. Section 162 expenses paid or payable by any person other than the lessor are not taken into account unless the lessor is obligated to reimburse the person paying the expense. Further, if the lessee is obligated to pay to the lessor a charge for services which is separately stated or determinable, the expenses incurred by the lessor with respect to those services are not taken into account.

(iii) For purposes of the more-than-15-percent test, the gross income from rents of the lessor produced by the property is the total amount which is payable to the lessor by reason of the lease agreement other than reimbursements of section 162 expenses and charges for services which are separately stated or determinable. The fact that such amount depends, in whole or in part, on the sales or profits of the lessee or the performance of significant services by the lessor shall not affect the characterization of such amounts as gross income from rents for purposes of this paragraph. Gross income from rents also includes any taxes imposed on the lessor by local law but which are paid directly by the lessee on behalf of the lessor.

(4) For purposes of determining under this paragraph whether property is subject to a lease, the provisions of ยง 1.57-3(d)(1) (relating to definition of a lease) shall apply. If a noncorporate lessor enters into two or more successive leases with respect to the same or substantially similar items of section 38 property, the terms of such leases shall be aggregated and such leases shall be considered one lease for the purpose of determining whether the term of such leases is less than 50 percent of the estimated useful life of the property subject to such leases. Thus, for example, if an individual owns an airplane with an estimated useful life of 7 years and enters into three successive 3-year leases of such airplane, such leases will be considered to be one lease for a term of nine years for the purpose of determining whether the term of the lease is less than 3years (50 percent of the 7-year estimated useful life).

(5) The requirements of this paragraph shall not apply with respect to any property which is treated as section 38 property by reason of section 48(a)(1)(E).
