
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.46-5 Qualified progress expenditures.
####### Normal construction period,In general.

(e)-(1)(i) The normal construction period is the period the taxpayer reasonably expects will be required to construct the property. The period begins on the date physical work on construction of the property commences and ends on the date the property is available to be placed in service. The normal construction period does not include, however, construction before January 22, 1975, nor construction before the first day of the first taxable year for which an election under section 46(d) is in effect. Physical work on construction of property does not include preliminary activities such as planning, designing, preparing blueprints, exploring, or securing financing.

(ii) The determination of the time when physical work on construction commences is based on the facts and circumstances of each case. Physical work on construction of property may include the physical work done by a subcontractor on a component specifically designated as part of the property. Also, the commencement of physical work on construction may occur at a site different from the main site of construction of the property. For example, if a shipyard orders a turbine before it begins work on building a ship, the normal construction period of the ship is measured from the time the subcontractor commences physical work on construction of the turbine (if it is normal for such work to precede the work of the main contractor).

(iii) Generally, physical work on construction does not include physical activity that is not necessary to complete construction of the property, nor does it include physical work on construction of a building or other property that will not be new section 38 property when placed in service. Physical work on construction also does not include research and development activities in a laboratory or experimental setting.

(iv) The normal construction period of property ends on the date it is expected the property will be available to be placed in service. Property is considered available to be placed in service when construction is completed and the property is available for delivery to the site of its assigned function. It is not necessary that property be in a state of readiness for a specifically assigned function. Nor is it necessary that it actually be delivered to the site of its assigned function.
