
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.46-5 Qualified progress expenditures.
####### Estimates.

(2)Taxpayers should refer to normal industry practice in estimating the normal construction period of particular items. A different period may be used if special circumstances exist making it impractical to make the estimate on the basis of normal industry practice. The estimate must be based on information available at the close of the taxable year in which physical work on construction of the property begins, or, if later, at the close of the first taxable year for which an election under section 46(d) is in effect for the taxpayer. If the estimate is reasonable when made, the actual time it takes to complete the work is, in general, irrelevant in determining whether property is progress expenditure property. However, if there is a significant error in estimating the normal construction period, it may be evidence that the estimate was unreasonable when made. For taxable years ending after April 1, 1988, a taxpayer not relying or normal industry practice to estimate the normal construction period of particular property must attach to the tax return for the taxable year in which physical work on construction of the property begins (or, if later, the first taxable year for which an election under section 46(d) is in effect) a statement of the basis relied upon in estimating the normal construction period of the property.
