
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Carryovers
###### ยง 1.382-3 Definitions and rules relating to a 5-percent shareholder.
####### December redemption.

(B)The December redemption is a small redemption because the number of shares redeemed (90) does not exceed 106, the small redemption limitation (10 percent of the number of common shares outstanding on January 1, 2014). However, under paragraph (j)(14)(i) of this section, only 46 of the 90 shares redeemed are exempted from the segregation rules of ยง 1.382-2T(j)(2)(iii)(C) because the total number of shares of common stock redeemed in the July and December redemptions exceeds 106, the small redemption limitation, by 44. Accordingly, under paragraph (j)(14)(iv) of this section, Public L is treated as having 46 shares redeemed in the December redemption. Section 1.382-2T(j)(2)(iii)(C) applies to the remaining 44 shares redeemed. Accordingly, Public L is segregated into two different public groups immediately before the transaction (and thereafter) so that the redeemed interests (Public RL) are treated as part of a public group that is separate from the ownership interests that are not redeemed (Public CL). Therefore, as a result of the December redemption, Public CL's interest in L increases by 4.4 percentage points (from 95.6 percent (956/1,000) to 100 percent (910/910)) on the December 31, 2014 testing date. For purposes of determining whether an ownership change occurs on any subsequent testing date having a testing period that includes the December redemption, Public CL is treated as a 5-percent shareholder whose percentage ownership interests in L increased by 4.4 percentage points as a result of such redemption.
