
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.46-5 Qualified progress expenditures.
####### Integrated unit.

(3)(i) In determining whether property has a normal construction period of 2 years or more, property that will be placed in service separately is to be considered separately. For example, if two ships are contracted for at the same time, each ship is considered separately under this paragraph. However, for property that will be placed in service as an integrated unit, the taxpayer must determine the normal construction period of the integrated unit. If the normal construction period of the integrated unit is 2 years or more, the normal construction period of each item of new section 38 property that is a part of the integrated unit is considered to be 2 years or more. Thus, the normal construction period of an integrated unit may be 2 years or more even if no part of the unit has a normal construction period of 2 years or more.

(ii) Property is part of an integrated unit only if the operation of that item is essential to the performance of the function to which the unit is assigned. Property essential to the performance of the function to which the unit is assigned includes property the use of which is significantly connected to that function and which effects the safe, proper, or efficient performance of the unit. Generally, property must be placed in service at the same time to be considered part of the same integrated unit. Properties are not an integrated unit, however, solely because they are to be placed in service at the same time.

(iii) The normal construction period for an integrated unit begins on the date the normal construction period of the first item of new section 38 property that is part of the unit begins. It is not necessary that physical work commence at the main construction site of the integrated unit.
