
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Carryovers
###### ยง 1.382-6 Allocation of income and loss to periods before and after the change date for purposes of section 382.
####### Example 2,Potential deduction of disallowed business interest expense carryforwards.,3

(iv)-The facts are the same as in paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(A) of this section, except that, as of January 1, 2021, X has $90 of disallowed business interest expense carryforwards and $150 (rather than $250) of pre-change BIE. X's pre-change section 163(j) limit and post-change section 163(j) limit are the same as in paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(B)() of this section. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(C) of this section, X deducts all $150 of its pre-change BIE and all $100 of its post-change BIE. X has no remaining pre-change BIE or post-change BIE to deduct under paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(D) of this section. Paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(E) of this section applies because X has $80 of excess pre-change section 163(j) limit ($230-$150) and $40 of excess post-change section 163(j) limit ($140-$100). Under paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(E) of this section, X allocates $60 of its disallowed business interest expense carryforwards to the pre-change period ($90 x ($80/($80 + $40))) and $30 of its disallowed business interest expense carryforwards to the post-change period ($90 x ($40/($80 + $40))). As provided in paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(F) of this section, X deducts all $60 of its disallowed business interest expense carryforwards that are allocated to the pre-change period; subject to the application of section 382, X deducts all $30 of its disallowed business interest expense carryforwards that are allocated to the post-change period.
