
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.46-5 Qualified progress expenditures.
####### Time when amounts paid or incurred are properly chargeable to capital account.

(3)(i) In general, expenditures for component parts and materials to be used in construction of self-constructed property are not properly chargeable to capital account until consumed or physically attached in the construction process. Component parts and materials that have been neither consumed nor physically attached in the construction process, but which have been irrevocably allocated to construction of that property are properly chargeable to capital account. Component parts and materials designed specifically for the self-constructed property may be considered irrevocably allocated to construction of that property at the time of manufacture of the component parts and materials. Component parts and materials not designed specifically for the property may be considered irrevocably allocated to construction at the time of delivery to the construction site if they would be economically impractical to remove. For example, pumps delivered to sites of construction of a tundra pipeline may be treated as irrevocably allocated to that pipeline on the date of delivery, even if they would be usable, but for their location on the tundra, in connection with other property. Component parts and materials are not to be considered irrevocably allocated to use in self-constructed property until physical work on construction of that property has begun (as determined under paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section). Mere bookkeeping notations are not sufficient evidence that the necessary allocation has been made.

(ii) A taxpayer's procedure for determining the time when an expenditure is properly chargeable to capital account for self-constructed property is a method of accounting. Under section 446(e), the method of accounting, once adopted, may not be changed without consent of the Secretary.
