
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.46-5 Qualified progress expenditures.
####### Property constructed by more than one person.

(3)The percentage of completion limitation (as prescribed in paragraph (j)(6) of this section), including the presumption of ratable progress in construction, applies to an item of progress expenditure property as a whole. However, if several manufacturers or contractors do work in connection with the same property, the progress that each person makes toward completion of construction of the property must be determined separately. Section 46(d)(3)(B) is then applied separately to amounts paid to each manufacturer or contractor based on each person's progress in construction. For example, assume the taxpayer contracts with three persons to build an item of equipment. The taxpayer contracts with A to build the frame, B to build the motor, and C to assemble the frame and motor. Assume each contract represents 33percent of the construction costs of the property. If, within the taxable year in which construction begins, A and B each complete 50 percent of the construction of the frame and motor, respectively, amounts paid to A during that taxable year not in excess of 16percent of the overall cost of the property, and amounts paid to B during that taxable year not in excess of 16percent of the overall cost of the property, are qualified progress expenditures. Section 46(d)(3)(B) does not apply, however, to persons, such as lower-tier subcontractors, that do not have a direct contractual relationship with the taxpayer. If, in the above example, A engages a subcontractor to construct part of the frame, section 46(d)(3)(B) is applied only to amounts paid by the taxpayer to A, B, and C, but the portion of construction completed by A during a taxable year includes the portion completed by A's subcontractor.
