
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.46-5 Qualified progress expenditures.
####### Percentage of completion limitation.

(6)(i) Under section 46(d)(3)(B)(ii), payments made in any taxable year may be considered qualified progress expenditures for non-self-constructed property only to the extent they are attributable to progress made in construction (percentage of completion limitation). Progress will generally be measured in terms of the manufacturer's incurred cost, as a fraction of the anticipated cost (as adjusted from year to year). Architectural or engineering estimates will be evidence of progress made in construction. Cost accounting records also will be evidence of progress. Progress will be presumed to occur not more rapidly than ratably over the normal construction period. However, the taxpayer may rebut the presumption by clear and convincing evidence of a greater percentage of completion.

(ii) If, after the first year of construction, there is a change in either the total cost to the taxpayer or the total cost of construction by another person, the taxpayer must recompute the percentage of completion limitation on the basis of revised cost. However, the recomputation will affect only amounts allowed as qualified progress expenditures in the taxable year in which the change occurs and in subsequent taxable years. The recomputation remains subject to the presumption of pro rata completion.

(iii) If, for any taxable year, the amount paid to another person for construction of an item of property under section 46(d)(3)(B)(i) exceeds the percentage of completion limitation in section 46(d)(3)(B)(ii), the excess is treated as an amount paid to the other person for construction for the succeeding taxable year. If for any taxable year the percentage of completion limitation for an item of property exceeds the amount paid to another during the taxable year for construction, the excess is added to the percentage of completion limitation for that property for the succeeding taxable year.

(iv) The taxpayer must maintain detailed records which permit specific identification of the amounts paid to each person for construction of each item of property and the percentage of construction completed by each person for each taxable year.
