
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.46-5 Qualified progress expenditures.
####### Election,general.

(o)-(1) InThe election under section 46(d)(6) to increase qualified investment by qualified progress expenditures may be made for any taxable year ending after December 31, 1974. Except as provided in paragraph (o)(2) of this section, the election is effective for the first taxable year for which it is made and for all taxable years thereafter unless it is revoked with the consent of the Commissioner. Except as provided in paragraphs (o) (2) and (3) of this section, the election applies to all qualified progress expenditures made by the taypayer during the taxable year for construction of any progress expenditure property. Thus, the taxpayer may not make the election for one item of progress expenditure property and not for other items. If progress expenditure property is being constructed by or for a partnership, S corporation (as defined in section 1361(a)), trust, or estate, an election under section 46(d)(6) must be made separately by each partner or shareholder, or each beneficiary if the beneficiary, in determining his tax liability, would be allowed investment credit under section 38 for property subject to the election. The election may not be made by a partnership or S corporation, and may be made by a trust or estate only if the trust or estate, in determining its tax liability, would be allowed investment credit under section 38 for property subject to the election. The election of any partner, shareholder, beneficiary, trust, or estate will be effective for that person, even if a related partner, shareholder, beneficiary, trust, or estate does not make the election. An election made by a partner, shareholder, beneficiary, trust, or estate applies to all progress expenditure property of that person. For example, an election made by corporation X, which is a partner in the XYZ partnership, applies to progress expenditure property the corporation holds in its own capacity and also to its interest in progress expenditure property of the partnership.
