
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Carryovers
###### ยง 1.385-1 General provisions.
####### 2,Analysis.

()X owns directly 85% of the vote of the stock of P, which is stock meeting the requirements of section 1504(a)(2) (as modified by paragraph (c)(4)(i)(A) of this section). Therefore, X is an expanded group parent described in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section with respect to P. Y owns 85% of the value of the stock of P, which is stock meeting the requirements of section 1504(a)(2) (as modified by paragraph (c)(4)(i)(A) of this section). Therefore, Y is also an expanded group parent described in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section with respect to P. P owns directly 100% of the voting power and value of the stock of S1, which is stock meeting the requirements of section 1504(a)(2) (as modified by paragraph (c)(4)(i)(B) of this section). Therefore, X, P, and S1 constitute an expanded group as defined in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section. Additionally, Y, P, and S1 constitute an expanded group as defined in paragraph (c)(4) of this section. X and Y are not members of the same expanded group under paragraph (c)(4) of this section because X does not directly or indirectly own any of the stock of Y and Y does not directly or indirectly own any of the stock of X, such that X and Y do not comprise a chain of corporations described in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section.
