
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.46-5 Qualified progress expenditures.
####### Limitation on qualified progress expenditures for taxable years beginning before 1980,In general.

(q)-(1)(i) Under section 46(d)(7), qualified progress expenditures for any taxable year beginning before January 1, 1980, are limited. The taxpayer must apply the limitation under section 46(d)(7) on an item by item basis. In general, the taxpayer may take into account the applicable percentage (as determined under the table in section 46(d)(7)(A)) of qualified progress expenditures for each of those years. In addition, the taxpayer may take into account for each of those years 20 percent of qualified investment for each of the preceding taxable years determined without applying the limitations of section 46(d)(7).

(ii) The applicable percentage under section 46(d)(7)(A) may be applied only for one taxable year that ends within a calendar year in determining qualified investment for an item of progress expenditure property. For example, calendar year partners of a calendar year partnership may increase qualified investment for 1976 by 20 percent of qualified progress expenditures made in 1975 for an item of property. If the partnership incorporates in 1976 and the taxable year of the corporation begins on July 1, 1976, and ends on June 30, 1977, qualified investment of the corporation for its taxable year beginning on July 1, 1976, cannot be increased by 20 percent of the 1975 expenditure.
