
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Changes in Rates During a Taxable Year
###### ยง 1.25-4T Qualified mortgage credit certificate program (Temporary).
####### Definitions and special rules.

(3)(i) For purposes of this paragraph the term "annualized gross income" means the borrower's gross monthly income multiplied by 12. Gross monthly income is the sum of monthly gross pay, any additional income from investments, pensions, Veterans Administration (VA) compensation, part-time employment, bonuses, dividends, interest, current overtime pay, net rental income, etc., and other income (such as alimony and child support, if the borrower chooses to disclose such income). Information with respect to gross monthly income may be obtained from available loan documents, e.g., the sum of lines 23D and 23E on the Application for VA or FmHA Home Loan Guaranty or for HUD/FHA Insured Mortgage (VA Form 26-1802a, HUD 92900, Jan. 1982), or the total line from the Gross Monthly Income section of FHLMC Residential Loan Application form (FHLMC 65 Rev. 8/78).

(ii) For purposes of this paragraph, the term "reporting period" means each one year period beginning July 1 and ending June 30, except that issuers need not provide data with respect to the period prior to October 1, 1985.

(iii) For purposes of this paragraph, verification of information concerning a holder's gross monthly income by utilizing other available information concerning the holder's income (e.g., Federal income tax returns) is not required. In determining whether the holder of a mortgage credit certificate acquiring a residence in a targeted area satisfies the 3-year requirement, the issuer may rely on a statement signed by the holder.
