
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.46-6 Limitation in case of certain regulated companies.
####### Cost of service.

(2)(i)(A) For purposes of this section, "cost of service" is the amount required by a taxpayer to provide regulated goods or services. Cost of service includes operating expenses (including salaries, cost of materials, etc.) maintenance expenses, depreciation expenses, tax expenses, and interest expenses. For purposes of this section, any effect on a taxpayer's permitted return on investment that results from a reduction in the taxpayer's rate base does not constitute a reduction in cost of service, even though, as a technical ratemaking term, "cost of service" ordinarily includes a permitted return on investment. In addition, taking into account a deduction for the additional interest that the taxpayer would pay or accrue if the credit were unavailable in determining Federal income tax expense ("synchronization of interest") does not constitute a reduction in cost of service for purposes of section 46(f)(2). This adjustment to Federal income tax expense may be taken into account in determining cost of service for the regulated accounting period or periods that include the taxable year to which the adjustment relates or for any subsequent regulated accounting period.

(B) See paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(B) of this section for rules relating to the amount of additional interest that the taxpayer would pay or accrue if the credit were unavailable.

(ii) In determining whether, or to what extent, a credit has been used to reduce cost of service, reference shall be made to any accounting treatment that affects cost of service. Examples of such treatment include reducing by all or a portion of the credit the amount of Federal income tax expense taken into account for ratemaking purposes and reducing the depreciable bases of property by all or a portion of the credit for ratemaking purposes.
