
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.46-6 Limitation in case of certain regulated companies.
####### Indirect reductions to cost of service or rate base.

(4)(i) Cost of service or rate base is also considered to have been reduced by reason of all or a portion of a credit if such reduction is made in an indirect manner.

(ii) One type of such indirect reduction is any ratemaking decision in which the credit is treated as operating income (subject to ratemaking regulation) or is treated less favorably than the capital that would have been provided if the credit were unavailable. For example, if the credit is accounted for as nonoperating income on a company's regulated books of account but a ratemaking decision has the effect of treating the credit as operating income in determining rate of return to common shareholders, then cost of service has been indirectly reduced by reason of the credit.

(iii) A second type of indirect reduction is any ratemaking decision intended to achieve an effect similar to a direct reduction to cost of service or rate base. In determining whether a ratemaking decision is intended to achieve this effect, consideration is given to all the relevant facts and circumstances of each case, including, but not limited to-

(A) The record of the proceeding,

(B) The regulatory body's orders or opinions (including any dissenting views), and

(C) The anticipated effect of the ratemaking decision on the company's revenues in comparison to a direct reduction to cost of service or rate base by reason of the investment tax credits available to the regulated company.

(iv) This paragraph (b)(4)(iv) describes a situation that is not an indirect reduction to cost of service or rate base by reason of all or a portion of a credit. The ratemaking treatment of credits may affect the financial condition of a company, including the company's ability to attract new capital, the cost of that capital, the company's future financial requirements, the market price of the company's securities, and the degree of risk attributable to investment in those securities. The financial condition may be reflected in certain customary financial indicators such as the comparative capital structure of the company, coverage ratios, price/earnings ratios, and price/book ratios. Under the facts and circumstances test of paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section, the consideration of a company's financial condition by a regulatory body is not an indirect reduction to cost of service or rate base, even though such condition, as affected by the ratemaking treatment of the company's investment tax credits, is considered in the development of a reasonable rate of return on common shareholders' investment.
