
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Carryovers
###### ยง 1.385-3 Certain distributions of debt instruments and similar transactions.
####### Analysis.

(B)USS1 Note A is a covered debt instrument that is issued by USS1 to FP, a member of USS1's expanded group, in a distribution. Accordingly, under paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (d)(1)(i) of this section, USS1 Note A is treated as stock when it is issued by USS1 to FP on Date A in Year 1. Accordingly, USS1 is treated as distributing USS1 stock to FP. Because the distribution of USS1 Note A is described in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, the distribution of USS1 Note A is not described in paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section under paragraph (b)(5) of this section. Under paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, USS1 Note A ceases to be treated as stock when FP sells USS1 Note A to Bank on Date B in Year 1. Immediately before FP sells USS1 Note A to Bank, USS1 is deemed to issue a debt instrument to FP in exchange for USS1 Note A in a transaction that is disregarded for purposes of paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3)(i) of this section. USS1 Note B is not treated as stock under paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section because the funded member, USS1, has not made a distribution of property. However, because the transactions occurring on Date B of Year 1 were undertaken with a principal purpose of avoiding the purposes of this section, USS1 Note B is treated as stock on Date B of Year 1 under paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
