
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Carryovers
###### § 1.385-3 Certain distributions of debt instruments and similar transactions.
####### Analysis.,1

(B)() Pursuant to § 1.385-4(b)(6), PRS is treated as a partnership for purposes of this section. Under § 1.385-4(b)(1), DS and USS1 are treated as one corporation for purposes of this section, and thus a single covered member under § 1.385-1(c)(2). For purposes of this section, the single covered member owns 100% of the PRS profits and capital and therefore PRS is a controlled partnership under § 1.385-1(c)(1). Under paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section, the single covered member is treated as issuing all $200x of PRS Note to FP, a member of the same expanded group as the single covered member. DS's distribution to USS1 is a disregarded distribution because it is a distribution between members of a consolidated group that is disregarded under the one-corporation rule described in § 1.385-4(b)(1). However, under paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(A) of this section, PRS Note, treated as issued by the single covered member, is treated as funding the distribution by USS1 to FP, which is described in paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section and which is a regarded distribution. Accordingly, PRS Note, absent the application of paragraph (f)(4)(i) of this section, would be treated as stock under paragraph (b) of this section on Date B in Year 1. Thus, pursuant to paragraph (g)(23) of this section, the entire PRS Note is a specified portion.
