
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.46-6 Limitation in case of certain regulated companies.
####### Flow-through property.

(e)If a taxpayer made an election under section 46(f)(3) on or before March 9, 1972, section 46(f) (1) and (2) do not apply to the taxpayer's section 46(f) property to which section 167(l)(2)(C) applies. In the case of an election under section 46(f)(3), a credit will not be disallowed, notwithstanding a determination by a regulatory body having jurisdiction over such taxpayer that reduces the taxpayer's cost of service or rate base by reason of such credit. In general, section 167(l)(2)(C) applies to property with respect to which a taxpayer may use a flow-through method of accounting (within the meaning of section 167(l)(3)(H)) to take into account the allowance for depreciation under section 167(a). Section 167(l)(2)(C) applies to property even though the taxpayer does not use a flow-through method of accounting with respect to the property. Section 167(l)(2)(C) does not apply to property if the taxpayer can not use a flow-through method of accounting with respect to the property. For example, section 167(l)(2)(C) does not apply to property with respect to which an election under section 167(l)(4)(A) applies. Thus, such property does not qualify for an election under section 46(f)(3).
