
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Carryovers
###### § 1.385-4 Treatment of consolidated groups.
####### Analysis.

(B)Under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the USS1 consolidated group is treated as one corporation for purposes of § 1.385-3. Accordingly, when USS1 issues USS1 Note to DS1 for property on Date A in Year 1, the USS1 consolidated group is not treated as a funded member, and when USS1 distributes $200x to FP on Date B in Year 2, that distribution is a transaction described in § 1.385-3(b)(3)(i)(A), but does not cause USS1 Note to be recharacterized under § 1.385-3(b)(3). When DS1 sells USS1 Note to FS, USS1 Note is deemed satisfied and reissued under § 1.1502-13(g)(3)(ii), immediately before USS1 Note ceases to be an intercompany obligation. Under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, when the USS1 Note is transferred to FS for $200x on Date C in Year 2, the USS1 consolidated group is treated as issuing USS1 Note to FS in exchange for $200x on that date. Because USS1 Note is issued by the USS1 consolidated group to FS within the per se period as defined in § 1.385-3(g)(19) with respect to the distribution by the USS1 consolidated group to FP, USS1 Note is treated as funding the distribution under § 1.385-3(b)(3)(iii)(A) and, accordingly, is treated as stock under § 1.385-3(b)(3). Under § 1.385-3(d)(1)(i) and paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, USS1 Note is deemed to be exchanged for stock of the issuing member, USS1, immediately after USS1 Note is transferred outside of the USS1 consolidated group. Under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the deemed satisfaction and reissuance under § 1.1502-13(g)(3)(ii) and the deemed issuance and exchange under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section are respected as separate steps and treated as separate transactions.
