
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.46-6 Limitation in case of certain regulated companies.
####### Regulated depreciation expense.

(2)What is "ratable" is determined by considering the period of time actually used in computing the taxpayer's regulated depreciation expense for the property for which a credit is allowed. "Regulated depreciation expense" is the depreciation expense for the property used by a regulatory body for purposes of establishing the taxpayer's cost of service for ratemaking purposes. Such period of time shall be expressed in units of years (or shorter periods), units of production, or machine hours and shall be determined in accordance with the individual useful life system or composite (or other group asset) account system actually used in computing the taxpayer's regulated depreciation expense. A method of restoring, or reducing, is ratable if the amount to be restored to rate base, or to reduce cost of service (as the case may be), is allocated ratably in proportion to the number of such units. Thus, for example, assume that the regulated depreciation expense is computed under the straight line method by applying a composite annual percentage rate to "original cost" (as defined for purposes of computing regulated depreciation expense). If, with respect to an item of section 46(f) property, the amount to be restored annually to rate base is computed by applying a composite annual percentage rate to the amount by which the rate base was reduced, then the restoration is ratable. Similarly, if cost of service is reduced annually by an amount computed by applying a composite annual percentage rate to the amount of the credit, cost of service is reduced by a ratable portion. If such composite annual percenage rate were revised for purposes of computing regulated depreciation expense beginning with a particular accounting period, the computation of ratable restoration or ratable portion (as the case may be) must also be revised beginning with such period. A composite annual percentage rate is determined solely by reference to the period of time actually used by the taxpayer in computing its regulated depreciation expense without reduction for salvage or other items such as over and under accruals. A composite annual percentage rate determined by taking into account salvage value or other items shall be considered to be ratable in the case of a determination (whether or not final) issued before March 22, 1979, and any rate order (whether or not final) that is entered into before June 20, 1979, in response to a rate case filed before April 23, 1979. For this purpose, the term "rate order" does not include an order by a regulatory body that perfunctorily adopts rates as filed if such rates are suspended or subject to rebate.
