
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.46-6 Limitation in case of certain regulated companies.
####### Elections,Applicability of elections.

(h)-(1)(i) Any election under section 46(f) applies to all of the taxpayer's property eligible for the election, whether or not the taxpayer is regulated by more than one regulatory body.

(ii) Section 46(f)(1) applies to all of the taxpayer's section 46(f) property in the absence of an election under either section 46(f) (2) or (3). If an election is made under section 46(f)(2), section 46(f)(1) does not apply to any of the taxpayer's section 46(f) property.

(iii) An election made under the last sentence of section 46(f)(1) applies to that portion of the taxpayer's section 46(f) property to which section 46(f)(1) applies and which is short supply property within the meaning of paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(iv) If a taxpayer makes an election under section 46(f)(2) and makes no election under section 46(f)(3), the election under section 46(f)(2) applies to all of the taxpayer's section 46(f) property.

(v) If a taxpayer makes an election under section 46(f)(3), such election applies to all of the taxpayer's section 46(f) property to which section 167(l)(2)(C) applies. Section 46(f) (1) or (2) (as the case may be) applies to that portion of the taxpayer's section 46(f) property that is not property to which section 167(f)(2)(C) applies. Thus, for example, if a taxpayer makes an election under section 46(f)(2) and also makes an election under section 46(f)(3), section 46(f)(3) applies to all of the taxpayer's section 46(f) property to which section 167(l)(2)(C) applies, and section 46(f)(2) applies to the remainder of the taxpayer's section 46(f) property.
