
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.46-8 Requirements for taxpayers electing additional one-percent investment credit (TRASOP's).
####### Funding a TRASOP,In general.

(8)-(i)A corporation electing to obtain an additional credit must fund its TRASOP by transferring TRASOP securities or cash to it no later than 30 days after the applicable last day. That day is the last day for electing the additional credit, irrespective of when the election is actually made. However, in the case of an investment credit that was carried over and claimed in a subsequent applicable year by reason of paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, that day is the last day (including extensions) for filing its income tax return for the subsequent applicable year. TRASOP securities may be transferred to a plan at any time during the applicable year, but not before the first day of an applicable year. If TRASOP securities are transferred to the plan within the permissible time period after the close of the applicable year, they are treated as transferred during that applicable year first until all TRASOP securities required by this paragraph (c) for that applicable year are transferred to, and taken into account under, the TRASOP. Thus, for example, assume that on a return filed on September 17, 1979 (with extensions, the last day for filing a return for 1978), a calendar-year corporation claims an additional credit of $5,000 for 1978, an applicable year under the TRASOP. No contributions were made in 1978 on account of the 1978 credit, but TRASOP securities with a value of $6,000 were contributed in 1979. The corporation also expects to be able to claim an additional credit of $10,000 for 1979. TRASOP securities transferred between January 1, 1979, and October 17, 1979, must be taken into account under the plan for 1978 before they are taken into account for 1979. Accordingly, securities having a value of $5,000 are applied against the obligation for 1978, and $1,000 of the contribution is retained to be applied to the eventual obligation for 1979.
