
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.46-8 Requirements for taxpayers electing additional one-percent investment credit (TRASOP's).
####### Redeterminations increasing tax liability.

(v)If a corporation's tax liability for a year is increased such that an additional credit carried forward and claimed in a later year is allowable in the earlier year, the claim of the additional credit will be considered timely if it was otherwise timely under this section. Thus, for example, assume that a calendar-year corporation makes qualified investment of $5,000,000 in 1978 but, based on its income tax liability, is unable to use any of the credit until 1979, when the entire $50,000 additional credit can be used. The corporation adopts the TRASOP, elects the full $50,000 credit and funds in a timely manner for tax year 1979. However, as a result of a 1981 redetermination of the 1978 tax liability, the corporation is able to use $30,000 of the additional credit in 1978 and the remaining $20,000 in 1979. The allowable credit for 1978 is increased by $30,000 and the increase is treated as an unused credit carryover, for which the year of redetermination, 1981, is the applicable year. Assuming that no other credits are available, the 1979 credit is reduced from $50,000 to $20,000, and this reduction is taken into account in the redetermination year by offsetting the reduction against amounts due the plan or by deducting the amount of the reduction. The adoption of the TRASOP for 1979, rather than 1978, is considered timely.
