
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.46-8 Requirements for taxpayers electing additional one-percent investment credit (TRASOP's).
####### Withdraw TRASOP securities.

(vii)If an additional credit allowed for a taxable year is recaptured, the corporation may withdraw from the plan TRASOP securities transferred to, or acquired by, the plan for claiming that year's credit. The withdrawal must only be from assets segregated under paragraph (f)(2) of this section and must be first from assets accounted for in an unallocated suspense account for the particular year. The amount of assets actually withdrawn bears the same proportion to the amount of assets subject to withdrawal as the amount of additional credit recaptured bears to the amount of additional credit claimed. Thus, for example, if the assets subject to withdrawal consist of 300 shares of one class of employer stock and one-third of the additional credit is recaptured, 100 shares of the stock are withdrawn. However, if the current value of the assets subject to withdrawal exceeds the dollar amount of the additional credit claimed, assets may be withdrawn only to the extent that their current value does not exceed the dollar amount of the recaptured portion of the additional credit. Thus, for example, if the 300 segregated shares in the prior example have a current value of $9,000 and the dollar value of the additional credit claimed is $4,500, when one-third of the additional credit is recaptured, only 50 shares, not 100 shares, are withdrawn. Current value is determined under paragraph (b)(7) of this section as of the withdrawal date or, if the special 20-day average rule is applied, it is based on the 20 consecutive trading days immediately preceding the withdrawal date. Withdrawals from an individual's account for the year with respect to which recapture occurs must bear the same ratio to the total amount withdrawn for that year as the individual's TRASOP account balance for that year bears to the total TRASOP account balances for that year. In the case of a TRASOP security acquired after March 20, 1979, the corporation may not withdraw it unless the plan meets the requirements of paragraph (d)(7)(ii) of this section when the plan acquires the TRASOP security.
