
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Changes in Rates During a Taxable Year
###### ยง 1.25-8T Reporting requirements (Temporary).
####### Quarterly reports.

(2)(i) Each issuer which elects to issue mortgage credit certificates shall file reports on Form 8330. These reports shall be filed on a quarterly basis, beginning with the quarter in which the election is made, and are due on the following dates: April 30 (for the quarter ending March 31), July 31 (for the quarter ending June 30), October 31 (for the quarter ending September 30), and January 31 (for the quarter ending December 31). For elections made prior to May 8, 1985, the first report need not be filed until July 31, 1985. An issuer shall file a separate report for each issue of mortgage credit certificates. In the quarter in which the last qualified mortgage credit certificate that may be issued under a program is issued, the issuer must state that fact on the report to be filed for that quarter; the issuer is not required to file any subsequent reports with respect to that program. See section 6709(c) for the penalties with respect to failure to file a report.

(ii) The report shall be submitted on Form 8330 and shall contain the information required therein, including-

(A) The name, address, and TIN of the issuer of the mortgage credit certificates,

(B) The date of the issuer's election not to issue qualified mortgage bonds with respect to the mortgage credit certificate program and the nonissued bond amount of the program,

(C) The sum of the products determined by multiplying-
