
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Pension, Profit-Sharing, Stock Bonus Plans, etc.
###### ยง 1.414(g)-1 Definition of plan administrator.
####### In general.

(a)For purposes of part I of subchapter D of chapter 1 of the Code and the regulations thereunder, if the instrument under which the plan is operated for a plan year specifically designates a person or a group of persons as plan administrator, the person or group of persons collectively is the plan administrator for the plan year. The instrument may specifically designate a plan administrator-

(1) By name,

(2) By reference to the person or group of persons holding a named position or positions,

(3) By reference to a procedure established under the terms of the instrument pursuant to which a plan administrator is designated, or

(4) By reference to the person or group of persons charged with specific responsibilities of plan administrator. Consistent with the provisions of section 405 (c) (1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1105 (c) (1)), a plan may provide for the allocation of specific responsibilities of plan administrator among named persons and for named persons to designate others to carry out such responsibilities. A person or group of persons may be designated as plan administrator in accordance with the rules of this paragraph even though the person or group of persons does not carry the specific title "plan administrator". In the absence of a person or group of persons designated as the plan administrator (individually, collectively, or by designation of different specific administrative responsibilities), the plan administrator for the plan year is the person or group of persons specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
