
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Pension, Profit-Sharing, Stock Bonus Plans, etc.
###### ยง 1.414(l)-1 Mergers and consolidations of plans or transfers of plan assets.
####### Operational rules for the special schedule.

(f)The application of section 4044 of ERISA as modified by the schedule of benefits is accomplished by the following steps:

(1) Section 4044 is applied in the plan as merged through the priority categories fully satisfied by the assets of the lower funded plan immediately prior to the merger.

(2) The assets in the plan as merged are then allocated to the next priority category as a percentage of the value of the benefits that would otherwise be allocated to that priority category. That percentage is the ratio of (i) the assets allocated to the first priority category not fully satisfied by the lower funded plan immediately prior to the merger to (ii) the assets that would have been allocated had that priority category been fully satisfied.

(3) A schedule of benefits is formed listing participants and scheduled accrued benefits. The scheduled accrued benefit is the excess of the benefits provided on a termination basis with respect to any participant from the plans immediately prior to the merger, over the benefits provided on a termination basis in subparagraphs (1) and (2) of this paragraph immediately after the merger. After allocating the assets in accordance with subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, the assets are allocated to the schedule of benefits as follows:

(i) First the assets are allocated to the scheduled benefits to the extent that the participant would have benefits provided in subparagraph (4) of this paragraph if there were no scheduled benefits.

(ii) Then the assets are allocated to the scheduled benefits to the extent that the participant would have benefits provided pursuant to subparagraph (5) of this paragraph if there were no scheduled benefits.

(4) The assets are then allocated to those benefits in the priority category described in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph with respect to which assets were not allocated. This allocation is made to the extent that these benefits are not associated with benefits in the schedule.

(5) Finally, the assets are allocated in accordance with section 4044 with respect to priority categories lower than the priority category described in subparagraph (4) of this paragraph. This allocation is made to the extent that these benefits are not associated with benefits in the schedule.
