
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Pension, Profit-Sharing, Stock Bonus Plans, etc.
###### ยง 1.414(q)-1T Highly compensated employee (temporary).
####### Election with respect to leased employee exclusion.

(4)An employer may elect to include the employees excepted under the provisions of paragraph (b)(2) of this A-7 in determining the highly compensated group with respect to an employer's retirement plans. Thus, for example, by electing to forego the exception in paragraph (b)(2) of this A-7, an employer may achieve more uniform highly compensated employee groups for purposes of its retirement plans and welfare benefit plans. The election to include such employees must be made on a reasonable and consistent basis and must be provided for in the plan.

Q-8: Who is a 5-percent owner of the employer?

A-8: An employee is a 5-percent owner of the employer for a particular year if, at any time during such year, such employee is a 5-percent owner as defined in section 416(i)(B)(i) and ยง 1.416-1 A T-17&18. Thus, if the employer is a corporation, a 5-percent owner is any employee who owns (or is considered as owning within the meaning of section 318) more than 5 percent of the value of the outstanding stock of the corporation or stock possessing more than 5 percent of the total combined voting power of all stock of the corporation. If the employer is not a corporation, a 5-percent owner is any employee who owns more than 5 percent of the capital or profits interest in the employer. The rules of subsections (b), (c), and (m) of section 414 do not apply for purposes of determining who is a 5-percent owner. Thus, for example, an individual who is a 5-percent owner of a subsidiary corporation that is part of a controlled group of corporations within the meaning of section 414(b) is treated as a 5-percent owner for purposes of these rules.

Q-9: How is the "top-paid group" determined?
