
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Pension, Profit-Sharing, Stock Bonus Plans, etc.
###### ยง 1.414(q)-1T Highly compensated employee (temporary).
####### Age and service exclusion.

(i)The following employees are excluded on the basis of age or service absent an election by the employer pursuant to the rules in paragraph (b)(2) of this A-9:

(A) Employees who have not completed 6 months of service by the end of such year. For purposes of this paragraph (A), an employee's service in the immediately preceding year is added to service in the current year in determining whether the exclusion is applicable with respect to a particular employee in the current year. For example, given a plan with a calendar determination year, if employee A commences work August 1, 1989, and terminates employment May 31, 1990, A may be excluded under this paragraph (b)(1)(i)(A) in 1989 because A completed only 5 months of service by December 31, 1989. However, A cannot be excluded pursuant to this rule in 1990 because A has completed 10 months of service, for purposes of this rule, by the end of 1990.

(B) Employees who normally work less than 17hours per week as defined in paragraph (d) of this A-9 for such year.

(C) Employees who normally work during less than 6 months during any year as defined in paragraph (e) of this A-9 for such year.

(D) Employees who have not had their 21st birthdays by the end of such year.
