
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.48-1 Definition of section 38 property.
####### Property used for lodging,In general.

(h)-(1)(i) Except as provided in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, the term "section 38 property" does not include property which is used predominantly to furnish lodging or is used predominantly in connection with the furnishing of lodging during the taxable year. Property used in the living quarters of a lodging facility, including beds and other furniture, refrigerators, ranges, and other equipment, shall be considered as used predominantly to furnish lodging. The term "lodging facility" includes an apartment house, hotel, motel, dormitory, or any other facility (or part of a facility) where sleeping accommodations are provided and let, except that such term does not include a facility used primarily as a means of transportation (such as an aircraft, vessel, or a railroad car) or used primarily to provide medical or convalescent services, even though sleeping accommodations are provided.

(ii) Property which is used predominantly in the operation of a lodging facility or in serving tenants shall be considered used in connection with the furnishing of lodging, whether furnished by the owner of the lodging facility or another person. Thus, for example, lobby furniture, office equipment, and laundry and swimming pool facilities used in the operation of an apartment house or in serving tenants would be considered used predominantly in connection with the furnishing of lodging. However, property which is used in furnishing, to the management of a lodging facility or its tenants, electrical energy, water, sewage disposal services, gas, telephone service, or other similar services shall not be treated as property used in connection with the furnishing of lodging. Thus, such items as gas and electric meters, telephone poles and lines, telephone station and switchboard equipment, and water and gas mains, furnished by a public utility would not be considered as property used in connection with the furnishing of lodging.

(iii) Notwithstanding any other provision of this paragraph (h), in the case of a qualified rehabilitated building (within the meaning of section 48(g)(1) and ยง 1.48-12(b)), expenditures for property resulting in basis described in section 48(a)(1)(E) shall not be treated as section 38 property to the extent that such property is attributable to a portion of the building that is used for lodging or in connection with lodging. For example, if expenditures are incurred to rehabilitate a five story qualified rehabilitated building, three floors of which are used for apartments and two floors of which are used as commercial office space, the portion of the basis of the building attributable to qualified rehabilitated expenditures attributable to the commercial part of the building shall not be considered to be expenditures for property, or in connection with property, used predominantly for lodging. Allocation of expenditures between the two portions of the building are to be made using the principles contained in ยง 1.48-12(C)(10)(ii).
