
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Pension, Profit-Sharing, Stock Bonus Plans, etc.
###### ยง 1.414(v)-1 Catch-up contributions.
####### Coordination of employer-provided limits.

(2)An applicable employer plan is permitted to allow a catch-up eligible participant to defer amounts in excess of an employer-provided limit under that plan without regard to whether elective deferrals made by the participant have been treated as catch-up contributions for the taxable year under another applicable employer plan aggregated with such plan under this paragraph (f). However, to the extent elective deferrals under another plan maintained by the employer have already been treated as catch-up contributions during the taxable year, the elective deferrals under the plan may be treated as catch-up contributions only up to the amount remaining under the catch-up limit for the year. Any other elective deferrals that exceed the employer-provided limit may not be treated as catch-up contributions and must satisfy the otherwise applicable nondiscrimination rules. For example, the right to make contributions in excess of the employer-provided limit is another right or feature which must satisfy ยง 1.401(a)(4)-4 to the extent that the contributions are not catch-up contributions. Also, contributions in excess of the employer provided limit are taken into account under the ADP test to the extent they are not catch-up contributions.
