
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.48-1 Definition of section 38 property.
####### Qualified timber property.

(p)(1) Qualified timber property (within the meaning of section 194(c)(1)) shall be treated as section 38 property to the extent of the portion of the basis of such property which is the amortizable basis (as defined in ยง 1.194-3(b)) acquired during the taxable year and taken into account under section 194 (after applying the limitation of section 194(b)(1)). Such amortizable basis shall qualify as section 38 property whether or not an election is made under section 194. However, any portion of such amortizable basis which is attributable to property which otherwise qualifies as section 38 property shall not be treated as section 38 property under section 48(a)(1)(F) and this paragraph. For example, amortizable basis attributable to depreciation on equipment would not qualify as section 38 property under this paragraph if such equipment qualifies as section 38 property under sections 48(a)(1) (A) or (B). In determining the portion of amortizable basis which qualifies as section 38 property under this paragraph, the reduction in amortizable basis to account for depreciation sustained with respect to property used in the reforestation process (which otherwise qualifies as section 38 property) shall be applied before the $10,000 limitation on eligible costs under section 194(b)(1). For example, if in a taxable year a taxpayer incurs qualifying reforestation costs resulting in $12,000 of amortizable basis with respect to property for which an election is in effect, and $2,000 of these costs are attributable to depreciation of the taxpayer's equipment, such $12,000 would first be reduced by the $2,000 of depreciation, and the $10,000 limitation under section 194(b)(1) would be applied following such reduction.

(2) If a taxpayer makes an election to amortize reforestation expenditures under section 194, and allocates the $10,000 limitation among more than one property under ยง 1.194-2(b)(2), then such allocation shall apply for purposes of determining the amortizable basis that qualifies as section 38 property under paragraph (p)(1) of this section. If no election is made under section 194, the taxpayer may select the manner in which the $10,000 limitation is to be allocated among the qualified timber properties.
