
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.48-3 Used section 38 property.
####### Dollar limitation,In general.

(c)-(1)Section 48(c)(2) provides that the aggregate cost of used section 38 property which may be taken into account for any taxable year in computing qualified investment under section 46(c)(1)(B) shall not exceed $50,000. If the total cost of used section 38 property exceeds $50,000, there must be selected, in the manner provided in subparagraph (4) of this paragraph, the particular items of used section 38 property the cost of which is to be taken into account in computing qualified investment. The cost of used section 38 property that may be taken into account by a person in applying the $50,000 limitation for any taxable year includes not only the cost of used section 38 property placed in service by such person during such taxable year, but also the cost of used section 38 property apportioned to such person. For purposes of this section, the cost of used section 38 property apportioned to any person means the cost of such property apportioned to him by a trust, estate, or electing small business corporation (as defined in section 1371(b)), and his share of the cost of partnership used section 38 property, with respect to the taxable year of such trust, estate, corporation or partnership ending with or within such person's taxable year. Thus, if an individual places in service during his taxable year used section 38 property with a cost of $25,000, if the cost of used section 38 property apportioned to him by an electing small business corporation for such year is $30,000, and if his share for such year of the cost of used section 38 property placed in service by a partnership is $20,000, he may select from the used section 38 property with a total cost of $75,000 the particular used section 38 property the cost of which he wishes to take into account. No part of the excess of $25,000 ($75,000 cost minus $50,000 annual limitation) may be taken into account in any other taxable year. For determining the amount of the cost to be apportioned by an electing small business corporation, see paragraph (a)(2) of ยง 1.48-5; in the case of estates and trusts, see paragraph (a)(2) of ยง 1.48-6. See paragraph (e) of this section for application of $50,000 limitation in the case of affiliated groups.
