
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.48-3 Used section 38 property.
####### Estimate of used section 38 property to be placed in service.

(3)(i) For purposes of subparagraphs (1) and (2) of this paragraph, if on the date (including extensions of time) for filing the income tax return of the filing member of the group with respect to a particular December 31, the total cost of used section 38 property actually placed in service by any component member of the group during such member's taxable year that includes such December 31 is not known, then such member shall estimate such cost. The estimate shall be made on the basis of the facts and circumstances known as of the time of the estimate. Any such estimate shall also be used in determining the total cost of used section 38 property placed in service by all component members for their taxable years including such December 31.

(ii) If an estimate is used by any component member of a controlled group pursuant to subdivision (i) of this subparagraph, each member may later file an original or amended return in which the apportionment of the $50,000 amount is based upon the cost of used section 38 property actually placed in service by all component members of the group during their taxable year which include such December 31. Such amended apportionment shall be made only if each component member of the group whose limitation would be changed files an original or amended return which reflects the amended apportionment based upon the cost of the used section 38 property actually placed in service by component members of the group. In such case, the new statement reflecting the amended apportionment shall be attached to the amended return of the filing member of the group, and a copy of such statement shall be retained by each such member pursuant to the requirements of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph.
