
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### § 1.48-4 Election of lessor of new section 38 property to treat lessee as purchaser.
####### In general,Lessee treated as purchaser.

(a)-(1)Under section 48(d), a lessor of property may elect to treat the lessee of such property as having purchased such property (or, in the case of short-term lease property described in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, a portion of such property) for purposes of the credit allowed by section 38 if the following conditions are satisfied:

(i) The property must be "section 38 property" in the hands of the lessor; that is, it must be property with respect to which depreciation (or amortization in lieu of depreciation) is allowable to the lessor, it must have a useful life of 3 years (4 years in the case of property which is not described in section 50) or more in his hands, and in every other respect it must meet the requirements of § 1.48-1. Thus, for example, property leased by a municipality to a taxpayer for use in what is commonly known as an "industrial park" is not eligible for the election since, under paragraph (k) of § 1.48-1, property used by a governmental unit is not section 38 property. In addition, property used by the lessee predominantly outside the United States is not eligible for the election since, under paragraph (g) of § 1.48-1, such property is not section 38 property. For purposes of this subdivision, if the lessor is an estate or trust, depreciation (or amortization in lieu of depreciation) will be considered allowable to the estate or trust even if it is apportioned to the beneficiaries or other persons.

(ii) The property must be "new section 38 property" (within the meaning of § 1.48-2) in the hands of the lessor, and the original use of such property must commence with the lessor. See paragraph (b) of this section for the application of the rules relating to "original use" in the case of leased property.

(iii) The property would constitute "new section 38 property" to the lessee if such lessee had actually purchased the property. Thus, the election is not available if the lessee is not the original user of the property. See paragraph (b) of this section for the application of the rules relating to "original use" in the case of leased property. See paragraph (d) of this section for the determination of the estimated useful life of leased property in the hands of the lessee.

(iv) A statement of election to treat the lessee as a purchaser has been filed in the manner and within the time provided in paragraph (f) or (g) of this section.

(v) The lessor is not a person referred to in section 46(d)(1), that is, a mutual savings bank, cooperative bank, or domestic building and loan association to which section 593 applies; a regulated investment company or real estate investment trust subject to taxation under subchapter M, chapter 1 of the Code; or a cooperative organization described in section 1381(a).
