
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Pension, Profit-Sharing, Stock Bonus Plans, etc.
###### § 1.417(e)-1 Restrictions and valuations of distributions from plans subject to sections 401(a)(11) and 417.
####### Consent.,See

(2)(i) Written consent of the participant and, if the participant is married at the annuity starting date and the benefit is to be paid in a form other than a QJSA, the participant's spouse (or, if either the participant or the spouse has died, the survivor) is required before the commencement of the distribution of any part of an accrued benefit if the present value of the nonforfeitable benefit is greater than the cash-out limit in effect under § 1.411(a)-11(c)(3)(ii). No consent is valid unless the participant has received a general description of the material features, and an explanation of the relative values of, the optional forms of benefit available under the plan in a manner which would satisfy the notice requirements of section 417(a)(3).§ 1.417(a)(3)-1. No consent is required before the annuity starting date if the present value of the nonforfeitable benefit is not more than the cash-out limit in effect under § 1.411(a)-11(c)(3)(ii). After the annuity starting date, consent is required for the immediate distribution of the present value of the accrued benefit being distributed in any form, including a qualified joint and survivor annuity or a qualified preretirement survivor annuity, regardless of the amount of such present value.

(ii) In determining the present value of any nonforfeitable accrued benefit, a defined benefit plan is limited by the interest rate restriction as set forth in paragraph (d) of this section.

(iii) Paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section applies to distributions made on or after October 17, 2000. For distributions prior to October 17, 2000, § 1.417(e)-1(b)(2)(i) in effect prior to October 17, 2000 (as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2000) applies.
