
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Certain Stock Options
###### § 1.421-1 Meaning and use of certain terms.
####### Statutory options.,statutory option,,incentive stock option,,employee stock purchase plan,

(b)(1) The termfor purposes of this section and §§ 1.421-2 through 1.424-1, means anas defined in § 1.422-2(a), or an option granted under anas defined in § 1.423-2.

(2) An option qualifies as a statutory option only if the option is not transferable (other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution) by the individual to whom the option was granted, and is exercisable, during the lifetime of such individual, only by such individual. See §§ 1.422-2(a)(2)(v) and 1.423-2(j). Accordingly, an option which is transferable or transferred by the individual to whom the option is granted during such individual's lifetime, or is exercisable during such individual's lifetime by another person, is not a statutory option. However, if the option or the plan under which the option was granted contains a provision permitting the individual to designate the person who may exercise the option after such individual's death, neither such provision, nor a designation pursuant to such provision, disqualifies the option as a statutory option. A pledge of the stock purchasable under an option as security for a loan that is used to pay the option price does not cause the option to violate the nontransferability requirements of this paragraph (b). Also, the transfer of an option to a trust does not disqualify the option as a statutory option if, under section 671 and applicable State law, the individual is considered the sole beneficial owner of the option while it is held in the trust. If an option is transferred incident to divorce (within the meaning of section 1041) or pursuant to a domestic relations order, the option does not qualify as a statutory option as of the day of such transfer. For the treatment of nonstatutory options, see § 1.83-7.

(3)(i) The determination of whether an option is a statutory option is made as of the date such option is granted. An option which is a statutory option when granted does not lose its character as such an option by reason of subsequent events, and an option which is not a statutory option when granted does not become such an option by reason of subsequent events. See, however, paragraph (e) of § 1.424-1, relating to modification, extension, or renewal of an option. For rules concerning options that are not statutory options, see § 1.83-7.

(ii) The application of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following examples:
