
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Certain Stock Options
###### § 1.421-1 Meaning and use of certain terms.
####### Employment relationship.

(h)(1) An option is a statutory option only if, at the time the option is granted, the optionee is an employee of the corporation granting the option, or a related corporation of such corporation. If the option has been assumed or a new option has been substituted in its place under § 1.424-1(a), the optionee must, at the time of such substitution or assumption, be an employee (or a former employee within the 3-month period following termination of the employment relationship) of the corporation so substituting or assuming the option, or a related corporation of such corporation. The determination of whether the optionee is an employee at the time the option is granted (or at the time of the substitution or assumption under § 1.424-1(a)) is made in accordance with section 3401(c) and the regulations thereunder. As to the granting of an option conditioned upon employment, see paragraph (c)(2) of this section. A statutory option must be granted for a reason connected with the individual's employment by the corporation or by its related corporation.

(2) In addition, § 1.421-2(a) is applicable to the transfer of a share pursuant to the exercise of the statutory option only if the optionee is, at all times during the period beginning with the date of the granting of such option and ending on the day 3 months before the date of such exercise, an employee of either the corporation granting such option, a related corporation of such corporation, or a corporation (or a related corporation of such corporation) substituting or assuming a stock option in a transaction to which § 1.424-1(a) applies. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the employment relationship is treated as continuing intact while the individual is on military leave, sick leave, or other bona fide leave of absence (such as temporary employment by the Government) if the period of such leave does not exceed 3 months, or if longer, so long as the individual's right to reemployment with the corporation granting the option (or a related corporation of such corporation) or a corporation (or a related corporation of such corporation) substituting or assuming a stock option in a transaction to which § 1.424-1(a) applies, is provided either by statute or by contract. If the period of leave exceeds 3 months and the individual's right to reemployment is not provided either by statute or by contract, the employment relationship is deemed to terminate on the first day immediately following such three-month period. Thus, if the option is not exercised before such deemed termination of employment, § 1.421-2(a) applies to the transfer of a share pursuant to an exercise of the option only if the exercise occurs within 3 months from the date the employment relationship is deemed terminated.

(3) For purposes of determining whether an individual meets the requirements of this paragraph, the term "employer corporation", as used in section 424 (e) and (f), shall be read as "grantor corporation" or "corporation issuing or assuming a stock option in a transaction to which section 424(a) is applicable", as the case may be. For purposes of the employment requirement, a corporation employing an optionee is considered a related corporation if it was a parent or subsidiary of the corporation granting the option or substituting or assuming the option during the entire portion of the requisite period of employment during which it was the employer of such optionee.

(4) The application of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:
