
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Certain Stock Options
###### ยง 1.422-2 Incentive stock options defined.
####### Maximum aggregate number of shares.

(3)(i) The plan required by this paragraph (b) must designate the maximum aggregate number of shares that may be issued under the plan through incentive stock options. If nonstatutory options or other stock-based awards may be granted, the plan may separately designate terms for each type of option or other stock-based awards and designate the maximum number of shares that may be issued under such option or other stock-based awards. Unless otherwise specified, all terms of the plan apply to all options and other stock-based awards that may be granted under the plan.

(ii) A plan that merely provides that the number of shares that may be issued as incentive stock options under such plan may not exceed a stated percentage of the shares outstanding at the time of each offering or grant under such plan does not satisfy the requirement that the plan state the maximum aggregate number of shares that may be issued under the plan. However, the maximum aggregate number of shares that may be issued under the plan may be stated in terms of a percentage of the authorized, issued, or outstanding shares at the date of the adoption of the plan. The plan may specify that the maximum aggregate number of shares available for grants under the plan may increase annually by a specified percentage of the authorized, issued, or outstanding shares at the date of the adoption of the plan. A plan which provides that the maximum aggregate number of shares that may be issued as incentive stock options under the plan may change based on any other specified circumstances satisfies the requirements of this paragraph (b)(3) only if the stockholders approve an immediately determinable maximum aggregate number of shares that may be issued under the plan in any event.

(iii) It is permissible for the plan to provide that, shares purchasable under the plan may be supplied to the plan through acquisitions of stock on the open market; shares purchased under the plan and forfeited back to the plan; shares surrendered in payment of the exercise price of an option; shares withheld for payment of applicable employment taxes and/or withholding obligations resulting from the exercise of an option.

(iv) If there is more than one plan under which incentive stock options may be granted and stockholders of the granting corporation merely approve a maximum aggregate number of shares that are available for issuance under such plans, the stockholder approval requirements described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section are not satisfied. A separate maximum aggregate number of shares available for issuance pursuant to incentive stock options must be approved for each plan.
