
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.48-4 Election of lessor of new section 38 property to treat lessee as purchaser.
####### Increase in rental deductions on account of section 203(a)(2)(B) of the Revenue Act of 1964,In general.

(m)-(1)(i) Under section 203(a)(2)(B) of the Revenue Act of 1964, if, for any taxable year of a lessee beginning before January 1, 1964, the rental deductions otherwise allowable under section 162 to such lessee for amounts paid or accrued to the lessor under the lease with respect to leased property placed in service before January 1, 1964, were decreased under paragraph (k)(2) of this section, such rental deductions shall be increased.

(ii) The increase in rental deductions described in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph shall be in an amount equal to the total decreases in the lessee's rental deductions previously made under paragraph (k)(2) of this section less any increases in rental deductions made under paragraph (k)(3) of this section.

(iii) Except as provided in subdivision (iv) of this subparagraph, the increase in rental deductions described in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph shall be taken into account ratably over the remaining portion of the useful life of the property commencing with the first day of the first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1963. For this purpose, the useful life of the property shall be the useful life used in making the decreases in rental deductions with respect to the property under paragraph (k)(2) of this section.

(iv) If the lease is terminated other than by the lessee's actual purchase of the property during a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1963, and before the end of the remaining useful life of the property used in making the decreases in rental deductions, the amount of the increase in rental deductions described in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph and not previously taken into account shall be allowed as a deduction for the taxable year in which such termination occurs.

(v) The rental deductions with respect to any section 38 property are not to be increased under this paragraph if the lessee dies in a taxable year beginning before January 1, 1964.

(vi) The increase in rental deductions described in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph shall ordinarily be taken into account by the lessee treated as the purchaser, that is, the lessee entitled to the credit. However, if the property under the lease is transferred by the lessee to a successor lessee in a transaction described in section 47(b) (other than a transfer by reason of death) under which the successor lessee assumes the lessee's obligations under the lease, such increase in rental deductions shall be taken into account by the successor lessee in the manner prescribed in this paragraph.
