
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Certain Stock Options
###### ยง 1.424-1 Definitions and special rules applicable to statutory options.
####### Date of grant.

(8)For purposes of applying the rules of this paragraph (a), a substitution or assumption is considered to occur on the date that the optionee would, but for this paragraph (a), be considered to have been granted the option that the eligible corporation is substituting or assuming. A substitution or an assumption that occurs by reason of a corporate transaction may occur before or after the corporate transaction.

(9) Any reasonable methods may be used to determine the fair market value of the stock subject to the option immediately before the assumption or substitution and the fair market value of the stock subject to the option immediately after the assumption or substitution. Such methods include the valuation methods described in ยง 20.2031-2 of this chapter (the Estate Tax Regulations). In the case of stock listed on a stock exchange, the fair market value may be based on the last sale before and the first sale after the assumption or substitution if such sales clearly reflect the fair market value of the stock, or may be based upon an average selling price during a longer period, such as the day or week before, and the day or week after, the assumption or substitution. If the stocks are not listed, or if they are newly issued, it will be reasonable to base the determination on experience over even longer periods. In the case of a merger, consolidation, or other reorganization which is arrived at by arm's-length negotiations, the fair market value of the stocks subject to the option before and after the assumption or substitution may be based upon the values assigned to the stock for purposes of the reorganization. For example, if in the case of a merger the parties treat each share of the merged company as being equal in value to a share of the surviving company, it will be reasonable to assume that the stocks are of equal value so that the substituted option may permit the employee to purchase at the same price one share of the surviving company for each share he could have purchased of the merged company.
