
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Certain Stock Options
###### ยง 1.430(f)-1 Effect of prefunding balance and funding standard carryover balance.
####### Special rule for current year elections that are made before prior year elections.

(D)This paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(D) sets forth a special rule that applies if, for the current plan year, a plan sponsor makes an election under this paragraph (d) or paragraph (e) of this section (including a deemed election under section 436(f)(3) and ยง 1.436-1(a)(5)), and then subsequently makes an election under this paragraph (d) to offset the minimum required contribution for the prior plan year. This special rule applies solely for purposes of determining the amount of prefunding and funding standard carryover balances available for that subsequent election. Under this special rule, in lieu of decreasing the funding standard carryover balance or prefunding balance as of the valuation date for the current year to take into account the current year election, the funding standard carryover balance or prefunding balance as of the valuation date for the prior plan year is decreased by the amount of the prior year equivalent of the current year election. The prior year equivalent of the current year election is determined by dividing the amount of the current year election (as of the first day of the current plan year) by a number equal to 1 plus the rate of investment return for the prior plan year determined under paragraph (b)(3) of this section. If this paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(D) applies for a plan year, then the funding standard carryover balance and prefunding balance are nonetheless adjusted in accordance with the rules of paragraph (b) of this section, after the application of the rules of this paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(D). Thus, the amount used to offset the minimum required contribution for the earlier plan year is subtracted from the prefunding balance or funding standard carryover balance as of the valuation date for that year prior to the adjustment for investment return under paragraph (b)(3) of this section for that plan year, and the amount by which the prefunding balance or funding standard carryover balance is decreased for the second year is based on the elections made for the second year.
