
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.48-9 Definition of energy property.
####### Synthetic fuel production equipment.

(5)(i) Equipment (synthetic fuel equipment) that converts an alternate substance into a synthetic solid, liquid, or gaseous fuel (other than coke or coke gas) is alternative energy property. Synthetic fuel production equipment does not include equipment, such as an oxygen plant, that is not directly involved in the treatment of an alternate substance, but produces a substance that is, like the alternate substance, a basic feedstock or catalyst used in the conversion process. Equipment is not eligible if it is used beyond the point at which a substance usable as a fuel has been produced. Equipment is eligible only to the extent of the equipment's cost or basis allocable to the annual production of substances used as a fuel or used in the production of a fuel. For example, assume for the taxable year that 50 percent of the output of equipment is used to produce alcohol for production of whiskey and 50 percent is used to produce alcohol for use in a fuel mixture, such as gasohol. The alcohol production equipment qualifies as synthetic fuel equipment but only to the extent of one-half of its cost or basis. If, in a later taxable year, the equipment is used exclusively to produce whiskey, all of the equipment ceases to be synthetic fuel equipment.

(ii) A fuel is a material that produces usable heat upon combustion. To be "synthetic", the fuel either must differ significantly in chemical composition, as opposed to physical composition, from the alternate substance used to produce it or, in the case of solid fuel produced from biomass, the chemical change must consist of defiberization. Examples of synthetic fuels include alcohol derived from coal, peat, and vegetative matter, such as wood and corn, and methane from landfills.

(iii) Synthetic fuel equipment includes coal gasification equipment, coal liquefaction equipment, equipment for recovering methane from landfill, and equipment that converts biomass to a synthetic fuel.

(iv) Synthetic fuel equipment does not include equipment that merely mixes an alternate substance with another substance. For example, synthetic fuel equipment includes neither equipment that mixes coal and water to produce a slurry nor equipment that mixes alcohol and gasoline to produce gasohol. Equipment used to produce coke or coke gas, such as coke ovens, is also ineligible.
