
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.48-9 Definition of energy property.
####### Modification equipment.

(6)(i) Alternative energy property includes equipment (modification equipment) designed to modify existing equipment. For the definition of "existing," see paragraph (l)(1)(i) of this section. To be eligible, the modification must result in a substitution for the remainder of the taxable year from the date the equipment is placed in service and for each taxable year thereafter of the items in paragraph (c)(6)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section for all or a portion of the oil or gas substance used as a fuel or feedstock. As a result of the modification, the substituted alternate substance must comprise at least 25 percent of the fuel or feedstock (determined on the basis of Btu equivalency). If the modification also increases the capacity of the equipment, only the incremental cost (as defined in paragraph (k) of this section) of the equipment qualifies.

(ii) The substitutes for an oil or gas substance are-

(A) An alternate substance or

(B) A mixture of oil and an alternate substance.

(iii) Modification equipment does not include replacements or a boiler of burner. If the boiler or burner is replaced, the items must be described in paragraph (c) (3) or (4) of this section to qualify as alternative energy property. Modification may include, however, replacements of components of a boiler or burner, such as a heat exchanger.

(iv) The following examples illustrate this paragraph (c)(6).
