
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.48-9 Definition of energy property.
####### Pollution control equipment.

(8)(i) Pollution control equipment is alternative energy property. Eligible equipment is limited to property or equipment to the extent it qualifies as a pollution control facility under section 103(b)(4)(F) and the regulations thereunder except that, if control of pollution is not the only significant purpose (within the meaning of those regulations), only the incremental cost (as defined in paragraph (k) of this section) of the equipment qualifies. However, if a Treasury decision changes the regulations under section 103(b)(4)(F) and, thus, the rules reflected in this subdivision (i), the rules as changed will apply as of the effective date of the Treasury decision.

(ii) To be eligible, the equipment must be required by a Federal, State, or local government regulation to be installed on, or used in connection with, eligible alternative energy property (as defined in paragraph (c)(8)(v) of this section).

(iii) Under section 48(l)(3)(D) equipment is not eligible if required by a Federal, State, or local government regulation in effect on October 1, 1978, to be installed on, or in connection with, property using coal (including lignite) as of October 1, 1978.

(iv) Under this subparagraph (8), pollution control equipment is required by regulation if it would be necessary to install the equipment to satisfy the requirements of any applicable law, including nuisance law. The pollution control equipment need not be specifically identified in the applicable law. If several different types of equipment may be used to comply with the applicable law, each type of equipment is considered necessary to satisfy the requirements of the law. An order permitting a taxpayer to delay compliance with any applicable law is disregarded.

(v) Under this subparagraph (8) "eligible alternative energy property" is energy property (as defined in section 48 (l)(2)) described in paragraphs (c) (3) through (7) of this section. If equipment otherwise qualifying as pollution control equipment is installed on, or used in connection with, both eligible alternative energy property and property other than eligible alternative energy property, only the incremental cost (as defined in paragraph (k) of this section) of the equipment qualifies.
