
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.48-9 Definition of energy property.
####### Handling and preparation equipment.

(9)(i) Alternative energy property includes equipment (handling and preparation equipment) used for unloading, transfer, storage, reclaiming from storage, or preparation of an alternate substance for use in eligible alternative energy property (as defined in paragraph (c)(9)(ii) of this section). Handling and preparation equipment must be located at the site the alternate substance is used as a fuel or feedstock. For example, equipment used to screen and prepare coal for use at a power plant qualifies if located at the plant. However, similar equipment located at the coal mine would not qualify.

(ii) Under this subparagraph (9), "eligible alternative energy property" is energy property (as defined in section 48(l)(2)) described in paragraphs (c) (3) through (8) of this section. If equipment otherwise qualifying as handling and preparation equipment is installed on, or used in connection with, property other than eligible alternative energy property, only the incremental cost (as defined in paragraph (k) of this section) of the equipment qualifies.

(iii) The term "preparation" includes washing, crushing, drying, compacting, and weighing of an alternate substance. Handling and preparation equipment also includes equipment for shredding, chopping, pulverizing, or screening agricultural or forestry byproducts at the site of use.

(iv) Handling and preparation equipment does not include equipment, such as coal slurry pipelines and railroad cars, that transports a fuel or a feedstock to the site of its use.
