
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.48-9 Definition of energy property.
####### Geothermal equipment

(10)-(i) Alternative energy property includes equipment (geothermal equipment) that produces, distributes, or uses energy derived from a geothermal deposit (as defined in ยง 1.44C-2(h)).

(ii) In general, production equipment includes equipment necessary to bring geothermal energy from the subterranean deposit to the surface, including well-head and downhole equipment (such as screening or slotting liners, tubing, downhole pumps, and associated equipment). Reinjection wells required for production also may qualify. Production does not include exploration and development.

(iii) Distribution equipment includes equipment that transports geothermal steam or hot water from a geothermal deposit to the site of ultimate use. If geothermal energy is used to generate electricity, distribution equipment includes equipment that transports hot water from the geothermal deposit to a power plant. Distribution equipment also includes components of a heating system, such as pipes and ductwork that distribute within a building the energy derived from the geothermal deposit.

(iv) Geothermal equipment includes equipment that uses energy derived both from a geothermal deposit and from sources other than a geothermal deposit (dual use equipment). Such equipment, however, is geothermal equipment (A) only if its use of energy from sources other than a geothermal deposit does not exceed 25 percent of its total energy input in an annual measuring period and (B) only to the extent of its basis or cost allocable to its use of energy from a geothermal deposit during an annual measuring period. An "annual measuring period" for an item of dual use equipment is the 365 day period beginning with the day it is placed in service or a 365 day period beginning the day after the last day of the immediately preceding annual measuring period. The allocation of energy use required for purposes of paragraph (c)(10)(iv) (A) and (B) of this section may be made by comparing, on a Btu basis, energy input to dual use equipment from the geothermal deposit with energy input from other sources. However, the Commissioner may accept any other method that, in his opinion, accurately establishes the relative annual use by dual use equipment of energy derived from a geothermal deposit and energy derived from other sources.

(v) The existence of a backup system designed for use only in the event of a failure in the system providing energy derived from a geothermal deposit will not disqualify any other equipment. If geothermal energy is used to generate electricity, equipment using geothermal energy includes the electrical generating equipment, such as turbines and generators. However, geothermal equipment does not include any electrical transmission equipment, such as transmission lines and towers, or any equipment beyond the electrical transmission stage, such as transformers and distribution lines.
