
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Certain Stock Options
###### ยง 1.430(h)(3)-2 Plan-specific substitute mortality tables used to determine present value.
####### In general.

(a)This section provides rules for the use of substitute mortality tables under section 430(h)(3)(C) in determining any present value or making any computation under section 430 in accordance with ยง 1.430(h)(3)-1(a)(1). To use substitute mortality tables for a plan, a plan sponsor must first obtain approval to use the tables in accordance with the procedures described in paragraph (b) of this section. Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules for the development of substitute mortality tables, including guidelines providing that a plan must have either fully or partially credible mortality information in order to use substitute mortality tables. Paragraph (d) of this section describes the requirements for full credibility. Paragraph (e) of this section describes the requirements for partial credibility. Paragraph (f) of this section provides special rules for newly-affiliated plans. Paragraph (g) of this section specifies the effective date and applicability date of this section. The Commissioner may, in revenue rulings and procedures, notices, or other guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see ยง 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(b) of this chapter), provide additional guidance regarding approval and use of substitute mortality tables under section 430(h)(3)(C) and related matters.
