
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Certain Stock Options
###### § 1.430(j)-1 Payment of minimum required contributions.
####### Satisfaction of quarterly installment requirements through use of funding balances.

(4)A plan sponsor may satisfy the requirement to pay an installment under paragraph (c)(1) of this section by making an election to use some or all of the plan's prefunding balance or funding standard carryover balance under section 430(f). Such an election is subject to the rules of § 1.430(f)-1 and cannot exceed the available amount of the plan's prefunding balance and funding standard carryover balance determined under § 1.430(f)-1(d)(1)(ii) as of the date of the election. The amount elected is allocated toward satisfaction of the required installments in the same manner as a contribution made on the date of the election. Thus, the amount of an election to use the plan's prefunding balance or funding standard carryover balance is increased with interest under the rules of paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section or is credited against the earliest unpaid required installment under the rules of paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section. See § 1.430(f)-1(f)(1)(iii) for rules permitting the use of a standing election for purposes of satisfying required installments through use of funding balances. See § 1.430(f)-1(d)(1)(i)(B) for rules relating to late elections to use the funding standard carryover balance or prefunding balance to satisfy the required installment rules.
