
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Certain Stock Options
###### § 1.430(j)-1 Payment of minimum required contributions.
####### Determination of funding shortfall for pre-effective plan year,First effective plan year that begins during 2008.

(ii)-(A)In general, in the case of a plan with a first effective plan year that begins during 2008, the funding shortfall for the pre-effective plan year that precedes it is determined pursuant to paragraph (e)(4) of this section. However, for this purpose, the plan's current liability for the pre-effective plan year under section 412(l)(7) (as in effect for the pre-effective plan year) is permitted to be used in place of the plan's funding target for the pre-effective plan year. In addition, for this purpose, the value of plan assets that was used for the pre-effective plan year is permitted to be used in place of the value of plan assets computed pursuant to § 1.430(g)-1(c) for the pre-effective plan year, provided that the value of plan assets that was used for the pre-effective plan year was not less than 90 percent nor more than 110 percent of the value of plan assets computed pursuant to § 1.430(g)-1(c). If the value of plan assets that was used for the pre-effective plan year was less than 90 percent of the value of plan assets computed pursuant to § 1.430(g)-1(c), then 90 percent of the value of plan assets computed pursuant to § 1.430(g)-1(c) is permitted to be used as the value of plan assets for the pre-effective plan year. If the value of plan assets that was used for the pre-effective plan year was more than 110 percent of the value of plan assets computed pursuant to § 1.430(g)-1(c), then 110 percent of the value of plan assets computed pursuant to § 1.430(g)-1(c) is permitted to be used as the value of plan assets for the pre-effective plan year. Finally, for this purpose, the value of plan assets is permitted to be determined without subtraction for the plan's credit balance for the pre-effective plan year.
