
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Certain Stock Options
###### ยง 1.436-1 Limits on benefits and benefit accruals under single employer defined benefit plans.
####### Rules of operation for periods prior to and after certification,In general.

(g)-(1)Section 436(h) and paragraph (h) of this section set forth a series of presumptions that apply before the enrolled actuary for a plan issues a certification of the plan's adjusted funding target attainment percentage for the plan year. This paragraph (g) sets forth rules for the application of limitations under sections 436(b), 436(c), 436(d), and 436(e) prior to and during the period those presumptions apply to the plan, and describes the interaction of those presumptions with plan operations after the plan's enrolled actuary has issued a certification of the plan's adjusted funding target attainment percentage for the plan year. Paragraph (g)(2) of this section sets forth rules that apply to periods during which a presumption under section 436(h) and paragraph (h) of this section applies. Paragraph (g)(3) of this section sets forth rules that apply to periods during which no presumptions under section 436(h) and paragraph (h) of this section apply but which are prior to the enrolled actuary's certification of the plan's adjusted funding target attainment percentage for the plan year. Paragraph (g)(4) of this section sets forth rules for modifying the plan's presumed adjusted funding target attainment percentage in certain situations. Paragraph (g)(5) of this section sets forth rules that apply after the enrolled actuary's certification of the plan's adjusted funding target attainment percentage for a plan year. Paragraph (g)(6) of this section sets forth examples illustrating the rules in this paragraph (g).
