
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Certain Stock Options
###### ยง 1.436-1 Limits on benefits and benefit accruals under single employer defined benefit plans.
####### Rules relating to updated certification,In general.

(v)-(A)This paragraph (h)(4)(v) sets forth rules relating to updates of an actuary's certification of the plan's adjusted funding target attainment percentage for a plan year. Paragraphs (h)(4)(v)(B) and (D) of this section require that an updated adjusted funding target attainment percentage be certified in certain situations. Even if the updated adjusted funding target attainment percentage is not required to be certified, plan administrators may request that the actuary prepare an updated certification of the adjusted funding target attainment percentage, as described in paragraphs (h)(4)(v)(C) and (E) of this section. Any updated adjusted funding target attainment percentage determined under this paragraph (h)(4)(v) will apply beginning as of the date of the event that gave rise to the need for the update which is a section 436 measurement date. Thus, pursuant to this paragraph (h)(4)(v), the updated funding target attainment percentage applies thereafter for all purposes of section 436, including application with respect to unpredictable contingent events occurring on or after the measurement date (but not for unpredictable contingent events that occurred before such measurement date or for benefits with annuity starting dates before that measurement date). The updated adjusted funding target attainment percentage will continue to apply for the remainder of the plan year and will be used for the presumed adjusted funding target attainment percentage for the next plan year, unless there is a later updated certification of adjusted funding target attainment percentage for the plan year.
