
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.48-9 Definition of energy property.
####### Predominant use test.

(7)(i) A bus meets the predominant use test for a taxable year only if it meets the following conditions:

(A) It is used on a full-time basis during the taxable year, and

(B) At least 70 percent of the total miles driven are driven while furnishing intercity transportation.

(ii) A bus driven from the end point of one trip to the beginning point of another trip ("deadheading"), both of which furnish intercity transportation of passengers, will be considered to have been driven while furnishing intercity transportation of passengers, even if no passengers are carried.

(iii) A bus is considered used on a full-time basis in a taxable year if it was driven 10,000 miles in that year. If available, the best evidence of annual mileage is the difference between odometer readings at the beginning and end of each taxable year. If the bus was placed in service during the taxable year, or for a short taxable year described in section 441(b)(3), that 10,000 mile figure is prorated on a daily basis.

(iv) If a qualifying bus fails to meet the predominant use test in a taxable year, a cessation occurs in that taxable year. See ยง 1.47-1(h)(3)(ii).

(v) The following examples illustrate this paragraph (q)(7):
