
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.48-9 Definition of energy property.
####### Leased buses.

(8)(i) A bus which is leased is energy property only if it meets the requirements of paragraphs (q)(6) (i), (ii), and (iii) of this section, the lessee is an eligible taxpayer, and the bus meets the predominant use test in the hands of the lessee. If a leased bus is energy property, the energy credit is available only to the lessee unless paragraph (q)(8)(ii) of this section applies. The lessor must elect under section 48(d) for the lessee to claim the energy credit.

(ii) If a leased bus is energy property and, on or before October 9, 1984, either (A) the lessor and lessee enter into a lease and the lessee places the bus in service, or (B) the bus is not placed in service but the lessor and lessee enter into a binding contract under which the amount of the lease payments cannot be modified, then the energy credit is available to the lessor even if the lessor is not an eligible taxpayer.

(iii) Notwithstanding ยง 1.47-2(b)(1) (relating to the effect of a disposition by the lessee on the credit claimed by the lessor), if, by reason of a lease or the termination of a lease, a bus is used in a taxable year subsequent to the credit year by a person other than the one whose increase in operating capacity determined the amount of qualified investment for the energy credit, a disposition of the bus under ยง 1.47-1(h)(2) results. However, if the energy credit for a bus was earned in a taxable year and a lease of the bus which qualifies under section 168(f)(8) (safe-harbor lease) is entered into in a subsequent taxable year, the safe-harbor lease is not a disposition of the bus and the lessee under that lease is treated as the lessee for purposes of this paragraph (q)(8). For the requirement to file an amended return if the energy credit was allowed in a prior taxable year, see ยง 5c.168(f)(8)-6(b)(2)(ii) (Temporary Income Tax Regulations under the Economic Recovery Tax Act of 1981). For the rule for determining whose operating capacity determines qualified investment for the energy credit, see paragraph (q)(9)(ii) of this section. For the rule for leases to related taxpayers, see paragraph (q)(10)(ii) of this section.
