
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.48-9 Definition of energy property.
####### Operating capacity.

(9)(i) Qualified investment for a qualifying bus is taken into account for the energy credit only to the extent the bus increases the taxpayer's operating capacity. To increase operating capacity, a bus must be counted in operating capacity. The increase in a taxpayer's operating capacity is the excess of the taxpayer's operating capacity for the current taxable year over its operating capacity for the immediately preceding taxable year. Related taxpayers determine operating capacity on a group basis under paragraph (q)(10) of this section.

(ii) Operating capacity for a particular taxable year is determined by adding together the seating capacities of all intercity buses used by the taxpayer in that year and still owned by the taxpayer at the end of that year. An intercity bus is a bus which meets the chassis and body test and the predominant use test in paragraph (q)(6) of this section whether or not the bus is still in use at the end of the taxable year. In the case of a leased bus to which paragraph (q)(8) of this section applies, the lessee's operating capacity determines qualified investment for the energy credit.

(iii) The qualified investment for the energy credit for a qualifying bus is the bus's qualified investment for the regular credit multiplied by a fraction. The numerator of the fraction is the increase in the taxpayer's operating capacity for the taxable year. The denominator is the added operating capacity for the taxable year. Added operating capacity for the taxable year is determined for a taxpayer by adding together the seating capacities of the taxpayer's intercity buses included in operating capacity for the taxable year which were not included in operating capacity for the immediately preceding taxable year.

(iv) In the case of a partnership, each partner's qualified investment for the energy credit for a qualifying bus is the partner's qualified investment for the regular credit (determined under ยง 1.46-3(f) multiplied by the fraction referred to in paragraph (q)(9)(iii) of this section for the partnership, as determined for the partnership taxable year in which the bus is placed in service.

(v) The following example illustrates this paragraph (q)(9):
