
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.48-9 Definition of energy property.
####### Related taxpayers.

(10)(i) Related taxpayers are treated as one taxpayer in determining the increase in operating capacity under paragraph (q)(9)(ii) of this section and in determining the qualified investment in qualified intercity buses for the energy credit under paragraph (q)(9)(iii) of this section. Related taxpayers are members of a group of trades or businesses that are under common control (as defined in ยง 1.52-1(b)).

(ii) Related taxpayers make all computations relating to operating capacity on a group basis. Also, the determination of whether a bus meets the predominant use test is made on a group basis by aggregating bus usage by each member of the group. For example, if a bus is acquired by one member and used by that member for part of a taxable year and used by other members for the remainder, the combined usage is aggregated in determining whether the predominant use test is met. In addition, all related taxpayers are treated as one person in applying paragraph (q)(8) of this section (relating to leasing).

(iii) The energy credit earned for a qualifying bus is allocated to the member which acquired (or is a lessee treated under section 48(d) as having acquired) the bus whether or not that member had a separate increase in operating capacity for the taxable year.

(iv) Each member must make its own computation of the group's increase in operating capacity for the period comprising its taxable year. A member will make this computation as of the end of its taxable year ignoring different taxable years of other members. For the period comprising its taxable year, the member makes all calculations relating to group operating capacity, including the determination of full-time use by other members.

(v) Each member determines the composition of the group as of the end of that member's taxable year. For example, if X uses the calendar year and makes its computation as of December 31, 1981, and Y is a member of X's group at that time, Y's operating capacity determined as of the end of X's immediately preceding taxable year (December 31, 1980) is taken into account by X for 1980 even if Y was not a member of the group for any day prior to December 31, 1981.

(vi) The following example illustrates this paragraph (q)(10):
