
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Accounting Periods
###### § 1.441-2 Election of taxable year consisting of 52-53 weeks.
####### Special rules for the short period required to effect the change.

(ii)If a change to or from a 52-53-week taxable year results in a short period (within the meaning of § 1.443-1(a)) of 359 days or more, or six days or less, the tax computation under § 1.443-1(b) does not apply. If the short period is 359 days or more, it is treated as a full taxable year. If the short period is six days or less, such short period is not a separate taxable year but instead is added to and deemed a part of the following taxable year. (In the case of a change to or from a 52-53-week taxable year not involving a change of the month with reference to which the taxable year ends, the tax computation under § 1.443-1(b) does not apply because the short period will always be 359 days or more, or six days or less.) In the case of a short period which is more than six days and less than 359 days, taxable income for the short period is placed on an annual basis for purposes of § 1.443-1(b) by multiplying such income by 365 and dividing the result by the number of days in the short period. In such case, the tax for the short period is the same part of the tax computed on such income placed on an annual basis as the number of days in the short period is of 365 days (unless § 1.443-1(b)(2), relating to the alternative tax computation, applies). For an adjustment in deduction for personal exemption, see § 1.443-1(b)(1)(v).
