
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.48-10 Single purpose agricultural or horticultural structures.
####### Permissible purposes.

(2)The following are the only permissible purposes for a single purpose agricultural structure:

(i) Housing, raising, and feeding a particular type of livestock and, at the taxpayer's option, its produce. The term "housing, raising, and feeding" includes the full range of livestock breeding and raising activities, including ancillary post-production activities (as defined in paragraph (f) of this section). Thus, for example, use of a structure for breeding livestock, or for producing eggs or livestock, is permitted. The structure may also be used for storing feed or machinery, but more than strictly incidental use for these purposes will disqualify the structure. See paragraph (e)(1) of this section. For the special rule concerning the permissible purposes for a milking parlor, see paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section.

(ii) Housing required equipment (including any replacements) as defined in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.

(iii) If the structure is a dairy facility, it will qualify if it is used for: (A) activities consisting of the production of milk or of the production of milk and the housing, raising, or feeding dairy cattle, and (B) housing equipment (including any replacements) necessary for these activities. The term "housing, raising, or feeding" includes the full range of dairy cattle breeding and raising activities including ancillary post-production activities (as defined in paragraph (f) of this section). The structure may also be used for storing feed or machinery, but, more than incidental use for these purposes will disqualify the structure. See paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
