
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Accounting Periods
###### ยง 1.443-1 Returns for periods of less than 12 months.
####### a,b

(v)() A taxpayer who wishes to compute his tax for a short period resulting from a change of annual accounting period under section 443(b)(2) must make an application therefor. Except as provided in () of this subdivision, the taxpayer shall first file his return for the short period and compute his tax under section 443(b)(1). The application for the benefits of section 443(b)(2) shall subsequently be made in the form of a claim for credit or refund. The claim shall set forth the computation of the taxable income and the tax thereon for the 12-month period and must be filed not later than the time (including extensions) prescribed for filing the return for the taxpayer's first taxable year which ends on or after the day which is 12 months after the beginning of the short period. For example, assume that a taxpayer changes his annual accounting period from the calendar year to a fiscal year ending September 30, and files a return for the short period from January 1, 1956, to September 30, 1956. His application for the benefits of section 443(b)(2) must be filed not later than the time prescribed for filing his return for his first taxable year which ends on or after the last day of December 1956, the twelfth month after the beginning of the short period. Thus, the taxpayer must file his application not later than the time prescribed for filing the return for his fiscal year ending September 30, 1957. If he obtains an extension of time for filing the return for such fiscal year, he may file his application during the period of such extension. If the district director determines that the taxpayer has established the amount of his taxable income for the 12-month period, any excess of the tax paid for the short period over the tax computed under section 443(b)(2) will be credited or refunded to the taxpayer in the same manner as in the case of an overpayment.
