
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.48-10 Single purpose agricultural or horticultural structures.
####### Exclusive use.

(1)(i) A structure qualifies as a single purpose agricultural or horticultural structure only if it is used exclusively for the permitted purposes by reason of which it qualified for the credit. Thus-

(A) The structure may not be used for any nonpermissible purposes (for example, processing, marketing, or more than incidental use for storing feed or equipment) and

(B) It may not be put to any use other than the specific use by reason of which it qualifies for the credit.

(ii) For purposes of this section, the term "incidental use" means a use which is both related and subordinate to the qualifying purpose. Thus, for example, if feed is stored in an agricultural structure which will be used for raising hogs, the feed must be used only for the hogs in order to be related to the qualifying purpose. In determining whether use of the structure for feed storage is subordinate to the qualifying purpose, all of the facts and circumstances must be considered, including, with respect to feed storage, the following:

(A) Type of animal involved;

(B) Number of, and consumption rate for, each animal;

(C) Climate of area;

(D) Total volume of storage area; and

(E) Percentage of structure's total volume devoted to storage.

(iii) It will be presumed that the storage function is not subordinate to the qualifying purpose of the structure if more than one-third of the structure's total usable volume is devoted to storage. This presumption may be rebutted with clear and convincing evidence.

(iv) A structure may fail the exclusive use test if either of the requirements of paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section is not met. Thus, for example, a horticultural structure that contains an area for processing plants or plant products will fail the exclusive use test because there is a nonpermissible use. An agricultural structure that is used to house more than one particular type of livestock fails the exclusive use test for the same reason. A change in the use of an agricultural structure from one species of livestock to another will cause the structure to fail the exclusive use test when the change occurs. Thus, for example, a hog-raising facility which qualified for the credit when it was placed in service cannot later be modified and used for producing broiler chickens even if the structure would have qualified for the credit if it had been originally designed, constructed, and used exclusively for producing broiler chickens.
