
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.48-11 Qualified rehabilitated building; expenditures incurred before January 1, 1982.
####### Special rule for rehabilitation done in phases.

(6)If rehabilitation which is not continuous is determined under this subparagraph to be a single rehabilitation done in phases, the requirements of this paragraph (b) are to be applied with respect to the overall rehabilitation and not merely to a phase of the rehabilitation. In such case, a phase of a single overall rehabilitation will not be considered as "prior rehabilitation" for purposes of subparagraph (2)(i)(B) of this paragraph (b). Whether rehabilitation which is not continuous is a single rehabilitation that is done in phases is determined on the basis of all the facts and circumstances. Generally, however, to constitute a single rehabilitation that is done in phases, there must exist, prior to the time any rehabilitation work is commenced, a set of written plans describing generally all phases of the rehabilitation of the building and a reasonable expectation that all phases of the rehabilitation will be completed. Such written plans are not required to contain detailed working drawings or detailed specifications of the material to be used. In addition, the period between the time that physical work on the first phase of the overall rehabilitation begins and physical work on the last phase of the overall rehabilitation begins must be reasonable. In determining whether the rehabilitation is completed within a reasonable time, the fact that a building is occupied during the rehabilitation, the necessity of acquiring a lease (of additional portions of the building), and unforeseen delays shall be taken into account. Other factors that are relevant in determining whether rehabilitation is a single rehabilitation include the length of time between each phase of rehabilitation activities and the extent of rehabilitation activity in each phase.
