
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### methods of accounting in general
###### ยง 1.448-1 Limitation on the use of the cash receipts and disbursements method of accounting.
####### Changes to a method other than overall accrual method,In general.

(3)-(i)A taxpayer to whom paragraph (h) of this section applies who desires to change to a special method of accounting must make that change under the provisions of this paragraph (h)(3), except to the extent other special procedures have been promulgated regarding the special method of accounting. Such a taxpayer includes taxpayers who change to both an accrual method of accounting and a special method of accounting such as a long-term contract method. In order to change an accounting method under this paragraph (h)(3), a taxpayer must submit an application for change in accounting method under the applicable administrative procedures in effect at the time of change, including the applicable procedures regarding the time and place of filing the application for change in method. Moreover, a taxpayer who changes an accounting method under this paragraph (h)(3) must type or legibly print the following statement on the top of page 1 of Form 3115: "Change to a Special Method of Accounting-Section 448." The filing of a Form 3115 by any taxpayer requesting a change of method of accounting under this paragraph (h)(3) for its taxable year beginning in 1987 will not be considered late if the form is filed with the appropriate office of the Internal Revenue Service on or before the later of: the date that is the 180th day of the taxable year of change; or September 14, 1987. If the Commissioner approves the taxpayer's application for change in method of accounting, the timing of the adjustment required under section 481 (a), if applicable, will be determined under the provisions of paragraph (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), or (g)(3) of this section, whichever is applicable. If the Commissioner denies the taxpayer's application for change in accounting method, or if the taxpayer's application is untimely, the taxpayer must change to an overall accrual method of accounting under the provisions of either paragraph (h)(2) or (h)(4) of this section, whichever is applicable.
