
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### methods of accounting in general
###### ยง 1.448-2 Limitation on the use of the cash receipts and disbursements method of accounting for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017.
####### 1,Example 1.

()Taxpayer B is a calendar year limited partnership, with no active management from its limited partner. For 2019, B is profitable and has no losses to allocate to its limited partner. For 2020, B is not profitable and allocates 60 percent of its losses to its general partner and 40 percent of its losses to its limited partner. For 2021, B is not profitable and allocates 50 percent of its losses to its general partner and 50 percent of its losses to its limited partner. For taxable year 2020, B makes an election under paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(B) of this section to use its prior year allocated amounts. Accordingly, for 2020, B is not a syndicate because B was profitable for 2019 and did not allocate any losses to its limited partner in 2019. For 2021, B is a syndicate because B allocated 50 percent of its 2021 losses to its limited partner under paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(3)(A) of this section. Even if B made an election under paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(B) of this section to use prior year allocated amounts, B is a syndicate for 2021 because B allocated 40 percent of its 2020 losses to its limited partner in 2020. Because B is a syndicate under paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(A) of this section for 2021, B is a tax shelter prohibited from using the cash method for taxable year 2021 under paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section.
