
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which items of gross income included
###### ยง 1.451-3 Timing of income inclusion for taxpayers with an applicable financial statement using an accrual method of accounting.
####### AFS income inclusion rule,In general.,taken into account as AFS revenue

(b)-(1)Except as otherwise provided in this section, if a taxpayer uses an accrual method of accounting for Federal income tax purposes and has an AFS, the all events test under ยง 1.451-1(a) for any item of gross income, or portion thereof, is met no later than when that item, or portion thereof, is taken into account as AFS revenue (AFS income inclusion rule). See paragraph (b)(2) of this section for rules regarding when an item of gross income, or portion thereof, is treated asunder the AFS income inclusion rule. See paragraph (c) of this section for optional rules to determine the AFS income inclusion amount for an item of gross income from the sale of inventory. See paragraph (d) of this section for rules regarding the allocation of the transaction price amount to multiple items of gross income. See paragraph (e) of this section for rules to determine the AFS income inclusion amount for an item of gross income from a multi-year contract. See paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section for limitations of the AFS income inclusion rule. See paragraph (h) of this section for special rules that may affect the determination of AFS revenue under the AFS income inclusion rule. See paragraph (j) of this section for special ordering rules for certain items of income with respect to debt instruments.
