
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which items of gross income included
###### § 1.451-3 Timing of income inclusion for taxpayers with an applicable financial statement using an accrual method of accounting.
####### Cost offsets,In general.

(c)-(1)This paragraph (c) provides an optional method of accounting that may be used to determine the AFS income inclusion amount for an item of gross income from the sale of inventory (AFS cost offset method). A taxpayer that uses the AFS cost offset method for a trade or business must apply this method to all items of gross income in the trade or business that meet the criteria in this paragraph (c). Additionally, a taxpayer that uses this method for a trade or business must also use the advance payment cost offset method described in § 1.451-8(e) to account for all advance payments received by such trade or business that meet the criteria in § 1.451-8(e), if applicable. A taxpayer that uses the AFS cost offset method to account for gross income from the sale of an item of inventory, but not the advance payment cost offset method because it does not receive any advance payments for such item, determines the corresponding AFS income inclusion amount for a taxable year by following the rules in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. A taxpayer that uses the AFS cost offset method and the advance payment cost offset method to account for gross income, including advance payments, from the sale of an item of inventory, determines the corresponding AFS income inclusion amount and the advance payment income inclusion amount, as defined in § 1.451-8(a)(2), for a taxable year by following the rules in paragraph (c)(2) of this section rather than the rules under § 1.451-8(e). However, if all payments received for the sale of an item of inventory meet the definition of an advance payment under § 1.451-8(a)(1), a taxpayer that uses the advance payment cost offset method determines the corresponding advance payment income inclusion amount for a taxable year by following the rules in § 1.451-8(e).
