
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which items of gross income included
###### ยง 1.451-3 Timing of income inclusion for taxpayers with an applicable financial statement using an accrual method of accounting.
####### Analysis.

(B)Under the all events test in ยง 1.451-1(a), J is required to include $50,000 in gross income in 2021 as J has a fixed right to receive $50,000 of commission income for the policies it sold during 2021. However, as of the end of 2021, J does not have a fixed right to receive any commission income from anticipated policy renewals. Under the AFS income inclusion rule, although J reports $87,500 of AFS revenue for 2021, J does not have an enforceable right to recover the $37,500 of anticipated commission income from future policy renewals if the insurance carrier were to terminate the contract on the last day of 2021. Accordingly, pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section, of the $87,500 of AFS revenue reported for 2021, only $50,000 is treated as "taken into account as AFS revenue" under the AFS income inclusion rule. As a result, J is required to include $50,000 in gross income in 2021. Alternatively, if J uses the alternative AFS revenue method in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, all $87,500 of AFS revenue reported for 2021 would be treated as "taken into account as AFS revenue" under the AFS income inclusion rule and J would be required to include $87,500 of commission income in gross income in 2021.
