
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which items of gross income included
###### ยง 1.451-3 Timing of income inclusion for taxpayers with an applicable financial statement using an accrual method of accounting.
####### Example 2,Facts.

(ii)-(A)In December of 2021, A enters into a contract with Customer to manufacture and deliver 10 items of inventory at a price of $10x per item by the end of 2023. A determines, under paragraph (c)(2)(i)(A) of this section, that the AFS inventory inclusion amount attributable to each item of inventory under the contract is $3x for 2021. A also incurs $10x of inventory costs during 2021. Such costs are permissibly capitalized and allocated under sections 471 and 263A and are allocated equally to each item of inventory under the contract ($1x per item). During 2022, the taxpayer incurs $18x of costs to finish manufacturing 6 of the 10 items and delivers such items to Customer in October of 2022. Such costs are permissibly capitalized and allocated under sections 471 and 263A and are allocated equally to each of the 6 items delivered in October of 2022 ($3x per item). Upon delivering the 6 items, ownership of the delivered items transfers to Customer, A has a fixed right to receive $60x of the total contract price, and all $60x is treated as "taken into account as AFS revenue." A does not incur any inventory costs during 2022 that are allocable to the 4 remaining undelivered items, nor does the taxpayer have an AFS inventory inclusion amount attributable to such items for 2022. During 2023, A incurs $12x of costs to finish manufacturing the 4 remaining items and delivers such items to Customer. Such costs are permissibly capitalized and allocated under sections 471 and 263A and are allocated equally to each of the 4 items delivered in 2023 ($3x per item). Upon delivering the 4 remaining items, ownership of the items transfers to Customer, A has a fixed right to receive the remaining $40x contract price, and all $40x is treated as "taken into account as AFS revenue."
