
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.48-12 Qualified rehabilitated building; expenditures incurred after December 31, 1981.
####### Effective dates and transition rules,In general.

(2)-(i)Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (a)(2)(i), this section applies to expenditures incurred after December 31, 1981, in connection with the rehabilitation of a qualified rehabilitated building. (See paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section for rules concerning the determination of when an expenditure is incurred.) If, however, physical work on the rehabilitation began before January 1, 1982, and the building does not meet the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, the rules in ยง 1.48-11 shall apply to the expenditures incurred after December 31, 1981, in connection with such rehabilitation. (See paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section for rules determining when physical work on a rehabilitation begins.) The next to last sentence of paragraph (c)(8)(i) of this section applies to qualified rehabilitation expenditures that are qualified property under section 168(k)(2) or qualified New York Liberty Zone property under section 1400L(b) acquired by a taxpayer after September 10, 2001, and to qualified rehabilitation expenditures that are 50 percent bonus depreciation property under section 168(k)(4) acquired by a taxpayer after May 5, 2003. The last sentence of paragraph (c)(8)(i) of this section applies to qualified rehabilitation expenditures that are qualified property under section 168(k)(2) and placed in service by a taxpayer during or after the taxpayer's taxable year that includes September 24, 2019. However, a taxpayer may choose to apply the last sentence in paragraph (c)(8)(i) of this section for qualified rehabilitation expenditures that are qualified property under section 168(k)(2) and acquired and placed in service after September 27, 2017, by the taxpayer during taxable years ending on or after September 28, 2017. A taxpayer may rely on the last sentence in paragraph (c)(8)(i) of this section in regulation project REG-104397-18 (2018-41 I.R.B. 558) (see ยง 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(b) of this chapter) for qualified rehabilitation expenditures that are qualified property under section 168(k)(2) and acquired and placed in service after September 27, 2017, by the taxpayer during taxable years ending on or after September 28, 2017, and ending before the taxpayer's taxable year that includes September 24, 2019.
