
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which items of gross income included
###### ยง 1.451-3 Timing of income inclusion for taxpayers with an applicable financial statement using an accrual method of accounting.
####### Example 4,Facts.

(iv)-(A)In December 2021, A enters into a contract with Customer to manufacture and deliver a good with a total contract price of $100x. A reports $5x of AFS revenue for 2021, $90x of cumulative AFS revenue through the end of 2022, and $100x of cumulative AFS revenue through the end of 2023. A has an enforceable right to recover all AFS revenue reported through the end of each contract year if Customer were to terminate the contract on the last day of each year. Under the terms of the contract, A is entitled to and receives a payment of $40x in 2021 and a payment of $60x when Customer accepts delivery of the good in 2023, which is also when ownership of the good transfers to Customer. The costs to produce the good are required to be capitalized under sections 471 and 263A as the good is inventory in the hands of A. A incurs $10x of costs in 2021, $55x of costs in 2022, and $5x of costs in 2023 ($70x in total). Such costs are permissibly capitalized and allocated to the produced good under sections 471 and 263A. A uses the AFS cost offset method under paragraph (c) of this section and accounts for advance payments, as defined in ยง 1.451-8(a)(1), under the deferral method and advance payment cost offset method under ยง 1.451-8(c) and (e), respectively.
