
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which items of gross income included
###### ยง 1.451-3 Timing of income inclusion for taxpayers with an applicable financial statement using an accrual method of accounting.
####### Example 6,Facts.

(vi)-(A)In 2021, A enters into a contract with Customer to produce and deliver a good. The contract provides that A will receive payments equal to AFS costs plus a 100% mark-up, however, A can only bill the customer on December 31, 2022 and, if the good is not delivered by December 31, 2022, A can also bill Customer upon delivery of the good, for the AFS costs (plus markup) incurred to date, less any amounts previously billed. A recognizes AFS revenue based on a percentage of completion (cost to cost) method. A recognizes AFS revenue of $100 through the last day of 2021, $150 through the last day of 2022, and $300 through the last day of 2023, and has an enforceable right to all AFS revenue reported as of the end of each year if the customer were to terminate the contract on the last day of the year. A bills the customer $150 on December 31 of 2022 and $150 in 2023 when A delivers the good and ownership transfers to Customer. The costs to produce the good are required to be capitalized under sections 471 and 263A as the good is inventory in the hands of the taxpayer. A incurs the following costs each year that are permissibly capitalized and allocated to the produced good under sections 471 and 263A: $125 in 2021; $0 in 2022; and $25 in year 2023.
