
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which items of gross income included
###### ยง 1.451-3 Timing of income inclusion for taxpayers with an applicable financial statement using an accrual method of accounting.
####### Analysis.

(B)Pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section, W's contract with the customer has two performance obligations, and each performance obligation yields a corresponding item of gross income that is accounted for separately. Pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section, W must allocate the $690 transaction price amount to each corresponding item of gross income in accordance with the transaction price amount allocated to each respective performance obligation for AFS purposes. Accordingly, W initially allocates $660 to the ticket sale item and $30 to the air miles item. However, because the transaction price amount was reduced by the anticipated rebate of $10x, which relates to the ticket sale item, W must increase the transaction price allocable to that item of gross income pursuant to paragraph (d)(3) of this section. Accordingly, the amount allocated to the item of gross income related to the ticket sale is $670. If W reports any portion of the $30 payment allocated to the air miles item as AFS revenue for 2022, or later, the payment is an advance payment, as defined in ยง 1.451-8(a)(1), and may be accounted for under the deferral method if W satisfies the criteria in ยง 1.451-8(c).
