
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which items of gross income included
###### ยง 1.451-3 Timing of income inclusion for taxpayers with an applicable financial statement using an accrual method of accounting.
####### Example,Facts.

(iv)-(1)B is a calendar-year accrual method taxpayer with an AFS. In 2020, B enters into a $100x contract to design, build, operate and maintain a toll road. The contract meets the definition of a long-term contract under ยง 1.460-1(b)(1). B determines that the obligations to design and build the toll road are long-term contract activities under ยง 1.460-1(d)(1) and accounts for the gross income from these activities under section 460 and the regulations in this part under section 460 of the Code. In addition, B determines that the obligations to operate and maintain the toll road are non-long-term contract activities under ยง 1.460-1(d)(2) and that the gross income attributable to these activities is required to be accounted for under this section. B determines that of the $100x transaction price amount, $60x is properly allocable to the items of gross income that are subject to section 460 and the regulations in this part under section 460 of the Code. However, for its AFS, B allocates $55x of the transaction price amount to performance obligations that are long-term contract activities, $30x to the toll road operation performance obligation and $15x to the toll road maintenance performance obligation.
