
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which items of gross income included
###### ยง 1.451-3 Timing of income inclusion for taxpayers with an applicable financial statement using an accrual method of accounting.
####### Taxable year 2022.

(C)Under the all events test in ยง 1.451-1(a), D is required to include $50x in gross income through the end of 2022 as $50x is due under the terms of the contract and received by D as of the end of 2022. D does not have a fixed right to receive any portion of the remaining $50 as such amount is not due under the terms of the contract until future years and is also contingent on D's completion of the nonseverable services. Under the AFS income inclusion rule, because D has an enforceable right to recover all $50x reported as AFS revenue through the end of 2022 if the customer were to terminate the contract on the last day of such year, all $50x is treated as "taken into account as AFS revenue" as of the last day of 2022. Under the cumulative rule in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section, D compares the cumulative all events test amount of $50x with the cumulative AFS revenue amount of $50x and selects the larger of the two amounts (or if the two amounts are equal, the equal amount). From this equal amount of $50x, D subtracts the prior income inclusion amount of $50x. Accordingly, under the cumulative rule D is not required to include any amount in gross income in 2022.
