
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which items of gross income included
###### ยง 1.451-3 Timing of income inclusion for taxpayers with an applicable financial statement using an accrual method of accounting.
####### Computation of AFS revenue for the taxable year when the AFS covers mismatched reportable periods,In general.

(4)-(i)If a taxpayer's AFS is prepared on the basis of a financial accounting year that differs from the taxpayer's taxable year, the taxpayer must use one of the following permissible methods of accounting described in paragraph (h)(4)(i)(A) through (C) of this section to determine the AFS income inclusion amount for the taxable year:

(A) The taxpayer computes AFS revenue as if its financial reporting period is the same as its taxable year by conducting an interim closing of its books using the accounting principles it uses to prepare its AFS.

(B) The taxpayer computes AFS revenue by including a pro rata portion of AFS revenue for each financial accounting year that includes any part of the taxpayer's taxable year. If the taxpayer's AFS for part of the taxable year is not available by the due date of the return (with extension), the taxpayer must make a reasonable estimate of AFS revenue for the pro rata portion of the taxable year for which an AFS is not yet available. See ยง 1.451-1(a) for adjustments after actual amounts are determined.

(C) If a taxpayer's financial accounting year ends five or more months after the end of its taxable year, the taxpayer computes AFS revenue for the taxable year based on the AFS revenue reported on the AFS prepared for the financial accounting year ending within the taxpayer's taxable year. For this paragraph (h)(4)(i)(C), if a taxpayer uses a 52-53 week year for financial accounting or Federal income tax purposes, the last day of such year shall be deemed to occur on the last day of the calendar month ending closest to the end of such year.
