
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which items of gross income included
###### ยง 1.451-3 Timing of income inclusion for taxpayers with an applicable financial statement using an accrual method of accounting.
####### Methods of accounting,In general.

(l)-(1)Except as otherwise provided in this section, a change to comply with this section is a change in method of accounting to which the provisions of sections 446 and 481 and the regulations in this part under sections 446 and 481 of the Code apply. A taxpayer seeking to change to a method of accounting permitted in this section must secure the consent of the Commissioner in accordance with ยง 1.446-1(e) and follow the administrative procedures issued under ยง 1.446-1(e)(3)(ii) for obtaining the Commissioner's consent to change its accounting method. For example, the use of the AFS income inclusion rule under paragraph (b)(1) of this section under which the taxpayer determines the amount of the item of gross income that is treated as "taken into account as AFS revenue" by making the adjustments provided in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, the use of the AFS income inclusion rule under paragraph (b)(1) of this section under which the taxpayer determines the amount of the item of gross income that is treated as "taken into account as AFS revenue" by making only the adjustments provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section (the alternative AFS revenue method), the AFS cost offset method under paragraph (c) of this section, the use of a method of determining AFS revenue under paragraph (i)(4) of this section, are methods of accounting under section 446 and the regulations in this part under section 446 of the Code. In addition, a change in the manner of recognizing revenue in an AFS that changes or could change the timing of the inclusion of income for Federal income tax purposes is generally a change in method of accounting under section 446 and the regulations in this part under section 446 of the Code. However, a change resulting from the restatement of AFS revenue may not always constitute a change in method of accounting under section 446 and the regulations in this part under section 446 of the Code. For example, a restatement of AFS revenue to correct an error described in ยง 1.446-1(e)(2)(ii)(b) does not constitute a change in method of accounting under section 446.
