
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which items of gross income included
###### ยง 1.451-3 Timing of income inclusion for taxpayers with an applicable financial statement using an accrual method of accounting.
####### Example.

(3)C, a credit card issuer, is a calendar-year accrual method taxpayer with a calendar year AFS. In 2021, a cardholder uses C's credit card to purchase $100 of merchandise from a merchant and the cardholder earns a reward of 1% of the purchase price of $100 ($1) as part of C's cardholder loyalty program. Upon purchase, C becomes entitled to an interchange fee equal to 2% of the purchase price of $100 ($2). For its AFS, C reports the $2 of interchange fees as AFS revenue for 2021. C's $2 of interchange fees is described in paragraph (j)(2)(iii) of this section. Under paragraph (j)(1) of this section, C must apply the rules in this section before applying the OID rules. See also ยง 1.1275-2(l). Therefore, C's $2 of interchange fees is included in gross income in 2021, the year it is treated as "taken into account as AFS revenue." Under paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section, the $2 of interchange revenue is not reduced by the $1 reward. Even if C reports interchange fees net of rewards in its AFS for 2021 ($2 of interchange fee minus $1 reward liability), under paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section, C includes $2 of interchange revenue in gross income in 2021. See sections 162 and 461(h) for the treatment of the reward by C.
