
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.48-12 Qualified rehabilitated building; expenditures incurred after December 31, 1981.
####### Special rules.

(B)In the event that a building is not owned by the taxpayer, the adjusted basis of the building shall be determined as of the date that would have been used if the owner had been the taxpayer. The adjusted basis of a building that is being rehabilitated by a taxpayer other than the owner shall thus be determined as of the beginning of the first day of the 24-month period selected by the taxpayer or the first day of the owner's holding period, whichever is later. Therefore, if a building that is being rehabilitated by a lessee is sold subject to the lease prior to the date that the lessee has substantially rehabilitated the building, the lessee's adjusted basis is determined as of the beginning of the first day of the new lessor's holding period or the beginning of the first day of the 24-month period selected by the lessee (the taxpayer), whichever is later. If, therefore, the first day of the new lessor's holding period were later than the first day of the 24-month period selected by the lessee (the taxpayer), the lessee's adjusted basis for purposes of the substantial rehabilitation test would be the same as the adjusted basis of the new lessor as determined under paragraph (b)(2)(vii) of this section. If a building is sold after the date that a lessee has substantially rehabilitated the building with respect to the original lessor's adjusted basis, however, the lessee's basis may be determined as of the first day of the 24-month period selected by the lessee or the first day of the original lessor's holding period, whichever is later, and the transfer of the building will not affect the adjusted basis for purposes of the substantial rehabilitation test. The preceding sentence shall not apply, however, if the building is sold to the lessee or a related party within the meaning of section 267(b) or section 707(b)(1).
