
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which items of gross income included
###### ยง 1.451-4 Accounting for redemption of trading stamps and coupons.
####### Computation of the net addition to or subtraction from the provision for future redemptions,Determination of the provision for future redemptions.

(b)-(1)(i) The provision for future redemptions as of the end of a taxable year is computed by multiplying "estimated future redemptions" (as defined in subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph) by the estimated average cost of redeeming each trading stamp or coupon (computed in accordance with subdivision (iii) of this subparagraph).

(ii) For purposes of this section, the term "estimated future redemptions" as of the end of a taxable year means the number of trading stamps or coupons outstanding as of the end of such year that it is reasonably estimated will ultimately be presented for redemption. Such estimate shall be determined in accordance with the rules contained in paragraph (c) of this section.

(iii) For purposes of this section, the estimated average cost of redeeming each trading stamp or coupon shall be computed by including only the costs to the taxpayer of acquiring the merchandise, cash, or other property needed to redeem such stamps or coupons. The term "the costs to the taxpayer of acquiring the merchandise, cash, or other property needed to redeem such stamps or coupons" includes only the price charged by the seller (less trade or other discounts, except strictly cash discounts approximating a fair interest rate, which may be deducted or not at the option of the taxpayer provided a consistent course is followed) plus transportation or other necessary charges in acquiring possession of the goods. Items such as the costs of advertising, catalogs, operating redemption centers, transporting merchandise or other property from a central warehouse to a branch warehouse (or from a warehouse to a redemption center), and storing the merchandise or other property used to redeem stamps or coupons should not be included in costs of redeeming stamps or premium coupons, but rather should be accounted for in accordance with the provisions of sections 162 and 263.
