
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which items of gross income included
###### ยง 1.451-6 Election to include crop insurance proceeds in gross income in the taxable year following the taxable year of destruction or damage.
####### In general.

(a)(1) For taxable years ending after December 30, 1969, a taxpayer reporting gross income on the cash receipts and disbursements method of accounting may elect to include insurance proceeds received as a result of the destruction of, or damage to, crops in gross income for the taxable year following the taxable year of the destruction or damage, if the taxpayer establishes that, under the taxpayer's normal business practice, the income from those crops would have been included in gross income for any taxable year following the taxable year of the destruction or damage. However, if the taxpayer receives the insurance proceeds in the taxable year following the taxable year of the destruction or damage, the taxpayer shall include the proceeds in gross income for the taxable year of receipt without having to make an election under section 451(d) and this section. For the purposes of this section only, federal payments received as a result of destruction or damage to crops caused by drought, flood, or any other natural disaster, or the inability to plant crops because of such a natural disaster, shall be treated as insurance proceeds received as a result of destruction or damage to crops. The preceding sentence shall apply to payments that are received by the taxpayer after December 31, 1973.

(2) In the case of a taxpayer who receives insurance proceeds as a result of the destruction of, or damage to, two or more specific crops, if such proceeds may, under section 451(d) and this section, be included in gross income for the taxable year following the taxable year of such destruction or damage, and if such taxpayer makes an election under section 451(d) and this section with respect to any portion of such proceeds, then such election will be deemed to cover all of such proceeds which are attributable to crops representing a single trade or business under section 446(d). A separate election must be made with respect to insurance proceeds attributable to each crop which represents a separate trade or business under section 446(d).
