
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.48-12 Qualified rehabilitated building; expenditures incurred after December 31, 1981.
####### Special rule for phased rehabilitation.

(v)In the case of any rehabilitation that may reasonably be expected to be completed in phases set forth in written architectural plans and specifications completed before the physical work on the rehabilitation begins, paragraphs (b)(2) (i), (ii), and (vii) of this section shall be applied by substituting "60-month period" for "24-month period." A rehabilitation may reasonably be expected to be completed in phases if it consists of two or more distinct stages of development. The determination of whether a rehabilitation consists of distinct stages and therefore may reasonably be expected to be completed in phases shall be made on the basis of all the relevant facts and circumstances in existence before physical work on the rehabilitation begins. For purposes of this paragraph and paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section, written plans that describe generally all phases of the rehabilitation process shall be treated as written architectural plans and specifications. Such written plans are not required to contain detailed working drawings or detailed specifications of the materials to be used. In addition, the taxpayer may include a description of work to be done by lessees in the written plans. For example, where the owner of a vacant four story building plans to rehabilitate two floors of the building and plans to require, as a condition of any lease, that tenants of the other two floors must rehabilitate those floors, the requirements of this paragrpah (b)(2)(v) shall be met if the owner provides written plans for the rehabilitation work to be done by the owner and a description of the rehabilitation work that the tenants will be required to complete. The work required of the tenants may be described in the written plans in terms of minimum specifications (e.g., as to lighting, wiring, materials, appearance) that must be met by such tenants. See paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section for the definition of physical work on a rehabilitation.
