
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which items of gross income included
###### ยง 1.451-8 Advance payments for goods, services, and certain other items.
####### Example: Method for the specified goods exception to not apply.

(2)On May 1, 2021, A, a corporation that files its Federal income tax return on the calendar year basis, receives a prepayment for $100x, for a contract to manufacture and deliver a good in September of 2023. All of the revenue from the sale of the good is recognized in A's AFS in the year of delivery. During 2021, A does not have on hand, or available to it in such year through its normal source of supply, goods of a substantially similar kind and in a sufficient quantity to satisfy the contract to transfer the good to the customer. The payment of $100x satisfies the specified good exception. A uses the method under paragraph (f) of this section to treat all payments that otherwise satisfy the specified good exception as advance payments under this section. For Federal income tax purposes, A must treat the payment of $100x as an advance payment and account for such payment under the full inclusion method in paragraph (b) of this section, or the deferral method in paragraph (c) of this section, as applicable. Additionally, the taxpayer may choose to apply the advance payment cost offset method in paragraph (e) of this section.
