
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which items of gross income included
###### ยง 1.453-9 Gain or loss on disposition of installment obligations.
####### Disposition of installment obligations to life insurance companies.

(g)(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 453(d)(4) and paragraph (c) of this section or any provision of subtitle A relating to the nonrecognition of gain, the entire amount of any gain realized on the disposition of an installment obligation by any person, other than a life insurance company (as defined in section 801(a) and paragraph (b) of ยง 1.801-3), to a life insurance company or to a partnership of which a life insurance company is a partner shall be recognized and treated in accordance with section 453(d)(1) and paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. If a corporation which is a life insurance company for the taxable year was a corporation which was not a life insurance company for the preceding taxable year, such corporation shall be treated, for purposes of section 453(d)(1) and this paragraph, as having transferred to a life insurance company, on the last day of the preceding taxable year, all installment obligations which it held on such last day. The gain, if any, realized by reason of the installment obligations being so transferred shall be recognized and treated in accordance with section 453(d)(1) and paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. Similarly, a partnership of which a life insurance company becomes a partner shall be treated, for purposes of section 453(d)(1) and this paragraph, as having transferred to a life insurance company, on the last day of the preceding taxable year of such partnership, all installment obligations which it holds at the time such life insurance company becomes a partner. The gain, if any, realized by reason of the installment obligations being so transferred shall be recognized and treated in accordance with section 453(d)(1) and paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.

(2) The provisions of section 453(d)(5) and subparagraph (1) of this paragraph shall not apply to losses sustained in connection with the disposition of installment obligations to a life insurance company.

(3) For the effective date of the provisions of section 453(d)(5) and this paragraph, see paragraph (f) of ยง 1.453-10.

(4) Application of the provisions of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:
