
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.48-12 Qualified rehabilitated building; expenditures incurred after December 31, 1981.
####### Definition of external wall.,i.e.,

(ii)For purposes of this paragraph (b), a wall includes both the supporting elements of the wall and the nonsupporting elements, (e.g., a curtain, windows or doors) of the wall. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (b)(3), the term "external wall" includes any wall that has one face exposed to the weather, earth, or an abutting wall of an adjacent building. The term "external wall" also includes a shared wall (a single wall shared with an adjacent building), generally referred to as a "party wall," provided that the shared wall has no windows or doors in any portion of the wall that does not have one face exposed to the weather, earth, or an abutting wall. In general, the term "external wall" includes only those external walls that form part of the outline or perimeter of the building or that surround an uncovered courtyard. Therefore, the walls of an uncovered internal shaft, designed solely to bring light or air into the center of a building, which are completely surrounded by external walls of the building and which enclose space not designated for occupancy or other use by people (other than for maintenance or emergency), are not considered external walls. Thus, for example, a wall of a light well in the center of a building is not an external wall. However, walls surrounding an outdoor space which is usable by people, such as a courtyard, are external walls.
