
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which items of gross income included
###### ยง 1.455-6 Time and manner of making election.
####### "Within 12 months" election.

(c)(1) A taxpayer who elects to apply the provisions of section 455 to any trade or business may also elect to include in gross income for the taxable year of receipt (as described in section 455(d)(3) and paragraph (c) of ยง 1.455-5) the entire amount of any prepaid subscription income from such trade or business if the liability from which it arose is to end within 12 months after the date of receipt. Any such election is binding for the first taxable year for which it is effective and for all subsequent taxable years, unless the taxpayer secures permission from the Commissioner to treat such income differently. Application to revoke or change a "within 12 months" election shall be made in accordance with the provisions of section 446(e) and the regulations thereunder.

(2) The "within 12 months" election shall be made by including in the statement required by paragraph (a) of this section or the request described in paragraph (b) of this section, whichever is applicable, a declaration that the taxpayer elects to include such income in gross income in the taxable year of receipt, and the amount of such income. If the taxpayer is engaged in more than one trade or business for which the election under section 455 is made, it must include, in such statement or request, a declaration for each trade or business for which it makes the "within 12 months" election. See also paragraph (e) of ยง 1.455-2.

(3) If the taxpayer does not make the "within 12 months" election for its trade or business at the time prescribed for making the election to include prepaid subscription income in gross income for the taxable years during which its liability to furnish or deliver a newspaper, magazine, or other periodical exists for such trade or business, but later wishes to make such election, it must apply for permission from the Commissioner. Such application shall be made in accordance with the provisions of section 446(e) and the regulations thereunder.
