
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which items of gross income included
###### ยง 1.456-2 Scope of election under section 456.

(a) An election made under section 456 and ยง 1.456-6, shall be applicable to all prepaid dues income received in connection with the trade or business for which the election is made. However, the taxpayer may further elect to include in gross income for the taxable year of receipt the entire amount of any prepaid dues income attributable to a liability extending beyond the close of the taxable year but ending within 12 months after the date of receipt, hereinafter referred to as the "within 12 months" election.

(b) If the taxpayer is engaged in more than one trade or business in connection with which prepaid dues income is received, a separate election may be made under section 456 with respect to each such trade or business. In addition, a taxpayer may make a separate "within 12 months" election for each separate trade or business for which it has made an election under section 456.

(c) A section 456 election and a "within 12 months" election shall be binding for the first taxable year for which the election is made and for all subsequent taxable years, unless the taxpayer secures the consent of the Commissioner to the revocation of either election. In order to secure the Commissioner's consent to the revocation of the section 456 election or the "within 12 months" election, an application must be filed with the Commissioner in accordance with section 446(e) and the regulations thereunder. However, an application for consent to revoke the section 456 election or the "within 12 months" election in the case of all taxable years which end before November 30, 1967 must be filed on or before February 28, 1968. For purposes of Subtitle A of the Code, the computation of taxable income under an election made under section 456 or under the "within 12 months" election shall be treated as a method of accounting. For adjustments required by changes in method of accounting, see section 481 and the regulations thereunder.

(d) Except as provided in section 456(d) and ยง 1.456-7, an election made under section 456 shall not apply to any prepaid dues income received before the first taxable year to which the election applies. For example, Corporation X, a membership organization which files its income tax returns on a calendar year basis, customarily sells 3-year memberships, payable in advance. In 1961 it received $160,000 of prepaid dues income for 3-year memberships beginning during 1961, and in 1962 it received $185,000 of prepaid dues income for 3-year memberships beginning on January 1, 1962. In March 1962 it elected, with the consent of the Commissioner, to report its prepaid dues income under the provisions of section 456 for the year 1962 and subsequent taxable years. The $160,000 received in 1961 from prepaid dues must be included in gross income in full in that year, and except as provided in section 456(d) and ยง 1.456-7, no part of such income shall be allocated to the taxable years 1962, 1963, and 1964 during which X was under a liability to make available its membership privileges. The $185,000 received in 1962 from prepaid dues income shall be allocated to the years 1962, 1963, and 1964.

(e) No election may be made under section 456 with respect to a trade or business if, in computing taxable income, the cash receipts and disbursements method (or a hybrid thereof) of accounting is used with respect to such trade or business, unless the combination of the section 456 election and the taxpayer's hybrid method of accounting does not result in a material distortion of income.
