
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which items of gross income included
###### ยง 1.457-4 Annual deferrals, deferral limitations, and deferral agreements under eligible plans.
####### Deferrals after severance from employment, including sick, vacation, and back pay under an eligible plan,In general.

(d)-(1)An eligible plan may provide that a participant who has not had a severance from employment may elect to defer accumulated sick pay, accumulated vacation pay, and back pay under an eligible plan if the requirements of section 457(b) are satisfied. For example, the plan must provide, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, that these amounts may be deferred for any calendar month only if an agreement providing for the deferral is entered into before the beginning of the month in which the amounts would otherwise be paid or made available and the participant is an employee on the date the amounts would otherwise be paid or made available. For purposes of section 457, compensation that would otherwise be paid for a payroll period that begins before severance from employment is treated as an amount that would otherwise be paid or made available before an employee has a severance from employment. In addition, deferrals may be made for former employees with respect to compensation described in ยง 1.415(c)-2(e)(3)(i) (relating to certain compensation paid by the later of 2months after severance from employment or the end of the limitation year that includes the date of severance from employment). For this purpose, the calendar year is substituted for the limitation year. In addition, compensation described in ยง 1.415(c)-2(e)(4), (g)(4), or (g)(7) (relating to compensation paid to participants who are permanently and totally disabled or compensation relating to qualified military service under section 414(u)), provided those amounts represent compensation described in ยง 1.415(c)-2(e)(3)(i).
