
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.48-12 Qualified rehabilitated building; expenditures incurred after December 31, 1981.
####### Chargeable to capital account.

(2)For purposes of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, amounts are chargeable to capital account if they are properly includible in computing basis of real property under ยง 1.46-3(c). Amounts treated as an expense and deducted in the year they are paid or incurred or amounts that are otherwise not added to the basis of real property described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section do not qualify. For purposes of this paragraph (c), amounts incurred for architectural and engineering fees, site survey fees, legal expenses, insurance premiums, development fees, and other construction related costs, satisfy the requirement of this paragraph (c)(2) if they are added to the basis of real property that is described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section. Construction period interest and taxes that are amortized under section 189 (as in effect prior to its repeal by the Tax Reform Act of 1986) do not satisfy the requirement of this paragraph (c)(2). If, however, such interest and taxes are treated by the taxpayer as chargeable to capital account with respect to property described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, they shall be treated in the same manner as other costs described in this paragraph (c)(2). Any construction period interest or taxes or other fees or costs incurred in connection with the acquisition of a building, any interest in a building, or land, are subject to paragraph (c)(7)(ii) of this section. See paragraph (c)(9) of this section for additional rules concerning interest.
