
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.48-12 Qualified rehabilitated building; expenditures incurred after December 31, 1981.
####### Certain expenditures excluded from qualified rehabilitation expenditures.

(7)The term "qualified rehabilitation expenditures" does not include the following expenditures:

(i) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c)(8) of this section, any expenditure with respect to which the taxpayer does not use the straight line method over a recovery period determined under section 168 (c) and (g).

(ii) The cost of acquiring a building, any interest in a building (including a leasehold interest), or land, except as provided in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section.

(iii) Any expenditure attributable to an enlargement of a building (within the meaning of paragraph (c)(10) of this section).

(iv) Any expenditure attributable to the rehabilitation of a certified historic structure or a building located in a registered historic district, unless the rehabilitation is a certified rehabilitation. (See paragraph (d) of this section which contains definitions and special rules applicable to rehabilitations of certified historic structures and buildings located in registered historic districts.)

(v) Any expenditure of a lessee of a building or a portion of a building, if, on the date the rehabilitation is completed with respect to property placed in service by such lessee, the remaining term of the lease (determined without regard to any renewal period) is less than the recovery period determined under section 168(c) (or 19 years in the case of property placed in service before January 1, 1987, and property placed in service that qualifies under the transition rules in paragraph (a)(2)(iv)(B) or (C) of this section).

(vi) Any expenditure allocable to that portion of a building which is (or may reasonably be expected to be) tax-exempt use property (within the meaning of section 168 and the regulations thereunder), except that the exclusion in this paragraph (c)(7)(vi) shall not apply for purposes of determining whether the building is a substantially rehabilitated building under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
