
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which items of gross income included
###### ยง 1.460-4 Methods of accounting for long-term contracts.
####### Overview.

(a)This section prescribes permissible methods of accounting for long-term contracts. Paragraph (b) of this section describes the percentage-of-completion method under section 460(b) (PCM) that a taxpayer generally must use to determine the income from a long-term contract. Paragraph (c) of this section lists permissible methods of accounting for exempt construction contracts described in ยง 1.460-3(b)(1) and describes the exempt-contract percentage-of-completion method (EPCM). Paragraph (d) of this section describes the completed-contract method (CCM), which is one of the permissible methods of accounting for exempt construction contracts. Paragraph (e) of this section describes the percentage-of-completion/capitalized-cost method (PCCM), which is a permissible method of accounting for qualified ship contracts described in ยง 1.460-2(d) and residential construction contracts described in ยง 1.460-3(c). Paragraph (f) of this section provides rules for determining the alternative minimum taxable income (AMTI) from long-term contracts that are not exempted under section 56. Paragraph (g) of this section provides rules concerning consistency in methods of accounting for long-term contracts. Paragraph (h) of this section provides examples illustrating the principles of this section. Paragraph (j) of this section provides rules for taxpayers that file consolidated tax returns. Finally, paragraph (k) of this section provides rules relating to a mid-contract change in taxpayer of a contract accounted for using a long-term contract method of accounting.
