
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which items of gross income included
###### § 1.460-5 Cost allocation rules.
####### Overview.

(a)This section prescribes methods of allocating costs to long-term contracts accounted for using the percentage-of-completion method described in § 1.460-4(b) (PCM), the completed-contract method described in § 1.460-4(d) (CCM), or the percentage-of-completion/capitalized-cost method described in § 1.460-4(e) (PCCM). Exempt construction contracts described in § 1.460-3(b) accounted for using a method other than the PCM or CCM are not subject to the cost allocation rules of this section (other than the requirement to allocate production-period interest under paragraph (b)(2)(v) of this section). Paragraph (b) of this section describes the regular cost allocation methods for contracts subject to the PCM. Paragraph (c) of this section describes an elective simplified cost allocation method for contracts subject to the PCM. Paragraph (d) of this section describes the cost allocation methods for exempt construction contracts reported using the CCM. Paragraph (e) of this section describes the cost allocation rules for contracts subject to the PCCM. Paragraph (f) of this section describes additional rules applicable to the cost allocation methods described in this section. Paragraph (g) of this section provides rules concerning consistency in method of allocating costs to long-term contracts.
