
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which items of gross income included
###### ยง 1.460-6 Look-back method.
####### Operation of the look-back method,Overview,In general.

(c)-(1)-(i)The amount of interest charged or credited to a taxpayer under the look-back method is computed in three steps. This paragraph (c) describes the three steps for applying the look-back method. These steps are illustrated by the examples in paragraph (h). The first step is to hypothetically reapply the percentage of completion method to all long-term contracts that are completed or adjusted in the current year (the "filing year"), using the actual, rather than estimated, total contract price and contract costs. Based on this reapplication, the taxpayer determines the amount of taxable income (and, when applicable, alternative minimum taxable income and modified taxable income under section 59A(c)) that would have been reported for each year prior to the filing year that is affected by contracts completed or adjusted in the filing year if the actual, rather than estimated, total contract price and costs had been used in applying the percentage of completion method to these contracts, and to any other contracts completed or adjusted in a year preceding the filing year. If the percentage of completion method only applies to alternative minimum taxable income for contracts completed or adjusted in the filing year, only alternative minimum taxable income is recomputed in the first step. The second step is to compare what the tax liability would have been under the percentage of completion method (as reapplied in the first step) for each tax year for which the tax liability is affected by income from contracts completed or adjusted in the filing year (a "redetermination year") with the most recent determination of tax liability for that year to produce a hypothetical underpayments or overpayment of tax. The third step is to apply the rate of interest on overpayments designated under section 6621 of the Code, compounded daily, to the hypothetical underpayment or overpayment of tax for each redetermination year to compute interest that runs, generally, from the due date (determined without regard to extensions) of the return for the redetermination year to the due date (determined without regard to extensions) of the return for the filing year. The net amount of interest computed under the third step is paid by or credited to the taxpayer for the filing year. Paragraph (d) provides a simplified marginal impact method that simplifies the second step-the computation of hypothetical underpayments or overpayments of tax liability for redetermination years-and, in some cases, the third step-the determination of the time period for computing interest.
