
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which items of gross income included
###### ยง 1.460-6 Look-back method.
####### Revenue acceleration rule.

(D)Section 460(b)(1) imposes a special rule that requires a taxpayer to include in gross income, for the tax year immediately following the year of completion, any previously unreported portion of the total contract price (including amounts that the taxpayer expects to receive in the future) determined as of that year, even if the percentage of completion ratio is less than 100 percent because the taxpayer expects to incur additional allocable contract costs in a later year. At the time any remaining portion of the contract price is includible in income under this rule, no offset against this income is permitted for estimated future contract costs. To achieve the requirement to report all remaining contract revenue without regard to additional estimated costs, a taxpayer must include only costs actually incurred through the end of the tax year in the denominator of the percentage of completion ratio in applying the percentage of completion method for any tax years after the year of completion. The look-back method also must be reapplied for the year immediately following the year of completion if any portion of the contract price is includible in income in that year by reason of section 460(b)(1). For purposes of reapplying the look-back method as a result of this inclusion in income, the taxpayer must only include in the denominator of the percentage of completion ratio the actual contract costs incurred as of the end of the year, even if the taxpayer reasonably expects to incur additional allocable contract costs. To the extent that costs are incurred in a subsequent tax year, the look-back method is reapplied in that year (or a later year if the delayed reapplication method is used), and the taxpayer is entitled to receive interest for the post-completion adjustment to contract costs. Because this reapplication occurs subsequent to the completion year, only the cumulative costs incurred as of the end of the reapplication year are includible in the denominator of the percentage of completion ratio.
