
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which items of gross income included
###### ยง 1.460-6 Look-back method.
####### Costs incurred prior to contract execution; 10-percent method,General rule.

(v)-(A)The look-back method does not require allocation of contract income to tax years before the contract was entered into. Costs incurred prior to the year a contract is entered into are first taken into account in the numerator of the percentage of completion ratio in the year the contract is entered into. A taxpayer using the 10-percent method must also use the 10-percent method in applying the look-back method, using actual total contract costs to determine the 10-percent year. Thus, contract income is never reallocated to a year before the 10-percent year as determined on the basis of actual contract costs. If the 10-percent year is earlier as a result of applying Step One of the look-back method, contract costs incurred up to and including the new 10-percent year (as determined based on actual contract costs), are reallocated from the original 10-percent year to the new 10-percent, and costs incurred in later years but before the old 10-percent year are reallocated to those years. If the 10-percent year is later as a result of applying Step One of the look-back method, contract costs incurred up to and including the new 10-percent year are reallocated from all prior years to the new 10-percent year. This is the only case in which costs are reallocated under the look-back method.
