
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which items of gross income included
###### ยง 1.460-6 Look-back method.
####### Tax years in which income is affected.

(iv)In general, because income under the percentage of completion method is generally reported as costs are incurred, the taxable income and, when applicable, alternative minimum taxable income and modified taxable income under section 59A(c), are recomputed only for each year in which allocable contract costs were incurred. However, there will be exceptions to this general rule. For example, a taxpayer may be required to cumulatively adjust the income from a contract in a year in which no allocable contract costs are incurred if the estimated total contract price or contract costs was revised in that year. However, in applying the look-back method, no contract income is allocated to that year. Thus, there may be a difference between the amount of contract income originally reported for that year and the amount of contract income as reallocated. Similarly, because of the revenue acceleration rule of section 460(b)(1), income may be reported in the year immediately following the completion year even though no costs were incurred during that year and, in applying the look-back method in that year or another year, if additional costs are incurred or the contract price is adjusted in a later year, no income is allocated to the year immediately following the completion year.
