
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which items of gross income included
###### ยง 1.460-6 Look-back method.
####### Look-back Step One,Hypothetical reallocation of income among prior tax years.

(2)-(i)For each filing year, a taxpayer must allocate total contract income among prior tax years, by hypothetically applying the percentage of completion method to all contracts that are completed or adjusted in the filing year using the rules of this paragraph (c)(2). The taxpayer must reallocate income from those contracts among all years preceding the filing year that are affected by those contracts using the total contract price and contract costs, as determined as of the end of the filing year ("actual contract price and costs"), rather than the estimated contract price and contract costs. The taxpayer then must determine the amount of taxable income (and, when applicable, alternative minimum taxable income and modified taxable income under section 59A(c)) that would have been reported for each affected tax year preceding the filing year if the percentage of completion method had been applied on the basis of actual contract price and contract costs in reporting income from all contracts completed or adjusted in the filing year and in any preceding year. If the percentage of completion method only applies to alternative minimum taxable income from the contract, only alternative minimum taxable income is recomputed in the first step. For purposes of reallocating income (and costs if the 10-percent year changes for a taxpayer using the 10-percent method of section 460(b)(5)) under the look-back method, the method of computing the percentage of completion ratio is the same method used to report income from the contract on the taxpayer's return. (Thus, an election to use the 10-percent method or the simplified cost-to-cost method is taken into account). See Example 1 of paragraph (h)(2) for an illustration of Step One.
