
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which items of gross income included
###### ยง 1.460-6 Look-back method.
####### Operation,In general.

(2)-(i)Under the simplified marginal impact method, income from those contracts that are completed or adjusted in the filing year is first reallocated in accordance with the procedures of Step One contained in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Step Two is modified in the following manner. The hypothetical underpayment or overpayment of tax for each year of the contract (a "redetermination year") is determined by multiplying the applicable regular tax rate (as defined in paragraph (d)(2)(iii)) by the increase or decrease in regular taxable income (or, if it produces a greater amount, by multiplying the applicable alternative minimum tax rate by the increase or decrease in alternative minimum taxable income, for taxpayers subject to the alternative minimum tax without regard to whether tentative minimum tax exceeds regular tax for the redetermination year) that results from reallocating income to the tax year under Step One. Generally, the product of the alternative minimum tax rate and the increase or decrease in alternative minimum taxable income will be the greater of the two amounts described in the preceding sentence only with respect to contracts for which a taxpayer uses the full percentage of completion method only for alternative minimum tax purposes and uses the completed contract method, or the percentage of completion-capitalized cost method, for regular tax purposes. Step Three is then applied. Interest is credited to the taxpayer on the net overpayment and is charged to the taxpayer on the net underpayment for each redetermination year from the due date (determined without regard to extensions) of the return for the redetermination year until the earlier of

(A) The due date (determined without regard to extensions) of the return for the filing year, and

(B) The first date by which both the return is filed and the tax is fully paid.
