
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which items of gross income included
###### ยง 1.460-6 Look-back method.
####### Time and manner of making election.

(2)An election to use the delayed reapplication method may be made for any filing year for which the due date of the return (determined with regard to extensions) is after June 12, 1990. The election is made by a statement to that effect on the taxpayer's timely filed Federal income tax return (determined with regard to extensions) for the first tax year the election is to be effective. An election to use the delayed reapplication method is binding with respect to all long-term contracts for which the look-back method would be reapplied without regard to the election in the year of election and any subsequent year unless the Commissioner consents to a revocation of the election. In the case of a consolidated group of corporations as defined in ยง 1.1502-1(h), an election to use the delayed reapplication method is made by the common parent of the group. The election is binding on all other affected members of the group (including members that join the group after the election is made with respect to contracts adjusted after joining). If a member subsequently leaves the group, the election remains binding as to that member unless the Commissioner consents to a revocation of the election. If a corporation that has made the election joins a consolidated group that has not made the election, the election is treated as revoked with respect to contracts adjusted after joining.
