
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.48-12 Qualified rehabilitated building; expenditures incurred after December 31, 1981.
####### When the credit may be claimed,In general.

(2)-(i)The investment credit for qualified rehabilitation expenditures is generally allowed in the taxable year in which the property attributable to the expenditure is placed in service, provided the building is a qualified rehabilitated building for the taxable year. See paragraph (b) of this section and section 46(c) and ยง 1.46-3(d). Under certain circumstances, however, the credit may be available prior to the date the property is placed in service. See section 46(d) and ยง 1.46-5 (relating to qualified progress expenditures). Solely for purposes of section 46(c), property attributable to qualified rehabilitation expenditures will not be treated as placed in service until the building with respect to which the expenditures are made meets the definition of a qualified rehabilitated building (as defined in section 48(g)(1) and paragraph (b) of this section) for the taxable year. Accordingly, in the first taxable year for which the building becomes a qualified rehabilitated building, the property described in section 48(a)(1)(E) attributable to expenditures described in paragraph (c) of this section, shall be considered to be placed in service, if such property was considered placed in service under section 46(c) and the regulations thereunder without regard to this paragraph (f)(2)(i) in that taxable year or a prior taxable year. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the requirement of section 48(g)(1)(A)(iii) and paragraph (b)(3) of this section, relating to the definition of a qualified rehabilitated building shall be deemed to be met if the taxpayer reasonably expects that no rehabilitation work undertaken during the remainder of the rehabilitation process will result in a failure to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (b)(3) of this section. If the requirements of paragraph (b)(3) of this section, are not satisfied, however, the credit shall be disallowed for the taxable year in which it was claimed. If a taxpayer fails to complete physical work on the rehabilitation prior to the date that is 30 months after the date that the taxpayer filed a tax return on which the credit is claimed, the taxpayer must submit a written statement to the District Director stating such fact prior to the last day of the 30th month, and shall be requested to consent to an agreement under section 6501(c)(4) extending the period of assessment for any tax relating to the item for which the credit was claimed.
