
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which items of gross income included
###### ยง 1.460-6 Look-back method.
####### Examples,Overview.

(h)-(1)This paragraph provides computational examples of the rules of this section. Except as otherwise noted, the examples involve calendar-year taxpayers and involve long-term contracts subject to section 460 that are accounted for using the percentage of completion method, rather than the percentage of completion-capitalized cost method. If the percentage of completion-capitalized cost method were used by a taxpayer described in the examples, the amounts of contract income and expenses shown in the examples would be reduced, for purposes of determining regular taxable income, to the appropriate fraction (40, 70, or 90 percent) of contract items accounted for under the percentage of completion method. Tens of thousands of dollars ($ 00,000's) are omitted from the figures in the examples. The contracts described in the examples are assumed to be the taxpayers' only contracts that are subject to the look-back method of section 460. Except as otherwise stated, the examples assume that the taxpayer has no adjustments and preferences for purposes of section 55, so that alternative minimum taxable income is the same as taxable income, and no alternative minimum tax is imposed for the years involved. The examples assume that the taxpayer does not elect the 10-percent method, the simplified marginal impact method, or the delayed reapplication method.
