
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which items of gross income included
###### ยง 1.460-6 Look-back method.
####### Election not to apply look-back method in de minimis cases.

(j)Section 460(b)(6) provides taxpayers with an election not to apply the look-back method to long-term contracts in de minimis cases, effective for contracts completed in taxable years ending after August 5, 1997. To make an election, a taxpayer must attach a statement to its timely filed original federal income tax return (including extensions) for the taxable year the election is to become effective or to an amended return for that year, provided the amended return is filed on or before March 31, 998. This statement must have the legend "NOTIFICATION OF ELECTION UNDER SECTION 460(b)(6)"; provide the taxpayer's name and identifying number and the effective date of the election; and identify the trades or businesses that involve long-term contracts. An election applies to all long-term contracts completed during and after the taxable year for which the election is effective. An election may not be revoked without the Commissioner's consent. For taxpayers who elected to use the delayed reapplication method under paragraph (e) of this section, an election under this paragraph (j) automatically revokes the election to use the delayed reapplication method for contracts subject to section 460(b)(6). A consolidated group of corporations, as defined in ยง 1.1502-1(h), is subject to consistency rules analogous to those in paragraph (e)(2) of this section and in paragraph (d)(4)(ii)(C) of this section (concerning election to use simplified marginal impact method).
