
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which items of gross income included
###### ยง 1.460-6 Look-back method.
####### Example 7.

(iii)X, a calendar year C corporation, is engaged in the construction of real property under contracts that are completed within a 24-month period. Its average annual gross receipts for the prior 3-taxable-year period does not exceed $25,000,000. As permitted by section 460(e)(1)(B), X uses the completed contract method (CCM) for regular tax purposes. However, X is engaged in the construction of commercial real property and, for years beginning before January 1, 2018, is required to use the percentage of completion method (PCM) for alternative minimum tax (AMT) purposes. Assume that for 2017, 2018, and 2019, X has only one long-term contract, which is entered into in 2017 and completed in 2019 and that in 2017 X's average annual gross receipts for the prior 3-taxable-years do not exceed $10,000,000. Assume further that X estimates gross income from the contract to be $2,000, total contract costs to be $1,000, and that the contract is 25 percent complete in 2017 and 70 percent complete in 2018, and 5 percent complete in 2019. In 2019, the year of completion, gross income from the contract is actually $3,000, instead of $2,000, and costs are actually $1,000. Because X was required to use the PCM for 2017 for AMT purposes, X must apply the look-back method to its AMT reporting for that year. X has elected to use the simplified marginal impact method. For 2017, X's income using estimated contract price and costs is as follows:

(A) When X files its federal income tax return for 2019, the contract completion year, X applies the look-back method. For 2017, X's income using actual contract price and costs is as follows:

(B) Accordingly, the reallocation of contract income under the look-back method results in an increase of income for AMT purposes for 2017 of $250 ($500-$250). Under the simplified marginal impact method, X applies the highest rate of tax under section 55(b)(1) to this increase, which produces a hypothetical underpayment for 2017 of $50 (.20 x $250). Interest is charged to X on this $50 underpayment from the due date of X's 2017 return until the due date of X's 2019 return. X, a C corporation, is not subject to the AMT in 2018. X does not compute alternative minimum taxable income or use the PCM in that year. Accordingly, look-back does not apply to 2018.
