
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which deductions taken
###### ยง 1.461-1 General rule for taxable year of deduction.
####### Dividends or interest paid by certain savings institutions on certain deposits or withdrawable accounts,Deduction not allowable,In general.

(e)-(1)-(i)Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, pursuant to section 461(e) amounts paid to, or credited to the accounts of, depositors or holders of accounts as dividends or interest on their deposits or withdrawable accounts (if such amounts paid or credited are withdrawable on demand subject only to customary notice to withdraw) by a mutual savings bank not having capital stock represented by shares, a domestic building and loan association, or a cooperative bank shall not be allowed as a deduction for the taxable year to the extent such amounts are paid or credited for periods representing more than 12 months. The provisions of section 461(e) are applicable with respect to taxable years ending after December 31, 1962. Whether amounts are paid or credited for periods representing more than 12 months depends upon all the facts and circumstances in each case. For example, payments or credits which under all the facts and circumstances are in the nature of bona fide bonus interest or dividends paid or credited because a shareholder or depositor maintained a certain balance for more than 12 months, will not be considered made for more than 12 months, providing the regular payments or credits represent a period of 12 months or less. The nonallowance of a deduction to the taxpayer under section 461(e) and this subparagraph has no effect either on the proper time for reporting dividends or interest by a depositor or holder of a withdrawable account, or on the obligation of the taxpayer to make a return setting forth, among other things, the aggregate amounts paid to a depositor or shareholder under section 6049 (relating to returns regarding payments of interest) and the regulations thereunder. With respect to a short period (a taxable year consisting of a period of less than 12 months), amounts of dividends or interest paid or credited shall not be allowed as a deduction to the extent that such amounts are paid or credited for a period representing more than the number of months in such short period. In such a case, the rules contained in section 461(e) and this paragraph apply to the short period in a manner consistent with the application of such rules to a 12-month taxable year. Subparagraph (2) of this paragraph provides rules for computing amounts not allowed in the taxable year and subparagraph (3) provides rules for determining when such amounts are allowed. See section 7701(a) (19) and (32) and the regulations thereunder for the definitions of domestic building and loan association and cooperative bank.
