
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which deductions taken
###### ยง 1.461-1 General rule for taxable year of deduction.
####### Limitation on acceleration of accrual of taxes.

(d)(1) Section 461(d)(1) provides that, in the case of a taxpayer whose taxable income is computed under an accrual method of accounting, to the extent that the time for accruing taxes is earlier than it would be but for any action of any taxing jurisdiction taken after December 31, 1960, such taxes are to be treated as accruing at the time they would have accrued but for such action. Any such action which, but for the provisions of section 461(d) and this paragraph, would accelerate the time for accruing a tax is to be disregarded in determining the time for accruing such tax for purposes of the deduction allowed for such tax. Such action is to be disregarded not only with respect to a taxpayer (whose taxable income is computed under an accrual method of accounting) upon whom the tax is imposed at the time of the action, but also with respect to such a taxpayer upon whom the tax is imposed at any time subsequent to such action. Thus, in the case of a tax imposed on property, the acceleration of the time for accruing taxes is to be disregarded not only with respect to the taxpayer who owned the property at the time of such acceleration, but also with respect to any subsequent owner of the property whose taxable income is computed under an accrual method of accounting. Similarly, such action is to be disregarded with respect to all property subject to such tax, even if such property is acquired after the action. Whenever the time for accruing taxes is to be disregarded in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph, the taxpayer shall accrue the tax at the time (original accrual date) the tax would have accrued but for such action, and shall, in the absence of any action of the taxing jurisdiction placing the time for accruing such tax at a time subsequent to the original accrual date, continue to accrue the tax as of the original accrual date for all future taxable years.

(2) For purposes of this paragraph-

(i) The term "a taxpayer whose taxable income is computed under an accrual method of accounting" means a taxpayer who, for Federal income tax purposes, accounts for any tax which is the subject of "any action" (as defined in subdivision (iii) of this subparagraph) under an accrual method of accounting. See section 446 and the regulations thereunder. If a taxpayer uses an accrual method as his overall method of accounting, it shall be presumed that he is "a taxpayer whose taxable income is computed under an accrual method of accounting." However, if the taxpayer establishes to the satisfaction of the district director that he has, for Federal income tax purposes, consistently accounted for such tax under the cash method of accounting, he shall be considered not to be "a taxpayer whose taxable income is computed under an accrual method of accounting."

(ii) The time for accruing taxes shall be determined under section 461 and the regulations in this section.

(iii) The term "any action" includes the enactment or reenactment of legislation, the adoption of an ordinance, the exercise of any taxing or administrative authority, or the taking of any other step, the result of which is an acceleration of the accrual event of any tax. The term also applies to the substitution of a substantially similar tax by either the original taxing jurisdiction or a substitute jurisdiction. However, the term does not include either a judicial interpretation, or an administrative determination by the Internal Revenue Service, as to the event which fixes the accrual date for the tax.

(iv) The term "any taxing jurisdiction" includes the District of Columbia, any State, possession of the United States, city, county, municipality, school district, or other political subdivision or authority, other than the United States, which imposes, assesses, or collects a tax.

(3) The provisions of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

(4) Section 461(d)(1) shall not be applicable to the extent that it would prevent the taxpayer and all other persons, including successors in interest, from ever taking into account, for Federal income tax purposes, any tax to which that section would otherwise apply. For example, assume that State Y imposes a personal property tax on tangible personal property used in a trade or business conducted in the State during a calendar year. The tax is assessed as of February 1 of the year following the personal property tax year, and becomes a lien as of that date. As a result of administrative and judicial decisions, February 1 of the following year is recognized as the proper date on which accrual method taxpayers may accrue the personal property tax for Federal income tax purposes. In 1962 State Y, by legislative action, changes the assessment and lien dates for the personal property tax year 1962 from February 1, 1963, to December 1, 1962, and to December 1 of the personal property tax year for all subsequent years. Corporation A, an accrual method taxpayer which uses the calendar year as its taxable year, pays the tax for 1962 on December 10, 1962. On December 15, 1962, the property which was taxed is completely destroyed and, on December 20, 1962, corporation A transfers all of its remaining assets to its shareholders, and is dissolved. Since corporation A is not in existence in 1963, and therefore could not take the personal property tax into account in computing its 1963 Federal income tax if February 1, 1963, is considered to be the time for accruing the tax, and no other person could ever take such tax into account in computing his Federal income tax, such tax shall be treated as accruing as of December 1, 1962. To the extent that any person other than the taxpayer may at any time take such tax into account in computing his taxable income, the provisions of section 461(d)(1) shall apply. Thus, upon the dissolution of a corporation or the termination of a partnership between the time which, but for the provisions of section 461(d)(1) and this paragraph, would be the time for accruing any tax which was the subject of "any action" (as defined in subdivision (iii) of subparagraph (2)), and the original accrual date, the corporation or the partnership would be entitled to a deduction for only that portion, if any, of such tax with respect to which it can establish, to the satisfaction of the district director, that no other taxpayer can properly take into account in computing his taxable income. However, to the extent that the corporation or partnership cannot establish, at the time of its dissolution or termination, as the case may be, that no other taxpayer would be entitled to take such tax into account in computing his taxable income, and it is subsequently determined that no other taxpayer is entitled to take such tax into account in computing his taxable income, the corporation or partnership may file a claim for refund for the year of its dissolution or termination (subject to the limitations prescribed in section 6511) and claim as a deduction therein the portion of such tax determined to be not deductible by any other taxpayer.

(5) Section 461(d) and this paragraph shall apply to taxable years ending after December 31, 1960.
