
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which deductions taken
###### ยง 1.461-4 Economic performance.
####### Special effective dates,In general.

(k)-(1)Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (k), section 461(h) and this section apply to liabilities that would, under the law in effect before the enactment of section 461(h), be allowable as a deduction or otherwise incurred after July 18, 1984. For example, the economic performance requirement applies to all liabilities arising under a workers compensation act or out of any tort that would, under the law in effect before the enactment of section 461(h), be incurred after July 18, 1984. For taxable years ending before April 7, 1995, see Q&A-2 of ยง 1.461-7T (as it appears in 26 CFR part 1 revised April 1, 1995), which provides an election to make this change in method of accounting applicable to either the portion of the first taxable year that occurs after July 18, 1984 (part-year change method), or the entire first taxable year ending after July 18, 1984 (full-year change method). With respect to the effective date rules for interest, section 461(h) applies to interest accruing under any obligation (whether or not evidenced by a debt instrument) if the obligation is incurred in any transaction occurring after June 8, 1984, and is not incurred under a written contract which was binding on March 1, 1984, and at all times thereafter until the obligation is incurred. Interest accruing under an obligation described in the preceding sentence is subject to section 461(h) even if the interest accrues before July 19, 1984. Similarly, interest accruing under any obligation incurred in a transaction occurring before June 9, 1984, (or under a written contract which was binding on March 1, 1984, and at all times thereafter until the obligation is incurred) is not subject to section 461(h) even to the extent the interest accrues after July 18, 1984.
