
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which deductions taken
###### ยง 1.467-1 Treatment of lessors and lessees generally.
####### Special rules.

(ii)Section 1.467-2 provides rules for section 467 rental agreements that have deferred or prepaid rents without providing for adequate interest. Section 1.467-3 provides rules for application of the constant rental accrual method, including criteria for determining whether an agreement is subject to this method. Section 1.467-4 provides rules for establishing and adjusting a section 467 loan (the amount that a lessor is deemed to have loaned to the lessee, or vice versa, pursuant to the application of the section 467 regulations). Section 1.467-5 provides rules for applying the section 467 regulations where a rental agreement requires payments of interest at a variable rate. Section 1.467-6, relating to the treatment of certain section 467 rental agreements with contingent payments, is reserved. Section 1.467-7 provides rules for the treatment of dispositions by a lessor of property subject to a section 467 rental agreement and the treatment of assignments by lessees and certain lessee-financed renewals of a section 467 rental agreement. Section 1.467-7 also provides rules for the treatment of modified rental agreements. Section 1.467-8 provides special transitional rules relating to the method of accounting for certain rental agreements entered into on or before May 18, 1999. Finally, ยง 1.467-9 provides the effective date rules for the section 467 regulations.
