
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.50-1 Lessee's income inclusion following election of lessor of investment credit property to treat lessee as acquirer.
####### Example 3.

(3)A and B, calendar year taxpayers, form a partnership, the AB partnership, that leases nonresidential real property from Y. The property is placed in service on October 1, 2016. Y elects under ยง 1.48-4 to treat the AB partnership as having acquired the property. A's investment credit determined under section 46 for 2016 is $3,900 and B's investment credit determined under section 46 for 2016 is $7,800 with respect to the property. The shortest recovery period that could be available to the property under section 168 is 39 years. Because Y has elected to treat the AB partnership as having acquired the property, Y does not reduce its basis in the building under section 50(c). Instead, A and B, the ultimate credit claimants, must include the amount of the credit determined with respect to A and B under section 46 ratably in gross income over 39 years, the shortest recovery period available with respect to such property. Therefore, A and B must include ratably in gross income over 39 years under paragraph (b)(2) of this section an amount equal to $3,900 and $7,800, respectively. Under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, A's increase in gross income for each of the 39 years beginning with 2016 is $100 ($3,900/39 year recovery period) and B's is $200 ($7,800/39 year recovery period). Because the gross income A and B are required to include under paragraph (b)(2) of this section is not an item of partnership income, the rules under subchapter K applicable to items of partnership income do not apply with respect to such income. In particular, A and B are not entitled to an increase in the outside basis of their partnership interests under section 705(a) and are not entitled to an increase in their capital accounts under section 704(b).
