
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which deductions taken
###### ยง 1.467-1 Treatment of lessors and lessees generally.
####### Special rules in computing amount described in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section of this section.

(ii)The following rules apply in determining the amount described in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section:

(A) Stated interest on deferred rent is not taken into account. However, the Commissioner may recharacterize a portion of stated interest as additional rent if a rental agreement provides for interest on deferred rent at a rate that, in light of all of the facts and circumstances, is clearly greater than the arm's-length rate of interest that would have been charged in a lending transaction between the lessor and lessee.

(B) Consideration that does not involve a cash payment is taken into account at its fair market value. A liability that is either assumed or secured by property acquired subject to the liability is taken into account at the sum of its remaining principal amount and accrued interest (if any) thereon or, in the case of an obligation originally issued at a discount, at the sum of its adjusted issue price and accrued qualified stated interest (if any), within the meaning of ยง 1.1273-1(c)(1).

(C) All rental agreements that are part of the same transaction or a series of related transactions involving the same lessee (or any related person) and the same lessor (or any related person) are treated as a single rental agreement. Whether two or more rental agreements are part of the same transaction or a series of related transactions depends on all the facts and circumstances.

(D) If an agreement includes a provision increasing or decreasing rent payable solely as a result of an adjustment based on a reasonable price index, the amount described in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section must be determined as if the applicable price index did not change during the lease term.

(E) If an agreement includes a variable interest rate provision (as defined in paragraph (h)(16) of this section), the amount described in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section must be determined by using fixed rate substitutes (determined in the same manner as under ยง 1.1275-5(e), treating the agreement date as the issue date) for the variable rates of interest applicable to the lessor's indebtedness.
