
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.50-1 Lessee's income inclusion following election of lessor of investment credit property to treat lessee as acquirer.
####### Example 5.,Example 4

(5)(i) The facts are the same as inin paragraph (e)(4) of this section, except that instead of nonresidential real property, the AB partnership leases from Y solar energy equipment for which an energy credit under section 48 is determined under section 46. Because the shortest recovery period that could be available to the property under section 168 is 5 years, A and B are required under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section to include ratably in gross income over 5 years an amount equal to 50% of the credit determined under section 46 with respect to such property (50% of $3,900/5, or $390, per year for A, and 50% of $7,800/5, or $780, per year for B).

(ii) The January 1, 2019 lease termination requires A's and B's income tax for 2019 to be increased under section 50(a) by $2,340 and $4,680, respectively (60% of $3,900 and $7,800, respectively). Therefore, the amount of the unrecaptured credit as to A and B is $1,560 and $3,120, respectively (40% of $3,900 and $7,800, respectively). Under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, the amounts A and B previously included in gross income are $1,170 ($390 for each of 2016, 2017, and 2018) and $2,340 ($780 for each of 2016, 2017, and 2018), respectively. A and B are entitled to a reduction in gross income under paragraph (c)(2) of this section equal to the excess of the total increases in gross income made under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section ($1,170 and $2,340, respectively) over 50% of the amount of the credit that is not recaptured ($780 and $1,560, respectively). Therefore, A and B are entitled to a reduction in gross income in the amount of $390 and $780, respectively, in the taxable year of the lease termination (2019).
