
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for investment in certain depreciable property
###### ยง 1.50-1 Lessee's income inclusion following election of lessor of investment credit property to treat lessee as acquirer.
####### Example 6.,Example 3

(6)(i) The facts are the same as inin paragraph (e)(3) of this section, except that on December 1, 2021, A sells its entire interest to C, and on January 1, 2022, the lease between AB partnership and Y terminates. At the time of the lease termination, B is still a partner in the AB partnership. There is no recapture event under section 50(a) because both the lease termination and the disposition of A's interest in the partnership occurred outside of the recapture period.

(ii) At the time that A sold its interest in the AB partnership to C, A had previously included $500 ($100 for each of 2016-2020) in gross income under paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, A must continue to include the remaining $3,400 (including $100 in 2021) in gross income ratably over the remaining portion of the applicable recovery period of 39 years. Alternatively, under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, A may irrevocably elect to include the remaining $3,400 in gross income in the taxable year that A sold its entire interest in the AB partnership to C (2021). Pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section, A cannot make this election in the taxable year of the lease termination (2022).

(iii) At the time of the lease termination, B had previously included $1,200 ($200 for each of 2016-2021) in gross income under paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, B must continue to include the remaining $6,600 required in gross income ratably over the remaining portion of the applicable recovery period of 39 years. Alternatively, under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, B may irrevocably elect to include the remaining $6,600 in gross income in the taxable year of the lease termination (2022).
