
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which deductions taken
###### ยง 1.467-1 Treatment of lessors and lessees generally.
####### Fixed rent

(3)means any rent to the extent its amount and the time at which it is required to be paid are fixed and determinable under the terms of the rental agreement as of the lease date. The following rules apply for the purpose of determining the extent to which rent is fixed rent:

(i) The possibility of a breach, default, or other early termination of the rental agreement and any adjustments based on a reasonable price index or a variable interest rate provision are disregarded.

(ii) Rent will not fail to be treated as fixed rent merely because of the possibility of impairment by insolvency, bankruptcy, or other similar circumstances.

(iii) If the lease term (as defined in paragraph (h)(6) of this section) includes one or more periods as to which either the lessor or the lessee has an option to renew or extend the term of the agreement, rent will not fail to be treated as fixed rent merely because the option has not been exercised.

(iv) If the lease term includes one or more periods during which a substitute lessee or lessor may have use of the property, rent will not fail to be treated as fixed rent merely because the contingencies relating to the obligation of the lessee (or a related person) to make payments in the nature of rent have not occurred.

(v) If either the lessor or the lessee has an unconditional option or options, exercisable on one or more dates during the lease term, that, if exercised, require payments of rent to be made under an alternative payment schedule or schedules, the amount of fixed rent and the dates on which such rent is required to be paid are determined on the basis of the payment schedule that, as of the agreement date, is most likely to occur. If payments of rent are made under an alternative payment schedule that differs from the payment schedule assumed in applying the preceding sentence, then, for purposes of paragraph (f) of this section, the rental agreement is treated as having been modified at the time the option to make payments on such alternative schedule is exercised.
