
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which deductions taken
###### ยง 1.467-7 Section 467 recapture and other rules relating to dispositions and modifications.
####### Treatment of section 467 loan.

(2)If there is a transfer described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the following rules apply in determining the transferor's and the transferee's section 467 loans for the period after the transfer, the amount realized by the transferor, and the transferee's basis in the property:

(i) The beginning balance of the transferor's section 467 loan is equal to the net present value at the time of the transfer (but after giving effect to the transfer) of all subsequent amounts payable as fixed rent and interest on fixed rent to the transferor and all subsequent amounts payable as interest on prepaid fixed rent by the transferor. The transferor must continue to take into account interest on the transferor's section 467 loan balance after the date of the transfer.

(ii) The beginning balance of the transferee's section 467 loan is equal to the principal balance of the transferor's section 467 loan immediately before the transfer reduced (below zero, if appropriate) by the beginning balance of the transferor's section 467 loan. Amounts payable to the transferor are not taken into account in adjusting the transferee's section 467 loan balance.

(iii) If the beginning balance of the transferee's section 467 loan is negative, the transferor and transferee must treat the balance as a liability that is either assumed in connection with the transfer of the property or secured by the property acquired subject to the liability. If the beginning balance of the transferee's section 467 loan is positive, the transferor and transferee must treat the balance as an additional asset acquired in connection with the transfer of the property. In the case of a positive beginning balance of the transferee's section 467 loan, the transferee will have an initial cost basis in the section 467 loan equal to the lesser of the beginning balance of the loan or the aggregate consideration for the transfer of the property subject to the section 467 rental agreement and the transfer of the transferor's interest in the section 467 loan.

(3) [Reserved]
