
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which deductions taken
###### § 1.467-7 Section 467 recapture and other rules relating to dispositions and modifications.
####### Omissions or duplications,In general.

(h)-(1)In applying the rules of this section in conjunction with the rules of §§ 1.467-1 through 1.467-5, adjustments must be made to the extent necessary to prevent the omission or duplication of items of income, deduction, gain, or loss. For example, if a transferee lessor acquires property subject to a section 467 rental agreement at other than the beginning or end of a rental period, and the transferee lessor's beginning section 467 loan balance differs from the transferor lessor's section 467 loan balance immediately prior to the transfer, it will be necessary to treat the rental period that includes the day of transfer as consisting of two rental periods, one beginning at the beginning of the rental period that includes the day of transfer and ending with or immediately prior to the transfer and one beginning with or immediately after the transfer and ending immediately prior to the beginning of the succeeding rental period. Because the substitution of two rental periods for one rental period may change the proportional rental amount or constant rental amount, the change in rental periods should be treated as a modification of the rental agreement that occurs immediately prior to the transfer. The change in rental periods, by itself, is not treated as a substantial modification of the rental agreement although the substitution of a new lessor may constitute a substantial modification of the rental agreement. Likewise, § 1.467-1(j)(2), which provides rules regarding when amounts are treated as payable, is designed to simplify calculations of present values, section 467 loan balances, and proportional and constant rental amounts. These simplifying conventions assume that there will be no change in the lessor or lessee under a section 467 rental agreement and that the terms of the section 467 rental agreement will not be modified. Therefore, as illustrated in the example in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, when actual events do not reflect these assumptions, it may be necessary to alter the application of these rules to properly reflect taxable income.
