
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which deductions taken
###### § 1.468A-3 Ruling amount.
####### See

(ii) A separate request for a schedule of ruling amounts is required for each nuclear decommissioning fund established by a taxpayer. (paragraph (a) of § 1.468A-5 for rules relating to the number of nuclear decommissioning funds that a taxpayer can establish.)

(iii) Except as provided by §§ 1.468A-5(a)(1)(iv) (relating to certain unincorporated organizations that may be taxable as corporations) and 1.468A-8 (relating to a special transfer under section 468A(f)(1)), a request for a schedule of ruling amounts must not contain a request for a ruling on any other issue, whether the issue involves section 468A or another section of the Internal Revenue Code.

(iv) In the case of an affiliated group of corporations that join in the filing of a consolidated return, the common parent of the group may request a schedule of ruling amounts for each member of the group that possesses a qualifying interest in the same nuclear power plant by filing a single submission with the IRS.

(v) The IRS will not provide or revise a ruling amount applicable to a taxable year in response to a request for a schedule of ruling amounts that is filed after the deemed payment deadline date (as defined in § 1.468A-2(c)(1)) for such taxable year. In determining the date when a request is filed, the principles of sections 7502 and 7503 shall apply.

(vi) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(1)(vii) of this section, a request for a schedule of ruling amounts shall be considered filed only if such request complies substantially with the requirements of this paragraph (e).

(vii) If a request does not comply substantially with the requirements of this paragraph (e), the IRS will notify the taxpayer of that fact. If the information or materials necessary to comply substantially with the requirements of this paragraph (e) are provided to the IRS within 30 days after this notification, the request will be considered filed on the date of the original submission. In addition, the request will be considered filed on the date of the original submission in a case in which the information and materials are provided more than 30 days after the notification if the IRS determines that the electing taxpayer made a good faith effort to provide the applicable information or materials within 30 days after notification and also determines that treating the request as filed on the date of the original submission is consistent with the purposes of section 468A. In any other case in which the information or materials necessary to comply substantially with the requirements of this paragraph (e) are not provided within 30 days after the notification, the request will be considered filed on the date that all information or materials necessary to comply with the requirements of this paragraph (e) are provided.
