
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which deductions taken
###### ยง 1.468A-4 Treatment of nuclear decommissioning fund.
####### Modified gross income.,modified gross income

(b)For purposes of this section, the termmeans gross income as defined under section 61 computed with the following modifications:

(1) The amount of any payment or special transfer to the nuclear decommissioning fund with respect to which a deduction is allowed under section 468A(a) or section 468A(f) is excluded from gross income.

(2) A deduction is allowed for the amount of administrative costs and other incidental expenses of the nuclear decommissioning fund (including taxes, legal expenses, accounting expenses, actuarial expenses and trustee expenses, but not including decommissioning costs) that are otherwise deductible and that are paid by the nuclear decommissioning fund to any person other than the electing taxpayer. An expense is otherwise deductible for purposes of this paragraph (b)(2) if it would be deductible under chapter 1 of the Code in determining the taxable income of a corporation. For example, because Federal income taxes are not deductible under chapter 1 of the Code in determining the taxable income of a corporation, the tax imposed by section 468A(e)(2) and paragraph (a) of this section is not deductible in determining the modified gross income of a nuclear decommissioning fund. Similarly, because certain expenses allocable to tax-exempt interest income are not deductible under section 265 in determining the taxable income of a corporation, such expenses are not deductible in determining the modified gross income of a nuclear decommissioning fund.

(3) A deduction is allowed for the amount of an otherwise deductible loss that is sustained by the nuclear decommissioning fund in connection with the sale, exchange or worthlessness of any investment. A loss is otherwise deductible for purposes of this paragraph (b)(3) if such loss would be deductible by a corporation under section 165(f) or (g) and sections 1211(a) and 1212(a).

(4) A deduction is allowed for the amount of an otherwise deductible net operating loss of the nuclear decommissioning fund. For purposes of this paragraph (b), the net operating loss of a nuclear decommissioning fund for a taxable year is the amount by which the deductions allowable under paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section exceed the gross income of the nuclear decommissioning fund computed with the modification described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. A net operating loss is otherwise deductible for purposes of this paragraph (b)(4) if such a net operating loss would be deductible by a corporation under section 172(a).
