
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which deductions taken
###### ยง 1.468A-3 Ruling amount.
####### Review and revision of schedule of ruling amounts,Mandatory review.

(f)-(1)(i) Any taxpayer that has obtained a schedule of ruling amounts pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section must file a request for a revised schedule of ruling amounts on or before the deemed payment deadline date for the 10th taxable year that begins after the taxable year in which the most recent schedule of ruling amounts was received. If the taxpayer calculated its most recent schedule of ruling amounts on any basis other than an order issued by a public utility commission, the taxpayer must file a request for a revised schedule of ruling amounts on or before the deemed payment deadline date for the 5th taxable year that begins after the taxable year in which the most recent schedule of ruling amounts was received.

(ii)(A) Any taxpayer that has obtained a formula or method for determining a schedule of ruling amounts for any taxable year under paragraph (a)(5) of this section must file a request for a revised schedule on or before the earlier of the deemed payment deadline for the 5th taxable year that begins after its taxable year in which the most recent formula or method was approved or the deemed payment deadline for the first taxable year that begins after a taxable year in which there is a substantial variation in the ruling amount determined under the most recent formula or method. There is a substantial variation in the ruling amount determined under the formula or method in effect for a taxable year if the ruling amount for the year and the ruling amount for any earlier year since the most recent formula or method was approved differ by more than 50 percent of the smaller amount.

(B) Any taxpayer that has determined its ruling amount for any taxable year under a formula prescribed by ยง 1.468A-6 (which prescribes ruling amounts for the taxable year in which there is a disposition of a qualifying interest in a nuclear power plant) must file a request for a revised schedule of ruling amounts on or before the deemed payment deadline for its first taxable year that begins after the disposition.

(iii) A taxpayer requesting a schedule of deduction amounts for a nuclear decommissioning fund under ยง 1.468A-8 must also request a revised schedule of ruling amounts for the fund. The revised schedule of ruling amounts must apply beginning with the first taxable year following the first year in which a deduction is allowed under the schedule of deduction amounts.

(iv) If the operating license of the nuclear power plant to which a nuclear decommissioning fund relates is renewed, the taxpayer maintaining the fund must request a revised schedule of ruling amounts. The request for the revised schedule must be submitted on or before the deemed payment deadline for the taxable year that includes the date on which the operating license is renewed.

(v) A request for a schedule of ruling amounts required by this paragraph (f)(1) must be made in accordance with the rules of paragraph (e) of this section. If a taxpayer does not properly file a request for a revised schedule of ruling amounts by the date provided in paragraph (f)(1)(i), (ii) or (iv) of this section (whichever is applicable), the taxpayer's ruling amount for the first taxable year to which the revised schedule of ruling amounts would have applied and for all succeeding taxable years until a new schedule is obtained shall be zero dollars, unless, in its discretion, the IRS provides otherwise in such new schedule of ruling amounts. Thus, if a taxpayer is required to request a revised schedule of ruling amounts under any provision of this section, and each ruling amount in the revised schedule would equal zero dollars, the taxpayer may, instead of requesting a new schedule of ruling amounts, begin treating the ruling amounts under its most recent schedule as equal to zero dollars.
