
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which deductions taken
###### ยง 1.468A-4 Treatment of nuclear decommissioning fund.
####### see,see

(ii) Ends on the date of termination (ยง 1.468A-5(d)), the date that the entire fund is disqualified (ยง 1.468A-5(c)), or the date that the electing taxpayer disposes of its entire qualifying interest in the nuclear power plant to which the nuclear decommissioning fund relates (other than in connection with the transfer of the entire fund to the person acquiring such interest), whichever is applicable.

(2) For each taxable year of the nuclear decommissioning fund, the return described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section must be filed on or before the 15th day of the third month following the close of such taxable year unless the nuclear decommissioning fund is granted an extension of time for filing under section 6081. If such an extension is granted for any taxable year, the return for such taxable year must be filed on or before the extended due date for such taxable year.

(3) A nuclear decommissioning fund must provide its employer identification number on returns, statements and other documents as required by the forms and instructions relating thereto. The employer identification number is obtained by filing a Form SS-4, Application for Employer Identification Number, in accordance with the instructions relating thereto.

(4) A nuclear decommissioning fund must deposit all payments of tax imposed by section 468A(e)(2) and paragraph (a) of this section (including any payments of estimated tax) with an authorized government depositary in accordance with ยง 1.6302-1.

(5) A nuclear decommissioning fund is subject to the addition to tax imposed by section 6655 in case of a failure to pay estimated income tax. For purposes of section 6655 and this section-

(i) The tax with respect to which the amount of the underpayment is computed in the case of a nuclear decommissioning fund is the tax imposed by section 468A(e)(2) and paragraph (a) of this section; and

(ii) The taxable income with respect to which the nuclear decommissioning fund's status as a large corporation is measured is modified gross income (as defined by paragraph (b) of this section).
