
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which deductions taken
###### ยง 1.468A-8 Special transfers to qualified funds pursuant to section 468A(f).
####### Information required.

(2)A request for a schedule of deduction amounts must contain the following information:

(i) The taxpayer's name, address and taxpayer identification number.

(ii) Whether the request is for an initial schedule of deduction amounts or a schedule of deduction amounts for a subsequent special transfer.

(iii) The name and location of the nuclear power plant with respect to which a schedule of deduction amounts is requested.

(iv) A description of the taxpayer's qualifying interest in the nuclear power plant and the percentage of such nuclear power plant that the qualifying interest of the taxpayer represents.

(v) The present value of the estimated future decommissioning costs (as defined in ยง 1.468A-1(b)(6)) with respect to the taxpayer's qualifying interest in the nuclear power plant as of the first day of the taxable year of the taxpayer in which a transfer is made under this section.

(vi) A description of the assumptions, estimates and other factors that were used by the taxpayer to determine the amount of decommissioning costs, including each of the following if applicable:

(A) A description of the proposed method of decommissioning the nuclear power plant (for example, prompt removal/dismantlement, safe storage entombment with delayed dismantlement, or safe storage mothballing with delayed dismantlement).

(B) The estimated year in which substantial decommissioning costs will first be incurred.
