
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which deductions taken
###### ยง 1.468A-8 Special transfers to qualified funds pursuant to section 468A(f).
####### see

(C) The estimated year in which the decommissioning of the nuclear power plant will be substantially complete (ยง 1.468A-5(d)(3) for a definition of substantial completion of decommissioning).

(D) The total estimated cost of decommissioning expressed in current dollars (that is, based on price levels in effect at the time of the current determination).

(E) The total estimated cost of decommissioning expressed in future dollars (that is, based on anticipated price levels when expenses are expected to be paid).

(F) For each taxable year in the period that begins with the year specified in paragraph (d)(2)(vi)(B) of this section (the estimated year in which substantial decommissioning costs will first be incurred) and ends with the year specified in paragraph (d)(2)(vi)(C) of this section (the estimated year in which the decommissioning of the nuclear power plant will be substantially complete), the estimated cost of decommissioning expressed in future dollars.

(G) A description of the methodology used in converting the estimated cost of decommissioning expressed in current dollars to the estimated cost of decommissioning expressed in future dollars.

(H) The assumed after-tax rate of return to be earned by the amounts collected for decommissioning.

(I) A copy of each engineering or cost study that was relied on or used by the taxpayer in determining the amount of decommissioning costs.

(vii) The taxpayer's pre-2005 nonqualifying percentage (as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section).

(viii) The estimated useful life of the nuclear power plant (as such term is defined in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) or (iii) of this section).

(ix) If the request is for a subsequent schedule of deduction amounts, the amount of the previous special transfer and the present value of the estimated future decommissioning costs (as defined in ยง 1.468A-1(b)(6)) with respect to the taxpayer's qualifying interest in the nuclear power plant as of the first day of the taxable year of the taxpayer in which the previous special transfer was made.

(x) If the request is for a subsequent schedule of deduction amounts, a copy of all schedules of deduction amounts that relate to the nuclear power plant to which the request relates and that were previously issued to the taxpayer making the request.

(xi) If the request for a schedule of deduction amounts contains a request, pursuant to ยง 1.468A-5(a)(1)(iv), that the IRS rule whether an unincorporated organization through which the assets of the fund are invested is an association taxable as a corporation for Federal tax purposes, a copy of the legal documents establishing or otherwise governing the organization.

(xii) Any other information required by the IRS that may be necessary or useful in determining the schedule of deduction amounts.
