
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which deductions taken
###### ยง 1.468A-8 Special transfers to qualified funds pursuant to section 468A(f).
####### see

(ii) A separate request for a schedule of deduction amounts is required for each nuclear decommissioning fund established by a taxpayer (ยง 1.468A-5(a) for rules relating to the number of nuclear decommissioning funds that a taxpayer can establish).

(iii) Except as provided by ยง 1.468A-5(a)(1)(iv) (relating to certain unincorporated organizations that may be taxable as corporations) and ยง 1.468A-3 (relating to a request for a schedule of ruling amounts), a request for a schedule of deduction amounts must not contain a request for a ruling on any other issue, whether the issue involves section 468A or another section of the Code.

(iv) In the case of an affiliated group of corporations that join in the filing of a consolidated return, the common parent of the group may request a schedule of deduction amounts for each member of the group that possesses a qualifying interest in the same nuclear power plant by filing a single submission with the IRS.

(v) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(1)(vi) of this section, the IRS will not provide or revise a deduction amount applicable to a taxable year in response to a request for a schedule of deduction amounts that is filed after the deemed payment deadline date (as defined in paragraph (a)(4) of this section) for such taxable year.

(vi) For special transfers relating to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2005, and before January 1, 2010, the IRS will not provide a deduction amount in response to a request for a schedule of deduction amounts that is filed after February 22, 2011.

(vii) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(1)(viii) of this section, a request for a schedule of deduction amounts shall be considered filed only if such request complies substantially with the requirements of this paragraph (d). In determining the date when a request is filed, the principles of sections 7502 and 7503 shall apply.

(viii) If a request does not comply substantially with the requirements of this paragraph (d), the IRS will notify the taxpayer of that fact. If the information or materials necessary to comply substantially with the requirements of this paragraph (d) are provided to the IRS within 30 days after this notification, the request will be considered filed on the date of the original submission. In addition, the request will be considered filed on the date of the original submission in a case in which the information and materials are provided more than 30 days after the notification if the IRS determines that the electing taxpayer made a good faith effort to provide the applicable information or materials within 30 days after notification and also determines that treating the request as filed on the date of the original submission is consistent with the purposes of section 468A. In any other case in which the information or materials necessary to comply substantially with the requirements of this paragraph (d) are not provided within 30 days after the notification, the request will be considered filed on the date that all information or materials necessary to comply with the requirements of this paragraph (d) are provided.
