
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which deductions taken
###### ยง 1.468B-2 Taxation of qualified settlement funds and related administrative requirements.
####### Modified gross income.

(b)The "modified gross income" of a qualified settlement fund is its gross income, as defined in section 61, computed with the following modifications-

(1) In general, amounts transferred to the qualified settlement fund by, or on behalf of, a transferor to resolve or satisfy a liability for which the fund is established are excluded from gross income. However, dividends on stock of a transferor (or a related person), interest on debt of a transferor (or a related person), and payments in compensation for late or delayed transfers, are not excluded from gross income.

(2) A deduction is allowed for administrative costs and other incidental expenses incurred in connection with the operation of the qualified settlement fund that would be deductible under chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code in determining the taxable income of a corporation. Administrative costs and other incidental expenses include state and local taxes, legal, accounting, and actuarial fees relating to the operation of the qualified settlement fund, and expenses arising from the notification of claimants and the processing of their claims. Administrative costs and other incidental expenses do not include legal fees incurred by, or on behalf of, claimants.

(3) A deduction is allowed for losses sustained by the qualified settlement fund in connection with the sale, exchange, or worthlessness of property held by the fund to the extent the losses would be deductible in determining the taxable income of a corporation under section 165 (f) or (g), and sections 1211(a) and 1212(a).

(4) A deduction is allowed for the amount of a net operating loss of the qualified settlement fund to the extent the loss would be deductible in determining the taxable income of a corporation under section 172(a). For purposes of this paragraph (b)(4), the net operating loss of a qualified settlement fund for a taxable year is the amount by which the deductions allowed under paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section exceed the gross income of the fund computed with the modification described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
