
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which deductions taken
###### § 1.468B-2 Taxation of qualified settlement funds and related administrative requirements.
####### Treatment as corporation for purposes of subtitle F.

(k)Except as otherwise provided in § 1.468B-5(b), for purposes of subtitle F of the Internal Revenue Code, a qualified settlement fund is treated as a corporation and any tax imposed under paragraph (a) of this section is treated as a tax imposed by section 11. Subtitle F rules that apply to qualified settlement funds include, but are not limited to-

(1) A qualified settlement fund must file an income tax return with respect to the tax imposed under paragraph (a) of this section for each taxable year that the fund is in existence, whether or not the fund has gross income for that taxable year.

(2) A qualified settlement fund is in existence for the period that-

(i) Begins on the first date on which the fund is treated as a qualified settlement fund under § 1.468B-1; and

(ii) Ends on the earlier of the date the fund-

(A) No longer satisfies the requirements of § 1.468B-1; or

(B) No longer has any assets and will not receive any more transfers. (See paragraph (m) of this section for procedures for the prompt assessment of tax.)

(3) The income tax return of the qualified settlement fund must be filed on or before March 15 of the year following the close of the taxable year of the qualified settlement fund unless the fund is granted an extension of time for filing under section 6081. The return must be made by the administrator of the qualified settlement fund. The "administrator" (which may include a trustee if the qualified settlement fund is a trust) of a qualified settlement fund is, in order of priority-

(i) The person designated, or approved, by the governmental authority that ordered or approved the fund for purposes of § 1.468B-1(c)(1);

(ii) The person designated in the escrow agreement, settlement agreement, or other similar agreement governing the fund;

(iii) The escrow agent, custodian, or other person in possession or control of the fund's assets; or

(iv) The transferor or, if there are multiple transferors, all the transferors, unless an agreement signed by all the transferors designates a single transferor as the administrator.

(4) The administrator of a qualified settlement fund must obtain an employer identification number for the fund.

(5) A qualified settlement fund must deposit all payments of tax imposed under paragraph (a) of this section (including any payments of estimated tax) with an authorized government depositary in accordance with § 1.6302-1.

(6) A qualified settlement fund is subject to the addition to tax imposed by section 6655 in the case of an underpayment of estimated tax computed with respect to the tax imposed under paragraph (a) of this section. For purposes of section 6655(g)(2), a qualified settlement fund's taxable income is its modified gross income and a transferor is not considered a predecessor of a qualified settlement fund.
