
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for expenses of work incentive programs
###### ยง 1.50A-3 Recomputation of credit allowed by section 40.
####### Computation of the first 12 months of employment (whether or not consecutive).

(2)For purposes of computing the first 12 months of employment (whether or not consecutive), the first month of employment shall begin with the initial date of employment (as defined in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph) of the WIN employee, the second month of employment shall begin with the corresponding date in the following month, the third month of employment shall begin with the corresponding date in the next following month, and so forth. If the WIN employee performs any services during any such month (as determined under the preceding sentence), that month shall be counted in computing the WIN employee's "first 12 months of employment (whether or not consecutive)". If the WIN employee performs no services during any such month, that month shall not be counted in computing the WIN employee's "first 12 months of employment (whether or not consecutive)". Thus, if the initial date of employment of a WIN employee is June 15, the first month of employment of such employee shall be the period beginning June 15, and ending July 14. The second month of employment is the period beginning July 15 and ending August 14. If during such second month of employment the employee performs no services for the taxpayer, that month is not counted in determining the employee's first 12 months of employment (whether or not consecutive).
