
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### taxable year for which deductions taken
###### ยง 1.468B-9 Disputed ownership funds.
####### Taxable year and accounting method.

(5)(i) A disputed ownership fund taxable as a C corporation under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section may compute taxable income under any accounting method allowable under section 446 and is not subject to the limitations contained in section 448. A disputed ownership fund taxable as a C corporation may use any taxable year allowable under section 441.

(ii) A disputed ownership fund taxable as a qualified settlement fund under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section may compute taxable income under any accounting method allowable under section 446 and may use any taxable year allowable under section 441.

(iii) Appropriate adjustments must be made by a disputed ownership fund or transferors to the fund to prevent the fund and the transferors from taking into account the same item of income, deduction, gain, loss, or credit (including capital gains and losses) more than once or from omitting such items. For example, if a transferor that is not a transferor-claimant uses the cash receipts and disbursements method of accounting and transfers an account receivable to a disputed ownership fund that uses an accrual method of accounting, at the time of the transfer of the account receivable to the disputed ownership fund, the transferor must include in its gross income the value of the account receivable because, under paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, the disputed ownership fund will take a fair market value basis in the receivable and will not include the fair market value in its income when received from the transferor or when paid by the customer. If the account receivable were transferred to the disputed ownership fund by a transferor-claimant using the cash receipts and disbursements method, however, the disputed ownership fund would take a basis in the receivable equal to the transferor's basis, or $0, and would be required to report the income upon collection of the account.
