
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### inventories
###### ยง 1.471-1 Need for inventories.
####### Example 1.

(A)Taxpayer E is a C corporation that is engaged in the retail trade or business of selling beer, wine, and liquor. In 2019, E has average annual gross receipts for the prior 3-taxable-years of $15 million and is not otherwise prohibited from using the cash method under section 448(a)(3). E does not have an AFS for the 2019 taxable year. E is eligible to use the non-AFS section 471(c) inventory method of accounting. E uses the overall cash method, and the non-AFS section 471(c) inventory method of accounting for Federal income tax purposes. In E's electronic bookkeeping software, E treats all costs paid during the taxable year as presently deductible. As part of its regular business practice, E's employees take a physical count of inventory on E's selling floor and its warehouse on December 31, 2019, and E uses this physical count as part of its books and records for purposes of capitalizing and allocating costs to inventory. E also makes representations to its creditor of the cost of inventory on hand for specific categories of product it sells. E may not expense all of its costs paid during the 2019 taxable year because its books and records do not accurately reflect the inventory records used for non-tax purposes in its regular business activity. Instead, E must use the physical inventory count taken at the end of 2019 to determine how its capitalized costs are allocated and recovered.
