
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### inventories
###### ยง 1.471-1 Need for inventories.
####### Non-AFS section 471(c) inventory method,In general.

(6)-(i)A taxpayer that meets the gross receipts test described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section for a taxable year and that does not have an AFS, as defined in paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section, for such taxable year may use the non-AFS section 471(c) inventory method to account for its inventories for the taxable year in accordance with this paragraph (b)(6). The non-AFS section 471(c) inventory method is the method of accounting used for inventory in the taxpayer's books and records that properly reflect its business activities for non-tax purposes and are prepared in accordance with the taxpayer's accounting procedures. For purposes of the non-AFS section 471(c) inventory method, an inventory cost is a cost of production or resale that the taxpayer capitalizes to inventory property produced or property acquired for resale in its books and records, except as provided in paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section. Costs that are generally required to be capitalized to inventory under section 471(a), but that the taxpayer does not capitalize in its books and records are not required to be capitalized to inventory. However, an inventory cost does not include a cost that is neither deductible nor otherwise recoverable but for paragraph (b)(5) of this section, in whole or in part, under a provision of the Internal Revenue Code (for example, section 162(c), (e), (f), (g), or 274). In lieu of the inventory method described in section 471(a), a taxpayer using the non-AFS section 471(c) inventory method recovers its applicable costs through its book inventory method of accounting. A taxpayer that has an AFS for such taxable year may not use the non-AFS section 471(c) inventory method.
