
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for expenses of work incentive programs
###### ยง 1.51-1 Amount of credit.
####### Qualified first-year wages,General rule.

(2)-(i)Except in the case of qualified summer youth employees, the term "qualified first-year wages" means the first $6,000 of wages (as defined in paragraph (b)(4) of this section) attributable to service rendered by a member of a targeted group during the 1-year period beginning with the day the individual first begins work for the employer. In the case of a vocational rehabilitation referral (as defined in section 51(d)(2)) who begins work for the employer before July 19, 1984, the one-year period begins with the day the individual begins work for the employer on or after the beginning of such individual's rehabilitation plan. However, with the exception of vocational rehabilitation referrals for whom the employer claimed a credit under section 44B (as in effect prior to enactment of the Revenue Act of 1978) for a taxable year beginning before January 1, 1979, members of a targeted group who are first hired after September 26, 1978, and before January 1, 1979, will be treated as if they first began work for the employer on January 1, 1979. The date on which the wages are paid is not determinative of whether the wages are first-year wages; rather, the wages must be attributed to the period during which the work was performed. See paragraph (f)(1) of this section for an additional limitation on the term "qualified first-year wages". (See examples 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 in paragraph (j) of this section for examples illustrating the application of the rules in this paragraph (b)(2)).
