
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for expenses of work incentive programs
###### ยง 1.51-1 Amount of credit.
####### Special rules.

(ii)In the case of agricultural labor or railway labor, the term "wages" means unemployment insurance wages within the meaning of subparagraph (A) or (B) of section 51(h)(1). The term "wages" shall not include any amounts paid or incurred by an employer for any pay period to any individual for whom the employer receives federally funded payments for on-the-job training for such individual for such pay period. (See example 7 in paragraph (j) of this section.) The amount of wages which would otherwise be qualified wages under this section with respect to an individual for a taxable year shall be reduced by an amount equal to the amount of payments made to the employer (however utilized by such employer) with respect to such individual for such taxable year under a program established under section 414 of the Social Security Act. In addition, the term "wages" shall not include any amount paid or incurred by the employer in a taxable year beginning before January 1, 1982, to an individual with respect to whom the employer claims a credit under section 40 (relating to expenses of work incentive programs). For youths participating in a qualified cooperative education program:

(A) Section 3306(c)(10)(C) (relating to the definition of employment for certain students) does not apply in determining wages under this section; and

(B) The term "wages" shall include only those amounts paid or incurred by the employer that are attributable to services rendered by the individual while he or she meets the conditions specified in section 51(d)(8)(A). For purposes of the preceding sentence, an employee who met the requirement in section 51(d)(8)(A)(iv), dealing with economically disadvantaged status, when hired, shall be deemed to continuously meet the requirement in section 51(d)(8)(A)(iv) during the time the employee is in the cooperative education program. See also paragraph (e) of this section for rules relating to the exclusion of wages paid to certain individuals.
