
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for expenses of work incentive programs
###### ยง 1.51-1 Amount of credit.
####### Qualified cooperative education program.

(iii)The term "qualified cooperative education program" means a program of vocational education for individuals who (through written cooperative arrangements between a qualified school and one or more employers) receive instruction (including required academic instruction) by alternation of study in school with a job in any occupational field (but only if these two experiences are planned by the school and employer so that each contributes to the student's education and employability). See section 51(d)(8)(C) for the definition of a "qualified school." For purposes of this paragraph, the term "program of vocational education" means an organized educational program which is directly related to the preparation of individuals for employment, or for additional preparation for a career requiring other than a baccalaureate or advanced degree. An "organized educational program" means only instruction related to the occupation or occupations for which the students are in training or instruction necessary for students to benefit from such training. The student's employment contributes to his or her education and employability only if it is related to the occupation, or a cluster of closely related occupations, for which the student is in training in school. However, the student's employment need not be directly related to or in the same technical field as the training the student receives in school. For example, a student studying carpentry does not have to work as a carpenter for the program to constitute a "qualified cooperative education program." The program will qualify if, for example, the student works at a hardware store because the student's work would familiarize the student with the materials and tools used by carpenters. The program would not qualify, however, if the student works at a restaurant and generally performs tasks in such employment not related to carpentry.
