
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for expenses of work incentive programs
###### ยง 1.51-1 Amount of credit.
####### Certification,General rule.

(d)-(1)Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, an individual shall not be treated as a member of a targeted group unless, on or before the day on which such individual begins work for the employer, the employer has received, or has requested in writing, a certification that the individual is a member of a targeted group from the designated local agency (as defined in paragraph (d)(10) of this section). In addition, the employer must receive a certification before the targeted jobs credit can be claimed. However, with respect to individuals who began work for the employer on or before May 11, 1982, the certification will be timely only if requested or received before the day the individual began work for the employer. In the case of a request in writing mailed via the United States Postal Service, the request shall be deemed to be made on the date of the postmark stamped on the cover in which such request was mailed to the designated local agency provided the request is mailed in accordance with the mailing requirements in ยง 301.7502-1(c) and delivered in accordance with the delivery requirements in ยง 301.7502-1(d). In the case of a deadline that but for this sentence would fall on a Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday, the deadline for making a timely request in writing for a certification or receiving a timely certification shall be the next succeeding day which is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday. (See section 7503 for the definition of "legal holiday.") See paragraph (d)(2) of this section for transitional rules applicable to certain employees who began work for the employer before September 26, 1981. See paragraph (d)(3) of this section for special rules applicable to cooperative education students and paragraph (d)(4) of this section for special rules applicable to eligible work incentive employees.
