
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for expenses of work incentive programs
###### ยง 1.51-1 Amount of credit.
####### Cooperative education students.

(4)In the case of cooperative education students, the school administering the cooperative education program must issue the certification. Form 6199 is provided for this purpose. If the student begins work for the employer after September 26, 1981, see the general rule in ยง 1.51-1(d)(1) for the date when this certification must be received or requested. If the student begins work for the employer on or before September 26, 1981, the employer must receive the certification or request it in writing before September 26, 1981. In order for an employer to claim a credit on wages paid or incurred to a cooperative education student after December 31, 1981, the employer must receive or request in writing a determination that the student is a member of an economically disadvantaged family. A request for economic eligibility determination for a cooperative education student must be made in writing by the employer to the participating school. If the student begins work for the employer on or before September 26, 1981, the employer must receive or request in writing such determination before September 26, 1981. However, a request in writing on or after August 13, 1981, to a participating school for certification will be deemed to include a request for an economic eligibility determination. In addition, any certification issued by a school after August 13, 1981, will be deemed to be issued in response to a request for certification which includes a request for an economic eligibility determination. The rule in the preceding sentence does not eliminate the requirement that the employer receive a certification that includes an economic eligibility determination in order to claim a credit for wages paid or incurred after December 31, 1981. If a certification issued by a school after August 13, 1984, does not contain an economic eligibility determination and the employer wishes to claim a credit for wages paid or incurred after December 31, 1981, the employer must receive a completed certification before the date on which the credit is claimed.
