
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### rules for computing credit for expenses of work incentive programs
###### ยง 1.51-1 Amount of credit.
####### Individuals who continue to be employed by the same employer but as a member of another targeted group.

(9)This paragraph (d)(9) applies in the case of an employee who continues to be employed by the same employer but no longer qualifies as a member of the targeted group for which such employee was first certified (e.g., the employee was orginally certified as a qualified summer youth employee with respect to a ninety-day period between May 1 and September 15, but such ninety-day period has ended). In such case, the employer may request a certification that the employee is a member of another targeted group, and if any wages paid to such individual are qualified first-year wages or qualified second-year wages, the employer may be entitled to a targeted jobs credit with respect to such wages. The second certification will not be invalid merely because it was requested or received after the individual began work for the employer; only the first certification (for example, the certification with respect to an individual hired first as a qualified summer youth employee) must meet the requirement of section 51(d)(16) that a certification must be requested or received by an employer on or before the day on which the individual begins work for the employer. In the case of a former qualified summer youth employee or a youth participating in a qualified cooperative education program who is recertified as an economically disadvantaged youth, the term "hiring date" in section 51(d)(3)(B) does not mean the day the individual is hired by the employer but means the day the individual is certified as a member of the new targeted group. Accordingly, the age requirement of section 51(d)(3)(B) shall be applied as of the day the individual is certified as a member of the second targeted group. In addition, see section 51(d)(11) for rules concerning the viability of the original economic eligibility determination.
