
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Adjustments
###### ยง 1.481-4 Adjustments taken into account with consent.

(a) In addition to the terms and conditions prescribed by the Commissioner under ยง 1.446-1(e)(3) for effecting a change in method of accounting, including the taxable year or years in which the amount of the adjustments required by section 481(a) is to be taken into account, or the methods of allocation described in section 481(b), a taxpayer may request approval of an alternative method of allocating the amount of the adjustments under section 481. See section 481(c). Requests for approval of an alternative method of allocation shall set forth in detail the facts and circumstances upon which the taxpayer bases its request. Permission will be granted only if the taxpayer and the Commissioner agree to the terms and conditions under which the allocation is to be effected. See ยง 1.446-1(e) for the rules regarding how to secure the Commissioner's consent to a change in method of accounting.

(b) An agreement to the terms and conditions of a change in method of accounting under ยง 1.446-1(e)(3), including the taxable year or years prescribed by the Commissioner under that section (or an alternative method described in paragraph (a) of this section) for taking the amount of the adjustments under section 481(a) into account, shall be in writing and shall be signed by the Commissioner and the taxpayer. It shall set forth the items to be adjusted, the amount of the adjustments, the taxable year or years for which the adjustments are to be taken into account, and the amount of the adjustments allocable to each year. The agreement shall be binding on the parties except upon a showing of fraud, malfeasance, or misrepresentation of material fact.
