
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Regulations Applicable to Taxable Years Beginning in 1969 and Ending in 1970
###### ยง 1.56(g)-1 Adjusted current earnings.
####### Treatment of life insurance contracts,In general.

(5)-(i)This paragraph (c)(5) addresses the treatment of life insurance contracts in determining adjusted current earnings. These rules apply to life insurance contracts as defined in section 7702. Generally, death benefits under a life insurance contract are included in adjusted current earnings, and all other distributions (including surrenders) are taxed in accordance with the principles of section 72(e), taking into account the taxpayer's basis in the contract for purposes of adjusted current earnings. If the adjusted basis in the contract for purposes of adjusted current earnings exceeds the amount of death benefits received or the amount received when the contract is surrendered (increased by the amount of any outstanding policy loan), the resulting loss is allowed as a deduction under paragraph (c)(3) of this section in computing adjusted current earnings for the taxable year. In addition, undistributed income on the contract is included in adjusted current earnings as provided in paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section. Paragraph (c)(5)(vi)(A) of this section provides special rules for term insurance that has no net surrender value.
