
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Regulations Applicable to Taxable Years Beginning in 1969 and Ending in 1970
###### ยง 1.56(g)-1 Adjusted current earnings.
####### Inclusion of inside buildup.

(ii)Income on a life insurance contract with respect to a taxable year (or any shorter period either ending or beginning with the date of a distribution from the contract) is included in adjusted current earnings for the taxable year. Thus, income on the contract is calculated from the beginning of a taxable year to the date of any distribution, from immediately after any distribution to the date of the next distribution, and from the last distribution during the taxable year through the end of the taxable year. Income on a life insurance contract is not included in adjusted current earnings for any taxable year in which the insured dies or the contract is completely surrendered for its entire net surrender value. Solely for purposes of computing adjusted current earnings, the taxpayer's adjusted basis in the contract (as determined under section 72(e)(6)) is increased to reflect any positive income on the contract included in adjusted current earnings under this paragraph (c)(5)(ii). The manner in which the income on the contract is determined for adjusted current earnings purposes is prescribed in paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section. If the income on the contract determined under paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section is a negative amount, income on the contract is not included in adjusted current earnings and no deduction from adjusted current earnings is allowed for the negative amount.
