
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Exempt Organizations
###### ยง 1.501(r)-1 Definitions.
####### Plain language summary of the FAP

(24)means a written statement that notifies an individual that the hospital facility offers financial assistance under a FAP and provides the following additional information in language that is clear, concise, and easy to understand:

(i) A brief description of the eligibility requirements and assistance offered under the FAP.

(ii) A brief summary of how to apply for assistance under the FAP.

(iii) The direct Web site address (or URL) and physical locations where the individual can obtain copies of the FAP and FAP application form.

(iv) Instructions on how the individual can obtain a free copy of the FAP and FAP application form by mail.

(v) The contact information, including telephone number and physical location, of the hospital facility office or department that can provide information about the FAP and of either-

(A) The hospital facility office or department that can provide assistance with the FAP application process; or

(B) If the hospital facility does not provide assistance with the FAP application process, at least one nonprofit organization or government agency that the hospital facility has identified as an available source of assistance with FAP applications.

(vi) A statement of the availability of translations of the FAP, FAP application form, and plain language summary of the FAP in other languages, if applicable.

(vii) A statement that a FAP-eligible individual may not be charged more than AGB for emergency or other medically necessary care.
