
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Exempt Organizations
###### § 1.503(c)-1 Future status of organizations denied exemption.

(a) Any organization described in section 501(c) (3), (17), or (18), or an employees' trust described in section 401(a), which is denied exemption under section 501(a) by reason of the provisions of section 503(a), may file, in any taxable year following the taxable year in which notice of denial was issued, a claim for exemption. In the case of organizations described in section 501(c) (3), (17), or (18), the appropriate exemption application shall be used for this purpose, and shall be filed with the district director. In the case of an enmployees' trust described in section 401(a), the information described in § 1.404(a)-2 shall be submitted with a letter claiming exemption. All employees' trust described in section 401(a) shall submit this information to the district director with whom a request for a determination as to its qualification under section 401 and exemption under section 501 may be submitted under paragraph (s) of § 601.201 of this chapter (Statement of Procedural Rules). A claim for exemption must contain or have attached to it, in addition to the information generally required of such an organization claiming exemption as an organization described in section 501(c) (17), or (18), or section 401(a) (or section 501(c)(3) prior to January 1, 1970), a written declaration made under the penalities of perjury by principal officer of such organization authorized to make such declaration that the organization will not knowingly again engage in a prohibited transaction, (as defined in section 503(b) (or 4975(c) if such section applies to such organization)). In the case of section 501(c)(3) organizations which have lost their exemption after December 31, 1969, pursuant to section 503, a claim for exemption must contain or have attached to it a written agreement made under penalities of perjury by a principal officer of such organization authorized to make such agreement that the organization will not violate the provisions of chapter 42. In addition, such organization must comply with the rules for governing instruments as prescribed in § 1.508-3. See § 1.501(a)-1 for proof of exemption requirements in general.
