
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Exempt Organizations
###### § 1.503(e)-3 Effective dates.

(a) Section 503(e) and §§ 1.503(e)-1 and 1.503(e)-3 are effective in the case of an employees' trust described in section 401(a) for taxable years ending after March 15, 1956. Thus, if during a taxable year ending before March 16, 1956, an employees' trust made a loan which meets the requirements of section 503(e), such loan will not be treated as made without the receipt of adequate security and will not cause the loss of exemption for taxable years ending after March 15, 1956, although such loan was not considered adequately secured when made. (However, section 503 does not apply to organizations described in section 401(a) not referred to in section 4975(g) (2) or (3) for transactions occurring after December 31, 1974.)

(b)(1) In the case of obligations acquired by an employees' trust described in section 401(a) before September 2, 1958, which were held on that date, the requirements described in paragraphs (c) and (d) of § 1.503(e)-2 which were not satisfied immediately following the acquisition shall be treated as satisfied at that time if those requirements would have been satisfied had the obligations been acquired on September 2, 1958. For example, on January 3, 1955, an employees' trust described in section 401(a) purchased through the New York Stock Exchange unsecured debentures issued by the employer corporation. Under section 503(e) the acquisition of such debentures by the trust will not be treated for taxable years ending after March 15, 1956, as a loan made without the receipt of adequate security if the debentures were held by the employees' trust on September 2, 1958, and if the requirements of paragraphs (c) and (d) of § 1.503(e)-2 which were not met on January 3, 1955, were met on September 2, 1958, as if that date were the date of acquisition.

(2) In the case of obligations acquired before September 2, 1958, which were not held by the employees' trust described in section 401(a) on that date, only the requirements described in paragraph (b) of § 1.503(e)-2 must be satisfied for section 503(e) to be applicable to such acquisition. For example, if on December 5, 1956, an employees' trust lent money to the employer corporation by purchasing a debenture issued by the employer and if the trust sold the debenture on August 1, 1958, such loan would not be treated as made without the receipt of adequate security if the requirement described in paragraph (b) of § 1.503(e)-2 was met on December 5, 1956.

(c) Section 503(e) and §§ 1.503(e)-1 and 1.503(e)-2 are effective in the case of trusts described in section 501(c)(17) with respect to loans made, renewed, or, in the case of demand loans, continued after December 31, 1959, and in the case of trusts described in section 501(c)(18) with respect to loans made, renewed or, in the case of demand loans, continued after December 31, 1969.

(d) See paragraph (b)(2) of § 1.503(b)-1 for the effective dates for the application of the definition of adequate security.
