
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Private Foundations
###### ยง 1.507-2 Special rules; transfer to, or operation as, public charity.
####### Reliance by grantors and contributors.

(3)For purposes of sections 170, 545(b)(2), 642(c), 4942, 4945, 4966, 2055, 2106(a)(2), and 2522, grants or contributions to an organization which has obtained a ruling referred to in this paragraph will be treated as made to an organization described in section 509(a)(1), section 509(a)(2), or section 509(a)(3), as the case may be, until the IRS publishes notice that such advance ruling is being revoked (such as by publication in the Internal Revenue Bulletin). However, a grantor or contributor may not rely on such an advance ruling if the grantor or contributor was responsible for, or aware of, the act or failure to act that resulted in the organization's failure to meet the requirements of section 509(a)(1), section 509(a)(2), or section 509(a)(3), or acquired knowledge that the IRS had given notice to such organization that its advance ruling would be revoked. Prior to the making of any grant or contribution which allegedly will not result in the grantee's failure to meet the requirements of section 509(a)(1), section 509(a)(2), or section 509(a)(3), a potential grantee organization may request a ruling whether such grant or contribution may be made without such failure. A request for such ruling may be filed by the grantee organization with the IRS. The issuance of such ruling will be at the sole discretion of the Commissioner. The organization must submit all information necessary to make a determination on the factors referred to in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. If a favorable ruling is issued, such ruling may be relied upon by the grantor or contributor of the particular contribution in question for purposes of sections 170, 507, 545(b)(2), 642(c), 4942, 4945, 4966, 2055, 2106(a)(2), and 2522.
