
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Private Foundations
###### ยง 1.507-2 Special rules; transfer to, or operation as, public charity.
####### Sixty-month terminations,Method of determining normal sources of support.

(c)-(1)(i) In order to meet the requirements of section 507(b)(1)(B) for the 60-month termination period as a section 509(a)(1) or section 509(a)(2) organization, an organization must meet the requirements of section 509(a)(1) or section 509(a)(2), as the case may be, for a continuous period of at least 60 calendar months. In determining whether an organization seeking status under section 509(a)(1) as an organization described in section 170(b)(1)(A)(iv) or section 170(b)(1)(A)(vi) or under section 509(a)(2) normally meets the requirements set forth under such sections, support received in taxable years prior to the commencement of the 60-month period shall not be taken into consideration, except as otherwise provided in this section.

(ii) For purposes of section 507(b)(1)(B), an organization will be considered to be a section 509(a)(1) organization described in section 170(b)(1)(A)(vi) for a continuous period of 60 calendar months only if the organization satisfies the provisions of ยง 1.170A-9(f), other than ยง 1.170A-9(f)(4)(v), based upon aggregate data for such entire period. The calculation of public support shall be made over the period beginning with the date of the commencement of the 60-month period, and ending with the last day of the 60-month period.

(iii) For purposes of section 507(b)(1)(B), an organization will be considered to be a section 509(a)(2) organization only if such organization meets the support requirements set forth in sections 509(a)(2)(A) and 509(a)(2)(B) and the related regulations, other than ยง 1.509(a)-3(d), for the continuous period of 60 calendar months prescribed under section 507(b)(1)(B). The calculation of public support shall be made over the period beginning with the date of the commencement of the 60-month period, and ending with the last day of the 60-month period.
