
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Private Foundations
###### ยง 1.507-9 Abatement of taxes.
####### State proceedings.

(b)(1) The Commissioner may at his discretion abate the unpaid portion of the assessment of any tax imposed by section 507(c), or any liability in respect thereof, under the procedures outlined in subparagraphs (2) and (3) of this paragraph. Such tax may not be abated by the Commissioner unless he determines that corrective action as defined in paragraph (c) of this section has been taken. The Commissioner may not abate by reason of section 507(g) any amount of such tax which has already been collected since only the unpaid portion thereof can be abated.

(2) The appropriate State officer shall have 1 year from the date of notification prescribed in section 6104(c) that a notice of deficiency of tax imposed under section 507(c) has been issued with respect to a foundation, to advise the Commissioner that corrective action has been initiated pursuant to State law as may be ordered or approved by a court of competent jurisdiction. Corrective action may be initiated either by the appropriate State officer or by an organization described in section 509(a) (1), (2), or (3) which is a beneficiary of the private foundation and has enforceable rights against such foundation under State law. Copies of all pleadings and other documents filed with the court at the initial stages of the proceedings shall be attached to the notification made by the State officer to the Commissioner. Prior to notification by the appropriate State officer that corrective action has been initiated, the Commissioner shall follow those procedures which would apply with respect to the assessment and collection of the tax imposed under section 507(c) without regard to section 507(g)(2). Subsequent to notification by the appropriate State officer that corrective action has been initiated, the Commissioner shall suspend action with respect to the assessment or collection of tax imposed under section 507(c) until notified of the final determination of such corrective action, as long as any such resulting delay does not jeopardize the collection of such tax and does not cause collection to be barred by operation of law or any rule of law. In any case where collection of such tax is about to be barred by operation of section 6502 and the Commissioner has not been advised of the final determination of corrective action, the Commissioner should make every effort to obtain appropriate agreements with the foundation subject to such tax to extend the period of limitations under section 6502(a)(2). Where such agreements are obtained, action with respect to the assessment and collection of such tax may be suspended to the extent not inconsistent with this subparagraph.

(3) Upon receipt of certification from the appropriate State officer that action has been ordered or approved by a court of competent jurisdiction, the Commissioner may abate the unpaid portion of the assessment of tax imposed by section 507(c), or any liability in respect thereof, if in his judgment such action is corrective action within the meaning of paragraph (c) of this section. In the event that such action is not corrective action, the Commissioner may in his discretion again suspend action on the assessment and collection of such tax until corrective action is obtained, or if in his judgment corrective action cannot be obtained, he may resume the assessment and collection of such tax.
