
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Private Foundations
###### ยง 1.508-1 Notices.
####### Filing of notice.

(2)(i) For purposes of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, an organization seeking exemption under section 501(c)(3) must file the notice described in section 508(a) within 15 months from the end of the month in which the organization was organized. Such notice is filed by submitting a properly completed and executed Form 1023 (or, if applicable, Form 1023-EZ) exemption application. Notice should be filed with the appropriate office as designated by the Commissioner in guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin, forms, or instructions to the applicable forms. A request for extension of time for the filing of such notice should be submitted to such appropriate office. Such request may be granted if it demonstrates that additional time is required.

(ii) Although the information required by either Form 1023 or Form 1023-EZ must be submitted to satisfy the notice required by this section, the failure to supply, within the required time, all of the information required to complete such form is not alone sufficient to deny exemption from the date of organization to the date such complete information for such form is submitted by the organization. If the information that is submitted within the required time is incomplete, and the organization supplies the necessary additional information requested by the Commissioner within the additional time period allowed, the original notice will be considered timely.
