
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Private Foundations
###### ยง 1.508-1 Notices.
####### Filing of notice.,organized.

(2)(i) Except as provided in subparagraph (7) of this paragraph, an organization must file the notice described in section 508(b) and subparagraph (1) of this paragraph within 15 months from the end of the month in which such organization was organized, or before March 22, 1973, whichever comes later. See paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section, for rules pertaining to when an organization is

(ii) Any organization filing notice under this paragraph that has received a ruling or determination letter from the Internal Revenue Service dated on or before July 13, 1970, recognizing its exemption from taxation under section 501(c)(3) (or the corresponding provisions of prior law), shall file the notice described in section 508(b) by submitting a properly completed and executed Form 4653, Notification Concerning Foundation Status.

(iii) The financial schedule on Form 4653 need be completed only if the organization is, or thinks it might be, described in section 170(b)(1)(A) (iv) or (vi) or section 509(a)(2).

(iv) Any organization filing notice under this paragraph (b)(2)(iv) shall file its notice by submitting a properly completed and executed Form 1023 (or, if applicable, Form 1023-EZ) and providing information that it is not a private foundation. The organization shall also submit all information required by the regulations under section 170 or 509 (whichever is applicable) necessary to establish recognition of its classification as an organization described in section 509(a)(1), (2), (3), or (4). The notice required by this paragraph (b)(2)(iv) should be filed with the appropriate office as designated by the Commissioner in guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin, forms, or instructions to the applicable forms.

(v) An extension of time for the filing of a notice under this paragraph (b)(2) may be granted by the office with which the notice is filed upon timely request by the organization, if the organization demonstrates that additional time is required.
