
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Private Foundations
###### ยง 1.509(a)-3 Broadly, publicly supported organizations.
####### Grants distinguished from gross receipts,In general.,grants,gross receipts,for,from,contract,grant

(g)-(1)In determining whether an organization normally receives more than one-third of its support from public sources, all(within the meaning of section 509(a)(2)(A)(i)) received from permitted sources are includible in full in the numerator of the support fraction in each taxable year. However,(within the meaning of section 509(a)(2)(A)(ii)) from admissions, sales of merchandise, performance of services, or furnishing of facilities, in an activity which is not an unrelated trade or business, are includible in the numerator of the support fraction in any taxable year only to the extent that such gross receipts do not exceed the limitation with respect to the greater of $5,000 or 1 percent of support which is described in paragraph (b) of this section. A grant is normally made to encourage the grantee organization to carry on certain programs or activities in furtherance of its exempt purposes. It may contain certain terms and conditions imposed by the grantor to insure that the grantee's programs or activities are conducted in a manner compatible with the grantor's own programs and policies and beneficial to the public. The grantee may also perform a service or produce a work product which incidentally benefits the grantor. Because of the imposition of terms and conditions, the frequent similarlity of public purposes of grantor and grantee, and the possibility of benefit resulting to the grantor, amounts received as grantsthe carrying on of exempt activities are sometimes difficult to distinguish from amounts received as gross receiptsthe carrying on of exempt activities. The fact that the agreement, pursuant to which payment is made, is designated aor ais not controlling for purposes of classifying the payment under section 509(a)(2).
