
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Regulations Applicable to Taxable Years Beginning in 1969 and Ending in 1970
###### ยง 1.56(g)-1 Adjusted current earnings.
####### Modifications required,In general.

(ii)-(A)If a taxpayer makes an election under this paragraph (r), pre-adjustment alternative minimum taxable income and adjusted current earnings are computed with the modifications described in this paragraph. The items of adjustment under sections 56 and 58 and the items of tax preference under section 57 are computed without regard to the portion of those adjustments and preferences which, but for the election described in this paragraph, would have been capitalized in ending inventory. For example, pre-adjustment alternative minimum taxable income is increased by the excess of the depreciation allowable for the taxable year under section 168 for purposes of computing taxable income (determined without regard to section 263A) over the depreciation allowable for the taxable year under section 56(a)(1) and section 57 for purposes of computing pre-adjustment alternative minimum taxable income (determined without regard to section 263A). Similarly, adjusted current earnings is further increased by the excess of the depreciation allowable for the taxable year under section 56(a)(1) and section 57 for purposes of computing pre-adjustment alternative minimum taxable income (determined without regard to section 263A) over the depreciation allowable for the taxable year under section 56(g)(4)(A) for purposes of computing adjusted current earnings (determined without regard to section 263A). Thus, the modifications described in the preceding sentence do not duplicate amounts that are taken into account in computing pre-adjustment alternative minimum taxable income. See paragraph (a)(6)(ii) of this section.
