
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Private Foundations
###### ยง 1.509(a)-4 Supporting organizations.
####### Alternate integral part test for certain trusts.

(9)A trust (whether or not exempt from taxation under section 501(a)) that on November 20, 1970, met and continues to meet the requirements of paragraphs (i)(9)(i) through (i)(9)(v) of this section, shall be treated as meeting the requirements of paragraph (i)(5) of this section if for taxable years beginning after October 16, 1972, the trustee of such trust makes annual written reports to all of the trust's supported organizations, setting forth a description of the trust's assets, including a detailed list of the assets and the income produced by such assets. A trust that meets the requirements of this paragraph (i)(9) may request a ruling that it is described in section 509(a)(3) in such manner as the Commissioner may prescribe. The requirements of this paragraph (i)(9) are as follows:

(i) All the unexpired interests in the trust are devoted to one or more purposes described in section 170(c)(1) or (c)(2)(B) and a deduction was allowed with respect to such interests under sections 170, 545(b)(2), 556(b)(2), 642(c), 2055, 2106(a)(2), 2522, or corresponding provisions of prior law (or would have been allowed such a deduction if the trust had not been created before 1913).

(ii) The trust was created prior to November 20, 1970, and did not receive any grant, contribution, bequest or other transfer on or after such date. For purposes of this paragraph (i)(9)(ii), a split-interest trust described in section 4947(a)(2) that was created prior to November 20, 1970, was irrevocable on such date, and that becomes a charitable trust described in section 4947(a)(1) after such date shall be treated as having been created prior to such date.

(iii) The trust is required by its governing instrument to distribute all of its net income currently to a designated beneficiary supported organization. If more than one beneficiary supported organization is designated in the governing instrument of a trust, all of the net income must be distributable and must be distributed currently to each of such supported organizations in fixed shares pursuant to such governing instrument. For purposes of this paragraph (i)(9)(iii), the governing instrument of a charitable trust shall be treated as requiring distribution to a designated supported organization when the trust instrument describes the charitable purpose of the trust so completely that such description can apply to only one existing supported organization and is of sufficient particularity as to vest in such organization rights against the trust enforceable in a court possessing equitable powers.

(iv) The trustee of the trust does not have discretion to vary either the beneficiary supported organizations or the amounts payable to the supported organizations. For purposes of this paragraph (i)(9)(iv), a trustee shall not be treated as having such discretion if the trustee has discretion to make payments of principal to the single supported organization that is currently entitled to receive all of the trust's income or if the trust instrument provides that the trustee may cease making income payments to a particular supported organization in the event of certain specific occurrences, such as the loss of exemption under section 501(c)(3) or classification under section 509(a)(1) or (a)(2) by the supported organization or the failure of the supported organization to carry out its charitable purpose properly.

(v) None of the trustees would be disqualified persons within the meaning of section 4946(a) (other than foundation managers under section 4946(a)(1)(B)) with respect to the trust if such trust were treated as a private foundation.
