
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Regulations Applicable to Taxable Years Beginning in 1969 and Ending in 1970
###### ยง 1.56(g)-1 Adjusted current earnings.
####### Retroactive election,1,2

(ii)-(A) A retroactive election under this paragraph (r) may be made by any taxpayer not described in paragraph (r)(3)(i)(A) () or () of this section. Except as provided in paragraph (r)(3)(iii) of this section, a retroactive election may only be made by attaching a statement to the taxpayer's amended Federal income tax return for the earliest taxable year for which the period of limitations under section 6501(a) has not expired and which begins after December 31, 1986. The amended return to which the election under this paragraph (r)(3)(ii) is attached must be filed no later than June 21, 1993.

(B) The amended return must contain the statement described in paragraph (r)(3)(i)(B) of this section. In addition, the statement must contain a representation that the taxpayer will modify its pre-adjustment alternative minimum taxable income and adjusted current earnings for all open taxable years in accordance with paragraph (r)(2) of this section. Upon this change in method of accounting, the taxpayer must include the entire adjustment required under section 481(a), if any, in preadjustment alternative minimum taxable income and adjusted current earnings on the amended return for the year of the election. The taxpayer must also reflect the method of accounting described in paragraph (r)(2) of this section on amended returns filed for all taxable years after the year of the election for which returns were originally filed before making the election (and for which the period of limitations under section 6501(a) has not expired).

(C) Provided a taxpayer meets the requirements of this paragraph (r), any change in method of accounting arising as a result of making a retroactive election will be treated as made with the advance consent of the Commissioner.

(D) Any retroactive election under this paragraph (r) that is made without filing amended returns required under this paragraph (r)(3)(ii) shall constitute a change in method of accounting made without the consent of the Commissioner.
