
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Taxation of Business Income of Certain Exempt Organizations
###### ยง 1.512(a)-4 Special rules applicable to war veterans organizations.
####### Requirements for set aside.

(5)An amount is not properly set aside if the organization commingles it with any amount which is not to be set aside. However, adequate records describing the amount set aside and indicating that it is to be used for the designated purpose are sufficient. Amounts that are set aside need not be permanently committed to such use either under state law or by contract. Thus, for example, it is not necessary that the organization place these funds in an irrevocable trust. Although set aside income may be accumulated, any accumulation which is unreasonable in amount or duration is evidence that the income was not accumulated for the purposes set forth. For purposes of the preceding sentence, accumulations which are reasonably necessary for the purpose of providing life, sick, health, or accident insurance benefits on the basis of recognized mortality or morbidity tables and assumed rates of interest under an actuarially acceptable method would not be unreasonable even though such accumulations are quite large and the time between the receipt by the organization of such amounts and the date of payment of the benefits is quite long. For example, an accumulation of income for 20 years or longer which is determined to be reasonable necessary to pay life insurance benefits to members, their dependents or designated beneficiaries, generally would not be an unreasonable accumulation. Income which has been set aside may be invested, pending the action contemplated by the set aside, without being regarded as having been used for other purposes.
