
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Taxation of Business Income of Certain Exempt Organizations
###### ยง 1.512(a)-4 Special rules applicable to war veterans organizations.
####### In general.

(a)For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1969, this section provides special rules for the determination of the unrelated business taxable income of an organization described in section 501(c)(19). In general, the rules contained in sections 511 through 514 which are applicable to any organization listed in section 501(c) apply in determining the unrelated business taxable income of an organization described in section 501(c)(19). However, that amount which is paid by members to the organization for the purpose described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, if set aside from other organizational monies and accounts in an insurance set aside, may be excluded from the unrelated business taxable income of the organization. The insurance set aside shall be used exclusively for providing insurance benefits, for the purposes specified in section 170(c)(4) of the Code, for the reasonable costs of administering the insurance program that are directly related to such set aside, or for the reasonable costs of distributing funds for section 170(c)(4) purposes. If an amount so set aside is used for any purposes other than those described in the preceding sentence, it shall be included in unrelated business taxable income without regard to any modifications provided by section 512(b), in the taxable year in which it is withdrawn from such set aside. Amounts will be considered to have been withdrawn from an insurance set aside if they are used in any manner inconsistent with providing insurance benefits, paying the reasonable costs of administering the insurance program for section 170(c)(4) purposes and for costs of distributing funds for section 170(c)(4) purposes. An example of a use of funds which would be considered a withdrawal would be the use of such funds as security for a loan.
