
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Tax Preference Regulations
###### ยง 1.57-1 Items of tax preference defined.
####### Separate items of section 1250 property.

(2)The determination of what constitutes a separate item of section 1250 property is to be made on the facts and circumstances of each individual case. In general, each building (or component thereof, if the taxpayer uses the component method of computing depreciation) is a separate item of section 1250 property. However, for purposes of this section, assets placed in a group, classified, or composite account are to be treated as a single item by a taxpayer, provided that such account contains only property placed in service during a single taxable year. In addition, two or more items may be treated as one item of section 1250 property for purposes of this paragraph where, with respect to each such item:

(i) The period for which depreciation is taken begins on the same date, (ii) the same estimated useful life has continually been used for purposes of taking depreciation or amortization, and (iii) the same method (and rate) of depreciation or amortization has continually been used. For example, assume a taxpayer constructed a 40-unit rental townhouse development and began taking declining balance depreciation on all 40 units as of January 1, 1970, at a uniform rate and has consistently taken depreciation on all 40 units on this same basis. Although each townhouse is a separate item of section 1250 property, all 40 townhouses may be treated as one item of section 1250 property for purposes of the minimum tax since the conditions of subdivisions (i), (ii), and (iii) of this subparagraph are met. This would be true even if the 40 townhouses comprised two 20-unit developments located apart from each other. However, if the taxpayer constructed an additional development or new section on the existing development for which he began taking depreciation on July 1, 1970, at a uniform rate for all the additional units, the additional units and the original units may not be treated as one item of section 1250 property since the condition of subdivision (i) of this subparagraph is not met. Where a portion of an item of section 1250 property has been depreciated or amortized under a method (or rate) which is different from the method (or rate) under which the other portion or portions of such item have been depreciated or amortized, such portion is considered a separate item of section 1250 property for purposes of this paragraph.
