
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Taxation of Business Income of Certain Exempt Organizations
###### ยง 1.514(b)-1 Definition of debt-financed property.
####### In general.,debt-financed property,income,debt-financed property.,debt-financed property

(a)For purposes of section 514 and the regulations thereunder, the termmeans any property which is held to produce income (e.g., rental real estate, tangible personal property, and corporate stock), and with respect to which there is an acquisition indebtedness (determined without regard to whether the property is debt-financed property) at any time during the taxable year. The termis not limited to recurring income but applies as well to gains from the disposition of property. Consequently, when any property held to produce income by an organization which is not used in a manner described in section 514(b)(1) (A), (B), (C), or (D) is disposed of at a gain during the taxable year, and there was an acquisition indebtedness outstanding with respect to such property at any time during the 12-month period preceding the date of disposition (even though such period covers more than 1 taxable year), such property isFor example, assume that on June 1, 1972, an organization is given mortgaged, unimproved property which it does not use in a manner described in section 514(b)(1) (A), (B), (C), or (D) and that the organization assumes payment ofthe mortgage on such property. On July 15, 1972, the organization sells such property for a gain. Such property isand such gain is taxable as unrelated debt-financed income. See section 514(c) and ยง 1.514(c)-1 for rules relating to when there is acquisition indebtedness with respect to property. See paragraph (a) of ยง 1.514(a)-1 for rules determining the amount of income or gain from debt-financed property which is treated as unrelated debt-financed income.
