
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Taxation of Business Income of Certain Exempt Organizations
###### ยง 1.514(f)-1 Definition of business lease.
####### Special rules.

(b)(1) In computing the term of the lease, the period for which a lease may be renewed or extended by reason of an option contained therein shall be considered as part of the term. For example, a 3-year lease with an option for renewal for another such period is considered a lease for a term of 6 years. Another example is the case of a 1-year lease with option of renewal for another such term, where the parties at the end of each year renew the arrangement. In this case, during the fifth year (but not during the first 4 years), the lease falls within the 5-year rule, since the lease then involves 5 years and there is an option for the sixth year. In determining the term of the lease, an option for renewal of the lease is taken into account whether or not the exercise of the option depends upon conditions or contingencies.

(2) If the property is acquired subject to a lease, the term of such lease shall be considered to begin on the date of such acquisition. For example, if an exempt organization purchases, in whole or in part with borrowed funds, real property subject to a 10-year lease which has 3 years left to run, and such lease contains no right of renewal or extension, the lease shall be considered a 3-year lease and hence does not meet the definition of a business lease in section 514(f) and paragraph (a) of this section. However, if this lease contains an option to renew for a period of 3 years or more, it is a business lease.

(3) Under the provisions of section 514(f)(2)(B) a lease is considered as continuing for more than 5 years if the same lessee has occupied the premises for a total period of more than 5 years, whether the occupancy is under one or more leases, renewals, extensions, or continuations. Continued occupancy shall be considered to be by the same lessee if the occupants during the period are so related that losses in respect of sales or exchanges of property between them would be disallowed under section 267(a). Such period shall be considered as commencing not earlier than the date of the acquisition of the property by the tax-exempt organization or trust. This rule is applicable only in the sixth and succeeding years of such occupancy by the same lessee. See, however, paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
