
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Farmers' Cooperatives
###### ยง 1.522-2 Manner of taxation of cooperative associations subject to section 522.
####### Cooperative association exempt from tax before January 1, 1952.

(b)(1) For the purpose of determining the method of accounting under section 446 in the case of a cooperative association which was exempt from tax for taxable years beginning prior to January 1, 1952, the method of accounting, recognized under sections 41, 42, and 43 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939 and the regulations prescribed thereunder and utilized in the return of such association for its last taxable year to which the Internal Revenue Code of 1939 was applicable, shall be deemed to constitute the method of accounting regularly employed by the cooperative association. Any change from this method may be made only if permission is obtained from the Commissioner to change to another recognized method in accordance with section 446 and the regulations thereunder.

(2) In any case where inventories are an income-producing factor, see sections 471 and 472 and the regulations thereunder. The elective method of inventorying goods provided in section 472 may be adopted by the cooperative association for any taxable year beginning after December 31, 1953, inaccordance with the requirements of section 472 and the regulations thereunder. However, in order to use such method for such a taxable year the cooperative association (unless it has used such method for a taxable year beginning after 1951 and before 1954 pursuant to an election exercised as provided in 26 CFR (1939) 39.22(d)-3 (Regulations 118) must exercise the election provided in section 472 and the regulations thereunder, even if it may have utilized such method for accounting purposes for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1952.

(3) The following rules shall be applicable in computing the net operating loss deduction provided in section 172: No net operating loss carryover shall be allowed from a taxable year beginning prior to January 1, 1952, for which the cooperative association was exempt from tax under section 101(12) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939. In the case of a taxable year beginning prior to January 1, 1952, for which the association was not exempt under section 101(12) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939 and of any taxable year beginning after December 31, 1951, the amount of the net operating loss carryback or carryover from such year shall not be reduced by reference to the income of any taxable year beginning prior to January 1, 1952, for which the association was exempt from tax under section 101(12) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939. However, any taxable year beginning prior to January 1, 1952, for which the cooperative association was exempt under section 101(12) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939 shall be taken into account in determining the period for which a net operating loss may be carried back or carried over, as the case may be.

(4) The adjustments to the cost or other basis provided in sections 1011 and 1016 and the regulations thereunder, are applicable for the entire period since the acquisition of the property. Thus, proper adjustment to basis must be made under section 1016 for depreciation, obsolescence, amortization, and depletion for all taxable years beginning prior to January 1, 1952, although the cooperative association was exempt from tax under section 521 or corresponding provisions of prior law for such years. However, no adjustment for percentage or discovery depletion is to be made for any year during which the association was exempt from tax. If a cooperative association has made a proper election in accordance with section 1020 and the regulations prescribed thereunder with respect to a taxable year beginning before 1952 in which the association was not exempt from tax, the adjustment to basis for depreciation for such years shall be limited in accordance with the provisions of section 1016(a)(2).

(5) In the case of tax exempt and partially taxable bonds purchased at a premium and subject to amortization under section 171, proper adjustment to basis must be made to reflect amortization with respect to such premium from the date of acquisition of the bond. (For principles governing the method of computation, see the example in paragraph (b) of ยง 1.1016-9, relating to mutual savings banks, building and loan associations, and cooperative banks.) The basis of a fully taxable bond purchased at a premium shall be adjusted from the date of the election to amortize such premium in accordance with the provisions of section 171 except that no adjustment shall be allowable for such portion of the premium attributable to the period prior to the election.
