
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Farmers' Cooperatives
###### ยง 1.527-5 Activities resulting in gross income to an individual or political organization.
####### In general,General rule.

(a)-(1)Amounts expended by a political organization for an exempt function are not income to the individual or individuals on whose behalf such expenditures are made. However, where a political organization expends any other amount for the personal use of any individual, the individual on whose behalf the amount is expended will be in receipt of income. Amounts are expended for the personal use of an individual where a direct or indirect financial benefit accrues to such individual. For example, if a political organization pays a personal legal obligation of a candidate for public office, such as the candidate's federal income tax liability, the amount paid is includible in such candidate's gross income. Similarly, if a political organization expends anyamount of its exempt function income for other than an exempt function, and the expenditure results in a direct or indirect financial benefit to the political organization, it must include the amount of such expenditure in its gross income. For example, if a political organization expends exempt function income for making an improvement or addition to its facilities, or for equipment, which is not necessary for or used in carrying out an exempt function, the amount of the expenditure will be included in the political organization's gross income. However, if a political organization expends exempt function income to make ordinary and necessary repairs on the facilities the political organization uses in conducting its exempt function, such amounts will not be included in the political organization's gross income.
