
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Farmers' Cooperatives
###### ยง 1.527-9 Special rule for principal campaign committees.
####### In general.

(a)Effective with respect to taxable years beginning after December 31, 1981, the tax imposed by section 527(b) on the political organization taxable income of a principal campaign committee shall be computed by multiplying the political organization taxable income by the appropriate rates of tax specified in section 11(b). The political organization taxable income of a campaign committee not a principal campaign committee is taxed at the highest rate of tax specified in section 11(b). A candidate for Congress may designate one political committee to serve as his or her principal campaign committee for purposes of section 527(h)(1). If a designation is made, it shall be made in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. A candidate for Congress may have only one designation in effect at any time. Under 11 CFR 102.12, no political committee may be designated as the principal campaign committee of more than one candidate for Congress. Further, no political committee that supports or has supported more than one candidate for Congress may be designated as a principal campaign committee. No designation need be made where there is only one political campaign committee with respect to a candidate.
