
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Homeowners Associations
###### ยง 1.528-3 Association property.
####### Property owned by the organization. Association property

(a)includes real and personal property owned by the organization or owned as tenants in common by the members of the organization. Such property must be available for the common benefit of all members of the organization and must be of a nature that tends to enhance the beneficial enjoyment of the private residences by their owners. If two or more facilities or items of property of a similar nature are owned by a homeowners association, and if the use of any particular facility or item is restricted to fewer than all association members, such facilities or items neverthelesswill be considered association property if all association members are treated equitably and have similar rights with respect to comparable items or facilities. Among the types of property that ordinarily will be considered association property are swimming pools and tennis courts. On the other hand, facilities or areas set aside for the use of nonmembers, or in fact used primarily by nonmembers, are not association property for the purposes of this section. For example, property owned by an organization for the purpose of leasing it to groups consisting primarily of nonmembers to be used as a meeting place or a retreat will not be considered association property.
