
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Qualified ABLE Programs
###### ยง 1.529A-3 Tax treatment.
####### Taxation of distributions,In general.

(a)-(1)Each distribution from an ABLE account consists of an earnings portion of the account (computed in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section) and investment in the account. If the total amount distributed from an ABLE account to or for the benefit of the designated beneficiary of that ABLE account during his or her taxable year does not exceed the qualified disability expenses of the designated beneficiary paid during that year, no amount distributed is includible in the gross income of the designated beneficiary for that year. If the total amount distributed from an ABLE account to or for the benefit of the designated beneficiary of that ABLE account during his or her taxable year exceeds the qualified disability expenses of the designated beneficiary paid during that year (regardless of when incurred), the distributions from the ABLE account, except to the extent excluded from gross income under this section or any other provision of chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code, must be included in the gross income of the designated beneficiary in the manner provided under this section and section 72. The amount to be included in gross income is based on the earnings portion of each distribution, computed in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. The earnings portion that is includible in gross income is the sum of the earnings portion of all distributions made in that year, reduced by an amount that bears the same ratio to the total earnings portion as the amount of qualified disability expenses paid during the year bears to such total distributions during the year. If an excess contribution or excess aggregate contribution is returned within the time period required in ยง 1.529A-2(g)(4), any net income distributed is includible in the gross income of the contributor(s) in the taxable year in which the excess contribution or excess aggregate contribution was made.
