
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Qualified ABLE Programs
###### ยง 1.529A-6 Reporting of distributions from and termination of an ABLE account.
####### Exception.

(2)If the filer has a system in place to identify and reject amounts that either would constitute an excess contribution or excess aggregate contribution (as defined in ยง 1.529A-1(b)(9) or (10), respectively) or were contributed to an additional ABLE account as described in ยง 1.529A-2(c)(3)(ii)(C) (excess amounts) before those excess amounts are deposited into or allocated to an ABLE account, the filer need not request the TIN of each contributor at the time of contribution. A filer with such a system must request a contributor's TIN only if and when an excess contribution or excess aggregate contribution nevertheless is deposited into or allocated to an account and the filer must return the excess amounts including net income to the contributor. The filer must clearly notify each such contributor to the account that the law requires that person to furnish a TIN so that it may be included on an information return to be filed by the filer. The contributor may provide his or her TIN in any manner including orally, in writing, or electronically. If the TIN is furnished in writing, no particular form is required. Form W-9, "Request for Taxpayer Identification Number and Certification," may be used, or the request may be incorporated into the forms related to the establishment of the ABLE account.
