
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Personal Holding Companies
###### § 1.544-1 Constructive ownership.

(a) Rules relating to the constructive ownership of stock are provided by section 544 for the purpose of determining whether the stock ownership requirements of the following sections are satisfied:

(1) Section 542(a)(2), relating to ownership of stock by five or fewer individuals.

(2) Section 543(a)(5), relating to personal holding company income derived from personal service contracts.

(3) Section 543(a)(6), relating to personal holding company income derived from property used by shareholders.

(4) Section 543(a)(9), relating to personal holding company income derived from copyright royalties.

(b) Section 544 provides four general rules with respect to constructive ownership. These rules are:

(1) Constructive ownership by reason of indirect ownership. See section 544(a)(1) and § 1.544-2.

(2) Constructive ownership by reason of family and partnership ownership. See section 544(a) (2), (4), (5), and (6), and §§ 1.544-3, 1.544-6, and 1.544-7.

(3) Constructive ownership by reason of ownership of options. See section 544(a) (3), (4), (5), and (6), and §§ 1.544-4, 1.544-6, and 1.544-7.

(4) Constructive ownership by reason of ownership of convertible securities. See section 544(b) and § 1.544-5.

(c) All forms and classes of stock, however denominated, which represent the interests of shareholders, members, or beneficiaries in the corporation shall be taken into consideration in applying the constructive ownership rules of section 544.

(d) For rules applicable in treating constructive ownership, determined by one application of section 544, as actual ownership for purposes of a second application of section 544, see section 544(a)(5) and § 1.544-6.
