
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Personal Holding Companies
###### ยง 1.545-2 Adjustments to taxable income.
####### Election by taxpayer which deducted taxes paid.

(2)(i) If the corporation was subject to the personal holding company tax imposed by section 500 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939 and, for the purpose of that tax, deducted Federal taxes paid rather than such taxes accrued for each taxable year for which it was subject to such taxes, the corporation may elect for any taxable year ending after June 30, 1954, to deduct taxes accrued, including taxes of foreign countries and possessions of the United States, rather than taxes paid, for the purposes of the tax imposed by section 541 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954. The election shall be made by deducting such taxes accrued on Schedule PH, Form 1120, to be filed with the return. The schedule shall, in addition, contain a statement that the corporation has made such election and shall set forth the year to which such election was first applicable. The deduction of taxes accrued in the year of election precludes the deduction of taxes paid during such year. The election, if made, shall be irrevocable and the deduction for taxes accrued shall be allowed for the year of election and for all subsequent taxable years.

(ii) Pursuant to section 7851(a)(1)(C), the election provided for in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph may be made with respect to a taxable year ending after June 30, 1954, even though such taxable year is subject to the Internal Revenue Code of 1939.
