
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Personal Holding Companies
###### ยง 1.545-2 Adjustments to taxable income.
####### Reasonableness of the amounts with reference to the size and terms of the indebtedness.

(4)(i) The reasonableness of the amounts used or irrevocably set aside must be determined by reference to the size and terms of the particular indebtedness. Hence, all the facts and circumstances with respect to the nature, scope, conditions, amount, maturity, and other terms of the particular indebtedness must be shown in each case.

(ii) Ordinarily an amount used to pay or retire an indebtedness, in whole or in part, at or prior to the maturity and in accordance with the terms thereof will be considered reasonable, and may be allowable as a deduction for the year in which so used. However, if an amount has been set aside in a prior year for payment or retirement of the same indebtedness, the amount so set aside shall not be allowed as a deduction in the year of the payment.

(iii) All amounts irrevocably set aside for the payment or retirement of an indebtedness in accordance with and pursuant to the terms of the obligation, for example, the annual contribution to trustees required by the provisions of a mandatory sinking fund agreement, will be considered as complying with the requirement of reasonableness. To be considered reasonable, it is not necessary that the plan of retirement provide for a retroactive setting aside of amounts for years prior to that in which the plan is adopted. However, if a voluntary plan was adopted before 1934, no adjustment is allowable in respect of the amounts set aside in the years prior to 1934.
