
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Personal Holding Companies
###### ยง 1.545-2 Adjustments to taxable income.
####### Amount of a lien in favor of the United States.

(i)(1) If notices of lien are filed in the manner provided in section 6323(f), the amount of the liability to the United States outstanding at the close of the taxable year, and secured by such liens which are in effect at that time, shall be allowed as a deduction in computing undistributed personal holding company income. However, the amount of such deduction which may be allowed for any taxable year shall not exceed the taxable income (as adjusted for purposes of determining the undistributed personal holding company income, but without regard to the deduction under section 545(b)(9)) for such year. The fact that the amount of, or any part of, the outstanding obligation to the United States was deducted for one taxable year does not prevent its deduction for a subsequent taxable year to the extent the obligation is still outstanding at the close of the subsequent taxable year and is secured by a lien, notice of which has been filed.

(2) Subparagraph (1) of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following example:

(3) When the obligation secured by the lien in favor of the United States has been satisfied or released, the sum of the amounts which have been allowed as deductions under section 545(b)(9) in respect of such obligation shall be restored to taxable income for the year in which such lien is satisfied or released. If only a part of the obligation secured by the lien has been satisfied, the sum of the amounts which have been allowed as deductions under section 545(b)(9) in respect of such part shall be included in taxable income for the year of the satisfaction for the purpose of determining undistributed personal holding company income. It should be noted, however, that only the sum of the amounts which have been allowed as deductions under section 545(b)(9) and subparagraph (1) of this paragraph shall be included in taxable income. Thus, any amounts which were allowed as deductions under section 504(e) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939 shall not be included as taxable income for any taxable year under section 545(b)(9) and subparagraph (1) of this paragraph.

(4) The application of subparagraph (3) of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following example:

(5)(i) If an amount has been included in undistributed personal holding company income of the personal holding company by reason of section 545(b)(9), any shareholder of the company may elect to compute his income tax with respect to such of his dividends as are attributable to such amount as though such dividends were received ratably over the period the lien was in effect.

(ii) For purposes of section 545(b)(9), the dividends paid during the taxable year of the personal holding company (computed as of the close of such year) shall be deemed attributable first to undistributed personal holding company income by reason of section 545(b)(9) (computed as of the close of the taxable year of the personal holding company). If the period over which the lien was in effect consists of several taxable years of the personal holding company, the dividend deemed received for any taxable year shall be deemed received on the last day of such taxable year of the personal holding company.

(iii) Such election shall be made in a statement showing the amount of the deduction under section 545(b)(9) for each taxable year of the period in which the lien was in effect, the amount of such deduction, if any, which was added to undistributed personal holding company income in a later year or years as a result of partial satisfaction or release of such lien, and the details thereof, the taxable year or years to which such dividends are allocable, and a computation of tax, on the basis of the election, for all taxable years affected by such ratable allocation of the dividends. Further, the statement shall show the district director's office in which the returns, for the years to which the dividends are allocable, were filed, the kind of returns which were filed (separate returns or joint returns), and the name and address under which the returns were filed. The statement shall be attached to the shareholder's return for the taxable year for which the dividend would be reported but for such election.

(iv) The operation of this subparagraph may be illustrated as follows: If, in the example under subparagraph (4) of this paragraph, shareholder A owns 75 percent in value of the outstanding stock of the personal holding company, and receives a dividend of $540,000 from such company during 1958 (the total dividend distribution being $720,000) he may elect to compute his income tax with respect to the $540,000 in dividends for 1958 as if he had received $127,058.82 of such dividends for 1954 ($200,000/850,000 of $540,000), $158,823.53 of such dividends for 1955 ($250,000/850,000 of $540,000), $190,588.23 of such dividends for 1956 ($300,000/850,000 of $540,000), and $63,529.41 of such dividends for 1957 ($100,000/850,000 of $540,000). Accordingly, the tax computed for 1958 with respect to such dividends shall be the aggregate of the taxes attributable to such amounts had they been distributed in the respective years.
