
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Personal Holding Companies
###### ยง 1.545-3 Special adjustment to taxable income.
####### Reduction for amounts irrevocably set aside.

(3)For purposes of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, qualified indebtedness with respect to a particular contract is reduced when and to the extent that amounts are irrevocably set aside to pay or retire such indebtedness. An amount is not considered to be irrevocably set aside if any person could use such amount for any purpose other than the retirement of the qualified indebtedness with respect to which it was set aside. No deduction is allowed under section 545(c)(1) and this section for payments out of amounts previously set aside. Thus, for example, if a corporation, which is a June 30 fiscal year taxpayer, incurs indebtedness of $1 million on February 1, 1962, and, in accordance with its contract of indebtedness, irrevocably sets aside $50,000 in a sinking fund on February 1, of each of the years 1963, 1964, and 1965, then its qualified indebtedness on January 1, 1964, is $950,000 ($1 million less one set-aside of $50,000 in 1963). The corporation is not allowed a deduction under section 545(c)(1) for the set-aside of $50,000 made during its taxable year ending on June 30, 1964, since section 545(c) is applicable only to taxable years beginning after December 31, 1963, but the qualified indebtedness is nevertheless reduced by such amount. The corporation is allowed a deduction of $50,000 for its taxable year ending June 30, 1965, as a result of the set-aside made during such taxable year, and qualified indebtedness on July 1, 1965, is $850,000. No deduction is allowed to the corporation for a payment in any subsequent taxable year from the amounts so set aside.
