
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Deduction for Dividends Paid
###### ยง 1.565-1 General rule.
####### Making and filing of consents.

(b)(1) A consent shall be made on Form 972 in accordance with this section and the instructions on the form issued therewith. It may be made only by or on behalf of a person who was the actual owner on the last day of the corporation's taxable year of any class of consent stock, that is, the person who would have been required to include in gross income any dividends on such stock actually distributed on the last day of such year. Form 972 shall contain or be verified by a written declaration that it is made under the penalties of perjury. In the consent such person must agree to include in gross income for his taxable year in which or with which the taxable year of the corporation ends a specific amount as a taxable dividend.

(2) See paragraph (c) of this section and ยง 1.565-2 for the rules as to when all or a portion of the amount so specified will be disregarded for tax purposes.

(3) A consent may be filed at any time not later than the due date (including extensions) of the corporation's income tax return for the taxable year for which the dividends paid deduction is claimed. With such return, and not later than the due date (including extensions) thereof, the corporation must file Forms 972 for each consenting shareholder, and a return on Form 973 showing by classes the stock outstanding on the first and last days of the taxable year, the dividend rights of such stock, distributions made during the taxable year to shareholders, and giving all the other information required by the form. For taxable years beginning before January 1, 2003, the Form 973 filed with the corporation's income tax return shall contain or be verified by a written declaration that is made under the penalties of perjury and the Forms 972 filed with the return must be duly executed by the consenting shareholders. For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2002, the Form 973 filed with the corporation's income tax return shall be verified by signing the return and the Forms 972 filed with the return must be duly executed by the consenting shareholders or, if unsigned, must contain the same information as the duly executed originals. If the corporation submits unsigned Forms 972 with its return for a taxable year beginning after December 31, 2002, the duly executed originals are records that the corporation must retain and keep available for inspection in the manner required by ยง 1.6001-1(e).
