
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Deduction for Dividends Paid
###### § 1.565-1 General rule.
####### Taxability of amounts specified in consents.

(c)(1) The filing of a consent is irrevocable, and except as otherwise provided in section 565(b), § 1.565-2, and paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the full amount specified in a consent filed by a shareholder of a corporation described in paragraph (a) of this section shall be included in the gross income of the shareholder as a taxable dividend. Where the shareholder is taxable on a dividend only if received from sources within the United States, the amount specified in the consent of the shareholder shall be treated as a dividend from sources within the United States in the same manner as if the dividend has been paid in money to the shareholder on the last day of the corporation's taxable year. See paragraph (b) of this section relating to the making and filing of consents, and section 565(e) and § 1.565-5, with respect to the payment requirement in the case of nonresident aliens and foreign corporations.

(2) To the extent that the Commissioner determines that the corporation making a consent dividend is not a corporation described in paragraph (a) of this section, the amount specified in the consent is not a consent dividend and the amount specified in the consent will not be included in the gross income of the shareholder. In addition, where a corporation is described in paragraph (a)(1) but not paragraph (a)(2) of this section, to the extent that the Commissioner determines that the amount specified in a consent is larger than the amount of earnings subject to the accumulated earnings tax imposed by part I of subchapter G, such excess is not a consent dividend under paragraph (a) of this section and will not be included in the gross income of the shareholder.

(3) Except as provided in section 565(b), § 1.565-2 and paragraph (c)(2) of this section, once a shareholder's consent is filed, the full amount specified in such consent must be included in the shareholder's gross income as a taxable dividend, and the ground upon which a deduction for consent dividends is denied the corporation does not affect the taxability of a shareholder whose consent has been filed for the amount specified in the consent. For example, although described in part I, II, or III of subchapter G, or part I or II of subchapter M, chapter 1 of the Code, the corporation's taxable income (as adjusted under section 535(b), 545(b), 556(b), 852(b)(2), or 857(b)(2), as appropriate) may be less than the total of the consent dividends.

(4) A shareholder who is a nonresident alien or a foreign corporation is taxable on the full amount of the consent dividend that otherwise qualifies under this section even though that payment has not been made as required by section 565(e) and § 1.565-5.

(5) Income of a foreign corporation is not subject to the tax on accumulated earnings under part I of subchapter G, chapter 1 of the Code except to the extent of U.S. source income, adjusted as permitted under section 535. See section 535 (b) and (d) and § 1.535-1(b). Therefore, foreign source earnings (other than those distributions subject to resourcing under section 535(d)) of a foreign corporation that is not described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section cannot qualify for consent dividend treatment. Accordingly, a consent dividend made by a foreign corporation described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall not be effective with respect to all of the corporation's earnings, but shall relate solely to earnings which would have been, in the absence of the consent dividend, subject to the accumulated earnings tax.
