
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Banking Institutions
###### ยง 1.584-2 Income of participants in common trust fund.
####### e.g.,

(b) Any tax withheld at the source from income of the fund (under section 1441) is deemed to have been withheld proportionately from the participants to whom such income is allocated.

(c)(1) The proportionate share of each participant's short-term capital gains and losses, long-term capital gains and losses, ordinary taxable income or ordinary net loss, dividends and interest received, and tax withheld at the source shall be determined under the method of accounting adopted by the bank in accordance with the written plan by which the common trust fund is established and administered, provided such method clearly reflects the income of each participant.

(2) Items of income and deductions shall be allocated to the periods between valuation dates established by the plan within the taxable year in which they were realized. Ordinary taxable income or ordinary net loss, short-term capital gains and losses, long-term capital gains and losses, and tax withheld at the source shall be computed for each period. The participants' proportionate shares of income and losses for each period shall then be determined.

(3) For taxable years beginning on or after September 22, 1980, any amount of income or loss of the common trust fund which is included in the computation of a participant's taxable income for the taxable year shall be treated as income or loss from an unrelated trade or business to the extent that such amount would have been income or loss from an unrelated trade or business if such participant had made directly the investments of the common trust fund.

(4) The provisions of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following example:

(d) The provisions of part I, subchapter J, chapter 1 of the Code, or, as the case may be, the provisions of subchapters D, F, or H of chapter 1 of the Code, are applicable in determining the extent to which each participant's proportionate share of any income or loss of the common trust fund is taxable to the participant, or to a person other than the participant.
