
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Banking Institutions
###### ยง 1.585-2 Addition to reserve.
####### Six-year moving average amount.

(ii)The amount determined under this subdivision is the amount which bears the same ratio to loans outstanding at the close of the taxable year as (A) the total bad debts sustained during the taxable year and the 5 preceding taxable years (or, with the approval of the Commissioner, a shorter period), adjusted for recoveries of bad debts during such period, bears to (B) the sum of the loans outstanding at the close of such 6 (or fewer) taxable years. For purposes of applying this subdivision, a period shorter than 6 years generally would be appropriate only where there is a change in the type of a substantial portion of the loans outstanding such that the risk of loss is substantially increased. For example, if the major portion of a bank's portfolio of loans changes fromagricultural loans to industrial loans which results in a substantial increase in the risk of loss, a period shorter than 6 years may be appropriate. Similarly, a bank which has recently altered its lending practices to include in its portfolio of loans consumer-installment loans, when it had previously made only commercial loans, may also qualify to use a period shorter than six years. A decline in the general economic conditions in the area, which substantially increase the risk of loss, is a relevant factor which may be considered. In any case, however, approval to use a shorter period will not be granted unless the taxpayer supplies specific evidence that the loans outstanding at the close of the taxable years for the shorter period requested are not comparable in nature and risk to loans outstanding at the close of the six taxable years. The fact that a bank's bad debt experience has shown a substantial increase is not, by itself, sufficient to justify use of a shorter period. If approval is granted to use a shorter period, the experience for those taxable years which are excluded shall not be used for any subsequent year. A request for approval to exclude the experience of a prior taxable year shall not be considered unless it is sent to the Commissioner at least 30 days before the close of the first taxable year for which such approval is requested.
