
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Tax Preference Regulations
###### ยง 1.58-6 Regulated investment companies; real estate investment trusts.
####### In general.

(a)Section 58(f) provides rules with respect to the determination of the items of tax preference of regulated investment companies (as defined in section 851) and their shareholders and real estate investment trusts (as defined in section 856) and their shareholders, or holders of beneficial interest. In general, the items of tax preference of such companies and such trusts are determined at the company or trust level and the items of tax preference so determined (other than the capital gains item of tax preference (sections 57(a)(9) and ยง 1.57-1(i)) and, in the case of a real estate investment trust, accelerated depreciation on section 1250 property (sections 57(a)(2) and ยง 1.57-1(b)) are treated as items of tax preference of the shareholders, or holders of beneficial interest, in the same proportion that the dividends (other than capital gains dividends) paid to each such shareholder, or holder of beneficial interest, bear to the taxable income of such company or such trust determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid. In no case, however, is such proportion to be considered in excess of 100 percent. For example, if a regulated investment company has items of tax preference of $500,000 for the taxable year, none of which resulted from capital gains, and distributes dividends in an amount equal to 90 percent of its taxable income, each shareholder treats his share of 90 percent of the company's items of tax preference, or (a proportionate share of) $450,000, as items of tax preference of the shareholder. The remaining $50,000 constitutes items of tax preference of the company. Amounts treated under this paragraph as items of tax preference of the shareholders, or holders of beneficial interest, are deemed to be derived proportionately from each item of tax preference of the company or trust, other than the capital gains item of tax preference and, in the case of a real estate investment trust, accelerated depreciation on section 1250 property. Such amounts are taken into account by the shareholders, or holders of beneficial interest, in the same taxable year in which the dividends on which the apportionment is based are includible in income. The minimum tax exemption of the trust or company shall not be reduced because a portion of the trust's or company's items of tax preference are allocated to the shareholders or holders of beneficial interests.
