
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Banking Institutions
###### ยง 1.585-6 Recapture method of changing from the reserve method of section 585.
####### Definition of financially troubled,In general.

(3)-(i)For purposes of this section, a bank is considered financially troubled for any taxable year if the bank's nonperforming loan percentage for that year exceeds 75 percent. For this purpose, a bank's nonperforming loan percentage is the percentage determined by dividing the sum of the outstanding balances of the bank's nonperforming loans (as defined in paragraph (d)(3)(iii) of this section) as of the close of each quarter of the taxable year, by the sum of the amounts of the bank's equity (as defined in paragraph (d)(3)(iv) of this section) as of the close of each such quarter. The quarters for a short taxable year of at least 3 months are the same as those of the bank's annual accounting period, except that quarters ending before or after the short year are disregarded. If a taxable year consists of less than 3 months, the first or last day of the taxable year is treated as the last day of its only quarter. In lieu of determining its nonperforming loan percentageon the basis of loans and equity as of the close of each quarter of the taxable year, a bank may, for all years, determine this percentage on the basis of loans and equity as of the close of each report date (as defined in ยง 1.585-5(c)(2), without regard to ยง 1.585-5(c)(2)(i)(B)). In the case of a bank that is a foreign corporation, all nonperforming loans and equity of the bank are taken into account, including loans and equity that are not effectively connected with the conduct of a banking business within the United States.
