
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Mutual Savings Banks, Etc.
###### ยง 1.591-1 Deduction for dividends paid on deposits.
####### In general.

(a)(1) In the case of a taxpayer described in paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section, whichever is applicable, there are allowed as deductions from gross income amounts which during the taxable year are paid to, or credited to the accounts of, depositors or holders of accounts as dividends or interest on their deposits or withdrawable accounts, if such amounts paid or credited are withdrawable on demand subject only to customary notice of intention to withdraw.

(2) The deduction provided in section 591 is applicable to the taxable year in which amounts credited as dividends or interest become withdrawable by the depositor or holder of an account subject only to customary notice of intention to withdraw. Thus, amounts which, as of the last day of the taxable year, are credited as dividends or interest, but which are not withdrawable by depositors or holders of accounts until the following business day, are deductible under section 591 in the year subsequent to the taxable year in which they were so credited. A deduction under this section will not be denied by reason of the fact that the amounts credited as dividends or interest, otherwise deductible under section 591, are subject to the terms of a pledge agreement between the taxpayer and the depositor or holder of an account. In the case of a domestic building and loan association having nonwithdrawable capital stock represented by shares, no deduction is allowable under this section for amounts paid or credited as dividends on such shares. In the case of a taxable year ending after December 31, 1962, for special rules governing the treatment of dividends or interest paid or credited for periods representing more than 12 months, see section 461(e).
