
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Mutual Savings Banks, Etc.
###### ยง 1.597-4 Bridge Banks and Agency Control.
####### Affirmative election,Original Institution,Manner of making election.

(5)-(i)-(A)Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (g)(6) of this section, a consolidated group makes the election provided by this paragraph (g) by sending a written statement by certified mail to the affected Institution on or before 120 days after its placement in Agency Receivership. The statement must contain the following legend at the top of the page: "THIS IS AN ELECTION UNDER ยง 1.597-4(g) TO EXCLUDE THE INSTITUTION AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES REFERENCED IN THIS STATEMENT FROM THE AFFILIATED GROUP," and must include the names and TINs of the common parent and of the Institution and Consolidated Subsidiaries to which the election applies, and the date on which the Institution was placed in Agency Receivership. The consolidated group must send a similar statement to all subsidiary Institutions placed in Agency Receivership during the consistency period described in paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this section. (Failure to satisfy the requirement in the preceding sentence, however, does not invalidate the election with respect to any subsidiary Institution placed in Agency Receivership during the consistency period described in paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this section.) The consolidated group must retain a copy of the statement sent to any affected or subsidiary Institution (and the accompanying certified mail receipt) as proof that it mailed the statement to the affected Institution, and the consolidated group must make the statement and receipt available for inspection by the Commissioner upon request. The consolidated group must include an election statement as part of its first federal income tax return filed after the due date under this paragraph (g)(5) for such statement. A statement must be attached to this return indicating that the individual who signed the election was authorized to do so on behalf of the consolidated group. The agent for the group, within the meaning of ยง 1.1502-77, takes all actions required under this paragraph (g)(5)(i)(A) to make the election provided under this paragraph (g)(5) for the consolidated group. An Agency cannot make the election provided under this paragraph (g)(5) under the authority of section 6402(k) or otherwise.
