
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Natural Resources
###### ยง 1.613-5 Taxable income from the property.
####### raw mineral product.

(4)(i) Selling expenses, if any, paid or incurred with respect to a raw mineral product shall be subtracted from gross income from the property. See subdivision (iii) of this subparagraph for the definition of the termFor example, the selling expenses paid or incurred by a producer of raw mineral products with respect to products such as crude oil, raw gas, coal, iron ore, or crushed dolomite shall be subtracted from gross income from the property.

(ii) A reasonable portion of the expenses of selling a refined, manufactured, or fabricated product shall be subtracted from gross income from the property. Such reasonable portion shall be equivalent to the typical selling expenses which are incurred by unintegrated miners or producers in the same mineral industry so as to maintain equality in the tax treatment of unintegrated miners or producers in comparison with integrated miner-manufacturers or producer-manufacturers. If unintegrated miners or producers in the same mineral industry do not typically incur any selling expenses, then no portion of the expenses of selling a refined, manufactured, or fabricated product shall be subtracted from gross income from the property when determining the taxpayer's taxable income from the property.

(iii) For purposes of this subparagraph, a product will be considered to be a raw mineral product if (in the case of oil and gas) it is sold in the immediate vicinity of the well or if (in the case of minerals other than oil and gas) it is sold under the conditions described in paragraph (b)(1) of ยง 1.613-4. In addition, a product will be considered to be a raw mineral product if only insubstantial value is added to the product by nonmining processes (or, in the case of oil and gas, by conversion or transportation processes). For example, in the case of a producer of crushed granite poultry grit, both bulk and bagged grit will be deemed to be a raw mineral product for purposes of the selling expense rule set forth in this subparagraph.
