
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Natural Resources
###### ยง 1.613A-3 Exemption for independent producers and royalty owners.
####### Miscellaneous rules.

(6)(i) Each partner must separately keep records of his or her share of the adjusted basis in each domestic oil or gas property of the partnership, adjust his or her share of such basis pursuant to section 1016 (including adjustments for any depletion allowed or allowable with respect to such property), and use that adjusted basis each year in the computation of his or her cost depletion or in the computation of his or her gain or loss on the disposition (including abandonment) of the property by the partnership.

(ii) The adjusted basis of a partner's interest in a partnership is decreased (but not below zero) pursuant to section 705(a)(3) by the amount of the depletion deduction allowed or allowable to the partner with respect to a domestic oil or gas property to the extent such deduction does not exceed the proportionate share of the adjusted basis of such property allocated to the partner under section 613A(c)(7)(D), as adjusted by the partner after the initial allocation. Section 705(a)(1)(C) does not apply to depletion deductions that are not included in a partner's distributive share under section 702. Accordingly, the adjusted basis of a partner's interest in a partnership is not increased under section 705(a)(1)(C) with respect to depletion of oil or gas properties. See ยง 1.705-1(a)(2)(iii).

(iii) Upon the disposition of an oil or gas property by the partnership, each partner must subtract the partner's adjusted basis in the property from his or her allocable portion of the amount realized from the sale of the property to determine gain or loss. The partner's allocable portion of amount realized must, except to the extent governed by section 704(c) (or related principles under ยง 1.704-1(b)(4)(i)), be determined in accordance with ยง 1.704-1(b)(4)(v). Except as otherwise provided (e.g., section 751), the sale of a partnership interest is not treated as a sale of an oil and gas property.

(iv) In the case of a transfer of an interest in a partnership, the transferor partner's adjusted basis in each partnership oil or gas property carries over to the transferee partner. If an election under section 754 (relating to optional adjustment to the basis of partnership property) is in effect, such basis is adjusted in accordance with section 743.

(v) For purposes of section 732 (relating to basis of distributed property other than money) and section 734(b) (relating to optional adjustment to basis of partnership property), the partnership's adjusted basis in oil and gas property is an amount equal to the aggregate of its partners' adjusted bases in the property as determined under the rules provided in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
