
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Natural Resources
###### § 1.613A-3 Exemption for independent producers and royalty owners.
####### Amounts received or accrued before August 17, 1986.

(2)(i) A lease bonus or advanced royalty received or accrued before August 17, 1986, with respect to oil or gas property shall be taken into account for purposes of percentage depletion in the taxable year such payment is includible in income. Percentage depletion shall be determined according to the depletion rate and depletable oil and natural gas limitations of section 613A(c)(1) and § 1.613A-3(a) applicable on the date of such inclusion. The payee of the bonus or advanced royalty shall apply the depletable oil and natural gas quantity limitations by attributing a specific number of barrels of oil or cubic feet of natural gas to the lease bonus or advanced royalty. The determination of the number of barrels of oil or cubic feet of natural gas shall be based on the average price of oil or gas produced from the property during the taxable year. If oil or gas is not produced from the property during that year, or if the oil or gas is not sold before conversion or transportation from the premises, the number of barrels of oil or cubic feet of gas shall be based on a price (as of the date of the bonus or advanced royalty) determined under the constructive pricing principles applicable under section 613(a), generally the representative market or field price. In the case where no oil or gas has been produced in such year, the constructive price applicable to the type of production expected to be produced from the property shall apply. However, if the first actual production from the property in a later year is different from the type of production upon which the conversion of the bonus or advanced royalty into barrels of oil or cubic feet of gas was based and the period of limitations on assessment has not expired (see section 6501) for the year in which the lease bonus or advanced royalty is includible in income, the taxpayer should promptly file an amended return, if necessary. In the amended return the conversion shall be recomputed taking into account the pricing applicable to the actual production. For purposes of paragraph (f) of § 1.613A-7, the number of barrels of oil or cubic feet of natural gas attributed to a lease bonus or advanced royalty is deemed to have been extracted on the date the bonus or advanced royalty is includible in the payee's income.

(ii) For purposes of applying the depletable oil and natural gas quantity limitations in taxable years after the year in which the advanced royalty payment is included in income, the payee of an advanced royalty which is recouped out of future production shall not include production which recoups the advanced royalty in such later years. The payor of a bonus or advanced royalty that is not recouped from future production may reduce the production to be taken into account for purposes of applying the depletable quantity limitations in each year in which the payor's gross income from the property is adjusted under § 1.613-2(c)(5)(ii) to reflect the bonus paid by an amount determined by dividing the portion of the bonus required to be excluded from the payor's gross income from the property by the price of oil or gas applicable to the payee for converting the bonus into barrels of oil or cubic feet of gas.

(iii) See § 1.612-3 (a)(2) and (b)(2) for rules relating to the requirement that certain depletion deductions allowed with respect to lease bonuses and advanced royalties be restored to income.
