
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Natural Resources
###### § 1.614-0 Introduction.
####### property.

Section 614 relates to the definition of property and to the various special rules by means of which taxpayers are permitted to aggregate or combine separate properties or to treat such properties as separate. These rules are set forth in detail in §§ 1.614-1 through 1.614-8. Section 1.614-1 sets forth rules under section 614(a) relating to the definition of the termSection 1.614-2 contains the rules relating to the election under section 614(b), as it existed prior to its amendment by section 226(a) of the Revenue Act of 1964, to aggregate operating mineral interests. In the case of mines, the rules contained in § 1.614-2 are applicable only to taxable years beginning before January 1, 1958, to which the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 applies. In the case of oil and gas wells, the rules contained in § 1.614-2 are applicable only to taxable years beginning before January 1, 1964, to which the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 applies. In the case of oil and gas wells, the taxpayer may, however, for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1964, treat any operating mineral interests as if section 614 (a) and (b) (as it existed prior to its amendment by section 226(a) of the Revenue Act of 1964) had not been enacted. If any operating mineral interests are so treated, the rules contained in § 1.614-2 are not applicable to such interests and such interests are, in respect of taxable years beginning before January 1, 1964, subject to the rules set forth in § 1.614-4 relating to the Internal Revenue Code of 1939 treatment of separate operating mineral interests in the case of oil and gas wells. Section 1.614-3 prescribes the rules relating to the election under section 614(c)(1) permitting the aggregation of operating mineral interests in the cases of mines for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1957. Section 1.614-3 also sets forth rules relating to the election under section 614(c)(2) in the case of mines by means of which a taxpayer is permitted to treat a single operating mineral interest as more than one such interest for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1957. At the election of the taxpayer with respect to an operating unit, the rules contained in § 1.614-3 are also applicable to taxable years beginning before January 1, 1958, to which the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 applies. If the taxpayer makes such an election, the rules contained in § 1.614-2 are not applicable to any of the operating mineral interests which are part of the operating unit with respect to which the election described in § 1.614-3 is made. Section 1.614-5 sets forth the rules relating to the aggregation of nonoperating mineral interests. Section 1.614-6 contains the rules relating to basis, holding period, and abandonment and casualty losses where properties have been aggregated or combined. Section 1.614-7 relates to the extension of time for performing certain acts. Section 1.614-8 contains the rules relating to the elections under section 614(b) as amended by section 226(a) of the Revenue Act of 1964 to treat separate operating mineral interests in the case of oil and gas wells as separate properties or in combination for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1963.
