
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Natural Resources
###### ยง 1.614-2 Election to aggregate separate operating mineral interests under section 614(b) prior to its amendment by Revenue Act of 1964.
####### Operating unit defined.,operating unit,operating unit,operating unit

(c)(1) The termrefers to the operating mineral interests which are operated together for the purpose of producing minerals. Anof a particular taxpayer must be determined on the basis of his own operations. It is recognized that operating units may not be uniform in the various natural resources industries or in any one of the natural resources industries, such as coal, oil and gas, and the like. As to a particular taxpayer, business reasons may require the formation of operating units that vary in size and content. The termrefers to a producing unit, and not to an administrative or sales organization. Among the factors which indicate that mineral interests are operated together as a unit are:

(i) Common field or operating personnel,

(ii) Common supply and maintenance facilities,

(iii) Common processing or treatment plants, and

(iv) Common storage facilities

(2) If aggregated, an undeveloped operating mineral interest shall be aggregated only with those interests with which it will be operated as a unit when it reaches the production stage.

(3) While a taxpayer may operate an operating mineral interest through an agent, a coowner may aggregate only his operating mineral interests that are actually operated as a unit. For example, if A owned and actually operated the entire working interest in lease X and also owned an undivided fraction of lease Y in which B owned the remaining interest and which B actually operated as a unit with lease Z, A may not aggregate his interest in lease X with his undivided interest in lease Y, since they are not actually operated as a unit.

(4) The determination of the taxpayer as to what constitutes an operating unit is to be accepted unless there is a clear and convincing basis for a change in such determination.
