
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Natural Resources
###### ยง 1.614-2 Election to aggregate separate operating mineral interests under section 614(b) prior to its amendment by Revenue Act of 1964.
####### Election; binding effect.

(4)A valid election made under section 614(b) and this section shall be binding upon the taxpayer for the taxable year for which made and all subsequent taxable years unless consent to make a change is obtained from the Commissioner. However, see paragraph (e) of this section for rules with respect to the termination of the election under section 614(b) except in the case of oil and gas wells. For rules relating to the binding effect of an election where the basis of a separate or an aggregated property in the hands of the transferee is determined by reference to the basis in the hands of the transferor, see paragraph (c) of ยง 1.614-6. A taxpayer can neither include within the aggregation a separate operating mineral interest which he had previously elected to treat separately, nor exclude from the aggregation a separate operating mineral interest previously included therein unless consent to do so is obtained from the Commissioner. A change in tax consequences alone is not sufficient to obtain consent to change the treatment of an operating mineral interest. However, consent may be appropriate where, for example, there has been a substantial change in the taxpayer's operations so that a major part of an aggregation becomes a part of another operating unit. Applications for consent shall be made in writing to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, Washington, DC 20224. The application must be accompanied by a statement indicating the reason or reasons for the change and furnishing the information required under subdivision (i) of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, unless such information has been previously filed and is current.
