
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Natural Resources
###### ยง 1.614-3 Rules relating to separate operating mineral interests in the case of mines.
####### Election to treat a single operating mineral interest as more than one property,General rule.

(b)-(1)Except in the case of oil and gas wells, a taxpayer who owns a separate operating mineral interest in a mineral deposit in a single tract or parcel of land may elect under section 614(c)(2) and this paragraph to treat such interest as two or more separate operating mineral interests if such mineral deposit is being developed or extracted by means of two or more mines. In order for this election to be applicable, there must be at least two mines with respect to each of which an expenditure for development or operation has been made by the taxpayer. The election under section 614(c)(2) may also be made with respect to a separate operating mineral interest formed by a previous election under section 614(c)(2) at such time as the mineral deposit previously allocated to such interest is being developed or extracted by means of two or more mines. If there is more than one mineral deposit in a single tract or parcel of land, an election under section 614(c)(2) with respect to any one of such mineral deposits has no application to the other mineral deposits. The election under section 614(c)(2) may not be made with respect to an aggregated property or with respect to any operating mineral interest which is a part of any aggregation formed by the taxpayer unless the taxpayer obtains consent from the Commissioner. Such consent will not be granted where the principal purpose for the request to make the election is based on tax consequences. Application for such consent shall be made in writing to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, Washington, DC 20224. The application must be accompanied by a statement setting forth in detail the reason or reasons for the request to exercise the election with respect to an aggregated property.
