
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Natural Resources
###### ยง 1.614-3 Rules relating to separate operating mineral interests in the case of mines.
####### Election to aggregate separate operating mineral interests,General rule.,operating mineral interest, operating unit,,mine,

(a)-(1)Except in the case of oil and gas wells, a taxpayer who owns two or more separate operating mineral interests, which constitute part or all of the same operating unit, may elect under section 614(c)(1) and this paragraph to form an aggregation of all such operating mineral interests which comprise any one mine or any two or more mines and to treat such aggregation as one property. The aggregated property which results from the exercise of such election shall be considered as one property for all purposes of subtitle A of the Code. The preceding sentence does not preclude the use of more than one account under a single method of computing depreciation or the use of more than one method of computing depreciation under section 167, if otherwise proper. Any reasonable and consistently applied method or methods of computing depreciation of the improvements made with respect to the separate properties aggregated may be continued in accordance with section 167 and the regulations thereunder. It is not necessary for purposes of the aggregation that the separate operating mineral interests be included in a single tract or parcel of land or in contiguous tracts or parcels of land so long as such interests constitute part or all of the same operating unit. A taxpayer may elect to form more than one aggregation of separate operating mineral interests within one operating unit so long as each aggregation consists of all the separate operating mineral interests which comprise any one mine or any two or more mines. Thus, no aggregation may include any separate operating mineral interest which is a part of a mine without including all of the separate operating mineral interests which comprise such mine in the first taxable year for which the election to aggregate is effective. Any separate operating mineral interest which becomes a part of such mine in a subsequent taxable year must also be included in such aggregation as of the taxable year that such interest becomes a part of such mine. The taxable year in which such interest becomes a part of such mine shall be determined upon the basis of the facts and circumstances of the particular case. If a taxpayer fails to make an election under this paragraph to aggregate a particular operating mineral interest (other than an interest which becomes a part of a mine with respect to which the interests have been aggregated in a prior taxable year) on or before the last day prescribed for making such an election, such interest shall be treated as if an election had been made to treat it as a separate property. A taxpayer may not aggregate operating mineral interests and nonoperating mineral interests such as royalty interests. For definitions of the termsandsee respectively paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section.
