
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Natural Resources
###### ยง 1.614-3 Rules relating to separate operating mineral interests in the case of mines.
####### Elections; binding effect.

(7)A valid election under section 614(c) (1) or (2) whether made in accordance with section 614(c)(3) (A) or (B) shall be binding upon the taxpayer for the taxable year for which made and for all subsequent taxable years unless consent to change the treatment of an operating mineral interest with respect to which an election has been made is obtained from the Commissioner. For rules relating to the binding effect of an election where the basis of a separate or an aggregated property in the hands of the transferee is determined by reference to the basis in the hands of the transferor, see paragraph (c) of ยง 1.614-6. A taxpayer can neither include within an aggregation a separate operating mineral interest which he has previously elected to treat as a separate property, nor exclude from an aggregation a separate operating mineral interest which he has properly elected to include within such aggregation unless consent to do so is obtained from the Commissioner. A change in tax consequences alone is not sufficient to obtain consent to change the treatment of an operating mineral interest. However, consent may be appropriate where, for example, there has been a substantial change in the taxpayer's operations so that a major part of an aggregation becomes a part of another operating unit. Applications for consent shall be made in writing to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, Washington, DC 20224. The application must be accompanied by a statement indicating the reason or reasons for the change and furnishing the information required in subparagraph (5)(i) of this paragraph, unless such information has been previously filed and is current.
