
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Natural Resources
###### ยง 1.614-3 Rules relating to separate operating mineral interests in the case of mines.
####### Recomputation of depletion allowance.

(ii)The taxpayer shall compute the depletion allowance with respect to the constructed aggregated property for the taxable year for which the recomputation is required to be made. In making this computation, cost depletion for such taxable year shall be computed with reference to the depletion unit for the constructed aggregated property. See paragraph (a) of ยง 1.611-2. Percentage depletion for such taxable year shall not exceed 50 percent of the taxable income from the constructed aggregated property computed in accordance with ยง 1.613-5. If a recomputation is required to be made for the same taxable year with respect to any other aggregation or aggregations formed by the taxpayer under section 614(c)(1), the depletion allowance with respect to the other constructed aggregated property or properties shall be similarly computed. If, for a taxable year in respect of which a recomputation is required, the sum of the depletion allowance or allowances as computed under this subdivision is less than the sum of the depletion allowance or allowances actually deducted for such taxable year with respect to all the properties required to be taken into account in making the computation under this subdivision, then the total depletion allowance deducted by the taxpayer for such taxable year shall be reduced by the difference. The taxable income or net operating loss of the taxpayer for such taxable year shall be adjusted to reflect such reduction for purposes of the recomputation of tax. However, if for a taxable year in respect of which a recomputation is required, the sum of the depletion allowance or allowances as computed under this subdivision exceeds the sum of the depletion allowance or allowances actually deducted for such taxable year with respect to all the properties required to be taken into account in making the computation under this subdivision, the recomputation of tax for such taxable year is disregarded for purposes of applying section 614(c)(4) (B), (C), and (D).
