
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Natural Resources
###### ยง 1.614-3 Rules relating to separate operating mineral interests in the case of mines.
####### Treatment of increase in tax,General rule.

(4)-(i)If the taxpayer elects to form an aggregation or aggregations for a taxable year under section 614(c)(1) and if a recomputation of tax is required to be made for any prior taxable year or years, then the total increase in tax resulting from such recomputation determined under subparagraph (3)(v) of this paragraph shall be taken into account in the first taxable year to which the election to form such aggregation or aggregations is applicable and in each succeeding taxable year until the full amount of such total increase in tax has been taken into account. The number of taxable years over which such total increase shall be taken into account shall be equal to the number of taxable years for which a recomputation of tax is required to be made under subparagraph (1) of this paragraph as limited by subparagraph (2) of this paragraph and for which such recomputation results in a reduction of the taxpayer's depletion allowance under subparagraph (3)(ii) of this paragraph. The amount of the increase in tax which is to be taken into account in a taxable year is determined by dividing the total increase in tax by the number of taxable years over which such total increase is to be taken into account. The tax imposed by chapter I of the Code for each of the taxable years over which the total increase in tax is to be taken into account shall be increased by the amount determined in accordance with the preceding sentence. However, such increase in tax for each of such taxable years shall have no effect upon the determination of the amount of any credit against the tax for any of such taxable years. For example, the amount of such increase shall not affect the computation of the limitation on the foreign tax credit under section 904. The amount of the increase in tax which is required to be taken into account by the taxpayer in a particular taxable year under section 614(c)(4)(C) shall be treated as a tax imposed with respect to such taxable years even though, without regard to section 614(c)(4) and this paragraph, such taxpayer would otherwise have no tax liability for such taxable year.
