
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Natural Resources
###### ยง 1.614-4 Treatment under the Internal Revenue Code of 1939 with respect to separate operating mineral interests for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1964, in the case of oil and gas wells.
####### property

(2) For taxable years beginning before January 1, 1964, in the case of oil and gas wells, a taxpayer may treat under section 614(d) and this section any property as if section 614 (a) and (b) had not been enacted. For purposes of this section, the termmeans each separate operating mineral interest owned by the taxpayer in each mineral deposit in each separate tract or parcel of land. Separate tracts or parcels of land exist not only when areas of land are separated geographically, but also when areas of land are separated by means of the execution of conveyances or leases. If the taxpayer treats any property or properties under this section, the taxpayer must treat each such property as a separate property except that the taxpayer may treat any two or more properties that are included within the same tract or parcel of land as a single property provided such treatment is consistently followed. If the taxpayer treats two or more properties as a single property under this section, such properties shall be considered as a single property for all purposes of subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954. The taxpayer may not make more than one combination of properties within the same tract or parcel of land. Thus, if the taxpayer treats two or more properties that are included within the same tract or parcel of land as a single property, each of the remaining properties included within such tract or parcel of land shall be treated as a separate property. If the taxpayer has treated two or more properties that are included within the same tract or parcel of land as a single property and subsequently discovers or acquires an additional mineral deposit within the same tract or parcel of land, he may include his interest in such deposit with the two or more properties which are being treated as a single property or he may treat his interest in such deposit as a separate property. If the taxpayer has treated each property included within a tract or parcel of land as a separate property and subsequently discovers or acquires an additional mineral deposit within the same tract or parcel of land, he may combine his interest in such deposit with any one of the separate properties included within the tract or parcel of land, but not with more than one of them since they cannot be validly combined with each other. The taxpayer may not combine properties which are included within different tracts or parcels of land under this section irrespective of whether such tracts or parcels of land are contiguous. The treatment of a property as a separate property or the treatment of two or more properties included within a single tract or parcel of land as a single property under this section shall be binding upon the taxpayer for the first taxable year for which such treatment is effective and for all subsequent taxable years beginning before January 1, 1964. For the continuation of such treatment under ยง 1.614-8 for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1963, see paragraph (d) of ยง 1.614-8. For provisions relating to the first taxable year for which treatment under this section becomes effective, see paragraph (d) of this section.
