
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Natural Resources
###### ยง 1.614-5 Special rules as to aggregating nonoperating mineral interests.
####### Aggregating nonoperating mineral interests for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1958.,two or more contiguous tracts or parcels of land,nonoperating mineral interests,

(a)Upon proper showing to the Commissioner, a taxpayer who owns two or more separate nonoperating mineral interests in a single tract or parcel of land, or in two or more contiguous tracts or parcels of land, shall be permitted to aggregate all such interests in each separate kind of mineral deposit and treat them as one property. Permission will be granted by the Commissioner only if the taxpayer establishes that he will sustain an undue hardship if such nonoperating mineral interests are not treated as one property. Such hardship may exist, for example, if it is impossible for the taxpayer to determine the boundaries, source, or costs of the separate interests, or if a taxpayer who owns a single royalty interest, production payment, or net profits interest cannot determine the separate deposits from which his payments will be derived. In no event shall undue hardship be deemed to exist solely by reason of tax disadvantage. The treatment of such interests as one property shall be applicable for all purposes of subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954. In no event may nonoperating mineral interests in tracts or parcels of land which are not contiguous be treated as one property. The termmeans tracts or parcels of land which have common boundaries. Common boundaries include survey lines, public roads, or similar easements for the use of land without the existence of an intervening mineral right between the tracts or parcels of land. Tracts or parcels of land which touch only at a common corner are not contiguous. For the definition ofsee paragraph (g) of this section.
