
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Natural Resources
###### ยง 1.614-5 Special rules as to aggregating nonoperating mineral interests.
####### Aggregating nonoperating mineral interests for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1957, or for earlier taxable years.,two or more adjacent tracts or parcels of land,nonoperating mineral interests,

(d)Upon proper showing to the Commissioner, a taxpayer who owns two or more separate nonoperating mineral interests in a single tract or parcel of land, or in two or more adjacent tracts or parcels of land, shall be permitted, under section 614(e), to form an aggregation of all of such interests in each separate kind of mineral deposit and treat such aggregation as one property. Permission shall be granted by the Commissioner only if the taxpayer establishes that a principal purpose in forming the aggregation is not the avoidance of tax. The fact that the aggregation of nonoperating mineral interests will result in a substantial reduction in tax is evidence that avoidance of tax is a principal purpose of the taxpayer. An aggregation formed under the provisions of this paragraph shall be considered as one property for all purposes of the Code. In no event may nonoperating mineral interests in tracts or parcels of land which are not adjacent be aggregated and treated as one property. The termmeans tracts or parcels of land that are in reasonably close proximity to each other depending on the facts and circumstances of each case. Adjacent tracts or parcels of land do not necessarily have any common boundaries, and may be separated by intervening mineral rights. For the definition ofsee paragraph (g) of this section.
