
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Natural Resources
###### ยง 1.614-6 Rules applicable to basis, holding period, and abandonment losses where mineral interests have been aggregated or combined.
####### b) Allocation of adjustments method. (i,a

() The taxpayer may elect to determine basis by an allocation of adjustments in lieu of the fair market value method prescribed in () of this subdivision (ii). In such a case, the adjusted basis (as of the first day of the first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1963) of each interest which was participating in an aggregation of operating mineral interests on the day preceding such first day is the unadjusted basis of such interest immediately after its acquisition by the taxpayer, adjusted by the total of all adjustments to its basis as required by section 1016 to the effective date of aggregation, and by that portion of those section 1016 adjustments to the basis of the aggregation which is reasonably attributable to such interest. For this purpose, two or more interests which are being combined upon deaggregation shall be treated as one interest. An adjustment to the basis of the aggregation is reasonably attributable to such interest to the extent that the adjustment thereto resulted from inclusion of the interest in the aggregation, even though such interest would not have been entitled to the adjustment to the same extent if such interest had been treated separately because of the 50 percent of taxable income limitation or for any other reason. In a case in which the amount of a percentage depletion deduction which was allowed with respect to an aggregation was limited by the 50 percent of taxable income limitation of section 613(a), the portion of such amount which is attributable to each of the interests in the aggregation shall be determined by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the gross income from such interest and the denominator of which is the gross income from the aggregation. The determination as to which property a particular adjustment is attributable may be based upon records of production or any other facts which establish the reasonableness of the determination. See example 6 of subparagraph (3) of this paragraph.
