
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Natural Resources
###### ยง 1.615-6 Election to deduct under section 615.
####### Taxable years beginning before September 13, 1966, and ending after September 12, 1966,In general.

(g)-(1)An election made under section 615(e) applies only to expenditures paid or incurred after September 12, 1966. The income tax treatment of exploration expenditures paid or incurred before September 13, 1966, will be determined in accordance with the provisions of section 615 prior to its amendment by the Act of September 12, 1966 (Public Law 89-570, 80 Stat. 759). If a taxpayer makes an election under section 615(e) in his income tax return for a taxable year which begins before September 13, 1966, and which ends after September 12, 1966, amounts deducted and amounts deferred under section 615 with respect to expenditures paid or incurred during such taxable year but before September 13, 1966, will be taken into account in determining whether the $100,000 limitation set forth in section 615(a) is reached during the taxable year. Similarly, a taxpayer who makes an election under section 615(e) shall take into account expenditures deducted or deferred under section 615 for the period prior to September 13, 1966, in determining when the $400,000 overall limitation set forth in section 615(c) is reached. The fact that a taxpayer deducts or defers under section 615 exploration expenditures paid or incurred prior to September 13, 1966, shall not affect his right to make an election under section 617(a) to deduct under section 617 expenditures paid or incurred after September 12, 1966.
