
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Natural Resources
###### ยง 1.617-4 Treatment of gain from disposition of certain mining property.
####### In general.,adjusted exploration expenditures,gross income from the property,mining property,

(a)(1) In general, section 617(d)(1) provides, that, upon a disposition of mining property, the lower of (i) the(as defined in section 617(f)(1) and paragraph (d) of ยง 1.617-3) with respect to the property, or (ii) the amount, if any, by which the amount realized on the sale, exchange, or involuntary conversion (or the fair market value of the property on any other disposition, exceeds the adjusted basis of the property, shall be treated as gain from the sale of exchange of property which is neither a capital asset nor property described in section 1231 (that is, shall be recognized as ordinary income). However, any amount recognized under the preceding sentence shall not be included by the taxpayer in hisfor purposes of section 613. Generally, the ordinary income treatment applies even though in the absence of section 617(d) no gain would be recognized under any other provision of the Code. For example, if a corporation distributes mining property as a dividend, gain may be recognized as ordinary income to the corporation even though, in the absence of section 617, section 311(a) would preclude any recognition of gain to the corporation. For an exception to the recognition of gain with respect to dispositions which involve mineral production payments, see section 636 and the regulations thereunder. For the definition of the termsee section 617(f)(2) and paragraph (c)(3), of ยง 1.617-3. For exceptions and limitations to the application of section 617(d)(1), see section 617(d)(3) and paragraph (c) of this section.

(2) In the case of a sale, exchange, or involuntary conversion of mining property, the gain to which section 617(d)(1) applies is the lower of the adjusted exploration expenditures with respect to such property or the excess of the amount realized upon the disposition of the property over the adjusted basis of the property. In the case of a disposition of mining property other than by a manner described in the preceding sentence, the gain to which section 617(d)(1) applies is the lower of the adjusted exploration expenditures with respect to such property or the excess of the fair market value of the property on the date of disposition over the adjusted basis of the property. In the case of a disposal of coal or domestic iron ore subject to a retained economic interest to which section 631(c) applies, the excess of the amount realized over the adjusted basis of the mining property shall be treated as equal to the gain, if any, referred to in section 631(c). For determination of the amount realized upon a disposition of mining property and nonmining property, see paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section.

(3) The provisions of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

(4) Section 617(d) does not apply to losses. Thus, section 617(d) does not apply if a loss is realized upon a sale, exchange, or involuntary conversion of mining property, nor does section 617(d) apply to a disposition of mining property other than by way of sale, exchange, or involuntary conversion if at the time of the disposition the fair market value of such property is not greater than its adjusted basis.
