
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Natural Resources
###### ยง 1.617-4 Treatment of gain from disposition of certain mining property.
####### Disposition of portion of mining property.

(b)(1) For purposes of section 617(d)(1) and paragraph (a) of this section, except as provided in subparagraph (3) of this paragraph, in the case of the disposition of a portion of a mining property (other than an undivided interest), the entire amount of the adjusted exploration expenditures with respect to such property shall be treated as attributable to such portion to the extent of the amount of the gain to which section 617(d)(1) applies. If the amount of the gain to which section 617(d)(1) applies is less than the amount of the adjusted exploration expenditures with respect to the property, the balance of the adjusted exploration expenditures shall remain subject to recapture in the hands of the taxpayer under the provisions of section 617 (b), (c), and (d). The disposition of a portion of a mining property (other than an undivided interest) includes the disposition of a geographical portion of a mining property. For example, assume that A owns an 80-acre tract of land with respect to which he has deducted exploration expenditures under section 617(a). If A were to sell the north 40 acres, the entire amount of the adjusted exploration expenditures with respect to the 80-acre tract would be treated as attributable to the 40-acre portion sold (to the extent of the amount of the gain to which section 617(d)(1) applies).

(2) For purposes of section 617(d)(1), except as provided in subparagraph (3) of this paragraph, in the case of the disposition of an undivided interest in a mining property (or portion thereof) a proportionate part of the adjusted exploration expenditures with respect to such property shall be treated as attributable to such undivided interest to the extent of the amount of the gain to which section 617(d)(1) applies. For example, assume that A owns an 80-acre tract of land with respect to which he has deducted exploration expenditures under section 617(a). If A were to sell an undivided 40 percent interest in such tract, 40 percent of the adjusted exploration expenditures with respect to the 80-acre tract would be treated as attributable to the 40 percent of the 80-acre tract disposed of (to the extent of the amount of the gain to which section 617(d)(1) applies).

(3) Section 617(d)(2) and subparagraphs (1) and (2) of this paragraph shall not apply to any expenditure to the extent that such expenditure relates neither to the portion (or interest therein) disposed of nor to any mine, in the property held by the taxpayer before the disposition, which has reached the producing stage. In any case where a taxpayer disposes of a mining property (or interest therein) and treats adjusted exploration expenditures with respect to the mining property as if they relate neither to the portion (or interest therein) disposed of nor to any mine, in the property held by the taxpayer before the disposition, which has reached the producing stage, the taxpayer shall attach to its return for the taxable year in which the disposition occurred, a statement which includes:

(i) A description of the portion (or interest therein) disposed of;

(ii) A description of the mineral property which included the portion (or interest therein) disposed of;

(iii) An itemization of all expenditures deducted under sections 617 and 615 with respect to such mineral property; and

(iv) A description of the location of all producing mines on such mineral property.
