
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Sales and Exchanges
###### ยง 1.631-1 Election to consider cutting as sale or exchange.
####### Computation of gain or loss under the election.

(d)(1) If the cutting of timber is considered as a sale or exchange pursuant to an election made under section 631(a), gain or loss shall be recognized to the taxpayer in an amount equal to the difference between the adjusted basis for depletion in the hands of the taxpayer of the timber which has been cut during the taxable year and the fair market value of such timber as of the first day of the taxable year in which such timber is cut. The adjusted basis for depletion of the cut timber shall be based upon the number of units of timber cut during the taxable year which are considered to be sold or exchanged and upon the depletion unit of the timber in the timber account or accounts pertaining to the timber cut, and shall be computed in the same manner as is provided in section 611 and the regulations thereunder with respect to the computation of the allowance for depletion.

(2) The fair market value of the timber as of the first day of the taxable year in which such timber is cut shall be determined, subject to approval or revision by the district director upon examination of the taxpayer's return, by the taxpayer in the light of the most reliable and accurate information available with reference to the condition of the property as it existed at that date, regardless of all subsequent changes, such as changes in surrounding circumstances, methods of exploitation, degree of utilization, etc. The value sought will be the selling price, assuming a transfer between a willing seller and a willing buyer as of that particular day. Due consideration will be given to the factors and the principles involved in the determination of the fair market value of timber as described in the regulations under section 611.

(3) The fair market value as of the beginning of the taxable year of the standing timber cut during the year shall be considered to be the cost of such timber, in lieu of the actual cost or other basis of such timber, for all purposes for which such cost is a necessary factor. See paragraph (e) of this section.

(4) For any taxable year for which the cutting of timber is considered to be a sale or exchange of such timber under section 631(a), the timber so cut shall be considered as property used in the trade or business for the purposes of section 1231, along with other property of the taxpayer used in the trade or business as defined in section 1231(b), regardless of whether such timber is property of a kind which would properly be includible in the inventory of the taxpayer if on hand at the close of the taxable year or property held by the taxpayer primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of his trade or business. Whether the gain or loss considered to have resulted from the cutting of the timber will be considered to be gain or loss resulting from the sale or exchange of capital assets held for more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977) depends upon the application of section 1231 to the taxpayer for the taxable year. See section 1231 and the regulations thereunder.
