
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Sales and Exchanges
###### ยง 1.631-1 Election to consider cutting as sale or exchange.
####### Effect of election.

(a)(1) Section 631 (a) provides an election to certain taxpayers to treat the difference between the actual cost or other basis of certain timber cut during the taxable year and its fair market value as standing timber on the first day of such year as gain or loss from a sale or exchange under section 1231. Thereafter, any subsequent gain or loss shall be determined in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.

(2) For the purposes of section 631(a) and this section, timber shall be considered cut at the time when in the ordinary course of business the quantity of timber felled is first definitely determined.

(3) The election may be made with respect to any taxable year even though such election was not made with respect to a previous taxable year. If an election has been made under the provisions of section 631(a), or corresponding provisions of prior internal revenue laws, such election shall be binding upon the taxpayer not only for the taxable year for which the election is made but also for all subsequent taxable years, unless the Commissioner on showing by the taxpayer of undue hardship permits the taxpayer to revoke his election for such subsequent taxable years. If the taxpayer has revoked a previous election, such revocation shall preclude any further elections unless the taxpayer obtains the consent of the Commissioner.

(4) Such election shall apply with respect to all timber which the taxpayer has owned, or has had a contract right to cut, for a period of more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977) prior to when such timber is cut for sale or for use in the taxpayer's trade or business, irrespective of whether such timber or contract right was acquired before or after the election. (For purposes of the preceding sentence, the rules with respect to the holding period of property contained in section 1223 shall be applicable.) However, timber which is not cut for sale or for use in the taxpayer's trade or business (for example, firewood cut for the taxpayer's own household consumption) shall not be considered to have been sold or exchanged upon the cutting thereof.
