
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Sales and Exchanges
###### ยง 1.631-1 Election to consider cutting as sale or exchange.
####### Computation of subsequent gain or loss.

(e)(1) In case the products of the timber are sold after cutting, either in the form of logs or lumber or in the form of manufactured products, the income from such actual sales shall be considered ordinary income. When the election under section 631(a) is in effect, the cost of standing timber cut during the taxable year is determined as if the taxpayer had purchased such timber on the first day of the taxable year. Thus, in determining the cost of the products so sold, the cost of the timber shall be the fair market value on the first day of the taxable year in which the standing timber was cut, in lieu of the actual cost or other basis of such timber.

(2) This is also the rule in case the products of the timber cut during one taxable year, with respect to which an election has been made under section 631(a), are sold during a subsequent taxable year, whether or not the election provided in section 631(a) is applicable with respect to such subsequent year. If the products of the timber cut during a taxable year with respect to which an election under section 631(a) was made were not sold during such year and are included in inventory at the close of such year, the fair market value as of the beginning of the year of the timber cut during the year shall be used in lieu of the actual cost of such timber in computing the closing inventory for such year and the opening inventory for the succeeding year. With respect to the costs applicable in the determination of the amount of such inventories, there shall be included the fair market value of the timber cut, the costs of cutting, logging, and all other expenses incident to the cost of converting the standing timber into the products in inventory. See section 471 and the regulations thereunder. The fact that the fair market value as of the first day of the taxable year in which the timber is cut is deemed to be the cost of such timber shall not preclude the taxpayer from computing its inventories upon the basis of cost or market, whichever is lower, if such is the method used by the taxpayer. Nor shall it preclude the taxpayer from computing its inventories under the last-in, first-out inventory method provided by section 472 if such section is applicable to, and has been elected by, the taxpayer.
