
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Sales and Exchanges
###### ยง 1.631-2 Gain or loss upon the disposal of timber under cutting contract.
####### Payments received in advance of cutting.

(d)(1) Where the conditions of paragraph (a) of this section are met, amounts received or accrued prior to cutting (such as advance royalty payments or minimum royalty payments) shall be treated under section 631(b) as realized from the sale of timber if the contract of disposal provides that such amounts are to be applied as payment for timber subsequently cut. Such amounts will be so treated irrespective of whether or not an election has been made under paragraph (c) of this section to treat the date of payment as the date of disposal. For example, if no election has been made under paragraph (c) of this section, amounts received or accrued prior to cutting will be treated as realized from the sale of timber, provided the timber paid for is cut more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977) after the date of acquisition of such timber.

(2) However, if the right to cut timber under the contract expires, terminates, or is abandoned before the timber which has been paid for is cut, the taxpayer shall treat payments attributable to the uncut timber as ordinary income and not as received from the sale of timber under section 631(b). Accordingly, the taxpayer shall recompute his tax liability for the taxable year in which such payments were received or accrued. The recomputation shall be made in the form of an amended return where necessary.

(3)(i) Bonuses received or accrued by an owner in connection with the grant of a contract of disposal shall be treated under section 631(b) as amounts realized from the sale of timber to the extent attributable to timber held for more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977).

(ii) The adjusted depletion basis attributable to the bonus shall be determined under the provisions of section 612 and the regulations thereunder. This subdivision may be illustrated as follows:

(iii) To the extent attributable to timber not held for more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977), such bonuses shall be treated as ordinary income subject to depletion. In order to determine the amount of the bonus allocable to timber not held for more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977), the bonus shall be apportioned ratably over the estimated number of units of timber covered by the contract of disposal. This subdivision may be illustrated as follows:

(iv) If the right to cut timber under the contract of disposal expires, terminates, or is abandoned before any timber is cut, the taxpayer shall treat the bonus received under such contract as ordinary income, not subject to depletion. Accordingly, the taxpayer shall recompute his tax liability for the taxable year in which such bonus was received. The recomputation shall be made in the form of an amended return where necessary.
