
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Sales and Exchanges
###### ยง 1.631-3 Gain or loss upon the disposal of coal or domestic iron ore with a retained economic interest.
####### Payments received in advance of mining.

(c)(1)(i) Where the conditions of paragraph (a) of this section are met, amounts received or accrued prior to mining shall be treated under section 631(c) as received from the sale of coal or iron ore if the contract of disposal provides that such amounts are to be applied as payment for coal or iron ore subsequently mined. For example, advance royalty payments or minimum royalty payments received by an owner of coal or iron ore qualify under section 631(c) where the contract of disposal grants the lessee the right to apply such royalties in payment of coal or iron ore mined at a later time.

(ii) The provisions of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following example:

(2) However, if the right to mine coal or iron ore under the contract expires, terminates, or is abandoned before the coal or iron ore which had been paid for is mined, the taxpayer shall treat payments attributable to the unmined coal or iron ore as ordinary income and not as received from the sale of coal or iron ore under section 631(c). Accordingly, the taxpayer shall recompute his tax liability for the taxable year in which such payments were received. The recomputation shall be made in the form of an amended return where necessary.

(3) Bonuses received or accrued by an owner in connection with the grant of a contract of disposal shall be treated under section 631(c) as received from the sale of coal or iron ore to the extent attributable to coal or iron ore held for more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977). The rules contained in paragraph (d) of ยง 1.631-2 relating to bonuses in the case of contracts for the disposal of timber shall be equally applicable in the case of bonuses received for the grant of a contract of disposal of coal or iron ore under this section.
