
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Mineral Production Payments
###### ยง 1.636-1 Treatment of production payments as loans.
####### gross income from the property,gross income from the property,gross income from the property

(ii) The payer of a production payment treated as a loan pursuant to this section shall include the proceeds from (or, if paid in kind, the value of) the mineral produced and applied to the satisfaction of the production payment in his gross income and(see section 613(a)) for the taxable year so applied. The payee shall include in his gross income (but not) amounts received with respect to such production payment to the extent that such amounts would be includible in gross income if such production payment were a loan. The payer and payee shall determine their allowable deductions as if such production payment were a loan. See section 483, relating to interest on certain deferred payments in the case of a production payment created and retained upon the transfer of the mineral property burdened thereby, or in the case of a production payment transferred in exchange for property. See section 1232 in the case of a production payment which is originally transferred by a corporation at a discount and is a capital asset in the hands of the payee. In the case of a carved-out production payment treated as a mortgage loan pursuant to this section, the consideration received for such production payment by the taxpayer who created it is not included in either gross income orby such taxpayer.

(2) If a production payment is treated as a loan pursuant to this section, no transfer of such production payment or any property burdened thereby (other than a transfer between the payer and payee of the production payment which, if the production payment were a loan, would extinguish the loan) shall cause it to cease to be so treated. For example, A sells operating mineral interest X to B for $100,000, subject to a $500,000 retained production payment payable out of X. Subsequently, A sells the production payment to C, and B sells X to D. C and D must treat the production payment as a purchase money mortgage loan.

(3) The provisions of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:
