
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Sales and Exchanges
###### ยง 1.632-1 Tax on sale of oil or gas properties.

(a) If the taxpayer, by prospecting and locating claims or by exploring or discovering undeveloped claims, has demonstrated the principal value of oil or gas property, which prior to his efforts had a relatively minor value, the portion of the tax (or, in the case of taxable years beginning before Jan. 1, 1971, the surtax) imposed by section 1 attributable to a sale of such property, or of any interest of the taxpayer therein, shall not exceed 33 percent (or, in the case of taxable year beginning before Jan. 1, 1971, 30 percent) of the selling price of such property or such interest. Shares of stock in a corporation owning oil or gas property do not constitute an interest in such property. To determine the application of section 632 to a particular case, the taxpayer should first compute the tax (or surtax) imposed by section 1 upon his entire taxable income, including the taxable income from any sale of such property or interest therein, without regard to section 632. The proportion of the tax (or surtax) so computed, indicated by the ratio which the taxpayer's taxable income from the sale of the property or interest therein, computed as prescribed in this section, bears to his total taxable income is the portion of the tax attributable to such sale and, if it exceeds 33 percent (or 30 percent) of the selling price of such property or interest, such portion of the tax (or surtax) shall be reduced to that amount.

(b) In determining the portion of the taxable income attributable to the sale of such oil or gas property or interest therein, the taxpayer shall allocate to the gross income derived from such sale, and to the gross income derived from all other sources, the expenses, losses, and other deductions properly appertaining thereto and shall apply any general expenses, losses, and deductions (which cannot properly be otherwise allocated) ratably to the gross income from all sources. The gross income derived from the sale of such oil or gas property or interest therein, less the deductions properly appertaining thereto and less its proportion of any general deductions, shall be the taxable income attributable to such sale. The taxpayer shall submit with his return a statement fully explaining the manner in which such expenses, losses, and deductions are allocated or apportioned.
