
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Mineral Production Payments
###### ยง 1.636-1 Treatment of production payments as loans.
####### Treatment upon disposition or termination of mineral property burdened by production payment.

(c)(1)(i) In the case of a sale or other disposition of the mineral property burdened by a production payment treated as a loan pursuant to this section, there shall be included in determining the amount realized upon such disposition an amount equal to the outstanding principal balance of such production payment on the date of such disposition. However, if such a production payment is created in connection with the disposition, the amount to be so included shall be the fair market value of the production payment, rather than its principal amount, if the fair market value is established by clear and convincing evidence to be an amount which differs from the principal amount. See section 1001 and the regulations thereunder. In determining the cost of the transferred mineral property to the transferee for purposes of section 1012, the outstanding principal balance of the production payment shall be included in the cost.

(ii) The provisions of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

(2) In the case of the expiration, termination, or abandonment of a mineral property burdened by a production payment treated as a loan pursuant to this section, for purposes of determining the amount of any loss under section 165 with respect to the burdened mineral property the adjusted basis of such property shall be reduced (but not below zero) by an amount equal to the outstanding principal balance of such production payment on the date of such expiration, termination, or abandonment. Thus, in example 2 in subparagraph (1)(ii) of this paragraph, if B abandons the mineral property at a time when $5,000 of the principal amount of the production payment remains unsatisfied, B's adjusted basis immediately before the abandonment would be reduced by $5,000 for determining his loss on abandonment under section 165.

(3) In the case of a transfer of a portion of the mineral property burdened by a production payment treated as a loan pursuant to this section, such production payment shall be apportioned between the transferred portion and the retained portion by allocating to such transferred portion that part of the outstanding principal balance of the production payment which bears the same ratio to such balance as the value of such transferred portion (exclusive of any value not related to the burdened mineral) bears to the total value of the burdened mineral property (exclusive of any value not related to the burdened mineral).

(4) In general, the entire amount of gain or loss realized pursuant to this paragraph shall be recognized in the taxable year of such realization. See section 1211 for limitation on capital losses. This subparagraph shall not affect the applicability of rules providing exceptions to the recognition of gain or loss which has been realized (e.g., a transfer to which section 351 or 1031 applies). However, see section 357(c) with respect to the assumption of liabilities in excess of basis in certain tax-free exchanges. Furthermore, in the case of a transaction which otherwise qualifies, gain realized on a transfer of a mineral property to which section 636(b) applies may be returned on the installment method under section 453.
