
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Estates, Trusts, and Beneficiaries
###### § 1.642(c)-6 Valuation of a remainder interest in property transferred to a pooled income fund.
####### Actuarial computations by the Internal Revenue Service.,b

(b)The regulations in this and in related sections provide tables of actuarial factors and examples that illustrate the use of the tables in determining the value of remainder interests in property. Section 1.7520-1(c)(2) refers to government publications that provide additional tables of factors and examples of computations for more complex situations. If the computation requires the use of a factor that is not provided in this section, the Commissioner may supply the factor upon a request for a ruling. A request for a ruling must be accompanied by a recitation of the facts including the pooled income fund's highest yearly rate of return for the 3 taxable years immediately preceding the date of transfer, the date of birth of each measuring life, and copies of the relevant documents. A request for a ruling must comply with the instructions for requesting a ruling published periodically in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see §§ 601.201 and 601.601(d)(2)(ii)() of this chapter) and include payment of the required user fee. If the Commissioner furnishes the factor, a copy of the letter supplying the factor should be attached to the tax return in which the deduction is claimed. If the Commissioner does not furnish the factor, the taxpayer must furnish a factor computed in accordance with the principles set forth in this section.
