
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Estates, Trusts, and Beneficiaries
###### ยง 1.642(c)-7 Transitional rules with respect to pooled income funds.
####### Transactions before amendment of or severance from fund.

(d)(1) A fund which is amended pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, or is severed from a fund pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section, shall be treated for all purposes, including the allowance of a deduction for any charitable contribution, as if it were before its amendment or severance a pooled income fund to which section 642(c)(5) and ยง 1.642(c)-5 apply. Thus, for example, where a donor transferred property in trust to such an amended or severed fund on August 1, 1969, but before its amendment or severance under this section, a charitable contributions deduction for the value of the remainder interest may be allowed under section 170, 2055, 2106, or 2522. The deduction may not be allowed, however, until the fund is amended or severed pursuant to this section and shall be allowed only if a claim for credit or refund is filed within the period of limitation prescribed by section 6511(a).

(2) For purposes of determining under ยง 1.642(c)-6 the highest yearly rate of return earned by a fund (which is amended pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section) for the 3 preceding taxable years, taxable years of the fund preceding its taxable year in which the fund is so amended and qualifies as a pooled income fund under this section shall be used provided that the fund did not at any time during such preceding years hold any investments in securities the income from which is exempt from tax under subtitle A of the Code. If any such tax-exempt securities were held during such period by such amended fund, or if the fund consists of a portion of a fund which is severed pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the highest yearly rate of return under ยง 1.642(c)-6 shall be determined by treating the fund as a pooled income fund which has been in existence for less than 3 taxable years preceding the taxable year in which the transfer of property to the fund is made.

(3) Property transferred to a fund before its amendment pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, or before its severance under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, shall be treated as property received from transfers which meet the requirements of section 642(c)(5).
