
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Estates, Trusts, and Beneficiaries
###### ยง 1.642(i)-1 Certain distributions by cemetery perpetual care funds.
####### In general.

(a)Section 642 (i) provides that amounts distributed during taxable years ending after December 31, 1963, by a cemetery perpetual care fund trust for the care and maintenance of gravesites shall be treated as distributions solely for purposes of sections 651 and 661. The deduction for such a distribution is allowable only if the fund is taxable as a trust. In addition, the fund must have been created pursuant to local law by a taxable cemetery corporation (as defined in ยง 1.642 (i)-2 (a)) expressly for the care and maintenance of cemetery property. A care fund will be treated as having been created by a taxable cemetery corporation ("cemetery") if the distributee cemetery is taxable, even though the care fund was created by the distributee cemetery in a year that it was tax-exempt or by a predecessor of such distributee cemetery which was tax-exempt in the year the fund was established. The deduction is the amount of the distributions during the fund's taxable year to the cemetery corporation for such care and maintenance that would be otherwise allowable under section 651 or 661, but in no event is to exceed the limitations described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. The provisions of this paragraph shall not have the effect of extending the period of limitations under section 6511.
