
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Estates, Trusts, and Beneficiaries
###### ยง 1.643(d)-1 Definition of "foreign trust created by a United States person".
####### In general.,foreign trust created by a United States person

(a)For the purpose of part I, subchapter J, chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code, the termmeans that portion of a foreign trust (as defined in section 7701(a)(31)) attributable to money or property (including all accumulated earnings, profits, or gains attributable to such money or property) of a U.S. person (as defined in section 7701(a)(30)) transferred directly or indirectly, or under the will of a decedent who at the date of his death was a U.S. citizen or resident, to the foreign trust. A foreign trust created by a person who is not a U.S. person, to which a U.S. person transfers his money or property, is a foreign trust created by a U.S. person to the extent that the fair market value of the entire foreign trust is attributable to money or property of the U.S. person transferred to the foreign trust. The transfer of money or property to the foreign trust may be made either directly or indirectly by a U.S. person. Transfers of money or property to a foreign trust do not include transfers of money or property pursuant to a sale or exchange which is made for a full and adequate consideration. Transfers to which section 643(d) and this section apply are transfers of money or property which establish or increase the corpus of a foreign trust. The rules set forth in this section with respect to transfers by a U.S. person to a foreign trust also are applicable with respect to transfers under the will of a decedent who at the date of his death was a U.S. citizen or resident. For provisions relating to the information returns which are required to be filed with respect to the creation of or transfers to foreign trusts, see section 6048.
