
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### pooled income fund actuarial tables applicable before may 1, 2009
###### ยง 1.642(c)-6A Valuation of charitable remainder interests for which the valuation date is before May 1, 2009.
####### lx

(i) Life contingencies determined from the values ofthat are set forth in Table LN of ยง 20.2031-7A(d)(6) of this chapter (Estate Tax Regulations); and

(ii) Discount at a rate of interest, compounded annually, equal to the highest yearly rate of return of the pooled income fund for the 3 taxable years immediately preceding its taxable year in which the transfer of property to the fund is made. For purposes of this paragraph (d)(2), the yearly rate of return of a pooled income fund is determined as provided in ยง 1.642(c)-6(c) unless the highest yearly rate of return is deemed to be 9 percent. For purposes of this paragraph (d)(2), the first taxable year of a pooled income fund is considered a taxable year even though the taxable year consists of less than 12 months. However, appropriate adjustments must be made to annualize the rate of return earned by the fund for that period. Where it appears from the facts and circumstances that the highest yearly rate of return for the 3 taxable years immediately preceding the taxable year in which the transfer of property is made has been purposely manipulated to be substantially less than the rate of return that would otherwise be reasonably anticipated with the purpose of obtaining an excessive charitable deduction, that rate of return may not be used. In that case, the highest yearly rate of return of the fund is determined by treating the fund as a pooled income fund that has been in existence for less than 3 preceding taxable years. If a pooled income fund has been in existence less than 3 taxable years immediately preceding the taxable year in which the transfer of property to the fund is made, the highest yearly rate of return is deemed to be 9 percent.
