
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### pooled income fund actuarial tables applicable before may 1, 2009
###### ยง 1.642(c)-6A Valuation of charitable remainder interests for which the valuation date is before May 1, 2009.
####### Computation of value of remainder interest.

(4)The factor that is used in determining the present value of a remainder interest that is dependent on the termination of the life of one individual is the factor from Table S in paragraph (e)(5) of this section under the appropriate yearly rate of return opposite the number that corresponds to the age of the individual upon whose life the value of the remainder interest is based. Table S in paragraph (e)(5) of this section includes factors for yearly rates of return from 4.2 to 14 percent. Many actuarial factors not contained in Table S in paragraph (e)(5) of this section are contained in Table S in Internal Revenue Service Publication 1457, "Actuarial Values, Alpha Volume," (8-89). Publication 1457 is no longer available for purchase from the Superintendent of Documents, United States Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402. However, pertinent factors in this publication may be obtained by a written request to: CC:DOM:CORP:R (IRS Publication 1457), room 5226, Internal Revenue Service, POB 7604, Ben Franklin Station, Washington, DC 20044. For other situations, see ยง 1.642(c)-6(b). If the yearly rate of return is a percentage that is between the yearly rates of return for which factors are provided, a linear interpolation must be made. The present value of the remainder interest is determined by multiplying the fair market value of the property on the valuation date by the appropriate remainder factor. For an example of a computation of the present value of a remainder interest requiring a linear interpolation adjustment, see ยง 1.642(c)-6(e)(5).
