
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Tax Preference Regulations
###### ยง 1.59A-2 Applicable taxpayer.
####### Example 1: Mark-to-market,Facts.

(1)-(i)(A) Foreign Parent (FP) is a foreign corporation that owns all of the stock of domestic corporation (DC). FP is a foreign related party of DC under ยง 1.59A-1(b)(12). DC is a registered securities dealer that does not hold any securities for investment. On January 1 of year 1, DC enters into two interest rate swaps for a term of two years, one with unrelated Customer A as the counterparty (position A) and one with unrelated Customer B as the counterparty (position B). Each of the swaps provides for semiannual periodic payments to be made or received on June 30 and December 31. No party makes any payment to any other party upon initiation of either of the swaps (that is, they are entered into at-the-money). DC is required to mark-to-market positions A and B for U.S. federal income tax purposes. DC is a calendar year taxpayer.

(B) For position A in year 1, DC makes a payment of $150x on June 30, and receives a payment of $50x on December 31. There are no other payments in year 1. On December 31, position A has a value to DC of $110x (that is, position A is in-the-money by $110x).

(C) For position B in year 1, DC receives a payment of $120x on June 30, and makes a payment of $30x on December 31. There are no other payments in year 1. On December 31, position B has a value to DC of ($130x) (that is, position B is out-of-the-money by $130x).
