
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### estates and trusts which may accumulate income or which distribute corpus
###### ยง 1.664-4 Calculation of the fair market value of the remainder interest in a charitable remainder unitrust.
####### Period is the life of one individual.

(5)(i) If the period described in ยง 1.664-3(a)(5) is the life of one individual, the factor that is used in determining the present value of the remainder interest for transfers for which the valuation date is on or after May 1, 2009, is the factor in Table U(1) in paragraph (e)(7) of this section under the appropriate adjusted payout. For purposes of the computations described in this paragraph (e)(5), the age of an individual is the age of that individual at the individual's nearest birthday. If the adjusted payout rate is an amount that is between adjusted payout rates for which factors are provided in the appropriate table, a linear interpolation must be made. The present value of the remainder interest is determined by multiplying the net fair market value (as of the valuation date as determined in paragraph (e)(4) of this section) of the property placed in trust by the factor determined under this paragraph (e)(5). If the adjusted payout rate is between 4.2 and 14 percent, see paragraph (e)(7) of this section. If the adjusted payout rate is below 4.2 percent or greater than 14 percent, see paragraph (b) of this section.

(ii) The application of paragraph (e)(5)(i) of this section may be illustrated by the following example:
