
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### treatment of excess distributions of trusts applicable to taxable years beginning before january 1, 1969
###### ยง 1.665(b)-2 Exclusions from accumulation distributions in the case of trusts (other than a foreign trust created by a U.S. person).
####### Distributions from accumulations while a beneficiary is under 21.

(1)(i) The first exception to the definition of an accumulation distribution is for amounts paid, credited, or required to be distributed to a beneficiary who was under 21 years of age or unborn when it was accumulated. A distribution is to be considered as so paid, credited, or required to be distributed to the extent, and only to the extent, that there is no undistributed net income for taxable years preceding the year of distribution other than undistributed net income accumulated while the beneficiary was under 21. If a distribution can be made from income accumulated either before or after a beneficiary reaches 21, it will be considered as made from the most recently accumulated income, and it will be so considered even though the governing instrument directs that distributions be charged first against the earliest accumulations.

(ii) As was indicated in paragraph (a) of this section, a distribution of an amount excepted from the definition of an accumulation distribution will not reduce undistributed net income for the purpose of determining the effect of a future accumulation distribution. Thus, a distribution to a beneficiary of income accumulated before he reached 21 would not reduce the undistributed net income includible in a future accumulation distribution to another beneficiary. However, all future distributions to the same beneficiary, or to another beneficiary to whom a distribution would be excepted under the provisions of this subparagraph, would be excepted from the definition of an accumulation distribution to the extent that they could not be paid, credited, or required to be distributed from other accumulated income.

(iii) The following examples illustrate the application of the foregoing rules of this subparagraph (in each of these examples it is assumed that the exceptions in section 665(b) (2), (3), and (4) do not apply):
