
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### treatment of excess distributions of trusts applicable to taxable years beginning before january 1, 1969
###### ยง 1.665(b)-2 Exclusions from accumulation distributions in the case of trusts (other than a foreign trust created by a U.S. person).
####### Certain distributions at specified ages.

(3)The third exclusion from the definition of an accumulation distribution is for amounts properly paid or credited to a beneficiary upon the beneficiary's attaining a specified age or ages; provided, (i) the total number of such distributions with respect to that beneficiary cannot exceed 4; (ii) the period between each such distribution is 4 years or more; and (iii) on January 1, 1954, such distributions were required by the specific terms of the governing instrument. Any discretionary invasion of corpus at other times is not excluded under this subparagraph, but does not affect the status of distributions that would otherwise be excluded. If more than four distributions are required to be made to a particular beneficiary at specified ages if he survives to receive them, none of the distributions will be excluded, even though the beneficiary dies before he receives more than four. On the other hand, a direction to make additional distributions to a remainderman will not affect the status of distributions required to be made to the primary beneficiary. For example, a trust agreement provided on January 1, 1954, that when A reached age 25 he would receive one-eighth of the corpus and accumulated income, as then constituted, and similar distributions at ages 30, 35, and 40. It also provided for similar distributions to B after A's death, and for additional discretionary distributions to both A and B. Required distributions to both A and B are excluded, regardless of whether discretionary distributions are made, but discretionary distributions are not excluded. On the other hand, if an additional distribution to A was directed when he reached 45, no distributions to him would be excluded, regardless of when he died.
