
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### treatment of excess distributions of trusts applicable to taxable years beginning before january 1, 1969
###### ยง 1.665(b)-2 Exclusions from accumulation distributions in the case of trusts (other than a foreign trust created by a U.S. person).
####### last transfer to such trust

(ii) The termincludes only transfers, whether by the original grantor or by a third person, made with a donative intent. A transfer arising out of a property right held by the trust is excluded, such as a transfer by a debtor in satisfaction of his indebtedness, or a distribution in liquidation or reorganization of a corporation. If the terms of two or more trusts include cross-remainders on the deaths of life beneficiaries, the donative transfers occurred at the time the trusts were created. The addition of the corpus of one trust to that of another when a remainder falls in is therefore not a new transfer within the meaning of section 665(b)(4).

(iii) For example, under the terms of a trust created July 1, 1950, with an original corpus of $100,000, by H for the benefit of his wife, W, the income of the trust is to be accumulated and added to corpus. Upon the expiration of a 10-year period, the trust is to terminate and its assets, including all accumulated income, are to be distributed to W. No transfers were made by H or other persons to the trust after it was created. Both the trust and W file returns on the calendar year basis. In accordance with its terms, the trust terminated on June 30, 1960, and on August 1, 1960, the trustee made a final distribution of the assets of the trust to W, consisting of investments derived from $100,000 of donated principal, accumulated income of $30,000 attributable to the period July 1, 1950, through December 31, 1959, and income of $3,000 attributable to the period the trust was in existence during 1960. Subpart D is inapplicable to the $3,000 of income of the trust for 1960 since that amount would be deductible by the trust and includible in W's gross income for that year to the extent provided in subpart C. However, the balance of the distribution will qualify as an exclusion from the provisions of subpart D.
