
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### treatment of excess distributions of trusts applicable to taxable years beginning before january 1, 1969
###### ยง 1.666(a)-1A Amount allocated.
####### Distributions by foreign trusts,Foreign trusts created solely by U.S. persons,Taxable years beginning after December 31, 1969.

(c)-(1)-(i)If a foreign trust created by a U.S. person makes an accumulation distribution in any taxable year beginning after December 31, 1969, the distribution is allocated to the trust's preceding taxable years (defined in ยง 1.665(e)-1A(a)(2) as those beginning after Dec. 31, 1953, and ending after Aug. 16, 1954) according to the amount of undistributed net income of the trust for such years. For this purpose, an accumulation distribution is first allocated to the earliest such preceding taxable year in which there is undistributed net income and shall then be allocated in turn, beginning with the next earliest, to any remaining preceding taxable years of the trust. The portion of the accumulation distribution allocated to the earliest preceding taxable year is the amount of the undistributed net income for that preceding taxable year. The portion of the accumulation distribution allocated to any preceding taxable year subsequent to the earliest such preceding taxable year is the excess of the accumulation distribution over the aggregate of the undistributed net income for all earlier preceding taxable years. See paragraph (d) of this section for adjustments to undistributed net income for prior distributions. The provisions of this subdivision may be illustrated by the following example:
