
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### treatment of excess distributions of trusts applicable to taxable years beginning before january 1, 1969
###### ยง 1.666(a)-1 Amount allocated.
####### 5 preceding taxable years

(b) If, before the application of the provisions of subpart D (section 665 and following), part I, subchapter J, chapter 1 of the Code, to an accumulation distribution for the taxable year, there is no undistributed net income for a preceding taxable year, then no portion of the accumulation distribution is deemed distributed on the last day of such preceding taxable year. Thus, if an accumulation distribution is made during the taxable year 1960 and the trust had no undistributed net income for the taxable year 1959, then no portion of the 1960 accumulation distribution is deemed distributed on the last day of 1959. For purposes of subpart D, the termincludes only the 5 taxable years immediately preceding the taxable year in which the accumulation distribution is made and which are subject to part I (section 641 and following) of such subchapter J even though the trust has no undistributed net income during one or more of those years.

(c) Paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:

(d) For the purposes of allocating to any preceding taxable year an accumulation distribution of the taxable year, the undistributed net income of such preceding taxable year is computed without regard to the accumulation distribution of the taxable year or of taxable years following the taxable year. However, accumulation distributions of any taxable years intervening between such preceding taxable year and the taxable year are taken into account. Accordingly, if a trust has undistributed net income for the taxable year 1954 and makes an accumulation distribution during the taxable year 1955, the undistributed net income for 1954 is computed without regard to the accumulation distribution for 1955 or any subsequent year. If the trust makes a further accumulation distribution for 1956, the undistributed net income for 1954 is computed without regard to the accumulation distribution for 1956 or subsequent years; but in determining the undistributed net income for 1954 for purposes of the 1956 accumulation distribution the accumulation distribution for 1955 will be taken into account.
