
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### treatment of excess distributions of trusts applicable to taxable years beginning before january 1, 1969
###### § 1.666(b)-1 Total taxes deemed distributed.

(a) If an accumulation distribution is deemed under § 1.666(a)-1 to be distributed on the last day of a preceding taxable year and the amount is not less than the undistributed net income for such preceding taxable year, then an additional amount equal to the "taxes imposed on the trust" (as defined in § 1.665(d)-1) for such preceding taxable year is likewise deemed distributed under section 661(a)(2). For example, a trust has taxable income of $11,032 (not including any capital gains) and undistributed net income of $8,000 for the taxable year 1954. The taxes imposed on the trust are $3,032. During the taxable year 1955, an accumulation distribution of $8,000 is made to the beneficiary, which is deemed under § 1.666(a)-1 to have been distributed on the last day of 1954. The taxes imposed on the trust for 1954 of $3,032 are also deemed to have been distributed on the last day of 1954 since the 1955 accumulation distribution is not less than the 1954 undistributed net income. Thus, a total of $11,032 will be deemed to have been distributed on the last day of 1954 because of the accumulation distribution of $8,000 made in 1955.

(b) For the purpose of paragraph (a) of this section, the undistributed net income of any preceding taxable year is computed without regard to the accumulation distribution of the taxable year or any taxable year following such taxable year. However, any accumulation distribution of taxable years intervening between such preceding taxable year and the taxable year are taken into account. See paragraph (d) of § 1.666(a)-1 and paragraphs (f)(5) and (g)(1) of § 1.668(b)-2.
