
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### treatment of excess distributions of trusts applicable to taxable years beginning before january 1, 1969
###### ยง 1.666(a)-1 Amount allocated.

(a)(1) If a trust other than a foreign trust created by a U.S. person makes an accumulation distribution in any taxable year, the distribution is included in the beneficiary's gross income for that year to the extent of the undistributed net income of the trust for the preceding 5 years. It is therefore necessary to determine the extent to which there is undistributed net income for the preceding 5 years. For this purpose, an accumulation distribution made in any taxable year is allocated to each of the 5 preceding taxable years in turn, beginning with the most recent year, to the extent of the undistributed net income of each of those years. Thus, an accumulation distribution is deemed to have been made from the most recently accumulated income of the trust.

(2) If a foreign trust created by a U.S. person makes an accumulation distribution in any year after December 31, 1962, the distribution is included in the beneficiary's gross income for that year to the extent of the undistributed net income of the trust for the trust's preceding taxable years which began after December 31, 1953, and ended after August 16, 1954. It is therefore necessary to determine the extent to which there is undistributed net income for such preceding taxable years. For this purpose, an accumulation distribution made in any taxable year is first allocated to each of such preceding taxable years in turn, beginning with the most recent year, to the extent of the undistributed net income of each of those years. Thus, an accumulation distribution is deemed to have been made from the most recently accumulated income of the trust.

(3) If a trust that is in part a foreign trust created by a U.S. person and in part a foreign trust created by a person other than a U.S. person makes an accumulation distribution in any year after December 31, 1962, the distribution is deemed made from the undistributed net income of the foreign trust created by a U.S. person in the proportion that the total undistributed net income for all preceding years of the foreign trust created by the U.S. person bears to the total undistributed net income for all years of the entire foreign trust. In addition, such distribution is deemed made from the undistributed net income of the foreign trust created by a person other than a U.S. person in the proportion that the total undistributed net income for all preceding years of the foreign trust created by a person other than a U.S. person bears to the total undistributed net income for all years of the entire foreign trust. Accordingly, an accumulation distribution of such a trust is composed of two portions with one portion relating to the undistributed net income of the foreign trust created by the U.S. person and the other portion relating to the undistributed net income of the foreign trust created by the person other than a U.S. person. For these purposes, each portion of an accumulation distribution made in any taxable year is first allocated to each of such preceding taxable years in turn, beginning with the most recent year, to the extent of the undistributed net income for the applicable foreign trust for each of those years. Thus, each portion of an accumulation distribution is deemed to have been made from the most recently accumulated income of the applicable trust. If the foreign trust created by a U.S. person makes an accumulation distribution in any year after December 31, 1962, the distribution is included in the beneficiary's gross income for that year to the extent of the undistributed net income of the trust for the trust's preceding taxable years which began after December 31, 1953, and ended after August 16, 1954. If the foreign trust created by a person other than a U.S. person makes an accumulation distribution in any taxable year, the distribution is included in the beneficiary's gross income for that year to the extent of the undistributed net income of the trust for the preceding 5 years.
