
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### treatment of excess distributions of trusts applicable to taxable years beginning before january 1, 1969
###### ยง 1.668(b)-1A Tax on distribution.
####### a,b,a,b

(i) First, determine the number of preceding taxable years of the trust on the last day of which an amount is deemed under section 666(a) to have been distributed. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the preceding taxable years of a trust that has received an accumulation distribution from another trust shall include the taxable years of such other trust in which an amount was deemed distributed in such accumulation distribution. For example, assume trust Z, a calendar year trust, received in its taxable year 1975 an accumulation distribution from trust Y, a calendar year trust, that included undistributed net income of trust Y for the taxable years 1972, 1973, and 1974. To the extent an accumulation distribution made by trust Z in its taxable year 1976 includes such undistributed net income, it shall be considered an accumulation distribution by trust Z in the taxable year 1976 and under section 666(a) will be deemed distributed on the last day of the preceding taxable years 1972, 1973, and 1974. For purposes of this subparagraph, such number of preceding taxable years of the trust shall not include any preceding taxable year of the trust in which the undistributed net income deemed distributed is less than 25 percent of () the total amounts deemed under section 666(a) to be undistributed net income from preceding taxable years divided by () the number of such preceding taxable years of the trust on the last day of which an amount is deemed under section 666(a) to have been distributed without application of this sentence. For example, assume that an accumulation distribution of $90,000 made to a beneficiary in 1979 is deemed distributed in the amounts of $29,000 in each of the years 1972, 1973, and 1974, and $3,000 in 1975. The number of preceding taxable years on the last day of which an amount was deemed distributed without reference to the second sentence of this subparagraph is four. However, the distribution deemed made in 1975 ($3,000) is less than $5,625, which is 25 percent of () the total undistributed net income deemed distributed under section 666(a) ($90,000) divided by () the number of such preceding taxable years (4), or $22,500. Therefore, for purposes of this subparagraph the accumulation distribution is deemed distributed in only 3 preceding taxable years (1972, 1973, and 1974).

(ii) Second, divide the amount (representing the accumulation distribution and taxes deemed distributed) required under section 668(a) to be included in the income of the beneficiary for the taxable year by the number of preceding taxable years of the trust on the last day of which an amount is deemed under section 666(a) to have been distributed (determined as provided in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph). The amount determined under this subdivision, including taxes deemed distributed, consists of the same proportion of each class of income as the total of each class of income deemed distributed in the accumulation distribution bears to the total undistributed net income from such preceding taxable years deemed distributed in the accumulation distribution. For example, assume that an amount of $50,000 is deemed distributed under section 666(a) from undistributed net income of 5 preceding taxable years of the trust, and consists of $25,000 of interest, $15,000 of dividends, and $10,000 of net rental income. Taxes attributable to such amounts in the amount of $10,000 are also deemed distributed. The amount determined under this subdivision, $12,000 ($50,000 income plus $10,000 tax divided by 5 years), is deemed to consist of $6,000 in interest, $3,600 in dividends, and $2,400 in net rental income.

(iii) Third, compute the tax of the beneficiary for each of the 3 taxable years immediately preceding the year in which the accumulation distribution is paid, credited, or required to be distributed to him,
