
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### treatment of excess distributions of trusts applicable to taxable years beginning before january 1, 1969
###### § 1.668(b)-1A Tax on distribution.
####### Computation of partial tax by the exact method.

(b)The partial tax referred to in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is computed as follows:

(1) First, compute the tax attributable to the section 666 amounts for each of the preceding taxable years. For purposes of this paragraph, the "section 666 amounts" for a preceding taxable year are the amounts deemed distributed under section 666(a) on the last day of the preceding taxable year, plus the amount of taxes deemed distributed on such day under section 666 (b) or (c). The tax attributable to such amounts in each prior taxable year of the beneficiary is the difference between the tax for such year computed with the inclusion of the section 666 amounts in the beneficiary's gross income and the tax for such year computed without including them in such gross income. Tax computations for each such year shall reflect a taxpayer's marital, dependency, exemption, and filing status for such year. To the extent the undistributed net income of a trust deemed distributed in an accumulation distribution includes amounts received as an accumulation distribution from another trust, for purposes of this paragraph they shall be considered as amounts deemed distributed by the trust under section 666(a) on the last day of each of the preceding taxable years in which such amounts were accumulated by such other trust. For example, assume trust Z, a calendar year trust, received in its taxable year 1975 an accumulation distribution from trust Y, a calendar year trust, that included undistributed net income and taxes of trust Y for the taxable years 1972, 1973, and 1974. To the extent an accumulation distribution made by trust Z in its taxable year 1976 includes such undistributed net income and taxes, it shall be considered an accumulation distribution by trust Z in the taxable year 1976 and under section 666(a) will be deemed distributed on the last day of the preceding taxable years 1972, 1973, and 1974.

(2) From the sum of the taxes for the prior taxable years attributable to the section 666 amounts (computed in accordance with subparagraph (1) of this paragraph), subtract so much of the amount of taxes deemed distributed to the beneficiary under §§ 1.666(b)-1A and 1.666(c)-1A as does not exceed such sum. The resulting amount, if any, is the partial tax, computed under the exact method, for the taxable year in which the accumulation distribution is paid, credited, or required to be distributed to the beneficiary.

(3) The provisions of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following example:
