
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### treatment of excess distributions of trusts applicable to taxable years beginning before january 1, 1969
###### ยง 1.668(a)-4 Tax attributable to throwback.

(a) The tax attributable to amounts deemed distributed under section 666 is imposed on the beneficiary for the taxable year of the beneficiary in which the accumulation distribution is made unless the taxable year of the beneficiary is different from that of the trust (see section 662(c) and the regulations thereunder). In the case of a trust (other than a foreign trust created by a U.S. person), the tax cannot be greater than the aggregate of the taxes attributable to those amounts had they been included, in accordance with the provisions of section 662 (a)(2) and (b), in the gross income of the beneficiary for the preceding taxable year or years in which they were deemed distributed. In the case of a foreign trust created by a U.S. person, the tax on the beneficiary shall be computed in accordance with the provisions of section 669 and the regulations thereunder. The tax liability of the beneficiary of a trust (other than a foreign trust created by a U.S. person), including the portion of an entire foreign trust which does not constitute a foreign trust created by a U.S. person (see ยง 1.643(d)-1), for the taxable year is computed in the following manner:

(1) First, compute the amount of tax for the taxable year attributable to the section 666 amounts which are included in the gross income of the beneficiary for the year. The tax attributable to those amounts is the difference between the tax for the taxable year computed with the inclusion of the section 666 amounts in gross income and the tax computed without including them in gross income.

(2) Next, compute the tax attributable to the section 666 amounts for each of the preceding taxable years as if they had been included in gross income for those years. The tax attributable to such amounts in each such preceding taxable year is the difference between the tax for such preceding year computed with the inclusion of the section 666 amounts in gross income and the tax for such year computed without including them in gross income. The tax computation for each preceding year shall reflect the taxpayer's marital and dependency status for that year.
