
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### treatment of excess distributions of trusts applicable to taxable years beginning before january 1, 1969
###### ยง 1.669(b)-1 Information requirements.

The election of a beneficiary who is a U.S. person to apply the limitations on tax provided in section 669(a) shall not be effective unless the beneficiary, at or before the time the election is made, supplies, in a letter addressed to the district director for the internal revenue district in which the taxpayer files his return (or the Director of International Operations where appropriate), or in a statement attached to his return, the following information with respect to the operation and accounts of the foreign trust created by a U.S. person for each of the preceding taxable years, on the last day of which an amount is deemed distributed under section 666(a):

(a) The gross income of the trust: The gross income should be separated to show the amount of each type of income received by the trust and to identify its source. For example, the beneficiary should list separately, by type (dividends, rents, capital gains, taxable interest, exempt interest, etc.) and source (name and country of payor), each item of income included in the gross income of the trust. For this purpose, the gross income of the trust includes gross income from U.S. sources which is exempt from taxation under section 894.

(b) The amount of tax withheld under section 1441 by the United States on income from sources within the United States.

(c) The amount of the tax paid to each foreign country by the trust.

(d) The expenses of the trust attributable to each type of income disclosed in paragraph (b) of this section, and the general expenses of the trust.

(e) The distributions, if any, made by the trust to the beneficiaries (including those who are not U.S. persons). These distributions should be separated into amounts of income required to be distributed currently within the meaning of section 661(a)(1), and any other amounts properly paid, credited, or required to be distributed within the meaning of section 661(a)(2).

(f) Any other information which is necessary for the computation of tax on the accumulation distribution as provided in section 669(a).

(g) If the foreign trust created by a U.S. person is less than the entire foreign trust, the information listed in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section shall also be furnished with respect to that portion of the entire foreign trust which is not a foreign trust created by a U.S. person.
