
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### unitrust actuarial tables applicable before may 1, 2009
###### § 1.664-4A Valuation of charitable remainder interests for which the valuation date is before May 1, 2009.
####### Period is a term of years.

(4)If the period described in § 1.664-3(a)(5) is a term of years, the factor that is used in determining the present value of the remainder interest for transfers for which the valuation date is after April 30, 1989, and before May 1, 1999, is the factor under the appropriate adjusted payout rate in Table D in § 1.664-4(e)(6) corresponding to the number of years in the term. If the adjusted payout rate is an amount that is between adjusted payout rates for which factors are provided in Table D, a linear interpolation must be made. The present value of the remainder interest is determined by multiplying the net fair market value (as of the appropriate valuation date) of the property placed in trust by the factor determined under this paragraph. Generally, for purposes of this section, the valuation date is, in the case of an inter vivos transfer, the date on which the property is transferred to the trust by the donor, and, in the case of a testamentary transfer under sections 2055, 2106, or 2624, the valuation date is the date of death. See § 1.664-4(e)(4) for additional rules regarding the valuation date. See § 1.664-4(e)(4) for an example that illustrates the application of this paragraph (e)(4).
