
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### PARTNERS AND PARTNERSHIPS
###### ยง 1.704-1 Partner's distributive share.
####### Effective/applicability date.,a,Generally.,a,a,d,e,Example 28,Example 29,Example 30,d,4,f,1,f,5,iv,h,2,s,Examples 31,35,g,3,g,3,b,3,b,4,7,c,October 9, 2019,b,3,b,4,7,c

(ii)()Except as otherwise provided in this section, the provisions of this paragraph are effective for partnership taxable years beginning after December 31, 1975. However, for partnership taxable years beginning after December 31, 1975, but before May 1, 1986, (January 1, 1987, in the case of allocations of nonrecourse deductions as defined in paragraph (b)(4)(iv)() of this section) an allocation of income, gain, loss, deduction, or credit (or item thereof) to a partner that is not respected under this paragraph nevertheless will be respected under section 704(b) if such allocation has substantial economic effect or is in accordance with the partners' interests in the partnership as those terms have been interpreted under the relevant case law, the legislative history of section 210(d) of the Tax Reform Act of 1976, and the provisions of this paragraph in effect for partnership taxable years beginning before May 1, 1986. Paragraphs (b)(2)(iii)() (last sentence), (b)(2)(iii)(), (b)(2)(iii)(), and (b)(5),, andof this section apply to partnership taxable years beginning on or after May 19, 2008. In addition, paragraph (b)(2)(iv)()(), paragraph (b)(2)(iv)()(), paragraph (b)(2)(iv)()()(), paragraph (b)(2)(iv)()(), paragraph (b)(2)(iv)(), paragraph (b)(4)(ix), paragraph (b)(4)(x), andthroughin paragraph (b)(5) of this section apply to noncompensatory options (as defined in ยง 1.721-2(f)) that are issued on or after February 5, 2013. The last sentence of paragraph (b)(2)(iv)()() of this section is applicable for partnership taxable years ending on or after September 24, 2019. However, a partnership may choose to apply the last sentence in paragraph (b)(2)(iv)()() of this section for the partnership's taxable years ending on or after September 28, 2017. A partnership may rely on the last sentence in paragraph (b)(2)(iv)(g)(3) of this section in regulation project REG-104397-18 (2018-41 I.R.B. 558) (see ยง 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(b) of this chapter) for the partnership's taxable years ending on or after September 28, 2017, and ending before the partnership's taxable year that includes September 24, 2019. Furthermore, the last sentence of paragraph (b)(2)(ii)()() of this section and paragraphs (b)(2)(ii)()() through () and (b)(2)(ii)() of this section apply to partnership taxable years ending on or after. However, taxpayers may apply the last sentence of paragraph (b)(2)(ii)()() of this section and paragraphs (b)(2)(ii)()() through () and (b)(2)(ii)() of this section for partnership taxable years ending on or after October 5, 2016. For partnership taxable years ending before October 9, 2019, see ยง 1.704-1 as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2019.
