
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### PARTNERS AND PARTNERSHIPS
###### § 1.704-3 Contributed property.
####### Applicability dates.,f,s

(f)With the exception of paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(8)(ii) and (iii), (a)(10) and (11), and (e)(3)(vi)(C) of this section, and of the last sentence of paragraph (d)(2) of this section, this section applies to properties contributed to a partnership and to revaluations pursuant to § 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)() or () on or after December 21, 1993. Paragraph (a)(11) of this section applies to properties contributed by a partner to a partnership on or after August 20, 1997. However, partnerships may rely on paragraph (a)(11) of this section for properties contributed before August 20, 1997 and disposed of on or after August 20, 1997. Paragraph (a)(8)(ii) applies to installment obligations received by a partnership in exchange for section 704(c) property on or after November 24, 2003. Paragraph (a)(8)(iii) applies to property acquired on or after November 24, 2003, by a partnership pursuant to a contract that is section 704(c) property. Except as otherwise provided in § 1.752-7(k), paragraphs (a)(8)(iv) and (a)(12) apply to § 1.752-7 liability transfers, as defined in § 1.752-7(b)(4), occurring on or after June 24, 2003. See § 1.752-7(k). Paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(10) of this section are applicable for taxable years beginning after June 9, 2010. The last sentence of paragraph (d)(2) of this section applies to property contributed to a partnership on or after September 24, 2019. However, a taxpayer may choose to apply the last sentence in paragraph (d)(2) of this section for property contributed to a partnership on or after September 28, 2017. A taxpayer may rely on the last sentence in paragraph (d)(2) of this section in regulation project REG-104397-18 (2018-41 I.R.B. 558) (see § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(b) of this chapter) for property contributed to a partnership on or after September 28, 2017, and ending before September 24, 2019. Paragraph (e)(3)(vi)(C) of this section applies to taxable years beginning on or after January 19, 2021.
