
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Changes in Rates During a Taxable Year
###### ยง 1.28-1 Credit for clinical testing expenses for certain drugs for rare diseases or conditions.
####### Taxable years beginning before January 1, 1984.

(iii)The credit allowed by section 28 shall not exceed the amount of the tax imposed by chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code for the taxable year, reduced by the sum of the credits allowable under the following sections as designated prior to the enactment of the Tax Reform Act of 1984 (Pub. Law 98-369):

(A) Section 32 (relating to tax withheld at source on nonresident aliens and foreign corporations and on tax-free convenant bonds),

(B) Sections 33 (relating to taxes of foreign countries and possessions of the United States),

(C) Section 37 (relating to the retirement income),

(D) Section 38 (relating to investment in certain depreciable property),

(E) Section 40 (relating to expenses of work incentive programs).

(F) Section 41 (relating to contributions to candidates for public office).

(G) Section 44 (relating to purchase of new principal residence).

(H) Section 44A (relating to expenses for household and dependent care services necessary for gainful employment).

(I) Section 44B (relating to employment of certain new employees).

(J) Section 44C (relating to residential energy).

(K) Section 44D (relating to producing fuel from a nonconventional source).

(L) Section 44E (relating to alcohol used as fuel).

(M) Section 44F (relating to increasing research activities), and

(N) Section 44G (relating to employee stock ownership).
