
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### contributions to a partnership
###### § 1.721(c)-7 Examples.
####### Results

(ii). (A) Under § 1.721(c)-1(b)(18)(i), USP is a U.S. transferor because USP is a U.S. person and not a domestic partnership. Under § 1.721(c)-1(b)(2), the patent has built-in gain of $1.2 million. The patent is not excluded property under § 1.721(c)-1(b)(6). Therefore, under § 1.721(c)-1(b)(15)(i), the patent is section 721(c) property because it is property, other than excluded property, with built-in gain that is contributed by a U.S. transferor, USP.

(B) Under § 1.721(c)-1(b)(2), the security has built-in gain of $80,000. Under § 1.721(c)-1(b)(6)(ii), the security is excluded property because it is described in section 475(c)(2). Therefore, the security is not section 721(c) property.

(C) The tax basis of the machine exceeds its book value. Under § 1.721(c)-1(b)(6)(iii), the machine is excluded property and therefore is not section 721(c) property.

(D) Under § 1.721(c)-1(b)(12), CFC1 is a related person with respect to USP, and under § 1.721(c)-1(b)(11), CFC1 is a related foreign person. Because USP and CFC1 collectively own at least 80 percent of the interests in the capital, profits, deductions, or losses of PRS1, under § 1.721(c)-1(b)(14)(i), PRS1 is a section 721(c) partnership upon the contribution by USP of the patent.

(E) The de minimis exception described in § 1.721(c)-2(c) does not apply to the contribution because during PRS1's year 1 the sum of the built-in gain with respect to all section 721(c) property contributed in year 1 to PRS1 is $1.2 million, which exceeds the de minimis threshold of $1 million. As a result, under § 1.721(c)-2(b), section 721(a) does not apply to USP's contribution of the patent to PRS1, unless the requirements of the gain deferral method are satisfied.
