
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### contributions to a partnership
###### § 1.721(c)-7 Examples.
####### Results: PRS1 contribution

(iii). (A) For purposes of determining whether PRS2 is a section 721(c) partnership as a result of the PRS1 contribution, under § 1.721(c)-2(d)(1), USP is treated as contributing to PRS2 its share of the patent that PRS1 actually contributes to PRS2. USP and CFC1 are each one-third indirect partners in PRS2. Taking into account the one-third interest in PRS2 directly owned by CFC2, USP, CFC1, and CFC2 collectively own at least 80 percent of the interests in PRS2. Thus, PRS2 is a section 721(c) partnership as a result of the PRS1 contribution.

(B) Under § 1.721(c)-2(b), section 721(a) does not apply to PRS1's contribution of the patent to PRS2, unless the requirements of the gain deferral method are satisfied. Under § 1.721(c)-3(b), the gain deferral method must be applied with respect to the patent. In addition, under § 1.721(c)-3(d)(2), because PRS1 is a controlled partnership with respect to USP, the gain deferral method must be applied with respect to PRS1's interest in PRS2, and, solely for purposes of applying the consistent allocation method, PRS2 must treat PRS1 as the U.S. transferor. As stated in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section (the facts in Example 3), the gain deferral method is applied. PRS2 is a controlled partnership with respect to USP. Under § 1.721(c)-5(c)(5)(i), the PRS1 contribution is a successor event with respect to the USP contribution.
