
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### provisions common to part ii, subchapter k, chapter 1 of the code
###### ยง 1.752-2 Partner's share of recourse liabilities.
####### Applicability dates.

(l)(1) Paragraphs (a) and (h)(3) of this section apply to liabilities incurred or assumed by a partnership on or after October 11, 2006, other than liabilities incurred or assumed by a partnership pursuant to a written binding contract in effect prior to that date. The rules applicable to liabilities incurred or assumed (or pursuant to a written binding contract in effect) prior to October 11, 2006, are contained in ยง 1.752-2 in effect prior to October 11, 2006, (see 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2006). Paragraphs (b)(6), (j)(3) and (4), and (k) of this section apply to liabilities incurred or assumed by a partnership and to payment obligations imposed or undertaken with respect to a partnership liability on or after October 9, 2019, other than liabilities incurred or assumed by a partnership and payment obligations imposed or undertaken pursuant to a written binding contract in effect prior to that date. However, taxpayers may apply paragraphs (b)(6), (j)(3) and (4), and (k) of this section to all of their liabilities as of the beginning of the first taxable year of the partnership ending on or after October 5, 2016. The rules applicable to liabilities incurred or assumed (or pursuant to a written binding contract in effect) prior to October 9, 2019, are contained in ยง 1.752-2 in effect prior to October 9, 2019, (see 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2019).

(2) Paragraphs (b)(3), (f)(10) and (11), and (j)(2) of this section apply to liabilities incurred or assumed by a partnership and payment obligations imposed or undertaken with respect to a partnership liability on or after October 5, 2016, other than liabilities incurred or assumed by a partnership and payment obligations imposed or undertaken pursuant to a written binding contract in effect prior to that date. Partnerships may apply paragraphs (b)(3), (f)(10) and (11), and (j)(2) of this section to all of their liabilities as of the beginning of the first taxable year of the partnership ending on or after October 5, 2016. The rules applicable to liabilities incurred or assumed (or subject to a written binding contract in effect) prior to October 5, 2016, are contained in ยง 1.752-2 in effect prior to October 5, 2016, (see 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2016).
