
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### provisions common to part ii, subchapter k, chapter 1 of the code
###### § 1.752-7 Partnership assumption of partner's § 1.752-7 liability on or after June 24, 2003.
####### Example.

(iii)In 2005, A, B, and C form partnership PRS. A contributes $10,000,000 in exchange for a 25% interest in PRS and PRS's assumption of a debt obligation. The debt obligation was issued for cash and the issue price was equal to the stated redemption price at maturity ($5,000,000). The debt obligation bears interest, payable quarterly, at a fixed rate of interest, which was a market rate of interest when the debt obligation was issued. At the time of the assumption, all accrued interest has been paid. Prior to the partnership assuming the obligation, interest rates decrease, resulting in the debt obligation bearing an above-market interest rate. Assume that, as a result of the decline in interest rates, A would have had to pay a willing assignee $6,000,000 to assume the debt obligation. The assumption of the debt obligation by PRS from A is treated as an assumption of a § 1.752-1(a)(4)(i) liability in the amount of $5,000,000 (the portion of the total amount of the debt obligation that has created basis in A's assets, that is, the $5,000,000 that was issued in exchange for the debt obligation) and an assumption of a § 1.752-7 liability in the amount of $1,000,000 (the difference between the total obligation, $6,000,000, and the § 1.752-1(a)(4)(i)liability, $5,000,000).
