
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### provisions common to part ii, subchapter k, chapter 1 of the code
###### § 1.752-7 Partnership assumption of partner's § 1.752-7 liability on or after June 24, 2003.
####### Distribution in liquidation of § 1.752-7 liability partner's partnership interest,In general.,b

(f)-(1)Except as provided in paragraphs (d)(2) and (i) of this section, immediately before a distribution in liquidation of a § 1.752-7 liability partner's partnership interest, the § 1.752-7 liability partner's basis in the partnership interest is reduced by the § 1.752-7 liability reduction (as defined in paragraph (b)(7) of this section). This rule applies before section 737. No deduction, loss, or capital expense is allowed to the partnership on the satisfaction of the § 1.752-7 liability (within the meaning of paragraph (b)(8) of this section) to the extent of the remaining built-in loss associated with the § 1.752-7 liability (as defined in paragraph (b)(6) of this section). For purposes of section 705(a)(2)(B) and § 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)() only, the remaining built-in loss associated with the § 1.752-7 liability is not treated as a nondeductible, noncapital expenditure of the partnership. Therefore, the remaining partners' capital accounts and bases in their partnership interests are not reduced by the remaining built-in loss associated with the § 1.752-7 liability. If the partnership (or any successor) notifies the § 1.752-7 liability partner of the satisfaction of the § 1.752-7 liability, then the § 1.752-7 liability partner is entitled to a loss or deduction. The amount of that deduction or loss is, in the case of a partial satisfaction of the § 1.752-7 liability, the amount that the partnership would, but for this section, take into account on the partial satisfaction of the § 1.752-7 liability (but not, in total, more than the § 1.752-7 liability reduction) or, in the case of a complete satisfaction of the § 1.752-7 liability, the remaining § 1.752-7 liability reduction. To the extent of the amount that the partnership would, but for this section, take into account on satisfaction of the § 1.752-7 liability, the character of that deduction or loss is determined as if the § 1.752-7 liability partner had satisfied the liability. To the extent that the § 1.752-7 liability reduction exceeds the amount that the partnership would, but for this section, take into account on satisfaction of the § 1.752-7 liability, the character of the § 1.752-7 liability partner's loss is capital.
