
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### provisions common to part ii, subchapter k, chapter 1 of the code
###### § 1.752-7 Partnership assumption of partner's § 1.752-7 liability on or after June 24, 2003.
####### Partnership as a § 1.752-7 liability partner.

(3)If a transaction described in paragraph (e), (f), or (g) of this section occurs with respect to a partnership (upper-tier partnership) that is a § 1.752-7 liability partner of another partnership (lower-tier partnership), then such transaction will also be treated as a transaction described in paragraph (e), (f), or (g) of this section, as appropriate, with respect to the partners of the upper-tier partnership, regardless of whether the upper-tier partnership assumed the § 1.752-7 liability from those partners. (See paragraph (b)(5) of this section for rules relating to the treatment of transactions by the partners of the upper-tier partnership). In such a case, each partner's share of the § 1.752-7 liability reduction in the upper-tier partnership is equal to that partner's share of the § 1.752-7 liability. The partners of the upper-tier partnership at the time of the transaction described in paragraph (e), (f), or (g) of this section, and not the upper-tier partnership, are entitled to the deduction or loss on the satisfaction of the § 1.752-7 liability. Similar principles apply where the upper-tier partnership is itself owned by one or a series of partnerships. This paragraph does not apply to the extent that § 1.752-7(j)(4) applied to the assumption of the § 1.752-7 liability by the lower-tier partnership.
