
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### provisions common to part ii, subchapter k, chapter 1 of the code
###### § 1.755-1 Rules for allocation of basis.
####### Adjustments under section 743(b),Generally.,Application.,1

(b)-(1)(i)For basis adjustments under section 743(b) resulting from substituted basis transactions, paragraph (b)(5) of this section shall apply. For basis adjustments under section 743(b) resulting from all other transfers, paragraphs (b)(2) through (4) of this section shall apply. For transfers subject to section 334(b)(1)(B), see § 1.334-1(b)(3)(iii)(C)() (treating a determination of basis under § 1.334-1(b)(3) as a determination not by reference to the transferor's basis solely for purposes of applying section 755); for transfers subject to section 362(e)(1), see § 1.362-3(b)(4)(i) (treating a determination of basis under § 1.362-3 as a determination not by reference to the transferor's basis solely for purposes of applying section 755); for transfers subject to section 362(e)(2), see § 1.362-4(c)(3)(i) (treating a determination of basis under § 1.362-4 as a determination by reference to the transferor's basis for all purposes). Except as provided in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, the portion of the basis adjustment allocated to one class of property may be an increase while the portion allocated to the other class is a decrease. This would be the case even though the total amount of the basis adjustment is zero. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, the portion of the basis adjustment allocated to one item of property within a class may be an increase while the portion allocated to another is a decrease. This would be the case even though the basis adjustment allocated to the class is zero.
