
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### definitions
###### ยง 1.761-2 Exclusion of certain unincorporated organizations from the application of all or part of subchapter K of chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code.
####### Annual gas balancing method,In general.,3

(4)-(i)The annual gas balancing method (annual method) takes into account each co-producer's ownership rights and obligations, as described in the JOA, with respect to the co-producer's current proportionate share of gas as it is produced from the reservoir. Under the annual method, gas imbalances relating to a JOA must be eliminated annually through a balancing payment, which may be in the form of cash, gas produced under the same JOA, or other property. If all the co-producers under a JOA have the same taxable year, any gas imbalance remaining at the end of a taxable year must be eliminated by a balancing payment from the overproducer to the underproducer by the due date of the overproducer's tax return for that taxable year (including extensions). If all the co-producers under a JOA do not have the same taxable year, any gas imbalance remaining at the end of a calendar year must be eliminated by a balancing payment from the overproducer to the underproducer by September 15 of the following calendar year. The annual method may be used only if the Commissioner's permission is obtained. Paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section provides guidelines for applying for this permission. The annual method is not available for a JOA with respect to which any co-producer made an election under paragraph (d)(5)(i)(B)() of this section (to take an aggregate section 481(a) adjustment for all JOAs of a co-producer into account in the year of change).
