
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### definitions
###### ยง 1.761-2 Exclusion of certain unincorporated organizations from the application of all or part of subchapter K of chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code.
####### ii,Section 481(a) adjustment period.,3,2,ii

()Except to the extent that paragraph (d)(5)(i)(B)() of this section applies, a co-producer's section 481(a) adjustment relating to a JOA, whether positive or negative, is taken into account in computing taxable income ratably over the 6-taxable-year period beginning with the year of change (the section 481(a) adjustment period). If the co-producer has been in existence less than 6 taxable years, the adjustment is taken into account over the number of years the co-producer has been in existence. If the co-producer ceases to engage in the trade or business that gave rise to the section 481(a) adjustment at any time during the section 481(a) adjustment period, the entire remaining balance of the section 481(a) adjustment relating to that trade or business must be taken into account in the year of the cessation. For purposes of this paragraph (d)(5)(i)(B)()(), production under each JOA is treated as a separate trade or business. The determination as to whether the co-producer ceases to engage in its trade or business is to be made under the principles of ยง 1.446-1(e)(3)(ii) and its underlying administrative procedures. For example, the permanent cessation of production under a co-producer's JOA constitutes the cessation of a trade or business of the co-producer. Accordingly, for the year that production under a JOA permanently ceases, the remaining balance of the section 481(a) adjustment relating to the JOA must be taken into account.
