
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### definition; tax imposed
###### ยง 1.801-1 Definitions.
####### Life insurance company.,life insurance company

(a)The termas used in subtitle A of the Code is defined in section 801. For the purpose of determining whether a company is a "life insurance company" within the meaning of that term as used in section 801, it must first be determined whether the company is taxable as an insurance company under the Code. For the definition of an "insurance company", see paragraph (b) of this section. In determining whether an insurance company is a life insurance company, the life insurance reserves (as defined in section 803(b)) plus any unearned premiums and unpaid losses on noncancellable life, health, or accident policies, not included in "life insurance reserves" must comprise more than 50 percent of its total reserves (as defined in section 801). An insurance company writing only noncancellable life, health, or accident policies and having no "life insurance reserves" may qualify as a life insurance company if its unearned premiums and unpaid losses on such policies comprise more than 50 percent of its total reserves. A noncancellable insurance policy means a contract which the insurance company is under an obligation to renew or continue at a specified premium and with respect to which a reserve in addition to the unearned premium must be carried to cover that obligation. For the purpose of the preceding sentence, the term "unearned premium" means the amount which will cover the cost of carrying the insurance risk for the period for which the premium has been paid in advance. A burial or funeral benefit insurance company qualifying as a life insurance company engaged directly in the manufacture of funeral supplies or the performance of funeral services will be taxable under section 821 or section 831 as an insurance company other than life.
