
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### definition; tax imposed
###### ยง 1.801-4 Life insurance reserves.
####### Reserves and liabilities which do not qualify as life insurance reserves.

(e)The following are illustrative of reserves and liabilities which do not meet the requirements of section 801(b) and paragraph (a) of this section and, accordingly, shall not be included as life insurance reserves:

(1) Liability for supplementary contracts not involving at the time with respect to which the liability is computed, life, health, or accident contingencies.

(2) In the case of cancellable health and accident policies and similar cancellable contracts, the unearned premiums and unpaid losses (whether or not ascertained).

(3) The unearned premiums, and unpaid losses (whether or not ascertained), on noncancellable life, health, or accident policies (and guaranteed renewable life, health, and accident policies) not included in life insurance reserves. (However, such amounts shall be taken into account under section 801(a)(2) for purposes of determining whether an insurance company is a life insurance company.)

(4) The deficiency reserve (as defined in section 801(b)(4)) for each individual contract, that is, that portion of the reserve for such contract equal to the amount (if any) by which:

(i) The present value of the future net premiums required for such contract, exceeds

(ii) The present value of the future actual premiums and consideration charged for such contract.

(5) Reserves required to be maintained to provide for the ordinary operating expenses of a business which must be currently paid by every company from its income if its business is to continue, such as taxes, salaries, and unpaid brokerage.

(6) Liability for premiums received in advance.

(7) Liability for premium deposit funds.

(8) Liability for annual and deferred dividends declared or apportioned.

(9) Liability for dividends left on deposit at interest.

(10) Liability for accrued but unsettled policy claims whether known or unreported.

(11) A mandatory securities valuation reserve.
