
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### definition; tax imposed
###### ยง 1.801-8 Contracts with reserves based on segregated asset accounts.
####### c

(iii) If at any time during the taxable year a contract otherwise satisfying the requirements of section 801(g)(1)(B) and subdivision (i) of this subparagraph ceases to reflect current investment return and current market value, such contract shall not be considered as meeting the requirements of section 801(g)(1)(B)(iii) and subdivision (i)() of this subparagraph after such cessation. Thus, a contract with reserves based on a segregated asset account includes a contract under which the reflection of investment return and market value terminates at the beginning of the annuity payments, but only for the period prior to such termination. For example, if the purchaser of a variable annuity contract which meets such requirements elects an option which provides for the payment of a fixed dollar annuity, then such contract shall be considered as satisfying such requirements only for the period prior to the time such contract ceases to reflect current investment return and current market value. Furthermore, a group annuity contract which satisfies the requirements of section 801(g)(1)(B) and subdivision (i) of this subparagraph shall be considered as continuing to meet such requirements even though a certificate holder under the group contract elects an option which provides for the payment of a fixed dollar annuity. However, the annuity attributable to such certificate holder shall not be considered as satisfying such requirements as of the time such annuity ceases to reflect current investment return and current market value. On the other hand, a group annuity contract which does not reflect current market value shall not be considered as satisfying such requirements even though a certificate holder under the group contract elects an option which provides for the payment of a variable annuity. However, the variable annuity attributable to such certificate holder shall be considered as satisfying such requirements as of the time such variable annuity commences to reflect current investment return and current market value.
