
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### investment income
###### ยง 1.804-4 Investment yield of a life insurance company.
####### general expenses

(ii) Any assignment of general expenses to the investment department of a life insurance company for which a deduction is claimed under section 804(c)(1) subjects the entire deduction for investment expenses to the limitation provided in that section and subdivision (iii) of this subparagraph. As used in section 804(c)(1), the termmeans any expense paid or incurred for the benefit of more than one department of the company rather than for the benefit of a particular department thereof. For example, if real estate taxes, depreciation, or other expenses attributable to office space owned by the company and utilized by it in connection with its investment function are assigned to investment expenses, such items shall be deductible as general expenses assigned to or included in investment expenses and as such shall be subject to the limitation of section 804(c)(1) and subdivision (iii) of this subparagraph. Similarly, if an expense, such as a salary, is attributable to more than one department, including the investment department, such expense may be properly allocated among these departments. If such expenses are allocated, the amount properly allocable to the investment department shall be deductible as general expenses assigned to or included in investment expenses and as such shall be subject to the limitation of section 804(c)(1) and subdivision (iii) of this subparagraph. If general expenses are in part assigned to or included in investment expenses, the maximum allowance (as determined under section 804(c)(1)) shall not be granted unless it is shown to the satisfaction of the district director that such allowance is justified by a reasonable assignment of actual expenses. The accounting procedure employed is not conclusive as to whether any assignment has in fact been made. Investment expenses do not include Federal income and excess profits taxes, if any. In cases where the investment expenses allowable as deductions under section 804(c)(1) exceed the limitation contained therein, see section 809(d)(9).

(iii) If any general expenses are in part assigned to or included in investment expenses, the total deduction under section 804(c)(1) shall not exceed the sum of:
