
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### investment income
###### ยง 1.806-3 Certain changes in reserves and assets.
####### Adjustments to the means of life insurance reserves and assets not transferred.

(3)All life insurance reserves and assets transferred during the taxable year, within the meaning of section 806(a), shall be excluded from the beginning and end of the taxable year balances of the transferor and transferee, respectively. The amount of assets to be excluded from the beginning of the taxable year balance of the transferor shall be an amount equal to the value of such reserves at the beginning of the taxable year. The amount of assets to be excluded from the end of the taxable year balance of the transferee shall be an amount equal to the value of such reserves at the end of the taxable year. The means of the life insurance reserves and assets not so transferred shall be determined in the ordinary manner, that is, the arithmetic means. There shall be added to these means an amount to appropriately adjust them, on a daily basis, for the life insurance reserves and assets that were transferred during the taxable year. This adjustment shall be determined by multiplying (i) the mean of the transferred life insurance reserves (or assets, as the case may be) at the beginning of the taxable year (or, if acquired later, at the beginning of the period held as defined in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph) and the end of the period held as defined in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph (or at the end of the taxable year, if held at such time) by (ii) the fraction determined under subparagraph (2) of this paragraph.
