
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### investment income
###### ยง 1.804-4 Investment yield of a life insurance company.
####### Limitation on deductions allowable under section 804 (c)(2) and (c)(3).

(4)Section 804(c)(3) provides that the amount allowable as a deduction for taxes, expenses, and depreciation on or with respect to any real estate owned and occupied for insurance purposes in whole or in part by a life insurance company shall be limited to an amount which bears the same ratio to such deduction (computed without regard to this limitation) as the rental value of the space not so occupied bears to the rental value of the entire property. For example, T, a life insurance company, owns a twenty-story downtown home office building. The rental value of each floor of the building is identical. T rents nine floors to various tenants, one floor is utilized by it in operating its investment department, and the remaining ten floors are occupied by it in carrying on its insurance business. Since floor space equivalent to eleven-twentieths, or 55 percent, of the rental value of the entire property is owned and occupied for insurance purposes by the company, the deductions allowable under section 804(c)(2) and (3) for taxes, depreciation, and other real estate expenses shall be limited to nine-twentieths, or 45 percent, of the taxes, depreciation, and other real estate expenses on account of the entire property. However, the portion of such allowable deductions attributable to the operation of the investment department (one-twentieth, or 5 percent) may be deductible as general expenses assigned to or included in investment expenses and as such shall be subject to the limitations of section 804(c)(1). Where a deduction is claimed as provided in this section, the parts of the property occupied and the parts not occupied by the company in carrying on its insurance business, together with the respective rental values thereof, must be shown in a schedule accompanying the return.
