
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### investment income
###### ยง 1.806-3 Certain changes in reserves and assets.
####### In general.

(a)For purposes of part I, subchapter L, chapter 1 of the Code, section 806(a) provides that if there is a change in life insurance reserves (as defined in section 801(b)), during the taxable year, which is attributable to the transfer between the taxpayer and another person of liabilities under contracts taken into account in computing such life insurance reserves, then the means of such reserves, and the mean of the assets, shall be appropriately adjusted to reflect the amounts involved in such transfer. For example, the adjustments required under section 806(a) are applicable to transfers in which one life insurance company purchases or acquires a part or all of the business of another life insurance company under an arrangement whereby the purchaser or transferee becomes solely liable on the contracts transferred. This provision shall apply in the case of assumption reinsurance but not in the case of indemnity reinsurance or reinsurance ceded. Thus, no adjustments shall be required under section 806(a) when, in the ordinary course of business, an indemnity reinsurance contract is entered into with another company (on a yearly renewable term basis, on a coinsurance basis, or otherwise) whereby there is a sharing of risks under one or more individual contracts. It will be necessary for each life insurance company participating in a transfer described in section 806(a) to make the adjustments required by such section. Such adjustments shall be made without regard to whether or not the transferor of the liabilities was the original insurer.
