
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### gain and loss from operations
###### ยง 1.809-5 Deductions.
####### Certain accident and health insurance and group life insurance.

(6)(i) For taxable years beginning before January 1, 1963, an amount equal to two percent of the premiums for the taxable year attributable to group life insurance contracts, group accident and health insurance contracts, or group accident and health insurance contracts with a life feature. For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1962, the deduction shall be an amount equal to two percent of the premiums for the taxable year attributable to group life insurance contracts, accident and health insurance contracts (other than those to which section 809(d)(5) applies), or accident and health insurance contracts with a life feature (other than those to which section 809(d)(5) applies). For purposes of section 809(d)(6) and this subparagraph, the term "premiums" means the net amount of the premiums and other consideration attributable to such contracts taken into account under section 809(c)(1). The deduction allowed by section 809(d)(6) and this subparagraph for the taxable year and all preceding taxable years shall not exceed 50 percent of the net amount of the premiums attributable to such contracts for the taxable year. For example, assume that premiums attributable to group life insurance and group accident and health insurance contracts are $103,000 for the taxable year 1962. Assume further that there are $3,000 of return premiums attributable to such contracts for the taxable year. Under the provisions of section 809(d)(6) and this subparagraph, a deduction (determined without regard to section 809(f) of $2,000 (2 percent of $100,000 ($103,000-$3,000)) is allowed. Assuming that the company continues to receive net premiums of $100,000 attributable to such contracts for 15 years, the cumulative amount of these deductions is $30,000 ($2,000 for 15 years). If, in the sixteenth year, net premiums attributable to such contracts amount to $60,000, no deduction shall be allowed under section 809(d)(6) and this subparagraph since the cumulative amount of these deductions ($30,000) equals 50 percent of the current year's premiums ($60,000) from such contracts.

(ii) In computing the deduction under section 809(d)(6), the determination as to when the 50 percent limitation on such deduction has been reached shall be based upon the amount allowed as a deduction for the taxable year and all preceding taxable years after the application of the limitation provided in section 809(f).

(iii) For purposes of determining whether the 50 percent limitation applies to any taxable year, the deduction provided by section 809(d)(6) for all preceding taxable years shall be taken into account, irrespective of whether or not the life insurance company claimed a deduction for these amounts for such preceding taxable years.
