
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### gain and loss from operations
###### ยง 1.809-5 Deductions.
####### premiums

(iv) For purposes of section 809(d)(5) and this subparagraph, the termmeans the net amount of the premiums and other consideration attributable to nonparticipating contracts (as defined in subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph) which are taken into account under section 809(c)(1). For this purpose, premiums include only such amounts attributable to such contracts which are issued or renewed for periods of 5 years or more, but does not include that portion of the premiums which is allocable to annuity features. No portion of a premium shall be deemed allocable to annuity features solely because a contract, such as an endowment contract, provides that at maturity the insured shall have an option to take an annuity. The determination of whether a contract meets the 5-year requirement shall be made as of the date the contract is issued, or as of the date it is renewed, whichever is applicable. Thus, a 20-year nonparticipating endowment policy shall qualify for the deduction under section 809(d)(5), even though the insured subsequently dies at the end of the second year, since the policy is issued for a period of 5 years or more. However, a 1-year renewable term contract shall not qualify, since as of the date it is issued (or of any renewal date) it is not issued (or renewed) for a period of 5 years or more. In like manner, a policy originally issued for a 3-year period and subsequently renewed for an additional 3-year period shall not qualify. However, if this policy is renewed for a period of 5 years or more, the policy shall qualify for the deduction under section 809(d)(5) from the date it is renewed.

(v) The provisions of section 809(d)(5) and this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following example:
