
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### distributions to shareholders
###### § 1.815-2 Distributions to shareholders.
####### Priority system for distributions to shareholders.

(b)(1) For purposes of section 815 (other than subsection (e) thereof relating to certain mutualizations) and section 802(b)(3) (relating to the determination of life insurance company taxable income), any distribution made to shareholders after December 31, 1958, shall be treated in the following manner:

(i) Distributions shall be treated as first being made out of the shareholders surplus account (as defined in section 815(b) and § 1.815-3);

(ii) Once the shareholders surplus account has been reduced to zero, distributions shall then be treated as being made out of the policyholders surplus account (as defined in section 815(c) and § 1.815-4) until that account has been reduced to zero; and

(iii) Finally, any distributions in excess of the amounts in the shareholders surplus account and the policyholders surplus account shall be treated as being made out of other accounts (as defined in § 1.815-5).

(2) For purposes of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, in order to determine whether a distribution (or any portion thereof) shall be treated as being made out of the shareholders surplus account, policyholders surplus account, or other accounts, the amount in such accounts at the end of any taxable year shall be the cumulative balance in such accounts at the end of the taxable year, computed without diminution by reason of a distribution (or any portion thereof) during the taxable year which is treated as being made out of such accounts. For example, on January 1, 1960, S, a stock life insurance company, had $1,000 in its shareholders surplus account and $3,000 in its policyholders surplus account. On November 1, 1960, S distributed $4,000 to its shareholders. Under the provisions of section 815(b)(2) and paragraph (b) of § 1.815-3, S added $5,000 to its shareholders surplus account for the taxable year 1960. Since the distributions to shareholders during the taxable year 1960, $4,000, does not exceed the cumulative balance in the shareholders surplus account at the end of the taxable year, computed without diminution by reason of distributions treated as made out of such account during the taxable year, $6,000 ($1,000 plus $5,000), the entire distribution is treated as being made out of the shareholders surplus account.

(3) Except in the case of a distribution in cash and as otherwise provided herein, the amount to be charged to the special surplus accounts referred to in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph with respect to any distributions to shareholders (as defined in section 815(a) and paragraph (c) of this section) shall be the fair market value of the property distributed, determined as of the date of distribution. However, for the amount of the adjustment to earnings and profits reflecting such distributions, see section 312 and the regulations thereunder. For a special rule relating to the determination of the amount to be charged to such special surplus accounts in the case of a distribution by a foreign life insurance company carrying on a life insurance business within the United States, see section 819(c)(1) and the regulations thereunder.
