
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### distributions to shareholders
###### § 1.815-6 Special rules.
####### Special rule for certain mutualizations,In general.

(e)-(1)Section 815(e) provides a rule for determining priorities which shall operate in place of section 815(a) and paragraph (b) of § 1.815-2 where a life insurance company makes any distribution to its shareholders after December 31, 1958, in acquisition of stock pursuant to a plan of mutualization. Section 815(e)(1) provides that such a distribution shall first be treated as being made out of paid-in capital and paid-in surplus, and, to the extent thereof, no tax shall be imposed on the company with respect to such distribution. Thereafter, distributions made pursuant to such plan of mutualization shall be treated as made in two allocable parts. One part shall be treated as being made out of other accounts (as defined in § 1.815-5) and the company shall incur no tax with respect to such portion of the distribution. The other part shall be treated as a distribution to which section 815(a) and paragraph (b) of § 1.815-2 applies. Thus, such portion of the distribution shall be treated as first being made out of the shareholders surplus account (as defined in section 815(b) and § 1.815-3), to the extent thereof, and then out of the policyholders surplus account (as defined in section 815(c) and § 1.815-4), to the extent thereof. See paragraph (a) of § 1.815-2. For purposes of this paragraph, a distribution shall be considered as being made pursuant to a plan of mutualization only if the requirements of applicable State law for the adoption of such plan (as, for example, approval by the requisite majority of the board of directors, shareholders, and policyholders) have been fulfilled.
