
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### miscellaneous provisions
###### ยง 1.817-5 Diversification requirements for variable annuity, endowment, and life insurance contracts.
####### Start-up period.

(2)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section, a segregated asset account that is not a real property account on its first anniversary shall be considered adequately diversified until such first anniversary.

(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section, a segregated asset account that is a real property account on its first anniversary shall be considered adequately diversified until the earlier of its fifth anniversary or the anniversary on which the account ceases to be a real property account.

(iii) For purposes of paragraph (c)(2) (i) and (ii) of this section, the anniversary of a segregated asset account is the anniversary of the date on which any amount received under a life insurance or annuity contract, other than a pension plan contract (as defined in section 818 (a)), is first allocated to the account.

(iv) If more than 30 percent of the amount allocated to a segregated asset account as of the last day of a calendar quarter is attributable to contracts entered into more than one year before such date, paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section shall not apply to the segregated asset account for any period after such date. Similarly, if more than 30 percent of the amount allocated to a segregated asset account as of the last day of a calendar quarter is attributable to contracts entered into more than 5 years before such date, paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section shall not apply to the segregated asset account for any period after such date. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(2), amounts transferred to the account from a diversified account (determined without regard to this paragraph (c)(2)) or as a result of an exchange pursuant to section 1035 in which the issuer of the contract received in the exchange is not related in a manner specified in section 267(b) to the issuer of the contract transferred in the exchange are not treated as-

(A) Amounts attributable to contracts entered into more than one year before such date, in the case of accounts subject to paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, or

(B) Amounts attributable to contracts entered into more than five years before such date, in the case of accounts subject to paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section.
