
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### miscellaneous provisions
###### ยง 1.817-5 Diversification requirements for variable annuity, endowment, and life insurance contracts.
####### Exceptions.

(2)(i) If, at all times after December 31, 1983, an insurance company would be considered the owner of the assets of a segregated asset account under the principles of Rev. Rul. 81-225, 1981-2 C.B. 12, this section will not apply to such account until December 15, 1986.

(ii) This section will not apply to any variable contract to which Rev. Rul. 77-85, 1977-1 C.B. 12, or Rev. Rul. 81-225, 1981-2 C.B. 12, did not apply by reason of the limited retroactive effect of such rulings.

(iii) In determining whether a segregated asset account is adequately diversified for any calendar quarter ending before July 1, 1988, debt instruments that are issued, guaranteed, or insured by the United States or an instrumentality of the United States shall not be treated as government securities if such debt instruments are secured by a mortgage on real property (other than real property owned by the United States or an instrumentality of the United States) or represent an interest in a pool of debt instruments secured by such mortgages.

(iv) This section shall not apply until January 1, 1989, with respect to a variable contract (as defined in section 817(d)) that (1) provides for the payment of an immediate annuity (as defined in section 72(u)(4)); (2) was outstanding on September 12, 1986; and (3) the segregated asset account on which it was based was, on September 12, 1986, wholly invested in deposits insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation.

(v) A segregated asset account in existence before March 1, 2005, will be considered to be adequately diversified if-

(A) As of March 1, 2005, the account was adequately diversified within the meaning of section 817(h) and this regulation as in effect prior to that date; and

(B) By December 31, 2005, the account is adequately diversified within the meaning of section 817(h) and this regulation.
