
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### miscellaneous provisions
###### ยง 1.818-3 Amortization of premium and accrual of discount.
####### Convertible evidences of indebtedness.

(d)Section 818(b)(2)(B) provides that in no case shall the amount of premium on a convertible evidence of indebtedness (including any bond, note, or debenture) include any amount attributable to the conversion features of the evidence of indebtedness. This provision is the same as the one contained in section 171(b), and the rules prescribed in paragraph (c) of ยง 1.171-2 shall be applicable for purposes of section 818(b)(2)(B). This provision is to be applied without regard to the date upon which the evidence of indebtedness was acquired. Thus, where a convertible evidence of indebtedness was acquired before January 1, 1958, and a portion or all of the premium attributable to the conversion features of the evidence of indebtedness has been amortized for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1958, no adjustment for such amortization will be required by reason of section 818(b)(2)(B). Such amortization will, however, require an adjustment to the basis of the evidence of indebtedness under section 1016(a)(17). For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1957, no further amortization of the premium attributable to the conversion features of such an evidence of indebtedness will be taken into account.
