
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### miscellaneous provisions
###### ยง 1.818-3 Amortization of premium and accrual of discount.
####### In general.

(a)Section 818(b) provides that the appropriate items of income, deductions, and adjustments under part I, subchapter L, chapter 1 of the Code, shall be adjusted to reflect the appropriate amortization of premium and the appropriate accrual of discount on bonds, notes, debentures, or other evidences of indebtedness held by a life insurance company. Such adjustments are limited to the amount of appropriate amortization or accrual attributable to the taxable year with respect to such securities which are not in default as to principal or interest and which are amply secured. The question of ample security will be resolved according to the rules laid down from time to time by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. The adjustment for amortization of premium decreases the gross investment income, the exclusion and reduction for wholly tax-exempt interest, the exclusion and deduction for partially tax-exempt interest, and the basis or adjusted basis of such securities. The adjustment for accrual of discount increases the gross investment income, the exclusion and reduction for wholly tax-exempt interest, the exclusion and deduction for partially tax-exempt interest, and the basis or adjusted basis of such securities. However, for taxable years beginning after May 31, 1960, only the accrual of discount relating to issue discount will increase the exclusion and reduction for wholly tax-exempt interest. See section 103.
