
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### miscellaneous provisions
###### ยง 1.818-3 Amortization of premium and accrual of discount.
####### Acquisitions before January 1, 1958.

(b)(1) In the case of any such security acquired before January 1, 1958, the premium is the excess of its acquisition value over its maturity value and the discount is the excess of its maturity value over its acquisition value. The acquisition value of any such security is its cost (including buying commissions or brokerage but excluding any amounts paid for accrued interest) if purchased for cash, or if not purchased for cash, its then fair market value. The maturity value of any such security is the amount payable thereunder either at the maturity date or an earlier call date. The earlier call date of any such security may be the earliest interest payment date if it is callable or payable at such date, the earliest date at which it is callable at par, or such other call or payment date, prior to maturity, specified in the security as may be selected by the life insurance company. A life insurance company which adjusts amortization of premium or accrual of discount with reference to a particular call or payment date must make the adjustments with reference to the value on such date and may not, after selecting such date, use a different call or payment date, or value, in the calculation of such amortization or discount with respect to such security unless the security was not in fact called or paid on such selected date.

(2) The adjustments for amortization of premium and accrual of discount will be determined:

(i) According to the method regularly employed by the company, if such method is reasonable, or

(ii) According to the method prescribed by this section.

(3) The method of amortization and accrual prescribed by this section is as follows:

(i) The premium (or discount) shall be determined in accordance with this section; and

(ii) The appropriate amortization of premium (or accrual of discount) attributable to the taxable year shall be an amount which bears the same ratio to the premium (or discount) as the number of months in the taxable year during which the security was owned by the life insurance company bears to the number of months between the date of acquisition of the security and its maturity or earlier call date, determined in accordance with this section. For purposes of this section, a fractional part of a month shall be disregarded unless it amounts to more than half a month, in which case it shall be considered a month.
