
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### miscellaneous provisions
###### ยง 1.818-6 Transitional rule for change in method of accounting.
####### Recomputation of 1957 taxes.

(b)(1) For purposes of recomputing its taxes for 1957, a life insurance company must ascertain the net amount of those adjustments which are determined (as of the close of 1957) to be necessary solely by reason of the change to the method of accounting required by section 818(a) and paragraph (a) of ยง 1.818-2 in order to prevent amounts from being duplicated or omitted. Thus, for example, life insurance companies not on the accrual method of accounting for the year 1957 shall accrue, as of December 31, 1957, those items of gross investment income under section 803(b) and those items of deduction under section 803(c), as in effect for 1957, which would have been properly accruable for the year 1957 if the company had been on the accrual method of accounting.

(2) In the case of a change in the over-all method of accounting, the term "net amount of those adjustments" means the consolidation of adjustments (whether the amounts thereof represent increases or decreases in items of income or deductions) arising with respect to balances in the various accounts on December 31, 1957. In the case of a change in the treatment of a single material item, the amount of the adjustment shall be determined with reference only to the net dollar balances in that particular account.

(3)(i) The amount of the taxpayer's tax for 1957 shall be recomputed (under the law applicable to 1957, modified as provided in section 818(e) (4) and paragraph (e) of this section) by taking into account an amount equal to one-tenth of the net amount of the adjustments determined under subparagraph (1) of this paragraph. The increase or decrease in tax attributable to the adjustments for such year is the difference between the tax for such year computed with the allocation of one-tenth of the net amount of the adjustments to such taxable year over the tax computed without the allocation of any part of the adjustments to such year.

(ii) The amount of increase or decrease (as the case may be) referred to in section 818(e) (2) or (3) and paragraphs (c) or (d) of this section, shall be the amount of the increase or decrease in tax ascertained in the manner described in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph, multiplied by 10.
