
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### miscellaneous provisions
###### ยง 1.819-2 Foreign life insurance companies.
####### Carrying on United States insurance business.

(a)Section 819(a) provides that a foreign life insurance company carrying on a life insurance business within the United States, if with respect to its United States business it would qualify as a life insurance company under section 801, shall be taxable on its United States business under section 802 in the same manner as a domestic life insurance company. Thus, the life insurance company taxable income of such a foreign life insurance company shall not be determined in the manner provided by part I, subchapter N, chapter 1 of the Code (relating to determination of sources of income), but shall be determined in the manner provided by part I, subchapter L, chapter 1 of the Code (relating to life insurance companies). See section 842. Accordingly, in determining its life insurance company taxable income from its United States business, such a foreign life insurance company shall take into account the appropriate items of income irrespective of whether such items of income are from sources within or without the United States. A foreign life insurance company shall take into account the appropriate items of expenses, losses, and other deductions properly allocable to such items of income from its United States business. To the extent not inconsistent with the provisions of this paragraph, section 818(a), and section 819(b), all computations entering into the determination of taxes imposed by part I shall be made in a manner consistent with the manner required for purposes of the annual statement approved by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners.
