
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### miscellaneous provisions
###### ยง 1.819-2 Foreign life insurance companies.
####### Manner and effect of election.

(4)(i) The election provided by section 819(c)(1) shall be made in a statement attached to the foreign life insurance company's income tax return for any taxable year for which the company desires the election to apply. The return and statement must be filed not later than the date prescribed by law (including extensions thereof) for filing the return for such taxable year. The statement shall indicate the method elected, the name and address of the taxpayer, and shall be signed by the taxpayer (or his duly authorized representative).

(ii) An election made under section 819(c)(1) and this paragraph shall be effective only with respect to the taxable year for which the election is made. Thus, the company must make a new election for each taxable year for which it desires the election to apply. Once such election has been made for any taxable year it may not be revoked. However, for taxable years beginning prior to April 4, 1961, a company may revoke the election provided by section 819(c)(1) without obtaining consent from the Commissioner by filing, before July 4, 1961, a statement that the company desires to revoke such election. An amended return reflecting such revocation and the selection of the other percentage must accompany the statement for all taxable years for which returns have been filed with respect to such election.
