
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Mutual Insurance Companies (Other Than Life and Certain Marine Insurance Companies and Other Than Fire or Flood Insurance Companies Which Operate on Basis of Perpetual Policies or Premium Deposits)
###### ยง 1.822-8 Determination of taxable investment income.
####### In general,Taxable investment income defined.

(a)-(1)(i)Section 822(a)(1) defines the term "taxable investment income" for purposes of part II, subchapter L, chapter 1 of the Code as the gross investment income (as defined in section 822(b) and paragraph (b) of this section), less the deductions provided in section 822(c) and paragraph (c) of this section for wholly tax-exempt interest, investment expenses, real estate expenses, depreciation, interest paid or accrued, capital losses, special deductions, trade or business (other than an insurance business) expenses, and depletion. However, such expenses are deductible only to the extent that they relate to investment income and the deduction of such expenses is not disallowed by any other provision of subtitle A of the Code.

(ii) For example, investment expenses are not allowable unless they are ordinary and necessary expenses within the meaning of section 162. In addition to the limitations on deductions relating to real estate owned and occupied by a mutual insurance company subject to the tax imposed by section 821 provided in section 822(d)(1), the adjustment for amortization of premium and accrual of discount provided in section 822(d)(2), and the limitation on the deduction for investment expenses where general expenses are allocated to investment income provided in section 822(c)(2), mutual insurance companies subject to the tax imposed by section 821 (a) or (c) are subject to the limitation on deductions relating to wholly tax-exempt income provided in section 265. Such companies are not entitled to the net operating loss deduction provided in section 172. See, however, section 825 for unused loss deduction allowed companies taxable under section 821(a). A deduction shall not be permitted with respect to the same item more than once.
