
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Mutual Insurance Companies (Other Than Life and Certain Marine Insurance Companies and Other Than Fire or Flood Insurance Companies Which Operate on Basis of Perpetual Policies or Premium Deposits)
###### ยง 1.822-8 Determination of taxable investment income.
####### Investment expenses.

(2)(i) The deduction for investment expenses under section 822(c)(2) includes only those expenses of the taxable year which are fairly chargeable against gross investment income. For example, investment expenses include salaries and expenses paid exclusively for work in looking after investments, and amounts expended for printing, stationery, postage, and stenographic work incident to the collection of interest. An itemized schedule of such expenses shall be attached to the return.

(ii) Any assignment of general expenses to the investment department of a mutual insurance company subject to the tax imposed by section 821 (a) or (c) subjects the entire deduction for investment expenses to the limitation provided in section 822(c)(2) and subdivision (iii) of this subparagraph. As used in section 822(c)(2), the term "general expenses" means any expense paid or incurred for the benefit of more than one department of the company rather than for the benefit of a particular department thereof. For example, if an expense, such as a salary, is attributable to more than one department, including the investment department, such expense may be properly allocated among these departments. If such expense is allocated, the amount properly allocable to the investment department shall be deductible as general expenses assigned to or included in investment expenses and as such shall be subject to the limitation of section 822(c)(2) and subdivision (iii) of this subparagraph. However, a company subject to the tax imposed by section 821 (a) or (c) shall not deduct under section 822(c)(2) its real estate taxes, depreciation, or other expenses with respect to any portion of the real estate which it owns, irrespective of whether such items are properly allocable to its investment department. For the rules relating to the deductibility of these items, see section 822(c) (3) and (4) and subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this paragraph. If general expenses are in part assigned to or included in investment expenses, the maximum allowance (as determined under section 822(c)(2)) shall not be granted unless it is shown to the satisfaction of the district director that such allowance is justified by a reasonable assignment of actual expenses. The accounting procedure employed is not conclusive as to whether any assignment has in fact been made. Investment expenses do not include Federal income and excess profits taxes, if any.

(iii) If any general expenses are in part assigned to or included in investment expenses, the total deduction under section 822(c)(2) shall not exceed the sum of:
