
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Mutual Insurance Companies (Other Than Life and Certain Marine Insurance Companies and Other Than Fire or Flood Insurance Companies Which Operate on Basis of Perpetual Policies or Premium Deposits)
###### ยง 1.826-3 Attorney-in-fact of electing reciprocals.
####### Manner of making consent.

(a)Section 826(c)(2) provides that a reciprocal may not elect to be subject to the limitation provided by section 826(b) unless its attorney-in-fact consents to make certain information available. See paragraph (b) of this section. The attorney-in-fact of a reciprocal making the election provided by section 826(a) shall signify the consent required by section 826(c) in a statement attached to its income tax return for the first taxable year for which the reciprocal's election is to apply. Such statement shall include the name and address of the consenting taxpayer; the name and address of the reciprocal with respect to which such consent is to apply; shall be signed by the taxpayer (or its duly authorized representative); and shall be filed not later than the date prescribed by law (including extensions thereof) for filing the income tax return for the first taxable year for which such consent is to apply. In addition, such statement shall specify that the taxpayer is subject to the taxes imposed by section 11 (b) and (c); the method of accounting used in reporting income received from its reciprocal and the deductions allocable thereto; and that its return is filed on the calendar year basis. Consent, once given, shall be irrevocable for the period during which the election provided for the reciprocal by section 826(a) is in effect. See paragraph (e) of ยง 1.826-1.
