
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Other Insurance Companies
###### ยง 1.832-4 Gross income.
####### Effective date.

(12)Paragraphs (a)(3) through (a)(11) of this section are applicable with respect to the determination of premiums earned for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1999.

(13) In computing the amount of unabsorbed premium deposits which a mutual fire or flood insurance company described in section 831(a)(3)(B) would be obligated to return to its policyholders at the close of its taxable year, the company must use its own schedule of unabsorbed premium deposit returns then in effect. A copy of the applicable schedule must be filed with the company's income tax return for each taxable year for which a computation based upon such schedule is made. In addition, a taxpayer making such a computation must provide the following information for each taxable year for which the computation is made:

(i) The amount of gross premiums received during the taxable year, and the amount of premiums paid for reinsurance during the taxable year, on the policies described in section 831(a)(3)(B) and on other policies;

(ii) The amount of insurance written during the taxable year under the policies described in section 831(a)(3)(B) and under other policies, and the amount of such insurance written which was reinsured during the taxable year. The information required under this subdivision shall only be submitted upon the specific request of the district director for a statement setting forth such information, and, if required, such statement shall be filed in the manner provided by this subparagraph or in such other manner as is satisfactory to the district director;

(iii) The amount of premiums earned during the taxable year on the policies described in section 831(a)(3)(B) and on other policies and the computations by which such amounts were determined, including sufficient information to support the taxpayer's determination of the amount of unearned premiums on premium deposit plan and other policies at the beginning and end of the taxable year, and the amount of unabsorbed premium deposits at the beginning and end of the taxable year on policies described in section 831(a)(3)(B).

(14) In computing "losses incurred" the determination of unpaid losses at the close of each year must represent actual unpaid losses as nearly as it is possible to ascertain them.
