
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### REGULATED INVESTMENT COMPANIES AND REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS
###### ยง 1.851-2 Limitations.
####### Special rules.

(2)(i) For purposes of section 851(b)(2)(A) and paragraph (b)(1)(i)(A) of this section, amounts included in gross income for the taxable year under section 951(a)(1)(A) or 1293(a) are treated as dividends only to the extent that, under section 959(a)(1) or 1293(c) (as the case may be), there is a distribution out of the earnings and profits of the taxable year that are attributable to the amounts included in gross income for the taxable year under section 951(a)(1)(A) or 1293(a). For allocation of distributions to earnings and profits of foreign corporations, see ยง 1.959-3.

(ii) For purposes of subdivision (i) of this subparagraph, if by reason of section 959(a)(1) a distribution of a foreign corporation's earnings and profits for a taxable year described in section 959(c)(2) is not included in a shareholder's gross income, then such distribution shall be allocated proportionately between amounts attributable to amounts included under each clause of section 951(a)(1)(A). Thus, for example, M is a United States shareholder in X Corporation, a controlled foreign corporation. M and X each use the calendar year as the taxable year. For 1977, M is required by section 951(a)(1)(a) to include $3,000 in its gross income, $1,000 of which is included under clause (i) thereof. In 1977, M received a distribution described in section 959(c)(2) of $2,700 out of X's earnings and profits for 1977, which is, by reason of section 959(a)(1), excluded from M's gross income. The amount of the distribution attributable to the amount included under section 951(a)(1)(A)(i) is $900, i.e., $2,700 multiplied by ($1,000/$3,000).

(iii) If an amount is included in gross income of the corporation referred to in paragraph (b)(1) of this section under section 951(a)(1) or 1293(a) and is derived with respect to that corporation's business of investing in stock, securities, or currencies, then the amount is other income described in section 851(b)(2)(A) and paragraph (b)(1)(i)(F) of this section. Notwithstanding paragraph (d) of this section, a taxpayer may rely on the rule in this paragraph (b)(2)(iii) for taxable years that begin after September 28, 2016.
