
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### REGULATED INVESTMENT COMPANIES AND REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS
###### ยง 1.851-7 Certain unit investment trusts.
####### Treatment of holder of interest in unit investment trust.

(c)(1) Each holder of an interest in a unit investment trust shall be treated (to the extent of such interest) as owning a proportionate share of the assets of the trust. Accordingly, if the trust distributes to the holder of an interest in such trust his proportionate share of the trust assets in exchange for his interest in the trust, no gain or loss shall be recognized by such holder (or by any other holder of an interest in such trust). For purposes of this paragraph, each purchase of an interest in the trust by the holder will be considered a separate interest in the trust. Items of income, gain, loss, deduction, or credit received by the trust or a custodian thereof shall be taxed to the holders of interests in the trust (and not to the trust) as though they had received their proportionate share of the items directly on the date such items were received by the trust or custodian.

(2) The basis of the assets of such trust which are treated under subparagraph (1) of this paragraph as being owned by the holder of an interest in such trust shall be the same as the basis of his interest in such trust. Accordingly, the amount of the gain or loss recognized by the holder upon the sale by the unit investment trust of the holder's pro rata share of the trust assets shall be determined with reference the basis, of his interest in the trust. Also, the basis of the assets received by the holder, if the trust distributes a holder's pro rata share of the trust assets in exchange for his interest in the trust, will be the same as the basis of his interest in the trust. If the unit investment trust sells less than all of the holder's pro rata share of the trust assets and the holder retains an interest in the trust, the amount of the gain or loss recognized by the holder upon the sale shall be determined with reference to the basis of his interest in the assets sold by the trust, and the basis of his interest in the trust shall be reduced accordingly. If the trust distributes a portion of the holder's pro rata share of the trust assets in exchange for a portion of his interest in the trust, the basis of the assets received by the holder shall be determined with reference to the basis of his interest in the assets distributed by the trust, and the basis of his interest in the trust shall be reduced accordingly. For purposes of this subparagraph the basis of the holder's interest in assets sold by the trust or distributed to him shall be an amount which bears the same relationship to the basis of his total interest in the trust that the fair market value of the assets so sold or distributed bears to the fair market value of such total interest in the trust, such fair market value to be determined on the date of such sale or distribution.

(3) The period for which the holder of an interest in such trust has held the assets of the trust which are treated under subparagraph (1) of this paragraph as being owned by him is the same as the period for which such holder has held his interest in such trust. Accordingly, the character of the gain, loss, deduction, or credit recognized by the holder upon the sale by the unit investment trust of the holder's proportionate share of the trust assets shall be determined with reference to the period for which he has held his interest in the trust. Also, the holding period of the assets received by the holder if the trust distributes the holder's proportionate share of the trust assets in exchange for his interest in the trust will include the period for which the holder has held his interest in the trust.

(4) The application of the provisions of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following example:
