
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### REGULATED INVESTMENT COMPANIES AND REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS
###### ยง 1.852-4 Method of taxation of shareholders of regulated investment companies.
####### Shareholder of record custodian of certain unit investment trusts.

(2)In any case where a notice is mailed pursuant to subparagraph (1) of this paragraph by a regulated investment company with respect to a taxable year of the regulated investment company ending after December 8, 1970, to a shareholder of record who is a nominee acting as a custodian of a unit investment trust described in section 851(f)(1) and paragraph (d) of ยง 1.851-7, the nominee shall furnish each holder of an interest in such trust with a written notice mailed on or before the 55th day following the close of the regulated investment company's taxable year. The notice shall designate the holder's proportionate share of the capital gain dividend shown on the notice received by the nominee pursuant to subparagraph (1) of this paragraph. The notice shall include the name and address of the nominee identified as such. This subparagraph shall not apply if the regulated investment company agrees with the nominee to satisfy the notice requirements of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph with respect to each holder of an interest in the unit investment trust whose shares are being held by the nominee as custodian and, not later than 45 days following the close of the company's taxable year, files with the Internal Revenue Service office where the company's income tax return is to be filed for the taxable year, a statement that the holders of the unit investment trust with whom the agreement was made have been directly notified by the regulated investment company. Such statement shall include the name, sponsor, and custodian of each unit investment trust whose holders have been directly notified. The nominee's requirements under this paragraph shall be deemed met if the regulated investment company transmits a copy of such statement to the nominee within such 45-day period; provided however, if the regulated investment company fails or is unable to satisfy the requirements of this subparagraph with respect to the holders of interest in the unit investment trust, it shall so notify the Internal Revenue Service within 45 days following the close of its taxable year. The custodian shall, upon notice by the Internal Revenue Service that the regulated investment company has failed to comply with the agreement, satisfy the requirements of this subparagraph within 30 days of such notice. If a notice under paragraph (c)(1) of this section is mailed within the 120-day period following the date of a determination pursuant to paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section, the 120-day period and the 130-day period following the date of the determination shall be substituted for the 45-day period and the 55-day period following the close of the regulated investment company's taxable year prescribed by this subparagraph (2).
