
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### REGULATED INVESTMENT COMPANIES AND REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS
###### ยง 1.852-9 Special procedural requirements applicable to designation under section 852(b)(3)(D).
####### a,b

(iii) In determining under subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph the portion of the undistributed capital gains which, in the hands of the shareholder, is gain described in section 1201(d) (1) or (2), the company shall consider that capital gain dividends for a taxable year are made first from its long-term capital gains for such year which are not described in section 1201(d) (1) or (2), to the extent thereof, and then from its long-term capital gains for such year which are described in section 1201(d) (1) or (2). A shareholder's proportionate share of undistributed capital gains for a taxable year which is gain described in section 1201(d)(1) is the amount which bears the same ratio to the amount included in his income as designated undistributed capital gains for such year as () the aggregate amount of the company's gains for such year which are described in section 1201(d)(1) and designated as undistributed capital gains bears to () the aggregate amount of the company's gains for such year which are designated as undistributed capital gains. A shareholder's proportionate share of gains which are described in section 1201(d)(2) shall be determined in a similar manner. Every regulated investment company shall keep a record of the proportion of undistributed capital gains (to which this subdivision applies) which is gain described in section 1201(d) (1) or (2).

(iv) In the case of a designation of undistributed capital gains for any taxable year ending after December 31, 1969, and beginning before January 1, 1975, Form 2439 shall also show with respect to the undistributed capital gains of each shareholder the amount by which such shareholder's adjusted basis in his shares shall be increased under section 852(b)(3)(D)(iii). The amount by which each shareholders' adjusted basis in his shares shall be increased is the amount includible in his gross income with respect to such shares under section 852(b)(3)(D)(i) less the tax which the shareholder is deemed to have paid with respect to such shares. The tax which each shareholder is deemed to have paid with respect to such shares is the amount which bears the same ratio to the amount of the tax imposed by section 852(b)(3)(A) for such year with respect to the aggregate amount of the designated undistributed capital gains as the amount of such gains includible in the shareholder's gross income bears to the aggregate amount of such gains so designated.

(v) Form 2439 shall be prepared in triplicate, and copies B and C of the form shall be mailed to the shareholder on or before the 45th day (30th day for a taxable year ending before February 26, 1964) following the close of the company's taxable year. Copy A of each Form 2439 must be associated with the duplicate copy of the undistributed capital gains tax return of the company (Form 2438), as provided in subparagraph (2)(ii) of this paragraph.
