
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Real Estate Investment Trusts
###### ยง 1.856-2 Limitations.
####### Determination of investment status.

(3)The term "total assets" means the gross assets of the trust determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. In order to determine the effect, if any, which an acquisition of any security or other property may have with respect to the status of a trust as a real estate investment trust, section 856(c)(5) requires a revaluation of the trust's assets at the end of the quarter in which such acquisition was made. A revaluation of assets is not required at the end of any quarter during which there has been no acquisition of a security or other property since the mere change in market value of property held by the trust does not, of itself, affect the status of the trust as a real estate investment trust. A change in the nature of "cash items", for example, the prepayment of insurance or taxes, does not constitute the acquisition of "other property" for purposes of this subparagraph. A real estate investment trust shall keep sufficient records as to investments so as to be able to show that it has complied with the provisions of section 856(c)(5) during the taxable year. Such records shall be kept at all times available for inspection by any internal revenue officer or employee and shall be retained so long as the contents thereof may become material in the administration of any internal revenue law.
