
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Real Estate Investment Trusts
###### ยง 1.856-4 Rents from real property.
####### Amounts specifically included or excluded,Charges for customary services.

(b)-(1)For taxable years beginning after October 4, 1976, the term "rents from real property", for purposes of paragraphs (2) and (3) of section 856(c), includes charges for services customarily furnished or rendered in connection with the rental of real property, whether or not the charges are separately stated. Services furnished to the tenants of a particular building will be considered as customary if, in the geographic market in which the building is located, tenants in buildings which are of a similar class (such as luxury apartment buildings) are customarily provided with the service. The furnishing of water, heat, light, and air-conditioning, the cleaning of windows, public entrances, exits, and lobbies, the performance of general maintenance and of janitorial and cleaning services, the collection of trash, and the furnishing of elevator services, telephone answering services, incidental storage space, laundry equipment, watchman or guard services, parking facilities, and swimming pool facilities are examples of services which are customarily furnished to the tenants of a particular class of buildings in many geographic marketing areas. Where it is customary, in a particular geographic marketing area, to furnish electricity or other utilities to tenants in buildings of a particular class, the submetering of such utilities to tenants in such buildings will be considered a customary service. To qualify as a service customarily furnished, the service must be furnished or rendered to the tenants of the real estate investment trust or, primarily for the convenience or benefit of the tenant, to the guests, customers, or subtenants of the tenant. The service must be furnished through an independent contractor from whom the trust does not derive or receive any income. See paragraph (b)(5) of this section. For taxable years beginning before October 5, 1976, the rules in paragraph (b)(3) of 26 CFR 1.856-4 (revised as of April 1, 1977), relating to the furnishing of services, shall continue to apply.
