
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Real Estate Investment Trusts
###### ยง 1.856-4 Rents from real property.
####### Disqualification of amounts received from persons owned in whole or in part by the trust.

(4)"Rents from real property" does not include any amount received or accrued, directly or indirectly, from any person in which the real estate investment trust owns, at any time during the taxable year, the specified percentage or number of shares of stock (or interest in the assets or net profits) of that person. Any amount received from such person will not qualify as "rents from real property" if such person is a corporation and the trust owns 10 percent or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of its stock entitled to vote or 10 percent or more of the total number of shares of all classes of its outstanding stock, or if such person is not a corporation and the trust owns a 10-percent-or-more interest in its assets or net profits. For example, a trust leases an office building to a tenant for which it receives rent of $100,000 for the taxable year 1962. The lessee of the building subleases space to various subtenants for which it receives gross rent of $500,000 for the year 1962. The trust owns 15 percent of the total assets of an unincorporated subtenant. The rent paid by this subtenant for the taxable year is $50,000. Therefore, $10,000 (50,000/500,000 x $100,000) of the rent paid to the trust does not qualify as "rents from real property". Where the real estate investment trust receives, directly or indirectly, any amount of rent from any person in which it owns any proprietary interest, the trust shall submit, at the time it files its return for the taxable year (or before June 1, 1962, whichever is later), a schedule setting forth-

(i) The name and address of such person and the amount received as rent from such person; and

(ii) If such person is a corporation, the highest percentage of the total combined voting power of all classes of its stock entitled to vote, and the highest percentage of the total number of shares of all classes of its outstanding stock, owned by the trust at any time during the trust's taxable year; or

(iii) If such person is not a corporation, the highest percentage of the trust's interest in the assets or net profits of such person, owned by the trust at any time during its taxable year.
