
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Real Estate Investment Trusts
###### ยง 1.856-4 Rents from real property.
####### Disqualification of rent which depends on income or profits of any person.

(3)Except as provided in paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section, no amount received or accrued, directly or indirectly, with respect to any real property (or personal property leased under, or in connection with, real property) qualifies as "rents from real property" where the determination of the amount depends in whole or in part on the income or profits derived by any person from the property. However, any amount so accrued or received shall not be excluded from the term "rents from real property" solely by reason of being based on a fixed percentage or percentages of receipts or sales (whether or not receipts or sales are adjusted for returned merchandise, or Federal, State, or local sales taxes). Thus, for example, "rents from real property" would include rents where the lease provides for differing percentages or receipts or sales from different departments or from separate floors of a retail store so long as each percentage is fixed at the time of entering into the lease and a change in such percentage is not renegotiated during the term of the lease (including any renewal periods of the lease, in a manner which has the effect of basing the rent on income of profits. See paragraph (b)(6) of this section for rules relating to certain amounts received or accrued by a trust which are considered to be based on the income or profits of a sublessee of the prime tenant. The amount received or accrued as rent for the taxable year which is based on a fixed percentage or percentages of the lessee's receipts or sales reduced by escalation receipts (including those determined under a formula clause) will qualify as "rents from real property". Escalation receipts include amounts received by a prime tenant from subtenants by reason of an agreement that rent shall be increased to reflect all or a portion of an increase in real estate taxes, property insurance, operating costs of the prime tenant, or similar items customarily included in lease escalation clauses. Where in accordance with the terms of an agreement an amount received or accrued as rent for the taxable year includes both a fixed rental and a percentage of all or a portion of the lessee's income or profits, neither the fixed rental nor the additional amount will qualify as "rents from real property". However, where the amount received or accrued for the taxable year under such an agreement includes only the fixed rental, the determination of which does not depend in whole or in part on the income or profits derived by the lessee, such amount may qualify as "rents from real property". An amount received or accrued as rent for the taxable year which consists, in whole or in part, of one or more percentages of the lessee's receipts or sales in excess of determinable dollar amounts may qualify as "rents from real property", but only if two conditions exist. First, the determinable amounts must not depend in whole or in part on the income or profits of the lessee. Second, the percentages and, in the case of leases entered into after July 7, 1978, the determinable amounts, must be fixed at the time the lease is entered into and a change in percentages and determinable amounts is not renegotiated during the term of the lease (including any renewal periods of the lease) in a manner which has the effect of basing rent on income or profits. In any event, an amount will not qualify as "rents from real property" if, considering the lease and all the surrounding circumstances, the arrangement does not conform with normal business practice but is in reality used as a means of basing the rent on income or profits. The provisions of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following example:
