
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Real Estate Investment Trusts
###### ยง 1.856-4 Rents from real property.
####### Furnishing of services or management of property must be through an independent contractor,In general.,i.e.,

(5)-(i)No amount received or accrued, directly or indirectly, with respect to any real property (or any personal property leased under, or in connection with, the real property) qualifies as "rents from real property" if the real estate investment trust furnishes or renders services to the tenants of the property or manages or operates the property, other than through an independent contractor from whom the trust itself does not derive or receive any income. The prohibition against the trust deriving or receiving any income from the independent contractor applies regardless of the source from which the income was derived by the independent contractor. Thus, for example, the trust may not receive any dividends from the independent contractor. The requirement that the trust not receive any income from an independent contractor requires that the relationship between the two be an arm's-length relationship. The independent contractor must be adequately compensated for any services which are performed for the trust. Compensation to an independent contractor determined by reference to an unadjusted percentage of gross rents will generally be considered to be adequate where the percentage is reasonable taking into account the going rate of compensation for managing similar property in the same locality, the services rendered, and other relevant factors. The independent contractor must not be an employee of the trust (the manner in which he carries out his duties as independent contractor must not be subject to the control of the trust). Although the cost of services which are customarily rendered or furnished in connection with the rental of real property may be borne by the trust, the services must be furnished or rendered through an independent contractor. Furthermore, the facilities through which the services are furnished must be maintained and operated by an independent contractor. For example, if a heating plant is located in the building, it must be maintained and operated by an independent contractor. To the extent that services (other than those customarily furnished or rendered in connection with the rental of real property) are rendered to the tenants of the property by the independent contractor, the cost of the services must be borne by the independent contractor, a separate charge must be made for the services, the amount of the separate charge must be received and retained by the independent contractor, and the independent contractor must be adequately compensated for the services.
