
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Real Estate Investment Trusts
###### ยง 1.856-4 Rents from real property.
####### Exception.

(ii)For taxable years beginning after October 4, 1976, section 856(d)(4) provides an exception to the general rule that amounts received or accrued, directly or indirectly, by a real estate investment trust do not qualify as rents from real property if the determination of the amount depends in whole or in part on the income or profits derived by any person from the property. This exception applies where the trust rents property to a tenant (the prime tenant) for a rental which is based, in whole or in part, on a fixed percentage or percentages of the receipts or sales of the prime tenant, and the rent which the trust receives or accrues from the prime tenant pursuant to the lease would not qualify as "rents from real property" solely because the prime tenant receives or accrues from subtenants (including concessionaires) rents or other amounts based on the income or profits derived by a person from the property. Under the exception, only a proportionate part of the rent received or accrued by the trust does not qualify as "rents from real property". The proportionate part of the rent received or accrued by the trust which is non-qualified is the lesser of the following two amounts:

(A) The rent received or accrued by the trust from the prime tenant pursuant to the lease, that is based on a fixed percentage or percentages of receipts or sales, or

(B) The product determined by multiplying the total rent which the trust receives or accrues from the prime tenant pursuant to the lease by a fraction, the numerator of which is the rent or other amount received by the prime tenant that is based, in whole or in part, on the income or profits derived by any person from the property, and the denominator of which is the total rent or other amount received by the prime tenant from the property. For example, assume that a real estate investment trust owns land underlying a shopping center. The trust rents the land to the owner of the shopping center for an annual rent of $10x plus 2 percent of the gross receipts which the prime tenant receives from subtenants who lease space in the shopping center. Assume further that, for the year in question, the prime tenant derives total rent from the shopping center of $100x and, of that amount, $25x is received from subtenants whose rent is based, in whole or in part, on the income or profits derived from the property. Accordingly, the trust will receive a total rent of $12x, of which $2x is based on a percentage of the gross receipts of the prime tenant. The portion of the rent which is disqualified is the lesser of $2x (the rent received by the trust which is based on a percentage of gross receipts), or $3x, ($12x multiplied by $25x/$100x). Accordingly, $10x of the rent received by the trust qualifies as "rents from real property" and $2x does not qualify.
