
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Real Estate Investment Trusts
###### ยง 1.856-5 Interest.
####### Loan value.

(2)For purposes of this paragraph, the loan value of the real property is the fair market value of the property, determined as of the date on which the commitment by the trust to make the loan becomes binding on the trust. In the case of a loan purchased by the trust, the loan value of the real property is the fair market value of the property, determined as of the date on which the commitment by the trust to purchase the loan becomes binding on the trust. However, in the case of a construction loan or other loan made for purposes of improving or developing real property, the loan value of the real property is the fair market value of the land plus the reasonably estimated cost of the improvements or developments (other than personal property) which will secure the loan and which are to be constructed from the proceeds of the loan. The fair market value of the land and the reasonably estimated cost of improvements or developments shall be determined as of the date on which a commitment to make the loan becomes binding on the trust. If the trust does not make the construction loan but commits itself to provide long-term financing following completion of construction, the loan value of the real property is determined by using the principles for determining the loan value for a construction loan. Moreover, if the mortgage on the real property is given as additional security (or as a substitute for other security) for the loan after the trust's commitment is binding, the real property loan value is its fair market value when it becomes security for the loan (or, if earlier, when the borrower makes a binding commitment to add or substitute the property as security).
