
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Real Estate Investment Trusts
###### ยง 1.856-6 Foreclosure property.
####### Property eligible for the election,Rules relating to acquisitions.

(b)-(1)In general, the trust must acquire the property after December 31, 1973, as the result of having bid in the property at foreclosure, or having otherwise reduced the property to ownership or possession by agreement or process of law, after there was default (or default was imminent) on a lease of the property (where the trust was the lessor) or on an indebtedness owed to the trust which the property secured. Foreclosure property which secured an indebtedness owed to the trust is acquired for purposes of section 856(e) on the date on which the trust acquires ownership of the property for Federal income tax purposes. Foreclosure property which a trust owned and leased to another is acquired for purposes of section 856(e) on the date on which the trust acquires possession of the property from its lessee. A trust will not be considered to have acquired ownership of property for purposes of section 856(e) where it takes control of the property as a mortgagee-in-possession and cannot receive any profit or sustain any loss with respect to the property except as a creditor of the mortgagor. A trust may be considered to have acquired ownership of property for purposes of section 856(e) even through legal title to the property is held by another person. For example, where, upon foreclosure of a mortgage held by the trust, legal title to the property is acquired in the name of a nominee for the exclusive benefit of the trust and the trust is the equitable owner of the property, the trust will be considered to have acquired ownership of the property for purposes of section 856(e). Generally, the fact that under local law the mortgagor has a right of redemption after foreclosure is not relevant in determining whether the trust has acquired ownership of the property for purposes of section 856(e). Property is not ineligible for the election solely because the property, in addition to securing an indebtedness owed to the trust, also secures debts owed to other creditors. Property eligible for the election includes a building or other improvement which has been constructed on land owned by the trust and which is acquired by the trust upon default of a lease of the land.
