
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Definition of Gross Income, Adjusted Gross Income, and Taxable Income
###### ยง 1.61-5 Allocations by cooperative associations; per-unit retain certificates - tax treatment as to cooperatives and patrons.
####### c

() Which clearly states the fact that the patron has agreed to treat the stated dollar amount thereof as representing a cash distribution to him which he has reinvested in the cooperative association.

(ii) No amount shall be taken into account by a cooperative association by reason of the issuance of a per-unit retain certificate to a patron who was not a qualifying patron with respect to such certificate. However, any amount paid in redemption of a per-unit retain certificate which was issued to a patron who was not a qualifying patron with respect to such certificate shall be taken into account by the cooperative in the year of redemption, as an amount paid or returned to such patron with respect to products marketed for him. This subdivision shall apply only to per-unit retain certificates issued with respect to taxable years of the cooperative association to which this paragraph applied to the association (that is, taxable years with respect to which per-unit retain certificates were issued to one or more patrons who are qualifying patrons).

(2)(i) A patron shall be considered to be a "qualifying patron" with respect to a per-unit retain certificate if there is in effect an agreement between the cooperative association and such patron which clearly provides that such patron agrees to treat the stated dollar amounts of all per-unit retain certificates issued to him by the association as representing cash distributions which he has constructively received and which he has, of his own choice, reinvested in the cooperative association. Such an agreement may be included in a by-law of the cooperative which is adopted prior to the time the products to which the per-unit retain certificates relate are marketed. However, except where there is in effect a "written agreement" described in subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph, a patron shall not be considered to be a "qualifying patron" with respect to a per-unit retain certificate if it has been established by a determination of the Tax Court of the United States, or any other court of competent jurisdiction, which has become final, that the stated dollar amount of such certificate, or of a similar certificate issued under similar circumstances to such patron or any other patron by the cooperative association, is not required to be included (as ordinary income) in the gross income of such patron, or such other patron, for the taxable year of the patron in which received.

(ii) The "written agreement" referred to in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph is an agreement in writing, signed by the patron, on file with the cooperative association, and revocable as provided in this subdivision. Unless such an agreement specifically provides to the contrary, it shall be effective for per-unit retain certificates issued with respect to the taxable year of the cooperative association in which the agreement is received by the association, and unless revoked, for per-unit retain certificates issued with respect to all subsequent taxable years. A "written agreement" must be revocable by the patron at any time after the close of the taxable year in which it is made. To be effective, a revocation must be in writing, signed by the patron, and furnished to the cooperative association. A revocation shall be effective only for per-unit retain certificates issued with respect to taxable years of the cooperative association following the taxable year in which it is furnished to the association. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, a revocation shall not be effective for per-unit retain certificates issued with respect to products marketed for the patron under a pooling arrangement in which such patron participated before such revocation. The following is an example of an agreement which would meet the requirements of this subparagraph:

(3) For purposes of this paragraph and paragraph (e) of this section, the payment period for any taxable year of the cooperative is the period beginning with the first day of such taxable year and ending with the 15th day of the 9th month following the close of such year.

(4) This paragraph shall apply to any taxable year of a cooperative association if, with respect to such taxable year, the association has issued per-unit retain certificates to one or more of its patrons who are qualifying patrons with respect to such certificates within the meaning of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph.
