
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Real Estate Investment Trusts
###### ยง 1.856-5 Interest.
####### Exception.

(d)Section 856(f)(2) provides an exception to the general rule that amounts received, directly or indirectly, with respect to an obligation do not qualify as "interest" where the determination of the amounts depends in whole or in part on the income or profits of any person. The exception applies where the trust receives or accrues, with respect to the obligation of its debtor, an amount that is based in whole or in part on a fixed percentage or percentages of receipts or sales of the debtor, and the amount would not qualify as interest solely because the debtor has receipts or sale proceeds that are based on the income or profits of any person. Under this exception only a proportionate part of the amount received or accrued by the trust fails to qualify as interest for purposes of the percentage-of-income requirements of section 856(c) (2) and (3). The proportionate part of the amount received or accrued by the trust that is non-qualified is the lesser of the following two amounts:

(1) The amount received or accrued by the trust from the debtor with respect to the obligation that is based on a fixed percentage or percentages of receipts or sales, or

(2) The product determined by multiplying by a fraction the total amount received or accrued by the trust from the debtor with respect to the obligation. The numerator of the fraction is the amount of receipts or sales of the debtor that is based, in whole or in part, on the income or profits of any person and the denominator is the total amount of the receipts or sales of the debtor. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the only receipts or sales to be taken into account are those taken into account in determining the payment to the trust pursuant to the loan agreement.
