
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Real Estate Investment Trusts
###### ยง 1.856-7 Certain corporations, etc., that are considered to meet the gross income requirements.
####### Application of section 856(c)(7) to taxable years beginning before October 5, 1976.

(d)Pursuant to section 1608(b) of the Tax Reform Act of 1976, paragraph (7) of section 856(c) and this section apply to a taxable year of a real estate investment trust which begins before October 5, 1976, only if as the result of a determination occurring after October 4, 1976, the trust does not meet the requirements of paragraph (2) or (3) of section 856(c), or both paragraphs, as in effect for the taxable year. The requirement that the schedule described in subparagraph (A) of section 856(c)(7) be attached to the income tax return of a real estate investment trust in order for section 856(c)(7) to apply is not applicable to taxable years beginning before October 5, 1976. For purposes of section 1608(b) of the Tax Reform Act of 1976 and this paragraph, the rules relating to determinations prescribed in section 860(e) and ยง 1.860-2(b)(1) (other than the second, third, and last sentences of ยง 1.860-2(b)(1)(ii)) shall apply. However, a determination consisting of an agreement between the taxpayer and the district director (or other official to whom authority to sign the agreement is delegated) shall set forth the amount of gross income for the taxable year to which the determination applies, the amount of the 90 percent and 75 percent source-of-income requirements for the taxable year to which the determination applies, and the amount by which the real estate investment trust failed to meet either or both of the requirements. The agreement shall also set forth the amount of tax for which the trust is liable pursuant to section 857(b)(5). The agreement shall also contain a finding as to whether the failure to meet the requirements of paragraph (2) or (3) of section 856(c) (or of both paragraphs) was due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect.
