
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Real Estate Investment Trusts
###### ยง 1.856-8 Revocation or termination of election.
####### Exceptions.

(d)Section 856(g)(4) provides an exception to the general rule of section 856(g)(3) that the termination of an election to be a real estate investment trust disqualifies the corporation, trust, or association from making a new election for the 4 taxable years following the first taxable year for which the termination is effective. This exception applies where the corporation, trust, or association meets the requirements of section 856(g)(4)(A), (B) and (C) (relating to the timely filing of a return, the absence of fraud, and reasonable cause, respectively) for the taxable year with respect to which the termination of election occurs. In order to meet the requirements of section 856(g)(4)(C), the corporation, trust, or association must establish, to the satisfaction of the district director for the internal revenue district in which the corporation, trust, or association maintains its principal place of business or principal office or agency, that its failure to be a qualified real estate investment trust for the taxable year in question was due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect. The principles of ยง 1.856-7(c) (including the principles relating to expert advice) will apply in determining whether, for purposes of section 856(g)(4), the failure of a corporation, trust, or association to be a qualified real estate investment trust for a taxable year was due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect. Thus, for example, the corporation, trust, or association must exercise ordinary business care and prudence in attempting to meet the status conditions of section 856(a) and the distribution and recordkeeping requirements of section 857(a), as well as the gross income requirements of section 856(c). The provisions of section 856(g)(4) do not apply to a taxable year in which the corporation, trust, or association makes a valid revocation, under section 856(g)(2), of an election to be a real estate investment trust.
