
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Real Estate Investment Trusts
###### ยง 1.857-6 Method of taxation of shareholders of real estate investment trusts.
####### Definition of capital gain dividend.

(e)(1)(i) A capital gain dividend, as defined in section 857(b)(3)(C), is any dividend or part thereof which is designated by a real estate investment trust as a capital gain dividend in a written notice mailed to its shareholders within the period specified in section 857(b)(3)(C) and paragraph (f) of this section. If the aggregate amount so designated with respect to the taxable year (including capital gain dividends paid after the close of the taxable year pursuant to an election under section 858) is greater than the net capital gain of the taxable year, the portion of each distribution which shall be a capital gain dividend shall be only that proportion of the amount so designated which such excess of the net long-term capital gain over the net short-term capital loss bears to the aggregate of the amount so designated. For example, a real estate investment trust making its return on the calendar year basis advised its shareholders by written notice mailed December 30, 1961, that $200,000 of a distribution of $500,000 made December 15, 1961, constituted a capital gain dividend, amounting to $2 per share. It was later discovered that an error had been made in determining the net capital gain of the taxable year and the net capital gain was $100,000 instead of $200,000. In such case, each shareholder would have received a capital gain dividend of $1 per share instead of $2 per share.

(ii) For purposes of section 857(b)(3)(C) and this paragraph, the net capital gain for a taxable year ending after October 4, 1976, is deemed not to exceed the real estate investment trust taxable income determined by taking into account the net operating loss deduction for the taxable year but not the deduction for dividends paid. See example 2 in ยง 1.172-5(a)(4).

(2) In the case of capital gain dividends designated with respect to any taxable year of a real estate investment trust ending after December 31, 1969, and beginning before January 1, 1975 (including capital gain dividends paid after the close of the taxable year pursuant to an election under section 858), the real estate investment trust must include in its written notice designating the capital gain dividend a statement showing the shareholder's proportionate share of such dividend which is gain described in section 1201(d)(1) and his proportionate share of such dividend which is gain described in section 1201(d)(2). In determining the portion of the capital gain dividend which, in the hands of a shareholder, is gain described in section 1201(d) (1) or (2), the real estate investment trust shall consider that capital gain dividends for a taxable year are first made from its long-term capital gains which are not described in section 1201(d) (1) or (2), to the extent thereof, and then from its long-term capital gains for such year which are described in section 1201(d) (1) or (2). A shareholder's proportionate share of gains which are described in section 1201(d)(1) is the amount which bears the same ratio to the amount paid to him as a capital gain dividend in respect of such year as (i) the aggregate amount of the trust's gains which are described in section 1201(d)(1) and paid to all shareholders bears to (ii) the aggregate amount of the capital gain dividend paid to all shareholders in respect of such year. A shareholder's proportionate share of gains which are described in section 1201(d)(2) shall be determined in a similar manner. Every real estate investment trust shall keep a record of the proportion of each capital gain divided (to which this subparagraph applies) which is gain described in section 1201(d) (1) or (2).
