
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Real Estate Investment Trusts
###### ยง 1.860-2 Requirements for deficiency dividends.
####### Nature and amount of distribution.

(3)(i) The deficiency dividend must be a distribution of property (including money) that would have been properly taken into account in computing the dividends paid deduction under section 561 for the taxable year for which tax liability resulting from the determination exists if the property had been distributed during that year. Thus, if the distribution would have been a dividend under section 316(a) if it had been made during the taxable year for which the determination applies, and the distribution may qualify under sections 316(b)(3), 562(a), and 860(f)(1), even though the distributing corporation, trust, or association has no current or accumulated earnings and profits for the taxable year in which the distribution is actually made. The amount of the distribution is determined under section 301 as of the date of the distribution.

(ii) The qualified investment entity does not have to distribute the full amount of the adjustment in order to pay a deficiency dividend. For example, assume that in 1983 a determination with respect to a calendar year regulated investment company results in an increase of $100 in investment company taxable income (computed without the dividends paid deduction) for 1981 and no other change. The regulated investment company may choose to pay a deficiency dividend of $100 or of any lesser amount and be allowed a dividends paid deduction for 1981 for the amount of that deficiency dividend.
