
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Real Estate Investment Trusts
###### ยง 1.860-2 Requirements for deficiency dividends.
####### Determination and claim for deduction,Determination.

(b)-(1)For purposes of applying section 860(e), the following rules apply:

(i) The date of determination by a decision of the United States Tax Court, the date upon which a judgment of a court becomes final, and the date of determination by a closing agreement shall be determined under the rules in ยง 1.547-2(b)(1) (ii), (iii), and (iv).

(ii) A determination under section 860(e)(3) may be made by an agreement signed by the district director or another official to whom authority to sign the agreement is delegated, and by or on behalf of the taxpayer. The agreement shall set forth the amount, if any, of each adjustment described in subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of section 860(d) (1) or (2) (as appropriate) for the taxable year and the amount of the liability for any tax imposed by section 11(a), 56(a), 852(b)(1), 852(b)(3)(A), 857(b)(1), 857(b)(3)(A), or 1201(a) for the taxable year. The agreement shall also set forth the amount of the limitation (determined under section 860(f)(2)) on the amount of deficiency dividends that can qualify as capital gain dividends and ordinary dividends, respectively, for the taxable year. An agreement under this subdivision (ii) which is signed by the district director (or other delegate) shall be sent to the taxpayer at its last known address by either registered or certified mail. For further guidance regarding the definition of last known address, see ยง 301.6212-2 of this chapter. If registered mail is used, the date of registration is the date of determination. If certified mail is used, the date of the postmark on the sender's receipt is the date of determination. However, if a dividend is paid by the taxpayer before the registration or postmark date, but on or after the date the agreement is signed by the district director (or other delegate), the date of determination is the date of signing.
