
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Definition of Gross Income, Adjusted Gross Income, and Taxable Income
###### ยง 1.61-7 Interest.
####### Bonds sold between interest dates; amounts received in excess of original issue discount; interest on life insurance.

(d)When bonds are sold between interest dates, part of the sales price represents interest accrued to the date of the sale and must be reported as interest income. Amounts received in excess of the original issue discount upon the retirement or sale of a bond or other evidence of indebtedness may under some circumstances constitute capital gain instead of ordinary income. See section 1232 and the regulations thereunder. Interest payments on amounts payable as employees' death benefits (whether or not section 101(b) applies thereto) and on the proceeds of life insurance policies payable by reason of the insured's death constitute gross income under some circumstances. See section 101 and the regulations thereunder for details. Where accrued interest on unwithdrawn insurance policy dividends is credited annually and is subject to withdrawal annually by the taxpayer, such interest credits constitute gross income to such taxpayer as of the year of credit. However, if under the terms of the insurance policy the interest on unwithdrawn policy dividends is subject to withdrawal only on the anniversary date of the policy (or some other date specified therein), then such interest shall constitute gross income to the taxpayer for the taxable year in which such anniversary date (or other specified date) falls.
