
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Real Estate Investment Trusts
###### ยง 1.860G-2 Other rules.
####### Test for determining whether an obligation continues to be principally secured following certain types of modifications.

(7)(i) For purposes of paragraphs (a)(8)(i), (b)(3)(v), and (b)(3)(vi) of this section, the obligation continues to be principally secured by an interest in real property following the modification only if, as of the date of the modification, the obligation satisfies either paragraph (b)(7)(ii) or paragraph (b)(7)(iii) of this section.

(ii) The fair market value of the interest in real property securing the obligation, determined as of the date of the modification, must be at least 80 percent of the adjusted issue price of the modified obligation, determined as of the date of the modification. If, as of the date of the modification, the servicer reasonably believes that the obligation satisfies the criterion in the preceding sentence, then the obligation is deemed to do so. A reasonable belief does not exist if the servicer actually knows, or has reason to know, that the criterion is not satisfied. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(7)(ii), a servicer must base a reasonable belief on-

(A) A current appraisal performed by an independent appraiser;

(B) An appraisal that was obtained in connection with the origination of the obligation and, if appropriate, that has been updated for the passage of time and for any other changes that might affect the value of the interest in real property;

(C) The sales price of the interest in real property in the case of a substantially contemporary sale in which the buyer assumes the seller's obligations under the mortgage; or

(D) Some other commercially reasonable valuation method.

(iii) If paragraph (b)(7)(ii) of this section is not satisfied, the fair market value of the interest in real property that secures the obligation immediately after the modification must equal or exceed the fair market value of the interest in real property that secured the obligation immediately before the modification. The criterion in the preceding sentence must be established by a current appraisal, an original (and updated) appraisal, or some other commercially reasonable valuation method; and the servicer must not actually know, or have reason to know, that the criterion in the preceding sentence is not satisfied.
