
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Determination of Sources of Income
###### ยง 1.861-4 Compensation for labor or personal services.
####### Time basis.

(E)The amount of compensation for labor or personal services performed within the United States determined on a time basis is the amount that bears the same relation to the individual's total compensation as the number of days of performance of the labor or personal services by the individual within the United States bears to his or her total number of days of performance of labor or personal services. A unit of time less than a day may be appropriate for purposes of this calculation. The time period for which the compensation for labor or personal services is made is presumed to be the calendar year in which the labor or personal services are performed, unless the taxpayer establishes to the satisfaction of the Commissioner, or the Commissioner determines, that another distinct, separate, and continuous period of time is more appropriate. For example, a transfer during a year from a position in the United States to a foreign posting that lasted through the end of that year would generally establish two separate time periods within that taxable year. The first of these time periods would be the portion of the year preceding the start of the foreign posting, and the second of these time periods would be the portion of the year following the start of the foreign posting. However, in the case of a foreign posting that requires short-term returns to the United States to perform services for the employer, such short-term returns would not be sufficient to establish distinct, separate, and continuous time periods within the foreign posting time period but would be relevant to the allocation of compensation relating to the overall time period. In each case, the source of the compensation on a time basis is based upon the number of days (or unit of time less than a day, if appropriate) in that separate time period.
