
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Determination of Sources of Income
###### § 1.861-8 Computation of taxable income from sources within the United States and from other sources and activities.
####### Stewardship expenses,In general.

(ii)-(A)Stewardship expenses are those expenses resulting from "duplicative activities" (as defined in § 1.482-9(l)(3)(iii)) or "shareholder activities" (as defined in § 1.482-9(l)(3)(iv)) that are undertaken for a person's own benefit as an investor in a related entity, which for purposes of this paragraph (e)(4)(ii) includes a business entity as described in § 301.7701-2(a) of this chapter that is classified for Federal income tax purposes as either a corporation or a partnership, or is disregarded as an entity separate from its owner ("disregarded entity"). Thus, for example, stewardship expenses include expenses of an activity the sole effect of which is to protect the investor's capital investment in the entity or to facilitate compliance by the investor with reporting, legal, or regulatory requirements applicable specifically to the investor. If an investor has a foreign or international department which exercises oversight functions with respect to related entities and, in addition, the department performs other functions that generate other foreign-source income (such as fees for services rendered outside of the United States for the benefit of foreign related corporations or foreign-source royalties), some part of the deductions with respect to that department are considered definitely related to the other foreign-source income. In some instances, the operations of a foreign or international department will also generate U.S. source income (such as fees for services performed in the United States). Stewardship expenses are allocated and apportioned on a separate entity basis without regard to the affiliated group rules in § 1.861-14. See § 1.861-14(e)(1)(i).
