
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Determination of Sources of Income
###### ยง 1.861-8 Computation of taxable income from sources within the United States and from other sources and activities.
####### 2,Example 2,i,Facts.

()-()U.S.C. is a domestic life insurance company that has $300x of gross income consisting of $10x of foreign source general category income and $200x of U.S. source general category dividend income eligible for the 50% dividends received deduction (DRD) under section 243(a)(1). Under section 805(a)(4)(A)(ii), U.S.C. is allowed a 50% DRD on the company's share of the dividend received. Under section 812(a), the company's share of the dividend is equal to 70% of the dividend income eligible for the DRD under section 243(a)(1), which results in a DRD of $70x (50% x 70% x $200), and under section 812(b), the policyholder's share of the dividend is equal to 30% of the dividend income eligible for the DRD under section 243(a)(1), which would result in a DRD of $30x (50% x 30% x $200x). U.S.C. is entitled to a $130x deduction for an increase in its life insurance reserves under sections 803(a)(2) and 807(b). Unlike for tax-exempt interest income, there is no adjustment under section 807(b)(1)(B) to the reserve deduction for the policyholder's share of dividends that would be offset by the DRD under section 243(a)(1). U.S.C. has no other income or deductions.
