
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Determination of Sources of Income
###### § 1.861-8 Computation of taxable income from sources within the United States and from other sources and activities.
####### Apportionment.

(C)Stewardship expenses must be apportioned between the statutory and residual groupings based on the relative values of the entity or entities in each grouping that are owned by the investor taxpayer, and without regard to the relative amounts of gross income in the statutory and residual groupings to which the stewardship expense is allocated. In the case of stewardship expenses incurred to oversee a lower-tier entity owned indirectly by the taxpayer, the stewardship expenses must be apportioned based on the relative values of the owner or owners of the lower-tier entity that are owned directly by the taxpayer. In the case of stewardship expenses incurred to oversee a corporation, the corporation's value is the value of its stock as determined and characterized under the asset method in § 1.861-9 (and, as relevant, §§ 1.861-12 and 1.861-13) for purposes of allocating and apportioning the taxpayer's interest expense. For purposes of the preceding sentence, if the corporation is a member of the same affiliated group as the investor, the value of the corporation's stock is determined under the asset method in § 1.861-9 and is characterized by the investor in proportion to how the corporation's assets are characterized for purposes of apportioning the group's interest expense. In the case of stewardship expenses incurred to oversee a partnership, the partnership's value is determined and characterized under the asset method in § 1.861-9 (taking into account any adjustments under sections 734(b) and 743(b)). In the case of stewardship expenses incurred to oversee a disregarded entity, the disregarded entity's character and value is determined using the principles of the asset method in § 1.861-9 as if the disregarded entity were treated as a corporation for Federal income tax purposes. For purposes of determining the tax book value of assets under this paragraph (e)(4)(ii)(C), section 864(e)(3) and § 1.861-8(d)(2) do not apply.
