
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Determination of Sources of Income
###### ยง 1.861-8 Computation of taxable income from sources within the United States and from other sources and activities.
####### Net operating loss deduction,Components of net operating loss.

(8)-(i)A net operating loss is separated into components that are assigned to statutory or residual groupings by reference to the losses in each such statutory or residual grouping that are not allocated to reduce income in other groupings in the taxable year of the loss. For example, for purposes of applying this paragraph (e)(8)(i) with respect to section 904 as the operative section, the source and separate category components of a net operating loss are determined by reference to the amounts of separate limitation loss and U.S. source loss (determined without regard to adjustments required under section 904(b)) that are not allocated to reduce U.S. source income or income in other separate categories under the rules of sections 904(f) and 904(g) for the taxable year in which the net operating loss arose. See ยง 1.904(g)-3(d)(2). See ยง 1.1502-4 for rules applicable in computing the foreign tax credit limitation and determining the source and separate category of a net operating loss of a consolidated group. Similarly, for purposes of applying this paragraph (e)(8)(i) with respect to another operative section (as described in ยง 1.861-8(f)(1)), a net operating loss is divided into component parts based on the amounts of the deductions that are assigned to the relevant statutory and residual groupings and that are not absorbed in the taxable year in which the loss is incurred under the rules of that operative section. Deductions that are considered absorbed for purposes of an operative section may differ from the deductions that are considered absorbed for purposes of another provision of the Code that requires determining the components of a net operating loss.
