
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Determination of Sources of Income
###### ยง 1.861-8 Computation of taxable income from sources within the United States and from other sources and activities.
####### Example 15: Payment in settlement of claim for damages allocated to specific class of gross income,Facts.

(15)-(i)USP, a domestic corporation, sells Product A in the United States. USP also owns and operates a disregarded entity (FDE) in Country X. FDE, which constitutes a foreign branch of USP within the meaning of ยง 1.904-4(f)(3)(vii), sells Product A inventory in Country X. FDE's functional currency is the U.S. dollar. In each of its taxable years from 2018 through 2020, USP earns $2,000x of U.S. source gross income from sales of Product A to customers in the United States. USP also sells Product A to FDE for an arm's length price and FDE sells Product A to customers in Country X. After the application of section 862(a)(6), ยง 1.861-7(c), and the disregarded payment rules of ยง 1.904-4(f)(2)(vi), the sales of Product A in Country X result in $1,500x of general category foreign source gross income and $500x of foreign branch category foreign source gross income in each of 2018 and 2019 and $2,500x of general category foreign source gross income and $500x of foreign branch category foreign source gross income in 2020. FDE is sued for damages in 2019 after Product A harms a customer in Country X in 2018. In 2020, FDE makes a deductible payment of $60x to the Country X customer in settlement of the legal claims for damages.
