
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Determination of Sources of Income
###### ยง 1.861-8 Computation of taxable income from sources within the United States and from other sources and activities.
####### 4,2

() USP's deduction of $540x for the Department's stewardship expenses which are allocable to dividends and amounts included from the subsidiaries are apportioned using the same value of USP's stock in USSub, CFC1, CFC2, and CFC3 that is used for purposes of allocating and apportioning USP's interest expense. Pursuant to paragraph (e)(4)(ii)(A) of this section and ยง 1.861-14(e)(1)(i), the value of USP's stock in USSub is included for purposes of apportioning USP's stewardship expense. The value of USSub's stock is $15,000x, and USSub only owns assets that generate income in the residual grouping of gross income from U.S. sources. Therefore, for purposes of apportioning USP's stewardship expense, all of the $15,000x value of the USSub stock is characterized as an asset generating U.S. source income. Although USSub stock would be eliminated from consideration as an asset under paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, for purposes of apportioning USP's stewardship expense section 864(e)(3) and paragraph (d)(2) of this section do not apply. USP uses the asset method described in ยง 1.861-12T(c)(3)(ii) to characterize the stock in its CFCs. After application of ยง 1.861-13(a), USP determines that with respect to its three CFCs in the aggregate it has $15,000x of section 951A category stock in the non-section 245A subgroup, $6,000x of general category stock in the section 245A subgroup, and $9,000x of passive category stock in the non-section 245A subgroup. Although under paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(C)() of this section $7,500x of the stock that is section 951A category stock is an exempt asset, for purposes of apportioning USP's stewardship expense section 864(e)(3) and paragraph (d)(2) of this section do not apply. Finally, even though USP may be allowed a section 245A deduction with respect to dividends from the CFCs, no portion of the value of the stock of the CFCs is eliminated, because the section 245A deduction does not create exempt income or result in the stock being treated as an exempt asset. See section 864(e)(3) and paragraph (d)(2)(iii)(C) of this section.
