
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Determination of Sources of Income
###### ยง 1.861-8 Computation of taxable income from sources within the United States and from other sources and activities.
####### USP Department expenses.

(B)USP's supervision department (the Department) incurs expenses of $1,500x. The Department is responsible for the supervision of its four subsidiaries and for rendering certain services to the subsidiaries, and the Department provides all the supportive functions necessary for USP's foreign activities. The Department performs three types of activities. First, the Department performs services that cost $900x outside the United States for the direct benefit of CFC2 for which a marked-up fee is paid by CFC2 to USP. Second, the Department provides services at a cost of $60x related to license agreements that USP maintains with subsidiaries CFC1 and CFC2 and which give rise to foreign source general category income to USP. Third, the Department performs activities described in ยง 1.482-9(l)(3)(iii) that are in the nature of shareholder oversight, that duplicate functions performed by all four of the subsidiaries' own employees, and that do not provide an additional benefit to the subsidiaries. For example, a team of auditors from USP's accounting department periodically audits the subsidiaries' books and prepares internal reports for use by USP's management. Similarly, USP's treasurer periodically reviews the subsidiaries' financial policies for the board of directors of USP. These activities do not provide an additional benefit to the related corporations. The Department's oversight activities are related to all the subsidiaries. The cost of the duplicative activities is $540x.
