
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Determination of Sources of Income
###### ยง 1.861-8 Computation of taxable income from sources within the United States and from other sources and activities.
####### Example 25: Income taxes,Facts.

(25)-(i)USP, a domestic corporation, is a manufacturer and distributor of electronic equipment with operations in states A, B, and C. USP also has a foreign branch, as defined in section 904(d)(1)(B) and ยง 1.904-4(f), in Country Y which manufactures and distributes the same type of electronic equipment. In Year 1, USP has taxable income from these activities, as described under the Code (without taking into account the deduction for state income taxes), of $1,000,000x, of which $200,000x is foreign source foreign branch category income and $800,000x is domestic source income. States A, B, and C each determine USP's income subject to tax within their state by making adjustments to USP's taxable income as determined under the Code, and then apportioning the adjusted taxable income on the basis of the relative amounts of USP's payroll, property, and sales within each state as compared to USP's worldwide payroll, property, and sales. The adjustments made by states A, B, and C all involve adding and subtracting enumerated items from taxable income as determined under the Code. However, in making these adjustments to taxable income, none of the states specifically exempts foreign source income as determined under the Code. On this basis, it is determined that USP has taxable income of $550,000x, $200,000x, and $200,000x in states A, B, and C, respectively. The corporate tax rates in states A, B, and C are 10%, 5%, and 2%, respectively, and USP has total state income tax liabilities of $69,000x ($55,000x + $10,000x + $4,000x), which it deducts as an expense for Federal income tax purposes.
