
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Determination of Sources of Income
###### ยง 1.861-8T Computation of taxable income from sources within the United States and from other sources and activities (temporary).
####### Apportionment of deductions,Deductions definitely related to a class of gross income.

(c)-(1)Where a deduction has been allocated in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section to a class of gross income which is included in one statutory grouping and the residual grouping, the deduction must be apportioned between the statutory grouping and the residual grouping. Where a deduction has been allocated to a class of gross income which is included in more than one statutory grouping, such deduction must be apportioned among the statutory groupings and, where necessary, the residual grouping. Thus, in determining the separate limitations on the foreign tax credit imposed by section 904(d)(1) or by section 907, the income within a separate limitation category constitutes a statutory grouping of income and all other income not within that separate limitation category (whether domestic or within a different separate limitation category) constitutes the residual grouping. In this regard, the same method of apportionment must be used in apportioning a deduction to each separate limitation category. Also, see paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section with respect to the apportionment of deductions among the statutory groupings designated in section 904(d)(1). If the class of gross income to which a deduction has been allocated consists entirely of a single statutory grouping or the residual grouping, there is no need to apportion that deduction. If a deduction is not definitely related to any gross income, it must be apportioned ratably as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. A deduction is apportioned by attributing the deduction to gross income (within the class to which the deduction has been allocated) which is in one or more statutory groupings and to gross income (within the class) which is in the residual grouping. Such attribution must be accomplished in a manner which reflects to a reasonably close extent the factual relationship between the deduction and the grouping of gross income. In apportioning deductions, it may be that for the taxable year there is no gross income in the statutory grouping or that deductions will exceed the amount of gross income in the statutory grouping. See paragraph (d)(1) of this section with respect to cases in which deductions exceed gross income. In determining the method of apportionment for a specific deduction, examples of bases and factors which should be considered include, but are not limited to-

(i) Comparison of units sold,

(ii) Comparison of the amount of gross sales or receipts,

(iii) Comparison of costs of goods sold,

(iv) Comparison of profit contribution,

(v) Comparison of expenses incurred, assets used, salaries paid, space utilized, and time spent which are attributable to the activities or properties giving rise to the class of gross income, and

(iv) Comparison of the amount of gross income.
