
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Determination of Sources of Income
###### § 1.861-9 Allocation and apportionment of interest expense and rules for asset-based apportionment.
####### 2,Analysis.

()Under paragraph (e)(8)(iv) of this section, because the loan from CFC to PRS is made with a principal purpose of avoiding the rules of this paragraph (e)(8), the loan from CFC to PRS is recharacterized as a loan receivable held directly by US1, and an appropriate amount of income derived by US1, in this case, the $90x of interest income from the loan to CFC, is treated as DPL interest income. Accordingly, the loan from CFC to PRS is a downstream partnership loan and US1 is a DPL lender. Under paragraph (e)(8)(vi)(B) of this section, the matching income amount is $81x, the lesser of the DPL interest income included by US1 ($90x) and US1's distributive share of the DPL interest expense ($81x). Under paragraph (e)(8)(ii) of this section, US1 assigns $54x of the DPL interest income to U.S. source income and $27x of the DPL interest income to foreign source foreign branch category income. The source and separate category of the remaining $9x of US1's interest income is determined under the generally applicable rules. Under paragraph (e)(8)(i) of this section, the disregarded portion of the downstream partnership loan is $810x ($900x x $81x/$90x). Appropriate adjustments are made to the value and characterization of the stock of CFC under §§ 1.861-9 and 1.861-12 in order to reflect the $810x disregarded portion of the downstream partnership loan.
