
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Determination of Sources of Income
###### § 1.861-13 Special rules for characterization of controlled foreign corporation stock.
####### Example 1: Asset method,Facts

(1)-(i)-(A) USP, a domestic corporation, directly owns all of the stock of a controlled foreign corporation, CFC1. The tax book value of CFC1's stock is $20,000x. USP uses the asset method described in § 1.861-12T(c)(3)(ii) to characterize the stock of CFC1. USP's inclusion percentage is 70%.

(B) CFC1 owns the following assets with the following values as determined under §§ 1.861-9(g)(2) and 1.861-9T(g)(3): Assets that generate income described in the foreign source gross tested income statutory grouping within the general category ($4,000x), assets that generate income described in the foreign source gross subpart F income statutory grouping within the general category ($1,000x), assets that generate specified foreign source general category gross income ($3,000x), and assets that generate income described in the foreign source gross subpart F income statutory grouping within the passive category ($2,000x).

(C) CFC1 also owns all of the stock of CFC2, a controlled foreign corporation. The tax book value of CFC1's stock in CFC2 is $6,000x. CFC2 owns the following assets with the following values as determined under §§ 1.861-9(g)(2) and 1.861-9T(g)(3): Assets that generate income described in the foreign source gross subpart F income statutory grouping within the general category ($2,250x) and assets that generate specified foreign source general category gross income ($750x).
