
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Determination of Sources of Income
###### ยง 1.861-14 Special rules for allocating and apportioning certain expenses (other than interest expense) of an affiliated group of corporations.
####### Expenses to be allocated and apportioned under this section,Expenses not directly allocable to specific income-producing activities or property.

(e)-(1)(i) The expenses that are required to be allocated and apportioned under the rules of this section are expenses that are not directly allocable to specific income-producing activities or property solely of the member of the affiliated group that incurred the expense, including (but not limited to) certain expenses related to research and experimental expenses, supportive functions, deductions under section 250, legal and accounting expenses, and litigation damages awards, prejudgment interest, and settlement payments. Interest expense of members of an affiliated group of corporations is allocated and apportioned under ยง 1.861-11T and not under the rules of this section. Expenses that are included in inventory costs or that are capitalized are not subject to allocation and apportionment under the rules of this section. In addition, stewardship expenses are not subject to allocation and apportionment under the rules of this section; instead, stewardship expenses of a taxpayer are allocated and apportioned on a separate entity basis without treating members of the affiliated group as a single taxpayer. See ยง 1.861-8(e)(4)(ii)(A).

(ii) For further guidance, see ยง 1.861-14T(e)(1)(ii).
