
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Determination of Sources of Income
###### ยง 1.861-14T Special rules for allocating and apportioning certain expenses (other than interest expense) of an affiliated group of corporations (temporary).
####### Expenses to be allocated and apportioned under this section.,Expenses not directly traceable to specific income producing activities or property.

(e)(1)(i) For further guidance, see ยง 1.861-14(e)(1)(i).

(ii) An item of expense is not considered to be directly allocable to specific income producing activities or property solely of the member incurring the expense if, were all members of the affiliated group treated as a single corporation, the expense would not be considered definitely related, within the meaning of ยง 1.861-8T(b)(2), only to a class of gross income derived solely by the member which actually incurred the expense. Furthermore, the expense is presumed not to be definitely related only to a class of gross income derived solely by the member incurring the expense (and is, therefore, presumed not to be directly allocable to specific income producing activities or property of that member) unless the taxpayer is able affirmatively to establish otherwise. As provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, expenses described in this paragraph (e)(1) generally shall be apportioned by the member incurring the expense according to apportionment fractions computed as if all members of the affiliated group were a single corporation. Under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, however, an expense shall be apportioned according to apportionment fractions computed as if only some (but fewer than all) members of the affiliated group were a single corporation, if the expense is considered allocable to gross income of at least one member other than the member incurring the expense but fewer than all members of the affiliated group. An item of expense shall be considered to be allocable to gross income of fewer than all members of the group if, were all members of the affiliated group treated as a single corporation, the expense would not be considered definitely related within the meaning of ยง 1.861-8T(b)(2) to gross income derived by all members of the group. In such case, the expense shall be considered allocable, for purposes of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, to gross income of those members of the group that generated (or could reasonably be expected to generate) the gross income to which the expense would be considered definitely related if the group were treated as a single corporation.
