
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Determination of Sources of Income
###### ยง 1.861-14T Special rules for allocating and apportioning certain expenses (other than interest expense) of an affiliated group of corporations (temporary).
####### General rule for affiliated corporations,General rule.

(c)-(1)(i) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the taxable income of each member of an affiliated group within each statutory grouping shall be determined by allocating and apportioning the expenses described in paragraph (e) of this section of each member according to apportionment fractions which are computed as if all members of such group were a single corporation. For purposes of determining these apportionment fractions, any interaffiliate transactions or property that are duplicative with respect to the measure of apportionment chosen shall be eliminated. For example, in the application of an asset method of apportionment, stock in affiliated corporations shall not be taken into account, and loans between members of an affiliated group shall be treated in accordance with the rules of ยง 1.861-11T(e). Similarly, in the application of a gross income method of apportionment, interaffiliate dividends and interest, gross income from sales or services, and other interaffiliate gross income shall be eliminated. Likewise, in the application of a method of apportionment based on units sold or sales receipts, interaffiliate sales shall be eliminated.

(ii) Except as otherwise provided in this section, the rules of ยง 1.861-8T apply to the allocation and apportionment of the expenses described in paragraph (e) of this section. Thus, allocation under this paragraph (c) is accomplished by determining, with respect to each expense described in paragraph (e), the class of gross income to which the expense is definitely related and then allocating the deduction to such class of gross income. For this purpose, the gross income of all members of the affiliated group must be taken in account. Then, the expense is apportioned by attributing the expense to gross income (within the class to which the expense has been allocated) which is in the statutory grouping and to gross income (within the class) which is in the residual grouping. Section 1.861-8T(c)(1) identifies a number of factors upon which apportionment may be based, such as comparison of units sold, gross sales or receipts, assets used, or gross income. The apportionment method chosen must be applied consistently by each member of the affiliated group in apportioning the expense when more than one member incurred the expense or when members incurred separate portions of the expense. The apportionment fraction must take into account the apportionment factors contributed by all members of the affiliated group. In the case of an affiliated group of corporations that files a consolidated return, consolidated foreign tax credit limitations are computed for the group in accordance with the rules of ยง 1.1502-4. For purposes of this section the term "taxpayer" refers to the affiliated group (regardless of whether the group files a consolidated return), rather than to the separate members thereof.
