
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Determination of Sources of Income
###### ยง 1.861-14T Special rules for allocating and apportioning certain expenses (other than interest expense) of an affiliated group of corporations (temporary).
####### Computation of FSC or DISC combined taxable income.

(f)In the computation under the pricing rules of sections 925 and 994 of the combined taxable income of any FSC or DISC and its related supplier which are members of an affiliated group, the combined taxable income of such FSC or DISC and its related supplier shall be reduced by the portion of the expenses of the affiliated group described in paragraph (e) of this section that is incurred in connection with export sales involving that FSC or DISC. In order to determine the portion of the expenses of the affiliated group that is incurred in connection with export sales by or through a FSC or DISC, the portion of the total of the apportionment factor chosen that relates to the generation of that export income must be determined. Thus, if gross income is the apportionment factor chosen, the portion of total gross income of the affiliated group that consists of combined gross income derived from transactions involving the FSC or DISC and related supplier must be determined. Similarly, if units sold or sales receipts is the apportionment factor chosen, the portion of total units sold or sales receipts that generated export income of the FSC or DISC and related supplier must be determined. The amount of the expense shall then be multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the export related apportionment factor as determined above, and the denominator of which is the total apportionment factor. Thus, if gross income is the apportionment factor chosen, apportionment is based on a fraction, the numerator of which is export related combined gross income of the FSC or DISC and related supplier and the denominator of which is the total gross income of the affiliated group. Similarly, if units sold or sales receipts is the apportionment factor chosen, the fraction is the units sold or sales receipts that generated export income of the FSC or DISC and related supplier over the total units sold or sales receipts of the affiliated group. Under this rule, expenses of other group members may be attributed to the combined gross income of a FSC of DISC and its related supplier without affecting the amount of expenses (other than any commission payable by the related supplier to the FSC or DISC) otherwise deductible by the FSC or DISC, the related supplier, or other members of the affiliated group. The FSC or DISC must calculate combined taxable income, taking into account any reduction by expenses attributed from other members of the affiliated group to determine the commission derived by the FSC or DISC or the transfer price of qualifying export property sold to the FSC or DISC.
