
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Determination of Sources of Income
###### ยง 1.861-15 Income from certain aircraft or vessels first leased on or before December 28, 1980.
####### Property to which the election applies,Section 38 property.

(b)-(1)An election made under this section may be made only if the aircraft or vessel is section 38 property, or property which would be section 38 property but for section 48(a)(5) (relating to property used by governmental units), at the time the election is made and for all taxable years to which the election applies. The aircraft or vessel must be property which qualifies for the investment credit under section 38 unless the property does not qualify because it is described in section 48(a)(5). If an aircraft is used predominantly outside the United States (determined under ยง 1.48-1(g)(1)), it must qualify under the provisions of section 48(a)(2)(B)(i) and ยง 1.48-1(g)(2)(i). If a vessel is used predominantly outside the United States, it must qualify under the provisions of section 48(a)(2)(B)(iii) and ยง 1.48-1(g)(2)(iii). The aircraft or vessel may not be suspension or termination period property described in section 48(h) or section 49(a) (as in effect before the enactment of the Revenue Act of 1978). See paragraph (g) (3) and (4) of this section for rules which apply if the property ceases to be section 38 property.
