
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Determination of Sources of Income
###### ยง 1.861-17 Allocation and apportionment of research and experimental expenditures.
####### 3,Apportionment based on gross receipts.

()After taking into account exclusive apportionment, X has $30,000x ($60,000x-$30,000x) of R&E expenditures that must be apportioned between the statutory and residual groupings. Under paragraph (d)(4) of this section, Y's gross receipts within the SIC code are taken into account in apportioning X's R&E expenditures. Although X has gross intangible income of $140,000x from domestic sales and $20,000x in royalties from Y, X's R&E expenditures are apportioned to that gross intangible income on the basis of the relative amounts of gross receipts arising from the sale of products by X and Y (and not the relative amounts of X's gross intangible income) in the statutory and residual groupings. Therefore, under paragraphs (d)(1) and (4) of this section $11,250x ($30,000x x $300,000x/($500,000x + $300,000x)) is apportioned to the statutory grouping of X's gross intangible income attributable to its license of intangible property to Y, or foreign source general category income. No portion of the gross receipts by X or Y are disregarded under section 864(e)(3), regardless of whether the income related to those sales is eligible for a deduction under section 250(a)(1)(A). The remaining $18,750x ($30,000x x $500,000x/($500,000x + $300,000x)) is apportioned to the residual grouping of gross intangible income, or U.S. source income.
