
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Determination of Sources of Income
###### § 1.861-17 Allocation and apportionment of research and experimental expenditures.
####### Example 1: Controlled party and single product,Facts.

(1)-(i)X, a domestic corporation, is a manufacturer and distributor of small gasoline engines for lawnmowers. Gasoline engines are a product within the category, Engines and Turbines (SIC Industry Group 351). Y, a wholly owned foreign subsidiary of X, also manufactures and sells these engines abroad. X owns no other foreign subsidiaries. During Year 1, X incurred R&E expenditures of $60,000x, which it deducts under section 174 as a current expense, to invent and patent a new and improved gasoline engine. All of the research and experimentation was performed in the United States. Also in Year 1, the domestic gross receipts of X from sales of gasoline engines total $500,000x and foreign gross receipts of Y from sales of gasoline engines total $300,000x. X provides technology for the manufacture of engines to Y through a license that requires the payment of an arm's length royalty. Because X has licensed its intangible property to Y related to the SIC code, it is presumed to reasonably expect to license the intangible property that would be developed from the current research and experimentation. In Year 1, X's gross income is $210,000x, of which $140,000x is U.S. source income from domestic sales of gasoline engines, $40,000x is income included under section 951A, all of which relates to Y's foreign source income from sales of gasoline engines, $20,000x is foreign source royalties from Y, and $10,000x is U.S. source interest income. None of the foreign source royalties are allocable to passive category income of Y, and therefore, under §§ 1.904-4(d) and 1.904-5(c)(3), the foreign source royalties are general category income to X.
