
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Determination of Sources of Income
###### ยง 1.861-17 Allocation and apportionment of research and experimental expenditures.
####### Example 5: Uncontrolled party and sublicense,Facts.

(5)-(i)X, a domestic corporation, is a cloud storage service provider. Cloud storage services are a service within the category, Computer Programming, Data Processing, and other Computer Related Services (SIC Industry Group 737). During Year 1, X incurs R&E expenditures of $50,000x to invent and copyright new storage monitoring and management software. All of the research and experimentation is performed in the United States. X uses this software in its own business to provide services to customers. X also licenses a version of the software that can be used by other businesses that provide cloud storage services. X licenses the software to uncontrolled party U, which sub-licenses the software to other businesses that provide cloud storage services to customers. U does not use the software except to sublicense it. As a part of the licensing agreement with U, U and its sub-licensees are only permitted to use the software in certain countries outside of the United States. Under the contract with U, U pays X a royalty of 50% on the amount it receives from its sub-licensees that use the software to provide services to customers. Because X has licensed its intangible property to U related to the SIC code and U has sublicensed it to other businesses, it is presumed that X is reasonably expected to license the intangible property that would be developed from its current research and experimentation to U and that U would sublicense it to other businesses. In Year 1, X earns $300,000x of gross receipts from providing cloud storage services within the United States. Further, in Year 1 U receives $10,000x of royalty income from its sub-licensees and pays a royalty of $5,000x to X. Thus, X earns $300,000x of U.S. source general category gross income and also earns $5,000x of foreign source general category royalty income from licensing its software to U for use outside of the United States.
