
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Determination of Sources of Income
###### ยง 1.861-17 Allocation and apportionment of research and experimental expenditures.
####### 3,Apportionment based on gross receipts.

()After taking into account exclusive apportionment, X has $50,000x ($100,000x-$50,000x) of R&E expenditures that must be apportioned between the statutory and residual groupings. Under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section, gross receipts from sales of Y and Z are taken into account in apportioning X's R&E expenditures. Although X has gross intangible income of $479,000x from domestic sales and $21,000x in royalties from Y and Z, X's R&E expenditures are apportioned to its gross intangible income on the basis of the relative amounts of gross receipts arising from the sale of products by X, Y and Z (and not the relative amounts of X's gross intangible income) in the statutory and residual groupings. In addition, under paragraph (d)(3)(iii) of this section only the portion of Z's gross receipts that are attributable to the floodlights that incorporate the intangible property licensed from X, rather than Z's total gross receipts, are used for purposes of apportionment. All of X's gross receipts from sales in the entire SIC code category are included for purposes of apportionment on the basis of gross intangible income attributable to those sales. Under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, $11,039x ($50,000x x ($135,000x + $120,000x)/($900,000x + $135,000x + $120,000x)) is apportioned to the statutory grouping of gross intangible income, or foreign source general category income. The remaining $38,961x ($50,000x x $900,000x/($900,000x + $135,000x + $120,000x)) is apportioned to the residual grouping of gross intangible income, or U.S. source income.
