
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Determination of Sources of Income
###### ยง 1.861-17 Allocation and apportionment of research and experimental expenditures.
####### License to Y and Z.

(B)In Year 1, X licenses its floodlight patent to Y and Z, uncontrolled parties, for use in their own territories, Countries Y and Z, respectively. Y pays X a royalty of $3,000x plus $0.20x for each unit sold. Gross receipts from sales of floodlights by Y for the taxable year are $135,000x (30,000 units at $4.50x per unit), and the royalty is $9,000x ($3,000x + $0.20x/unit x 30,000 units). Y has sales of other products of $500,000x. Z pays X a royalty of $3,000x plus $0.30x for each unit sold. Z manufactures 30,000 floodlights in the taxable year, and the royalty is $12,000x ($3,000x + $0.30x/unit x 30,000 units). The dollar value of Z's gross receipts from floodlight sales is not known to X because, in this case, the floodlights are not sold separately by Z but are instead used as a component in Z's manufacture of lighting equipment for theaters. However, a reasonable estimate of Z's gross receipts attributable to the floodlights, based on the principles of section 482, is $120,000x. The gross receipts from sales of all Z's products, including the lighting equipment for theaters, are $1,000,000x. Because X has licensed its intangible property to Y and Z related to the SIC code, it is presumed to reasonably expect to license the intangible property that would be developed from the current research and experimentation.
