
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Determination of Sources of Income
###### ยง 1.861-17 Allocation and apportionment of research and experimental expenditures.
####### 3,Apportionment based on gross receipts.

()After taking into account exclusive apportionment, X has $30,000x ($60,000x-$30,000x) of R&E expenditures that must be apportioned between the statutory and residual groupings. Because X's gross intangible income is not described in paragraph (d)(3) or (4) of this section (that is, there is no gross intangible income related to sales, leases or services from controlled or uncontrolled parties that are incorporating intangible property that was licensed, sold, or transferred to controlled or uncontrolled parties), the groupings to which the taxpayer's gross receipts and gross intangible income are assigned is the same. However, because the assignment of X's gross income to the foreign branch and general categories is made by taking into account disregarded payments under ยง 1.904-4(f)(2)(vi), the assignment of gross receipts between the general category and foreign branch category must be determined by making similar adjustments to X's gross receipts under the principles of ยง 1.904-4(f)(2)(vi). See paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section. Foreign gross receipts of FDE from gasoline engines total $300,000x. However, those gross receipts are adjusted under the principles of ยง 1.904-4(f)(2)(vi) for purposes of apportioning the remaining R&E expenditures by reducing the gross receipts initially assigned to the foreign branch category by an amount equal to the ratio of the royalty income to FDE's gross income that is initially assigned to the foreign branch category. Accordingly, since the disregarded royalty payment of $10,000x caused an adjustment equal to 10% of FDE's initial gross income of $100,000x, 10% of the gross receipts or $30,000x (10% x $300,000x) are similarly assigned to the grouping of foreign source general category income, and the remaining $270,000x of gross receipts are assigned to the grouping of foreign source foreign branch category income. Therefore, under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, $1,125x ($30,000x x $30,000x/($500,000x + $270,000x + $30,000x)) is apportioned to the statutory grouping of X's gross intangible income attributable to foreign source general category income. $10,125x ($30,000x x $270,000x/($500,000x + $270,000x + $30,000x)) is apportioned to the statutory grouping of X's foreign source foreign branch category income. The remaining $18,750x ($30,000x x $500,000x/($500,000x + $270,000x + $30,000x)) is apportioned to the residual grouping of gross intangible income or U.S. source income.
