
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Determination of Sources of Income
###### ยง 1.861-20 Allocation and apportionment of foreign income taxes.
####### Analysis.,2

(ii)For purposes of allocating and apportioning the $150x of Country A foreign income tax, the $1,000x of Country A gross income is first assigned to the relevant statutory and residual groupings for purposes of applying section 965(g) as the operative section. Under ยง 1.965-5(b)(2), the statutory grouping is the portion of the distribution that is attributable to section 965(a) previously taxed earnings and profits and the residual grouping is the portion of the distribution attributable to other earnings and profits. There is no corresponding U.S. item because under section 305(a) USP recognizes no U.S. gross income with respect to the distribution. Under paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, the item of foreign gross income (the $1,000x distribution) is assigned under the rules of paragraph (d)(3)(i)(B) of this section to the same statutory or residual groupings to which the foreign gross income would be assigned if a distribution of the same amount were made for Federal income tax purposes in Year 1 on the date the distribution occurs for foreign law purposes. If recognized for Federal income tax purposes, a $1,000x distribution in Year 1 would result in a U.S. dividend amount of $1,000x. Under paragraph (d)(3)(i)(B)() of this section, the foreign dividend amount ($1,000x) is, to the extent of the U.S. dividend amount ($1,000x), assigned to the same statutory or residual groupings from which a distribution of the U.S. dividend amount would be made under Federal income tax law. Thus, $800x of foreign gross income related to the foreign dividend amount is assigned to the statutory grouping for the portion of the distribution attributable to section 965(a) previously taxed earnings and profits and $200x of foreign gross income is assigned to the residual grouping. Under paragraph (f) of this section, $120x ($150x x $800x/$1,000x) of the Country A foreign income tax is apportioned to the statutory grouping and $30x ($150x x $200x/$1,000x) of the Country A foreign income tax is apportioned to the residual grouping. See section 965(g)(2) and ยง 1.965-5(b) for application of the applicable percentage (as defined in ยง 1.965-5(d)) to the foreign income tax allocated and apportioned to the statutory grouping.
