
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Determination of Sources of Income
###### § 1.861-20 Allocation and apportionment of foreign income taxes.
####### Example 9: Gain on disposition of stock,Facts.

(10)-(i)USP owns all of the outstanding stock of CFC, which conducts business in Country A. In Year 1, USP sells all of the stock of CFC to US2 for $1,000x. For Country A tax purposes, USP's basis in the stock of CFC is $200x. Accordingly, USP recognizes $800x of gain on which Country A imposes $80x of foreign income tax based on its rules for taxing capital gains of nonresidents, which satisfy the requirement in § 1.901-2(b)(5)(i)(C). For Federal income tax purposes, USP's basis in the stock of CFC is $400x. Accordingly, USP recognizes $600x of gain on the sale of the stock of CFC, of which $150x is included in the gross income of USP as a dividend under section 1248(a) that, as provided in section 1248(j), is treated as a dividend eligible for the deduction under section 245A(a). Under paragraphs (b)(20) and (21) of this section, respectively, the sale of CFC stock by USP gives rise to a $450x U.S. capital gain amount and a $150x U.S. dividend amount. Under §§ 1.904-4(d) and 1.904-5(c)(4), the $150x U.S. dividend amount is general category section 245A subgroup income, and the $450x U.S. capital gain amount is passive category income to USP. For purposes of allocating and apportioning its interest expense under §§ 1.861-9(g)(2)(i)(B) and 1.861-13, USP's stock in CFC is characterized as general category stock in the section 245A subgroup.
