
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Determination of Sources of Income
###### ยง 1.861-20 Allocation and apportionment of foreign income taxes.
####### Analysis,Net income tax on built-in gain.

(ii)-(A)For purposes of allocating and apportioning the $30x of Country A foreign income tax imposed on FDE by reason of the transfer of Asset F to USP for Country A tax purposes, under paragraph (c)(1) of this section the $150x of Country A gross income is first assigned to a separate category. Because the transfer does not result in a deemed sale for Federal income tax purposes, there is no corresponding U.S. item. However, FDE would have recognized gain of $150x, which would have been the corresponding U.S. item, if the deemed sale had been recognized for Federal income tax purposes. Therefore, under paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, the $150x item of foreign gross income is characterized and assigned to the grouping to which such corresponding U.S. item would have been assigned if the deemed sale were recognized under Federal income tax law. Because the sale of Asset F in a regarded transaction would have resulted in foreign branch category income, the foreign gross income is characterized as foreign branch category income. Under paragraph (f) of this section, the $30x of Country A tax is also allocated to the foreign branch category, the statutory grouping to which the $150x of Country A gross income is assigned. No apportionment of the $30x of Country A tax is necessary because the class of gross income to which the foreign gross income is allocated consists entirely of a single statutory grouping.
