
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Determination of Sources of Income
###### § 1.861-20 Allocation and apportionment of foreign income taxes.
####### Example 11: Disregarded payment that is a remittance,Facts.,1,ii,Example 11,2,i

(12)-(i)USP wholly owns CFC1, which is a tested unit within the meaning of § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(iv)(A) (the "CFC1 tested unit"). CFC1 wholly owns FDE, a disregarded entity that is organized in Country B, which is a tested unit within the meaning of § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(iv)(A) (the "FDE tested unit"). The sole assets of FDE (determined in accordance with paragraph (d)(3)(v)(C)()() of this section) are all the outstanding stock of CFC3, a controlled foreign corporation organized in Country B. In Year 1, CFC3 pays a $400x dividend to FDE that is excluded from CFC1's foreign personal holding company income ("FPHCI") by reason of section 954(c)(6). FDE makes no payments to CFC1 and pays no Country B tax in Year 1. In Year 2, FDE makes a $400x remittance to CFC1 as defined in paragraph (d)(3)(v)(E) of this section. Under the laws of Country B, the remittance gives rise to a $400x dividend. Country B imposes a 5% ($20x) withholding tax (which is an eligible current year tax as defined in § 1.960-1(b)) on CFC1 on the dividend. In Year 2, CFC3 pays no dividends to FDE, and FDE earns no income. For Federal income tax purposes, the $400x payment from FDE to CFC1 is a disregarded payment and results in no income to CFC1. For purposes of this paragraph (g)(12) (), section 960(a) is the operative section and the income groups described in § 1.960-1(d)(2) are the statutory and residual groupings. See § 1.960-1(d)(3)(ii)(A) (applying § 1.960-1 to allocate and apportion current year taxes to income groups). For Federal income tax purposes, in Year 2 the stock of CFC3 owned by FDE has a tax book value of $1,000x, $750x of which is assigned under the asset method in § 1.861-9 (as applied by treating CFC1 as a United States person) to the general category tested income group described in § 1.960-1(d)(2)(ii)(C), and $250x of which is assigned to a passive category FPHCI group described in § 1.960-1(d)(2)(ii)(B)()().
