
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Determination of Sources of Income
###### § 1.861-20 Allocation and apportionment of foreign income taxes.
####### Example 12: Disregarded payment that is a reattribution payment,Facts.,1,2,2,Example 12

(13)-(i)(A) USP wholly owns CFC1, a tested unit within the meaning of § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(iv)(A)() (the "CFC1 tested unit"). CFC1 wholly owns FDE1, a disregarded entity organized in Country B, that is a tested unit within the meaning of § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(iv)(A)() (the "FDE1 tested unit"). Country B imposes a 20 percent net income tax on its residents. CFC1 also wholly owns FDE2, a disregarded entity organized in Country C, that is a tested unit within the meaning of § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(iv)(A)() (the "FDE2 tested unit"). Country C imposes a 15 percent net income tax on its residents. The net income tax imposed by each of Country B and Country C on their tax residents is a foreign income tax within the meaning of § 1.901-2(a) and a separate levy within the meaning of § 1.901-2(d). For purposes of this paragraph (g)(13) (), the operative section is the high-tax exclusion of section 951A(c)(2)(A)(i)(III) and § 1.951A-2(c)(7), and the statutory groupings are the tested income groups of each tested unit, as defined in § 1.951A-2(c)(7)(iv)(A).

(B) FDE2 owns Asset A, which is intangible property with a tax book value of $12,000x that is properly reflected on the separate set of books and records of FDE2. In Year 1, pursuant to a license agreement between FDE1 and FDE2 for the use of Asset A, FDE1 makes a disregarded royalty payment to FDE2 of $1,000x that would be deductible if regarded for Federal income tax purposes. Because it is disregarded for Federal income tax purposes, the $1,000x disregarded royalty payment by FDE1 to FDE2 results in no income to CFC1 for Federal income tax purposes. Also, in Year 1, pursuant to a sub-license agreement between FDE1 and an unrelated third party for the use of Asset A, FDE1 earns $1,200x of royalty income for Federal income tax purposes (the "U.S. gross royalty") for the use of Asset A. The $1,200 of royalty income received by FDE1 from the unrelated third party is excluded from CFC1's foreign personal holding company income by reason of the active business exception in section 954(c)(2) because CFC1 satisfies the requirements of § 1.954-2(d)(1). As a result, the $1,200x of royalty income that FDE1 earns from the sub-license agreement is gross tested income (as defined in § 1.951A-2(c)(1)), which is properly reflected on the separate set of books and records of FDE1.

(C) Under the laws of Country B, the transaction that gives rise to the $1,200x item of U.S. gross royalty income causes FDE1 to include a $1,200x item of gross royalty income in its Country B taxable income (the "Country B gross royalty"). In addition, FDE1 deducts its $1,000x disregarded royalty payment to FDE2 for Country B tax purposes. For Country B tax purposes, FDE1 therefore has $200x ($1,200x-$1,000x) of taxable income on which Country B imposes $40x (20% x $200x) of net income tax.

(D) Under the laws of Country C, the $1,000x disregarded royalty payment from FDE1 to FDE2 causes FDE2 to include a $1,000x item of gross royalty income in its Country C taxable income (the "Country C gross royalty"). FDE2 therefore has $1,000x of taxable income for Country C tax purposes, on which Country C imposes $150x (15% x $1,000x) of net income tax.
