
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### regulations applicable to taxable years prior to december 30, 1996
###### § 1.863-8 Source of income derived from space and ocean activity under section 863(d).
####### Applicability dates.

(h)Except as provided in this paragraph (h), this section applies to taxable years beginning on or after December 27, 2006. The provisions in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section relating to the meaning of a CFC apply to taxable years of foreign corporations ending on or after October 1, 2019. For taxable years of foreign corporations ending before October 1, 2019, a taxpayer may apply such provisions to the last taxable year of a foreign corporation beginning before January 1, 2018, and each subsequent taxable year of the foreign corporation, provided that the taxpayer and United States persons that are related (within the meaning of section 267 or 707) to the taxpayer consistently apply such provisions with respect to all foreign corporations. For taxable years of foreign corporations ending before October 1, 2019, where the taxpayer does not apply the provisions of paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section relating to the meaning of a CFC, see paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section as in effect and contained in 26 CFR part 1, as revised April 1, 2020. Paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section applies to taxable years ending on or after December 23, 2019. However, a taxpayer may apply paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section in its entirety for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, and ending before December 23, 2019, provided that the taxpayer and all persons related to the taxpayer (within the meaning of section 267 or 707) apply paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section and §§ 1.863-1(b), 1.863-2(b), 1.863-3, 1.864-5(a) and (b), 1.864-6(c)(2), and 1.865-3 in their entirety for the taxable year, and once applied, the taxpayer and all persons related to the taxpayer (within the meaning of section 267 or 707) continue to apply these regulations in their entirety for all subsequent taxable years. For regulations generally applicable to taxable years ending before December 23, 2019, see § 1.863-8 as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2020.
