
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### regulations applicable to taxable years prior to december 30, 1996
###### ยง 1.864-6 Income, gain, or loss attributable to an office or other fixed place of business in the United States.
####### Example 2. Sales of inventory purchased and resold through a U.S. sales office by a nonresident alien with a tax home in the United States.

(ii)Individual B, who is a nonresident alien within the meaning of section 7701(b)(1)(B) and has a tax home in the United States, has an office in a foreign country that purchases merchandise and sells it through B's sales office in the United States for use in various foreign countries, with title to the property passing outside the United States. B is not a nonresident within the meaning of section 865(g)(1)(B). Therefore, ยง 1.865-3 does not apply to B's sale of the merchandise, except to the extent provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. No other office of B materially participates in these sales made through its U.S. office. By reason of its sales activities in the United States, B is engaged in business in the United States during the taxable year. During the taxable year, B derives income of $300,000x from these sales made through its U.S. sales office. All of B's income from these sales is foreign source as B purchases the merchandise outside the United States and title to the merchandise also passes outside the United States. The amount of income properly allocable to B's U.S. office determined under ยง 1.865-3(d)(3) is $300,000x, and thus $300,000x is effectively connected for the taxable year with the conduct of B's U.S. trade or business.
