
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### regulations applicable to taxable years prior to december 30, 1996
###### § 1.864-6 Income, gain, or loss attributable to an office or other fixed place of business in the United States.
####### Example 1. Sales of produced inventory through a U.S. sales office.

(i)Individual A, who is a nonresident alien within the meaning of section 7701(b)(1)(B) and has a tax home in the United States, manufactures machinery in a foreign country and sells the machinery outside the United States through A's sales office in the United States for use in foreign countries. A is not a nonresident within the meaning of section 865(g)(1)(B). Therefore, § 1.865-3 does not apply to A's sale of the machinery, except to the extent provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Title to the property sold is transferred to the foreign purchaser outside the United States, but no office or other fixed place of business of A in a foreign country materially participates in the sale made through A's U.S. office. By reason of its sales activities in the United States, A is engaged in business in the United States during the taxable year. During the taxable year, A derives a total income of $250,000x from these sales. Under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the amount of income that is allocable to A's U.S. office is determined under § 1.865-3(d)(2). The taxpayer does not allocate income from the sale under the books and records method described in § 1.865-3(d)(2)(ii). Thus, 50 percent of A's foreign source income of $250,000x, plus any additional income allocable based on the location of production activities under §§ 1.865-3(d)(2)(i) and 1.863-3 (in this case, $0x), is effectively connected for the taxable year with the conduct of A's U.S. trade or business, or $125,000x.
