
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### regulations applicable to taxable years prior to december 30, 1996
###### ยง 1.864(c)(8)-1 Gain or loss by foreign persons on the disposition of certain partnership interests.
####### Examples.

(iii)This paragraph (c)(2)(iii) provides examples that illustrate the rules of paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section. Except as otherwise provided, the following facts apply for purposes of this paragraph (c)(2)(iii). FP is a foreign corporation and a partner in PRS, a partnership that is engaged in the conduct of a trade or business within the United States (the U.S. Business) and a business in Country A (the Country A Business). Both businesses purchase inventory property and sell the purchased inventory property to unrelated customers; this is the only income-generating activity carried on by the businesses. PRS maintains an office or fixed place of business within the U.S. (within the meaning of section 864(c)(5)(A) and ยง 1.864-7) and, for its U.S. business, PRS sells its inventory property through its U.S. office. For the Country A business, PRS sells its inventory property through its Country A office for consumption in Country A; PRS's Country A office materially participates in each sale. The gain or loss from the inventory sold through PRS's Country A office is treated as from sources without the United States and is not effectively connected with PRS's U.S. Business. In year 4, FP sells its entire interest in PRS, thereby triggering the deemed sale described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. In the deemed sale, PRS recognizes $10x of gain on the sale of its inventory property (the only asset PRS holds other than goodwill and going concern value). The 10-year exception provided in paragraph (c)(2)(i)(B) of this section does not apply.
