
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### regulations applicable to taxable years prior to december 30, 1996
###### ยง 1.864(c)(8)-1 Gain or loss by foreign persons on the disposition of certain partnership interests.
####### Treaty coordination.

(f)This paragraph (f) describes how paragraph (c)(3) of this section applies in the case of a transfer of an interest in a partnership by a foreign transferor that is eligible for benefits under an applicable U.S. income tax treaty. As a general matter, a foreign transferor must satisfy the requirements of the limitation on benefits article, if any, in the treaty between the jurisdiction in which the transferor is resident and the United States to be eligible for treaty benefits. In the case of a foreign transferor that is entitled to treaty benefits, in determining the foreign transferor's distributive share of deemed sale EC gain and deemed sale EC loss, gain or loss derived by the foreign transferor attributable to assets deemed sold that would be exempt from tax under an applicable U.S. income tax treaty if disposed of by the partnership are not taken into account under paragraph (c)(3) of this section. In general, gain or loss on the alienation of a partnership interest will be treated as effectively connected gain or loss under section 864(c)(8) to the extent that the gain or loss is either attributable to assets forming part of a U.S. permanent establishment or fixed place of business, or taxable under a provision governing the disposition of United States real property interests. Gain or loss from the alienation of a partnership interest will be considered gain or loss attributable to the alienation of assets forming part of a permanent establishment or fixed place of business in the United States to the extent the assets deemed sold under section 864(c)(8) form a part of the U.S. permanent establishment or fixed place of business of the partnership. If, however, after applying treaty benefits in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the only gains or losses that would be taken into account are gains or losses attributable to United States real property interests, the foreign transferor determines its effectively connected gain and effectively connected loss pursuant to section 897 and not under this section.
