
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### nonresident alien individuals
###### ยง 1.871-10 Election to treat real property income as effectively connected with U.S. business.
####### Income to which the election applies,Included income.

(b)-(1)An election under this section shall apply to all income from real property which is located in the United States and, in the case of a nonresident alien individual, held for the production of income, and to all income derived from any interest in such property, including (i) gains from the sale or exchange of such property or an interest therein, (ii) rents or royalties from mines, oil or gas wells, or other natural resources, and (iii) gains described in section 631 (b) or (c), relating to treatment of gain on the disposal of timber, coal, or iron ore with a retained economic interest. The election may not be made with respect to only one class of such income. For purposes of the election, income from real property, or from any interest in real property, includes any amount included under section 652 or 662 in the gross income of a nonresident alien individual or foreign corporation that is the beneficiary of an estate or trust if, by reason of the application of section 652(b) or 662(b), and the regulations thereunder, such amount has the character in the hands of that beneficiary of income from real property, or from any interest in real property. It is immaterial that no tax would be imposed on the income by section 871(a) and paragraph (a) of ยง 1.871-7, or by section 881(a) and paragraph (a) of ยง 1.881-2, if the election were not in effect. Thus, for example, if an election under this section has been made by a nonresident alien individual not engaged in trade or business in the United States during the taxable year, the tax imposed by section 871(b)(1) and paragraph (b)(2) of ยง 1.871-8 applies to his gains derived from the sale of real property located in the United States and held for the production of income, even though such income would not be subject to tax under section 871(a) if the election had not been made. In further illustration, assume that a nonresident alien individual not engaged in trade or business, or present, in the United States during the taxable year has income from sources within the United States consisting of oil royalties, rentals from a former personal residence, and capital gain from the sale of another residence held for the production of income. If he makes an election under this section, it will apply with respect to his royalties, rentals, and capital gain, even though such capital gain would not be subject to tax under section 871(a) if the election had not been made.
