
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Normal Taxes and Surtaxes
###### ยง 1.3-1 Application of optional tax.
####### General rules.

(a)(1) For taxable years ending before January 1, 1970, an individual whose adjusted gross income is less than $5,000 (or a husband and wife filing a joint return whose combined adjusted gross income is less than $5,000) may elect to pay the tax imposed by section 3 in place of the tax imposed by section 1 (a) or (b). For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1969 and before January 1, 1971 an individual whose adjusted gross income is less than $10,000 (or a husband and wife filing a joint return whose combined adjusted gross income is less than $10,000) may elect to pay the tax imposed by section 3 as amended by the Tax Reform Act of 1969 in place of the tax imposed by section 1 (a) or (b). For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1970 an individual whose adjusted gross income is less than $10,000 (or a husband and wife filing a joint return whose combined adjusted gross income is less than $10,000) may elect to pay the tax imposed by section 3 as amended in place of the tax imposed by section 1 as amended. See ยง 1.4-2 for the manner of making such election. A taxpayer may make such election regardless of the sources from which his income is derived and regardless of whether his income is computed by the cash method or the accrual method. See section 62 and the regulations thereunder for the determination of adjusted gross income. For the purpose of determining whether a taxpayer may elect to pay the tax under section 3, the amount of the adjusted gross income is controlling, without reference to the number of exemptions to which the taxpayer may be entitled. See section 4 and the regulations thereunder for additional rules applicable to section 3.

(2) The following examples illustrate the rule that section 3 applies only if the adjusted gross income is less than $10,000 ($5,000 for taxable years ending before January 1, 1970).
