
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### miscellaneous provisions
###### ยง 1.897-1 Taxation of foreign investment in United States real property interests, definition of terms.
####### Publicly traded partnerships and trusts.

(iv)If any class of interests in a partnership or trust is, within the meaning of ยง 1.897-1(m) and (n), regularly traded on an established securities market, then for purposes of sections 897(g) and 1445 and ยง 1.897-2 (d) and (e) an interest in the entity shall not be treated as an interest in a partnership or trust. Instead, such an interest shall be subject to the rules applicable to interests in publicly traded corporations pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section. Such interests can be real property interests in the hands of a person that holds a greater than 5 percent interest. Therefore, solely for purposes of determining whether greater than 5 percent interests in such an entity constitute U.S. real property interests the disposition of which is subject to tax, the entity is required to determine pursuant to the provisions of ยง 1.897-2 whether the assets it holds would cause it to be classified as a U.S. real property holding corporation if it were a corporation. The treatment of dispositions of U.S. real property interests by publicly traded partnerships and trusts is not affected by the rules of this paragraph (c)(2)(iv); by reason of the operation of section 897(a), foreign partners or beneficiaries are subject to tax upon their distributive share of any gain recognized upon such dispositions by the partnership or trust. The rules of this paragraph (c)(2)(iv) are illustrated by the following example.
