
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### miscellaneous provisions
###### ยง 1.897-2 United States real property holding corporations.
####### Notice to the Internal Revenue Service.

(2)If a foreign interest holder requests that a domestic corporation provide a statement described in paragraph (h)(1) of this section, then such corporation must provide a notice to the Internal Revenue Service in accordance with this paragraph (h)(2). No particular form is required for such notice, but the following must be provided:

(i) A statement that the notice is provided pursuant to the requirements of ยง 1.897-2(h)(2);

(ii) The name, address, and identifying number of the corporation providing the notice;

(iii) The name, address, and identifying number (if any) of the foreign interest holder that requested the statement (this information may be omitted from the notice if fully set forth in the statement to the foreign interest holder attached to the notice).

(iv) Whether the interest in question is a U.S. real property interest;

(v) A statement signed by a responsible corporate officer verifying under penalties of perjury that the notice (including any attachments thereto) is correct to his knowledge and belief. A copy of any statement provided to the foreign interest holder must be attached to the notice. The notice must be mailed to the address specified in the Instructions for Form 8288 under the heading "Where To File" on or before the 30th day after the statement referred to in ยง 1.897-2(h)(1) is mailed to the interest holder that requested it. Failure to mail such notice within the time period set forth in the preceding sentence will cause the statement provided pursuant to ยง 1.897-2(h)(1) to become an invalid statement.
