
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### miscellaneous provisions
###### ยง 1.897-5T Corporate distributions (temporary).
####### Liquidation of domestic corporation.

(A)A foreign corporation that meets the stock ownership requirements of section 332(b) with respect to stock in a domestic corporation that is a U.S. real property interest (except a foreign corporation that has made an effective election under section 897(i) and the stock of which is treated as a U.S. real property interest) shall not recognize any gain under sections 367(a) or 897(e)(1) on the receipt of property in a section 332(a) liquidation. The domestic corporation shall not recognize gain under section 367(e)(2) on the distribution of U.S. real property interests (other than stock in a former U.S. real property holding corporation which is treated as a U.S. real property interest) to the foreign corporation. The domestic corporation shall recognize gain under section 367(e)(2) on the distribution of stock in a former U.S. real property holding corporation which is treated as a U.S. real property interest. With respect to the recognition of gain or loss by the domestic corporation under section 367(e)(2) on the distribution of property other than U.S. real property interests, see the regulations under section 367(e)(2). The basis of the distributed U.S. real property interests (other than stock in a former U.S. real property holding corporation) in the hands of the foreign corporation shall be the same as it was in the hands of the domestic corporation. The basis of any property (other than U.S. real property interests) and stock in a former U.S. real property holding corporation that is a U.S. real property interest in the hands of the foreign corporation shall be the same as it was in the hands of the domestic corporation increased by any gain recognized by the distributing corporation on the distribution that was subject to U.S. taxation.
