
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### miscellaneous provisions
###### ยง 1.897-5T Corporate distributions (temporary).
####### Distribution to a foreign corporation under section 332 and former section 334(b)(2) after June 18, 1980.

(iii)The rules of this paragraph (b)(2)(iii) shall apply to section 332 distributions after June 18, 1980 where the basis of the distributed property in the hands of the foreign corporation is determined under section 334(b)(2) as in effect prior to the Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 1982. A foreign corporation that meets the stock ownership requirements of section 332(b) with respect to stock in a domestic corporation that is a U.S. real property interest shall recognize gain on the receipt of property in a section 332(a) liquidation where section 334(b)(2) applies to the extent that the fair market value of the distributed assets that are not U.S real property interests exceeds the basis of such assets determined under section 334(b)(2) (for example, if the liquidation does not occur immediately upon the purchase of stock in the domestic corporation). The gain recognized shall not exceed the excess of the fair market value of the stock of the domestic corporation in the hands of the foreign corporation at the time of the distribution over the shareholder's adjusted basis in such stock. The basis of the distributed U.S. real property interests in the hands of the foreign corporation shall be determined under section 334(b)(2), by reference to the adjusted basis of the stock with respect to which the distribution was made. The basis of such property other than U.S. real property interests shall be tentatively determined under section 334(b)(2), and then increased by any gain recognized by the foreign corporation on the distribution allocated among such assets in proportion to the potential gain inherent in each such asset at the time of distribution (computed using the tentative basis as determined under section 334(b)(2)). The basis of each asset is limited, however, to its fair market value.
