
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### miscellaneous provisions
###### ยง 1.897-5T Corporate distributions (temporary).
####### Effect of treaty reduction of tax.

(B)If, at the time of a distribution or exchange, a distributee of a U.S. real property interest in a distribution or a transferor who receives a U.S. real property interest in an exchange would be entitled pursuant to the provisions of a U.S. income tax treaty to reduced U.S. taxation upon the disposition of the interest, then a portion of the interest received shall be treated as an interest subject to U.S. taxation upon its disposition, and, therefore, that portion shall be entitled to nonrecognition treatment under the rules of this section or ยง 1.897-6T. The portion of the interest that is treated as subject to U.S. taxation is determined by multiplying the fair market value of the interest by a fraction. The numerator of the fraction is the amount of tax that would be due pursuant to the provisions of the applicable U.S. income tax treaty upon the recipient's disposition of the interest, determined as of the date of the distribution or transfer. The denominator of the fraction is the amount of tax that would be due upon such disposition but for the provisions of the treaty. However, nonrecognition treatment may be preserved in accordance with the provisions of subdivision (C) of this paragraph (d)(1)(ii). With regard to the provisions of this paragraph, see Article XIII (9) of the United States-Canada Income Tax Convention.
