
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### miscellaneous provisions
###### § 1.897-9T Treatment of certain interest in publicly traded corporations, definition of foreign person, and foreign governments and international organizations (temporary).
####### Purpose and scope.

(a)This section provides a temporary regulation that, if and when adopted as a final regulation will be added as new paragraphs (c)(2)(iii)(B), (k), (n) and (q) of § 1.897-1. Paragraph (b) of this section would then appear as paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(B) of § 1.897-1. Paragraph (c) of this section would then appear as paragraph (k) of § 1.897-1. Paragraph (d) of this section would then appear as paragraph (n) of § 1.897-1. Paragraph (e) of this section would then appear as paragraph (q) of § 1.897-1.

(b) Any other interest in the corporation (other than an interest solely as a creditor) if on the date such interest was acquired by its present holder it had a fair market value greater than the fair market value on that date of 5 percent of the regularly traded class of the corporation's stock with the lowest fair market value. However, if a non-regularly traded class of interests in the corporation is convertible into a regularly traded class of interests in the corporation, an interest in such non-regularly traded class shall be treated as a U.S. real property interest if on the date it was acquired by its present holder it had a fair market value greater than the fair market value on that date of 5 percent of the regularly traded class of the corporation's stock into which it is convertible. If a person holds interests in a corporation of a class that is not regularly traded, and subsequently acquires additional interests of the same class, then all such interests must be aggregated and valued as of the date of the subsequent acquisition. If the subsequent acquisition causes that person's interests to exceed the applicable limitation, then all such interests shall be treated as U.S. real property interests, regardless of when acquired. In addition, if a person holds interests in a corporation of separate classes that are not regularly traded, and if such interests were separately acquired for a principal purpose of avoiding the applicable 5 percent limitation of this paragraph, then such interests shall be aggregated for purposes of applying that limitation. This rule shall not apply to interests of separate classes acquired in transactions more than three years apart. For purposes of paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of § 1.897-1, section 318(a) shall apply (except that section 318(a)(2)(C) and (3)(C) shall each be applied by substituting "5 percent" for "50 percent").
