
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### miscellaneous provisions
###### § 1.897(l)-1 Exception for interests held by foreign pension funds.
####### Scope and overview.

(a)This section provides rules regarding the exception from section 897 for qualified holders. The definitions and requirements in this section apply only for purposes of this section (including as applicable by cross-reference from other sections), and no inference is to be drawn with respect to the definitions and requirements in this section, including with respect to the meaning of a pension fund, for any other purpose. Paragraph (b) of this section provides the general rule excepting qualified holders from section 897. Paragraph (c) of this section provides the requirements that an eligible fund must satisfy to be treated as a qualified foreign pension fund. Paragraph (d) of this section provides the requirements that a qualified foreign pension fund or a qualified controlled entity must satisfy to be treated as a qualified holder. Paragraph (e) of this section provides definitions. Paragraph (f) of this section provides examples illustrating the application of the rules of this section. Paragraph (g) of this section provides applicability dates. For rules applicable to a qualified foreign pension fund or qualified controlled entity claiming an exemption from withholding under chapter 3, see generally §§ 1.1441-3, 1.1445-2, 1.1445-5, 1.1445-8, 1.1446-1, and 1.1446-2.
