
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### credits allowable under sections 30 through 45D
###### ยง 1.31-2 Credit for "special refunds" of employee social security tax.
####### In general.

(a)(1) In the case of an employee receiving wages from more than one employer during the calendar year, amounts may be deducted and withheld as employee social security tax with respect to more than $3,600 of wages received during the calendar year 1954, and with respect to more than $4,200 of wages received during a calendar year after 1954. For example, employee social security tax may be deducted and withheld on $5,000 of wages received by an employee during a particular calendar year if the employee is paid wages in such year in the amount of $3,000 by one employer and in the amount of $2,000 by another employer. Section 6413(c) (as amended by section 202 of the Social Security Amendments of 1954 (68 Stat. 1089)), permits, under certain conditions, a so-called "special refund" of the amount of employee social security tax deducted and withheld with respect to wages paid to an employee in a calendar year after 1954 in excess of $4,200 ($3,600 for the calendar year 1954) by reason of the employee receiving wages from more than one employer during the calendar year. For provisions relating to the imposition of the employee tax and the limitation on wages, see with respect to the calendar year 1954, sections 1400 and 1426(a)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939 and, with respect to calendar years after 1954, sections 3101 and 3121(a)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended by sections 208(b) and 204(a), respectively, of the Social Security Amendments of 1954 (68 Stat. 1094, 1091).

(2) An employee who is entitled to a special refund of employee tax with respect to wages received during a calendar year and who is also required to file an income tax return for such calendar year (or for his last taxable year beginning in such calendar year) may obtain the benefits of such special refund only by claiming credit for such special refund in the same manner as if such special refund were an amount deducted and withheld as income tax at the source. For provisions for claiming special refunds for 1955 and subsequent years in the case of employees not required to file income tax returns, see section 6413(c) and the regulations thereunder. For provisions relating to such refunds for 1954, see 26 CFR (1939) 408.802 (regulations 128).

(3) The amount of the special refund allowed as a credit shall be considered as an amount deducted and withheld as income tax at the source under chapter 24 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (or, in the case of a special refund for 1954, subchapter D, chapter 9 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939). If the amount of such special refund when added to amounts deducted and withheld as income tax exceeds the taxes imposed by subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, the amount of the excess constitutes an overpayment of income tax under Subtitle A, and interest on such overpayment is allowed to the extent provided under section 6611 upon an overpayment of income tax resulting from a credit for income tax withheld at source. See section 6401(b).
