
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### miscellaneous provisions
###### ยง 1.897(l)-1 Exception for interests held by foreign pension funds.
####### 1,i

(D) Retirement Plan is established by Country A as an eligible fund described in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(A)()() of this section to provide retirement and pension benefits, which are qualified benefits described in paragraph (e)(8) of this section, to citizens of Country A, who are qualified recipients described in paragraph (e)(12)(i)(A) of this section because they are eligible to be participants or beneficiaries of Retirement Plan. Accordingly, all of the benefits that Retirement Plan provides are qualified benefits provided to qualified recipients. In addition, Retirement Plan satisfies the requirements of the present valuation test as described in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii)(B) and (C) of this section. Accordingly, Retirement Plan satisfies the requirement of paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section.

(E) Retirement Plan provides retirement and pension benefits to citizens of Country A aged 65 or older, with no citizen entitled to more than five percent of Retirement Fund's assets or to more than five percent of the income of the eligible fund. Accordingly, Retirement Plan satisfies the requirement of paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section.

(F) Retirement Plan is composed solely of governmental units within the meaning of paragraph (e)(5) of this section. Accordingly, under paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(B) of this section, Retirement Plan is treated as satisfying the requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(A) of this section.

(G) Investment income earned by Retirement Plan is not subject to income tax in Country A. Accordingly, Retirement Plan satisfies the requirement of paragraph (c)(2)(v) of this section.

(H) Because Retirement Plan satisfies the requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, Retirement Plan is a qualified foreign pension fund. Because Retirement Plan held no United States real property interests as of January 1, 2023, the earliest date during an uninterrupted period ending on June 1, 2026, the date of the disposition, in which it satisfied the requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, Retirement Plan is a qualified holder under paragraph (d)(2) of this section. Retirement Plan's gain with respect to Property is attributable solely to Asset Pool, a qualified segregated account maintained by Retirement Plan. Accordingly, under paragraph (b) of this section, the $100x gain realized by Retirement Plan attributable to the disposition of Property is not subject to section 897(a).
