
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### miscellaneous provisions
###### ยง 1.897(l)-1 Exception for interests held by foreign pension funds.
####### Example 2: Fund established by an employer,Facts.

(2)-(i)Employer, a corporation organized in Country B, establishes Fund to provide retirement and pension benefits to current and former employees of Employer and S1, a Country B corporation that is wholly owned by Employer. On January 1, 2023, Fund is established as a trust under the laws of Country B, and Employer retains discretion to invest assets and to administer benefits on Fund's behalf. Fund receives contributions from Employer and S1 and contributions from employees of Employer and S1 who are beneficiaries of Fund. All contributions to Fund and all of Fund's earnings are separately accounted for on Fund's books and records and are required by Fund's organizational documents to exclusively fund the provision of benefits to Fund's beneficiaries, except as necessary to satisfy reasonable expenses of Fund. Fund currently has over 100 beneficiaries, a number that is reasonably expected to grow as Employer expands. Fund will pay benefits to employees upon retirement based on years of service and employee contributions, but, if a beneficiary dies before retirement, Fund will pay an incidental death benefit in addition to payment of any accrued retirement and pension benefits to the beneficiary's designee (or deemed designee under local laws if the beneficiary fails to identify a designee). Fund annually performs a present valuation of the benefits it reasonably expects to provide to Fund's beneficiaries, and the valuation concludes that more than 85 percent of the present value of the total benefits it reasonably expects to pay to its beneficiaries in the future are retirement and pension benefits. In addition, it is reasonably expected that the incidental death benefits paid by Fund will account for less than fifteen percent of the present value of the total benefits that Fund expects to provide in the future, and Fund does not reasonably expect to pay any other types of benefits to its beneficiaries in the future. Fund annually provides to the tax authorities of Country B the amount of benefits distributed to each participant (or designee). Country B's tax authorities prescribe rules and regulations governing Fund's operations. Under the laws of Country B, Fund is not taxed on its investment income. On January 1, 2024, Fund purchases Property, which is an interest in real property located in the United States. On June 1, 2026, Fund sells Property, realizing $100x of gain with respect to Property that would be subject to tax under section 897(a) unless paragraph (b) of this section applies with respect to the gain.
