
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### miscellaneous provisions
###### ยง 1.897(l)-1 Exception for interests held by foreign pension funds.
####### Analysis.,1,i,1,ii,2,1,ii,1

(ii)Fund satisfies the requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(A)()() of this section because it was established by, or at the direction of, Country B to provide retirement and pension benefits to participants or beneficiaries that are current or former employees or persons designated by such employees as a result of services rendered by such employees to their employers. Fund also satisfies the requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(A)()() of this section because it was established by Employer to provide retirement and pension benefits to participants or beneficiaries that are current or former employees or persons designated by such employees in consideration for services rendered by such employees to Employer and S1. Because it satisfies the requirements of both such provisions, under paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(A)() of this section, Fund will be treated solely as an eligible fund under paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(A)()() of this section. As a result, Fund must meet the reporting requirements described in paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(A) of this section and must apply the definition of qualified recipient described in paragraphs (e)(12)(i)(B) and (C) of this section. Because Fund makes a determination on at least an annual basis using a reasonable method to measure the number of participants in the Fund who are not current and former employees of Employer and S1, finding that such employees constitute less than five percent of Fund's total qualified recipients and do not have a right to more than five percent of the assets or income of Fund, the requirement of paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(B)() of this section, requiring that all of the benefits that an eligible fund provides are provided to qualified recipients, is considered satisfied. Because Fund meets the requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, Fund is treated as a qualified foreign pension fund under paragraph (b) of this section. Accordingly, the $100x gain attributable to the disposition of Property is not subject to section 897(a).
