
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### miscellaneous provisions
###### ยง 1.897(l)-1 Exception for interests held by foreign pension funds.
####### Analysis.

(ii)(A) Fund is a trust that maintains an identifiable pool of assets for the sole purpose of funding retirement and pension benefits and ancillary benefits to current and former employees of the employer group (within the meaning of paragraph (e)(3) of this section) that includes Employer and S1 (current and former employees of Employer and S1 constitute qualified recipients, as defined in paragraph (e)(12)(i)(B) of this section). All assets held by Fund and all income earned by Fund are used to provide such benefits. Therefore, Fund is a trust that maintains a qualified segregated account within the meaning of paragraph (e)(13) of this section. Accordingly, Fund is an eligible fund within the meaning of paragraph (e)(2) of this section.

(B) Because Fund is created or organized under the laws of Country B, Fund satisfies the requirement of paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section.

(C) The only benefits that Fund provides are retirement and pension benefits described in paragraph (e)(14) of this section and ancillary benefits (that is, the incidental death benefits) described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, both of which constitute qualified benefits described in paragraph (e)(8) of this section, to qualified recipients, described in paragraph (e)(12)(i)(B) of this section. Furthermore, Fund satisfies the requirements of the present valuation test as described in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii)(B) and (C) of this section. Accordingly, Fund is established by Employer to provide retirement and pension benefits to qualified recipients in consideration for services rendered by such qualified recipients to Employer and S1, and Fund satisfies the requirement of paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section.

(D) No single qualified recipient has a right to more than five percent of the assets or income of the eligible fund. Accordingly, Fund satisfies the requirement of paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section.

(E) Fund is regulated and annually provides to the relevant tax authorities in the foreign jurisdiction in which it is established or operates the amount of qualified benefits provided to each qualified recipient by the eligible fund. Accordingly, Fund satisfies the requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section.

(F) Fund is not subject to income tax on its investment income. Accordingly, Fund satisfies the requirement of paragraph (c)(2)(v) of this section.

(G) Because Fund meets the requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, Fund is treated as a qualified foreign pension fund. Furthermore, because Fund held no United States real property interests as of January 1, 2023, the earliest date during an uninterrupted period ending on June 1, 2026, the date of the disposition, in which it satisfied the requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, Fund is a qualified holder under paragraph (d)(2) of this section. All of Fund's assets are held in a qualified segregated account within the meaning of paragraph (e)(13) of this section. Accordingly, under paragraph (b) of this section, the $100x gain attributable to the disposition of Property is not subject to section 897(a).
