
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### miscellaneous provisions
###### ยง 1.897(l)-1 Exception for interests held by foreign pension funds.
####### Example 1: No legal entity,Facts.

(1)-(i)On January 1, 2023, Country A establishes Retirement Plan for the sole purpose of providing retirement and pension benefits to citizens of Country A aged 65 or older. Retirement Plan is composed of Asset Pool and Agency. Asset Pool is a group of accounts maintained on the balance sheet of the government of Country A. Pursuant to the laws of Country A, income and gain earned by Asset Pool is used solely to support the provision of retirement and pension benefits by Retirement Plan. Agency is a Country A agency that administers the provision of benefits by Retirement Plan and manages Asset Pool's investments. Under the laws of Country A, investment income earned by Retirement Plan is not subject to Country A's income tax. At the end of each calendar year, Retirement Plan performs a present valuation of the retirement and pension benefits it reasonably expects to provide in the future, and all of the benefits that Retirement Plan reasonably expects to provide are retirement and pension benefits. On January 1, 2024, Agency purchases Property, which is an interest in real property located in the United States owned by Asset Pool. On June 1, 2026, Agency sells Property, realizing $100x of gain with respect to Property that would be subject to tax under section 897(a) unless paragraph (b) of this section applies with respect to the gain.
