
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### miscellaneous provisions
###### ยง 1.897(l)-1 Exception for interests held by foreign pension funds.
####### Analysis.

(ii)(A) Retirement Plan, which is composed of Asset Pool and Agency, includes one or more governmental units described in paragraph (e)(5) of this section. Accordingly, Retirement Plan is an organization or arrangement described in paragraph (e)(7) of this section. Furthermore, Retirement Plan maintains a qualified segregated account in the form of Asset Pool, an identifiable pool of assets maintained for the sole purpose of funding retirement and pension benefits to beneficiaries of the Retirement Fund (qualified recipients as defined in paragraph (e)(12)(i)(A) of this section). Therefore, Retirement Plan is an eligible fund within the meaning of paragraph (e)(2) of this section.

(B) Paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section applies for purposes of determining whether Retirement Plan is an eligible fund that satisfies the requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section and would therefore be treated as a qualified foreign pension fund. Accordingly, the activities of Asset Pool and Agency are integrated and treated as undertaken by a single entity to determine whether the requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section are met. However, Asset Pool and Agency must independently satisfy the requirement of paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section.

(C) Retirement Plan is composed of Asset Pool and Agency, each of which is a governmental unit and treated as created or organized under the laws of Country A for purposes of paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section. Accordingly, Retirement Plan satisfies the requirement of paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section.
