
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### miscellaneous provisions
###### ยง 1.897(l)-1 Exception for interests held by foreign pension funds.
####### Example 5: Third-party assumption of pension liabilities,Facts.,Example 2

(5)-(i)The facts are the same as in paragraph (f)(2) of this section (), except that Fund does not purchase Property on January 1, 2024. In addition, Fund anticipates $100x of qualified benefits will be paid each year beginning on January 1, 2028. Fund enters into an agreement with Guarantor, a privately held Country B corporation, which provides that Fund will, on January 30, 2023, cede a portion of its assets to Guarantor in exchange for annual payments of $100x beginning on January 1, 2028 and continuing until one or more previously identified participants (and their designees) ceases to be eligible to receive benefits. Guarantor has discretion to invest the ceded assets as it chooses, subject to certain agreed upon investment restrictions. Pursuant to its agreement with Fund, Guarantor must maintain Segregated Pool, a pool of assets securing its obligations under its agreement with Fund. The value of Segregated Pool must exceed a specified amount (determined based on an agreed upon formula) until Guarantor's payment obligations are completed, and any remaining assets in Segregated Pool (that is, assets exceeding the required payments to Fund) are retained by Guarantor. Guarantor bears all investment risk with respect to Segregated Pool. Accordingly, Guarantor is required to make annual payments of $100x to Fund regardless of the performance of Segregated Pool. On January 1, 2024, Guarantor purchases stock in Company A, a United States real property holding company that is a United States real property interest, and holds the Company A stock in Segregated Pool. On June 1, 2027, Guarantor sells the stock in Company A, realizing a gain of $100x.
