
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### miscellaneous provisions
###### ยง 1.897(l)-1 Exception for interests held by foreign pension funds.
####### Analysis.,3

(ii)For purposes of testing the requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, Fund and Trust are an organization or arrangement that is treated as a single entity under paragraph (c)(3)(i)(A) of this section and an eligible fund under paragraph (e)(2) of this section. Assets held by Trust are held in a qualified segregated account, and those assets are the assets that are relevant for purposes of determining whether the eligible fund composed of Fund and Trust meets the requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section. The eligible fund that is composed of Fund and Trust is treated as established by Employer notwithstanding that Guarantor provides management services. See paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(A)() of this section. Paragraph (e)(13)(ii) of this section provides that the assets held by an eligible fund in a qualified segregated account may be used to satisfy reasonable expenses of the eligible fund, such that the reasonable fixed management fee paid to Guarantor does not cause the assets held in Trust to fail to be treated as held in a qualified segregated account. All of the other requirements for qualified foreign pension fund status are satisfied by the eligible fund that is composed of Fund and Trust, as described in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. The eligible fund that is composed of Fund and Trust is a qualified holder under paragraph (d)(2) of this section because it held no United States real property interests on January 1, 2023, the earliest date during an uninterrupted period ending on June 1, 2027, the date of the disposition of Company A stock, in which it satisfied the requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section. The eligible fund that is composed of Fund and Trust is therefore exempt under paragraph (b) of this section with respect to the $100x of gain realized in connection with the sale by Trust of the shares in Company A.
