
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### miscellaneous provisions
###### ยง 1.897(l)-1 Exception for interests held by foreign pension funds.
####### Analysis.

(ii)(A) A qualified controlled entity described in paragraph (e)(9) of this section includes any corporation organized under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction all the interests of which are owned by one or more qualified foreign pension funds directly or indirectly through one or more qualified controlled entities. Fund is a qualified foreign pension fund that wholly owns OpCo. Accordingly, OpCo is a qualified controlled entity for the period when it is owned by Fund beginning on November 1, 2023.

(B) Under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, a qualified controlled entity is a qualified holder only if either, under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the qualified controlled entity owned no United States real property interests as of the earliest date during an uninterrupted period ending on the date of the disposition or distribution in which the qualified controlled entity satisfied the requirements of paragraph (e)(9) of this section, or, under paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the qualified controlled entity satisfies the requirements of paragraph (e)(9) of this section throughout the entire testing period. Because OpCo owned a United States real property interest as of November 1, 2023, the earliest date during an uninterrupted period ending on the date of the disposition during which it satisfied the requirements of paragraph (e)(9) of this section, OpCo cannot satisfy the requirements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section and must instead satisfy the requirements of paragraph (d)(3) of this section to be a qualified holder. Under paragraph (d)(3) of this section, a qualified holder does not include any entity that was not a qualified foreign pension fund, a part of a qualified foreign pension fund, or a qualified controlled entity at any time during the testing period. The testing period with respect to OpCo is the period from January 1, 2023 (the date of OpCo's formation), to June 1, 2024 (the date of the disposition). Because OpCo was not a qualified foreign pension fund, a part of a qualified foreign pension fund, or a qualified controlled entity from January 1, 2023, to October 31, 2023, OpCo was not a qualified foreign pension fund, a part of a qualified foreign pension fund, or a qualified controlled entity at all times during the testing period. Accordingly, OpCo is not a qualified holder with respect to the disposition of Property A, and the $100x of gain recognized by OpCo is not exempt from tax under section 897(l), regardless of the amount of unrealized gain in Property A as of November 1, 2023.
