
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### miscellaneous provisions
###### ยง 1.897(l)-1 Exception for interests held by foreign pension funds.
####### Analysis.,1,2,1,2,1,2,3,1,2,2,2,1

(ii)In each of the years ending on December 31, 2023, December 31, 2024, and December 31, 2025, the valuation performed pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(C)() of this section demonstrates that that the requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(B)() of this section have been met because $90x of retirement and pension benefits constitutes 90 percent of the total $100x of qualified benefits. For the year ending on December 31, 2026, the valuation performed pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(C)() of this section does not demonstrate that that the requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(B)() of this section have been met because $160x of retirement and pension benefits constitutes only 80 percent of the total $200x of qualified benefits. Thus, Fund does not meet the requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(C)() of this section for the year ending on December 31, 2026. However, under the 48-month alternative calculation in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(C)() of this section, Fund satisfies the requirement that it reasonably expects to provide 85 percent retirement and pension benefits to qualified recipients as of December 31, 2026. This is because when averaging the values (not percentages) of the qualified benefits and retirement and pension benefits that Fund reasonably expected to provide from the valuations performed over the preceding 48 months (including the most recent valuation), Fund divides the total retirement and pension benefits of $430x ($90x + $90x + $90x + $160x) by the total qualified benefits that it reasonably expected to provide of $500x ($100x + $100x + $100x + $200x) for an average of 86 percent. Under paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(C)() of this section, Fund may rely on either the most recent present valuation described in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(C)() of this section or the alternative calculation in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(C)() of this section, both of which are determined as of December 31, 2026. Because Fund satisfies the requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(B)() of this section under the test in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(C)() of this section, even though it does not do so under the test in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(C)() of this section, Fund is a qualified foreign pension fund with respect to the disposition on June 1, 2027. Because OpCo is held by a qualified foreign pension fund as of the date of the disposition, OpCo is a qualified controlled entity within the meaning of paragraph (e)(9) of this section. Accordingly, the $100x of gain realized by OpCo is exempt from tax under section 897(l).
