
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### miscellaneous provisions
###### ยง 1.897(l)-1 Exception for interests held by foreign pension funds.
####### Analysis.

(ii)(A) Fund owned Company A, a United States real property holding company, as of December 31, 2025, the earliest date during an uninterrupted period ending on the date of the disposition, June 1, 2031, during which Fund satisfied the requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Accordingly, to be a qualified holder, Fund must satisfy the requirements of paragraph (d)(3) of this section. The testing period with respect to Fund, determined under paragraph (d)(3) of this section, ends on June 1, 2031 (the date of disposition) and begins on June 1, 2021 (the date that is ten years before the disposition date). Fund is not a qualified holder because it failed to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section as of December 31, 2024 and, thus, has not satisfied the requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section continuously for the duration of the testing period. Accordingly, the $100x of gain realized by Fund on the disposition of the stock of Company A is not exempt from tax under section 897(l).

(B) Although Fund is not a qualified holder as of June 1, 2031, the date of Company B's disposition of Property D, Fund is still a qualified foreign pension fund because it satisfies the requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Company B is therefore a qualified controlled entity within the meaning of paragraph (e)(9) of this section as of June 1, 2031, because it is wholly owned by Fund, a qualified foreign pension fund. Notwithstanding that Fund is not a qualified holder under either paragraph (d)(2) or (3) of this section, Company B is a qualified holder under paragraph (d)(2) of this section because Company B did not own a United States real property interest as of June 1, 2026, the earliest date during an uninterrupted period ending on June 1, 2031 (the date of the disposition) during which Company B was a qualified controlled entity. Lastly, all of Company B's assets constitute a qualified segregated account. Accordingly, the $100x of gain realized by Company B on the disposition of Property D is exempt from tax under section 897(l).
