
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### miscellaneous provisions
###### ยง 1.897(l)-1 Exception for interests held by foreign pension funds.
####### Example 12: Qualified controlled entity as qualified holder,Facts.,2,2,2

(12)-(i)Fund is a qualified foreign pension fund organized in Country C that meets the requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section as of December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2023. Fund purchases an interest in Company A, a United States real property holding company, on June 1, 2024. As of December 31, 2024, Fund fails to satisfy the present valuation requirement of paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(B)() of this section and does not satisfy the alternative calculation under paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(C)() of this section. From December 31, 2025, through December 31, 2030, Fund satisfies the present valuation requirement of paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(B)() of this section and meets all other requirements in paragraph (c)(2) of this section to be treated as a qualified foreign pension fund. On June 1, 2026, Fund purchases all of the stock of Company B, a Country C corporation that owns no United States real property interests and is not a qualified foreign pension fund, a part of a qualified foreign pension fund, or a qualified controlled entity. On January 1, 2027, Company B purchases Property D, a United States real property interest. Company B retains or distributes to Fund all of its net earnings, and upon dissolution, must distribute all of its assets to its stockholders (that is, Fund) after satisfaction of liabilities to its creditors. On June 1, 2031, Fund realizes $100x of gain on the disposition of stock in Company A, and Company B realizes $100x of gain on the disposition of Property D.
