
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### miscellaneous provisions
###### ยง 1.897(l)-1 Exception for interests held by foreign pension funds.
####### Analysis.,3

(ii)(A) Because Fund reasonably expected to provide 85 percent of retirement and pension benefits to qualified recipients as of the valuation performed on December 31, 2033, and it met the other requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, Fund is a qualified foreign pension fund under paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(C)() of this section for the twelve months succeeding the most recent valuation, which includes June 1, 2034, the date of the disposition of Property A and Property B.

(B) Fund is a qualified holder under paragraph (d)(2) of this section because Fund did not own any United States real property interests as of December 31, 2027, the earliest date during the uninterrupted period ending on the date of the disposition, June 1, 2034, during which it satisfied the requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section and therefore qualified as a qualified foreign pension fund. Fund is eligible for the exemption under section 897(l) with respect to the disposition of Property B because it held Property B in a qualified segregated account. Thus, the $100x of gain realized by Fund on the disposition of Property B is exempt from tax under section 897(l).

(C) Because OpCo owned Property A, a United States real property interest, as of December 31, 2027, the earliest date during an uninterrupted period ending on the date of the disposition, June 1, 2034, during which it was a qualified controlled entity, OpCo cannot satisfy the requirements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section and must instead satisfy the requirements of paragraph (d)(3) of this section to be a qualified holder. The testing period with respect to OpCo, determined under paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section, ends on June 1, 2034 (the date of the disposition) and begins on June 1, 2024 (the date that is ten years before the disposition date). Because Fund failed to qualify as a qualified foreign pension fund as of December 31, 2026, OpCo was not continuously owned by a qualified foreign pension fund for the duration of the testing period, and thus did not qualify as a qualified foreign pension fund, part of a qualified foreign pension fund, or a qualified controlled entity for the duration of the testing period. As a result, OpCo is not a qualified holder under paragraph (d)(3) of this section. Accordingly, the $100x of gain recognized by OpCo on the disposition of Property A is not exempt from tax under section 897(l).
