
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### miscellaneous provisions
###### ยง 1.897(l)-1 Exception for interests held by foreign pension funds.
####### Analysis.,1,2,1,2,1,2,2,2,1

(ii)In each of the years ending on December 31, 2023, December 31, 2024, and December 31, 2025 (including the two valuations performed in 2023), the valuation performed pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(C)() of this section demonstrates that the requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(B)() of this section have been met because $90x of retirement and pension benefits constitutes 90 percent of the total $100x of qualified benefits. For the year ending on December 31, 2026, the valuation performed pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(C)() of this section does not demonstrate that the requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(B)() of this section have been met because $150x of retirement and pension benefits constitutes 75 percent of the total $200x of qualified benefits. Thus, Fund does not meet the requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(C)() of this section for the year ending on December 31, 2026. Under the 48-month alternative calculation in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(C)() of this section, Fund also does not satisfy the requirement that it reasonably expects to provide 85 percent retirement and pension benefits to qualified recipients as of December 31, 2026. This is because when averaging the values (not percentages) of the qualified benefits and retirement and pension benefits that Fund reasonably expected to provide from the valuations performed over the preceding 48 months (including the most recent valuation), Fund must use a weighted average whereby values are adjusted when the length of valuation periods differs. In this case, each of the two valuations in 2023 must be divided by two for a total weighted average for each valuation of $45x retirement and pension benefits and $50x of qualified benefits. When Fund then divides the total retirement and pension benefits that it reasonably expected to provide of $420x ($45x + $45x + $90x + $90x + $150x) by the total qualified benefits that it reasonably expected to provide of $500x ($50x + $50x + $100x + $100x + $200x), the average is 84 percent. Because Fund does not satisfy the requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(B)() of this section under the test in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(C)() of this section or the test in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(C)() of this section, Fund is not a qualified foreign pension fund with respect to the disposition on June 1, 2027. Because OpCo is not held by a qualified foreign pension fund as of the date of the disposition, OpCo is not a qualified controlled entity within the meaning of paragraph (e)(9) of this section. Accordingly, the $100x of gain realized by OpCo is not exempt from tax under section 897(l).
