
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### ยง 1.901-2 Income, war profits, or excess profits tax paid or accrued.
####### Example 4.,3

(D)Country X imposes a tax on the realized net income of corporations that do business in Country X (the "Country X corporate tax"). Country X also imposes a separate tax on shareholders of such corporations (the "Country X shareholder tax"). The Country X shareholder tax is imposed on the sum of the actual distributions received during the taxable year by such a shareholder from the corporation's realized net income for that year (that is, income from past years is not taxed in a later year when it is actually distributed) plus the distributions deemed to be received by such a shareholder. Deemed distributions are defined as a shareholder's pro rata share of the corporation's realized net income for the taxable year, less such shareholder's pro rata share of the corporation's Country X corporate tax for that year, less actual distributions made by such corporation to such shareholder from such net income. A shareholder's receipt of actual distributions is a realization event within the meaning of paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section. The deemed distributions are not realization events, but they are described in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C)() of this section. Accordingly, the Country X shareholder tax satisfies the realization requirement.
