
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### ยง 1.901-2 Income, war profits, or excess profits tax paid or accrued.
####### Example 1,Facts.

(i)-(A)A, a United States person, owns 100 percent of B, an entity organized in Country X. B owns 100 percent of C, also an entity organized in Country X. B and C are corporations for U.S. and foreign tax purposes that use the "u" as their functional currency. Pursuant to a consolidation regime, Country X imposes a net income tax described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section on the combined income of B and C within the meaning of paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section. In year 1, C pays 25u of interest to B. If B and C did not report their income on a combined basis for Country X tax purposes, the interest paid from C to B would result in 25u of interest income to B and 25u of deductible interest expense to C. For purposes of reporting the combined income of B and C, Country X first requires B and C to determine their own income (or loss) on a separate schedule. For this purpose, however, neither B nor C takes into account the 25u of interest paid from C to B because the income of B and C is included in the same combined base. The separate income of B and C reported on their Country X schedules for year 1, which do not reflect the 25u intercompany payment, is 100u and 200u, respectively. The combined income reported for Country X purposes is 300u (the sum of the 100u separate income of B and 200u separate income of C).
