
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### ยง 1.901-2 Income, war profits, or excess profits tax paid or accrued.
####### Example 2,Facts.

(ii)-(A)A, a United States person, owns 100 percent of B, an entity organized in Country X. B is a corporation for Country X tax purposes, and a disregarded entity for U.S. income tax purposes. B owns 100 percent of C and D, entities organized in country X that are corporations for both U.S. and Country X tax purposes. B, C, and D use the "u" as their functional currency and file on a combined basis for Country X income tax purposes. Country X imposes a net income tax described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section at the rate of 30 percent on the taxable income of corporations organized in Country X. Under the Country X combined reporting regime, income (or loss) of C and D is attributed to, and treated as income (or loss) of, B. B has the sole obligation to pay Country X income tax imposed with respect to income of B and income of C and D that is attributed to, and treated as income of, B. Under Country X tax law, Country X may proceed against B, but not C or D, if B fails to pay over to Country X all or any portion of the Country X income tax imposed with respect to such income. In year 1, B has income of 100u, C has income of 200u, and D has a net loss of (60u). Under Country X tax law, B is considered to have 240u of taxable income with respect to which 72u of Country X income tax is imposed. Country X does not provide mandatory rules for allocating D's loss.
