
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### ยง 1.901(m)-3 Disqualified tax amount and aggregate basis difference carryover.
####### 2

() In determining aggregate basis difference for a U.S. taxable year of CFC1, CFC1 has two computations, one with respect to Country F tax and one with respect to Country G tax. Under ยง 1.901(m)-1(a)(1), the aggregate basis difference for a U.S. taxable year with respect to Country F tax is equal to the sum of the allocated basis differences and allocated basis difference adjustments with respect to Assets A and B for the U.S. taxable year. Under ยง 1.901(m)-1(a)(5), allocated basis differences are the sum of cost recovery amounts and disposition amounts. Because there are no dispositions, the only allocated basis differences taken into account in determining an aggregate basis difference are cost recovery amounts. Under ยง 1.901(m)-5(b), any cost recovery amounts are attributed to CFC1, because CFC1 is the section 901(m) payor and RFA owner (U.S.) with respect to all of the Assets. For each U.S. taxable year, CFC1 will compute a separate disqualified tax amount and aggregate basis difference carryover (if any) with respect to Country F tax and Country G tax under paragraph (b)(2) of this section. For purposes of both disqualified tax amount computations, because CFC1 is the section 901(m) payor and foreign payor, the foreign income tax amount paid or accrued by CFC1 with respect to Country F tax and Country G tax, respectively, will be the entire foreign income tax amount and CFC1's allocable foreign income will be the entire foreign income.
