
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### ยง 1.901(m)-5 Basis difference taken into account.
####### In general.

(a)This section provides rules for determining the amount of basis difference with respect to an RFA that is taken into account in a U.S. taxable year for purposes of determining the disqualified portion of a foreign income tax amount. Paragraph (b) of this section provides rules for determining a cost recovery amount and assigning that amount to a U.S. taxable year of a single section 901(m) payor when the RFA owner (U.S.) is the section 901(m) payor. Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules for determining a disposition amount and assigning that amount to a U.S. taxable year of a single section 901(m) payor when the RFA owner (U.S.) is the section 901(m) payor. Paragraph (d) of this section provides rules for allocating cost recovery amounts and disposition amounts when the RFA owner (U.S.) is a fiscally transparent entity for U.S. income tax purposes. Paragraph (e) of this section provides special rules for allocating cost recovery amounts and disposition amounts with respect to certain section 743(b) CAAs. Paragraph (f) of this section provides special rules for allocating certain disposition amounts when a foreign payor is transferred in a mid-year transaction. Paragraph (g) of this section provides special rules for allocating both cost recovery amounts and disposition amounts in certain cases in which the RFA owner (U.S.) either is a reverse hybrid or a fiscally transparent entity for both U.S. and foreign income tax purposes that is directly or indirectly owned by a reverse hybrid. Paragraph (h) of this section provides examples illustrating the application of this section. Paragraph (i) of this section provides the applicability dates.
