
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### § 1.901(m)-5 Basis difference taken into account.
####### Example 1

(B) The result for Year 1 is the same as in paragraph (h)(1)(ii)(B) of this section (paragraph (ii)(B) of).

(C) In Year 2, Asset A has an allocated basis difference that includes both a cost recovery amount and a disposition amount. Under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the cost recovery amount for Year 2, as of the date of the subsequent transaction, is 9u ((90u basis difference/5 years) x 6/12). Under § 1.901(m)-1(a)(15), the subsequent transaction is a disposition of Asset A, because the subsequent transaction is an event that results in an amount of gain being recognized for Country F tax purposes. Because the disposition is not also fully taxable for U.S. income tax purposes, the rule in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section applies to determine the disposition amount. Under that rule, the disposition amount is 60u, the lesser of (i) 60u (60u foreign disposition gain plus absolute value of 0u U.S. disposition loss), and (ii) 63u unallocated basis difference (90 basis difference less total 27u taken into account as cost recovery amounts, 18u in Year 1 and 9u in Year 2). Accordingly, the allocated basis difference for the first half of Year 2 is 69u (9u of cost recovery amount, plus 60u of disposition amount). Under paragraphs (b)(1) and (c)(1) of this section, all of the 69u of allocated basis difference is attributed to CFC1 and assigned to Year 2, because CFC1 is a section 901(m) payor and the RFA owner (U.S.) with respect to Asset A and Year 2 is the U.S. taxable year of CFC1 in which it takes into account the corresponding 10u of depreciation and in which the disposition occurred.

(D) Unallocated basis difference with respect to Asset A immediately after the subsequent transaction is 3u (90u basis difference less 87u basis difference taken into account as a 27u total cost recovery amount in Year 1 and Year 2 and as a 60u disposition amount in Year 2). Accordingly, because there is unallocated basis difference of 3u with respect to Asset A attributable to the Section 338 Acquisition, as determined immediately after the subsequent transaction, the subsequent transaction is a successor transaction as defined in § 1.901(m)-6(b)(2). Following the subsequent transaction, the unallocated basis difference of 3u must be taken into account as cost recovery amounts or disposition amounts (or both) by CFC2, the new section 901(m) payor and RFA owner (U.S.) of Asset A. See § 1.901(m)-6(b)(3)(ii). Because the subsequent transaction is not a CAA under § 1.901(m)-2(b), there is no additional basis difference with respect to Asset A as a result of the subsequent transaction.
