
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### § 1.901(m)-5 Basis difference taken into account.
####### Example 1

(B) The result for Year 1 is the same as in paragraph (h)(1)(ii)(B) of this section (paragraph (ii)(B) of).

(C) In Year 2, Asset A has an allocated basis difference that includes only a cost recovery amount. Under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the cost recovery amount for Year 2, as of the date of the subsequent transaction, is 9u ((90u basis difference/5 years) x 6/12). Under § 1.901(m)-1(a)(15), the subsequent transaction does not constitute a disposition of Asset A, because the subsequent transaction is not an event that results in an amount of gain or loss being recognized for U.S. income tax or for Country F tax purposes. Therefore, no disposition amount is taken into account for Asset A in Year 2. Under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, all of the 9u of allocated basis difference is attributed to CFC1 and assigned to Year 2, because CFC1 is a section 901(m) payor and RFA owner (U.S.) with respect to Asset A and Year 2 is the U.S. taxable year of CFC1 in which it takes into account the corresponding 10u of depreciation.

(D) Unallocated basis difference with respect to Asset A immediately after the subsequent transaction is 63u (90u basis difference, less 27u total cost recovery amounts, 18u in Year 1 and 9u in Year 2). Accordingly, because there is unallocated basis difference of 63u with respect to Asset A attributable to the CAA, as determined immediately after the subsequent transaction, the subsequent transaction is a successor transaction as defined in § 1.901(m)-6(b)(2). Following the subsequent transaction, the unallocated basis difference of 63u must be taken into account as cost recovery amounts or disposition amounts (or both) by CFC2, the new section 901(m) payor and RFA owner (U.S.) of Asset A. See § 1.901(m)-6(b)(3)(ii). Because the subsequent transaction is not a CAA under § 1.901(m)-2(b), there is no additional basis difference with respect to Asset A as a result of the subsequent transaction.
