
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### § 1.901(m)-5 Basis difference taken into account.
####### Result.

(ii)(A) Under § 1.901(m)-2(b)(1), USP's acquisition of the stock of CFC1 in the Section 338 Acquisition is a section 338 CAA. Under § 1.901(m)-2(c)(i), Asset A is an RFA with respect to Country F tax because it is relevant in determining the foreign income of CFC1 for Country F tax purposes. Under § 1.901(m)-4(b), the basis difference with respect to Asset A is 90u (100u-10u). Under § 1.901(m)-1(a)(37), CFC1 is the RFA owner (U.S.) with respect to Asset A. Under § 1.901(m)-1(a)(28), CFC1 is a foreign payor for Country F tax purposes. Under § 1.901(m)-1(a)(41), CFC1 is the section 901(m) payor with respect to a foreign income tax amount for which CFC1 is the foreign payor (see § 1.901-2(f)(1)).

(B) Under § 1.901(m)-1(a)(5), allocated basis differences are the sum of cost recovery amounts and disposition amounts. In Year 1, Asset A has an allocated basis difference that includes only a cost recovery amount. Under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the cost recovery amount for Year 1 is determined by applying the applicable cost recovery method of Asset A in the hands of CFC1 to the basis difference with respect to Asset A. Accordingly, the cost recovery amount is 18u (90u basis difference/5 years). Under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, all of the 18u cost recovery amount is attributed to CFC1 and assigned to Year 1, because CFC1 is a section 901(m) payor and RFA owner (U.S.) with respect to Asset A and Year 1 is the U.S. taxable year of CFC1 in which it takes into account the corresponding 20u of depreciation. Immediately after Year 1, under § 1.901(m)-1(a)(47), unallocated basis difference is 72u with respect to Asset A (90u-18u).

(C) In Year 2, Asset A has an allocated basis difference that includes both a cost recovery amount and a disposition amount. Under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the cost recovery amount for Year 2, as of the date of the subsequent transaction, is 9u ((90u basis difference/5 years) x 6/12). Under § 1.901(m)-1(a)(15), the subsequent transaction is a disposition of Asset A, because the subsequent transaction is an event that results in an amount of gain being recognized for U.S. income tax and Country F tax purposes. Because all realized gain in Asset A is recognized for U.S. income tax and Country F tax purposes, the rule in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section applies to determine the disposition amount. Under that rule, the disposition amount for Year 2 is the unallocated basis difference of 63u (90u basis difference, less total 27u taken into account as cost recovery amounts in Year 1 and Year 2). Accordingly, the allocated basis difference for Year 2 is 72u (9u of cost recovery amount, plus 63u of disposition amount). Under paragraphs (b)(1) and (c)(1) of this section, all of the 72u of allocated basis difference is attributed to CFC1 and assigned to Year 2, because CFC1 is a section 901(m) payor and the RFA owner (U.S.) with respect to Asset A and Year 2 is the U.S. taxable year of CFC1 in which it takes into account the corresponding 10u of depreciation and in which the disposition occurred.

(D) Unallocated basis difference with respect to Asset A, as determined immediately after the subsequent transaction, is 0u (90u basis difference less 90u basis difference taken into account as 27u total cost recovery amount in Year 1 and Year 2 and as a 63u disposition amount in Year 2). Accordingly, because there is no unallocated basis difference with respect to Asset A attributable to the Section 338 Acquisition, the subsequent transaction is not a successor transaction as defined in § 1.901(m)-6(b)(2). Furthermore, the subsequent transaction is not a CAA under § 1.901(m)-2(b). For these reasons, section 901(m) no longer applies to Asset A.
