
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### § 1.901(m)-6 Successor rules.
####### Result.

(ii)Under § 1.901(m)-2(b)(1), the acquisition by CFC of the stock of FT is a section 338 CAA. Under § 1.901(m)-2(c)(1), Asset is an RFA with respect to Country A tax and the Acquisition, because immediately after the Acquisition, Asset is relevant in determining foreign income of FT for Country A tax purposes, and FT owned Asset when the Acquisition occurred. Under § 1.901(m)-4(b), the basis difference with respect to Asset is 200u (300u-100u). Under § 1.901(m)-2(b)(2), the Deemed Liquidation is a CAA (subsequent CAA) because the Deemed Liquidation is treated as an acquisition of assets for U.S. income tax purposes and is disregarded for Country A tax purposes. Because the U.S. basis in Asset is 300u immediately before and after the Deemed Liquidation, the subsequent CAA does not give rise to any additional basis difference. The Deemed Liquidation is not a disposition under § 1.901(m)-1(a)(15) because it did not result in gain or loss being recognized with respect to Asset for U.S. or Country A tax purposes. Accordingly, no basis difference with respect to Asset is taken into account under § 1.901(m)-5 as a result of the Deemed Liquidation, and the unallocated basis difference with respect to Asset immediately after the Deemed Liquidation is 200u (200u-0u). Under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the Deemed Liquidation is a successor transaction because there is a transfer of Asset for U.S. income tax purposes from FT to CFC and Asset has unallocated basis difference with respect to the Acquisition immediately after the Deemed Liquidation. Accordingly, under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, section 901(m) will continue to apply to the unallocated basis difference with respect to Asset until the entire 200u basis difference has been taken into account under § 1.901(m)-5.
