
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### ยง 1.904-4 Separate application of section 904 with respect to certain categories of income.
####### Example 2.

(B)Controlled foreign corporation, CFC, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of USP, a domestic corporation. CFC is regularly engaged in the restaurant franchise business. USP licenses trademarks, tradenames, certain know-how, related services, and certain restaurant designs for which CFC pays USP an arm's length royalty. USP is regularly engaged in the development and licensing of such property. Some of the franchisees are unrelated to CFC and USP. Other franchisees are related to CFC or USP and use the licensed property outside of CFC's country of incorporation. CFC does not satisfy, but USP does satisfy, the active trade or business requirements of section 954(c)(2)(A). The royalty income earned by CFC from both its related and unrelated franchisees is foreign personal holding company income because CFC does not satisfy the active trade or business requirements of section 954(c)(2)(A) and, in addition, the royalty income from the related franchisees does not qualify for the same country exception of section 954(c)(3) or the look-through exception in section 954(c)(6). However, all of the royalty income earned by CFC is general category income to CFC under ยง 1.904-4(b)(2)(iii) because USP, a member of CFC's affiliated group, satisfies the active trade or business test (which is applied without regard to whether the royalties are paid by a related person). USP's inclusion under section 951(a)(1)(A) of CFC's royalty income is general category income to USP under ยง 1.904-5(c)(5) and paragraph (d) of this section. The royalties received by USP are general category income to USP under ยง 1.904-5(b)(1) and paragraph (d) of this section.
