
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### ยง 1.904-4 Separate application of section 904 with respect to certain categories of income.
####### Amounts received or accrued by United States persons.

(3)Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c)(5) of this section, all passive income received by a United States person are subject to the rules of this paragraph (c)(3). Paragraph (c)(4) of this section provides additional rules for inclusions under section 951(a)(1) or 951A(a) that are passive income, dividends from a controlled foreign corporation or noncontrolled 10-percent owned foreign corporation that are passive income, and income that is received or accrued by a United States person through a foreign QBU that is passive income. For purposes of this paragraph (c), a foreign QBU is a qualified business unit (as defined in section 989(a)), other than a controlled foreign corporation or noncontrolled 10-percent owned foreign corporation, that has its principal place of business outside the United States. The rules in this paragraph (c)(3) apply whether the income is received from a controlled foreign corporation of which the United States person is a United States shareholder, from a noncontrolled 10-percent owned foreign corporation of which the United States person is a United States shareholder that is a domestic corporation, or from any other person. In applying the rules in this paragraph (c)(3), passive income is not treated as subject to a withholding tax or other foreign tax when a credit is disallowed in full for such foreign tax, for example, under section 901(k). For purposes of determining whether passive income is high-taxed income, the following rules apply:

(i) All passive income received during the taxable year that is subject to a withholding tax of fifteen percent or greater shall be treated as one item of income.

(ii) All passive income received during the taxable year that is subject to a withholding tax of less than fifteen percent (but greater than zero) shall be treated as one item of income.

(iii) All passive income received during the taxable year that is subject to no withholding tax or other foreign tax shall be treated as one item of income.

(iv) All passive income received during the taxable year that is subject to no withholding tax but is subject to a foreign tax other than a withholding tax shall be treated as one item of income.
