
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### ยง 1.904-4 Separate application of section 904 with respect to certain categories of income.
####### Allocation of foreign taxes imposed on distributions of previously taxed income.

(iii)If an item of income is considered high-taxed income in the year of inclusion and paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section applies, then any increase in foreign income taxes imposed with respect to that item are considered to be related to the same separate category to which the income was assigned in the taxable year of inclusion. If an item of income is not considered to be high-taxed income in the year of inclusion and paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section applies, the following rules shall apply. The taxpayer shall treat an increase in taxes paid or accrued, or deemed paid, on any distribution of the earnings and profits attributable to the amount included in gross income in the year of inclusion as taxes related to passive income to the extent of the excess of the product of the highest rate of tax in section 11 (determined with regard to section 15 and determined as of the year of inclusion) and the amount of the inclusion (after allocation of parent expenses) over the taxes paid or accrued, or deemed paid, in the year of inclusion. The taxpayer shall treat any taxes paid or accrued, or deemed paid, on the distribution in excess of this amount as taxes related to the same category of income to which such inclusion would have been assigned had the income been treated as high-taxed income in the year of inclusion (general category income, section 951A category income, or income in a specified separate category). If these additional taxes are not creditable in the year of distribution, the carryover rules of section 904(c) apply (see section 904(c) and ยง 1.904-2(a) for rules disallowing carryovers in the section 951A category). For purposes of this paragraph (c)(6), the foreign tax on an inclusion under section 951(a)(1) or 951A(a) is considered increased on distribution of the earnings and profits associated with that inclusion if the total of taxes paid and deemed paid on the inclusion and the distribution (taking into account any reductions in tax and any withholding taxes) exceeds the total taxes deemed paid in the year of inclusion. Any foreign currency loss associated with the earnings and profits that are distributed with respect to the inclusion is not to be considered as giving rise to an increase in tax.
