
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### ยง 1.904-4 Separate application of section 904 with respect to certain categories of income.
####### Application of this paragraph to certain reductions of tax on distributions of income,In general.

(7)-(i)If the effective rate of tax imposed by a foreign country on income of a foreign corporation that is included in a taxpayer's gross income is reduced under foreign law on distribution of such income, the rules of this paragraph (c) apply at the time that the income is included in the taxpayer's gross income, without regard to the possibility of a subsequent reduction of foreign tax on the distribution. If the inclusion is considered to be high-taxed income, then the taxpayer must initially treat the inclusion as general category income, section 951A category income, or income in a specified separate category as provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. When the foreign corporation distributes the earnings and profits to which the inclusion was attributable and the foreign tax on the inclusion is reduced, then if a redetermination of U.S. tax liability is required under ยง 1.905-3(b)(2), the taxpayer must redetermine whether the revised inclusion (if any) is considered to be high-taxed income. See ยง 1.905-3(b)(2)(ii) (requiring a redetermination of the amount of the inclusion, the application of the high-tax exception under section 954(b)(4), and the amount of foreign taxes deemed paid). If, taking into account the reduction in foreign tax, the inclusion is not considered high-taxed income, then the taxpayer, in redetermining its U.S. tax liability for the year or years affected, must treat the inclusion and the associated taxes (as reduced on the distribution) as passive category income and taxes. For purposes of this paragraph (c), the foreign tax on an inclusion under section 951(a)(1) or 951A(a) is considered reduced on distribution of the earnings and profits associated with the inclusion if the total taxes paid and deemed paid on the inclusion and the distribution (taking into account any reductions in tax and any withholding taxes) is less than the total taxes deemed paid in the year of inclusion. Therefore, any foreign currency gain associated with the earnings and profits that are distributed with respect to the inclusion is not taken into account in determining whether there is a reduction of tax requiring a redetermination of whether the inclusion is high-taxed income.
