
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### § 1.904-4 Separate application of section 904 with respect to certain categories of income.
####### Example 5.

(v)CFC, a controlled foreign corporation, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of USP, a domestic corporation. USP and CFC are calendar year taxpayers. In Year 1, CFC's only earnings consist of $200x of pre-tax passive income that is foreign personal holding company income that is earned in foreign Country X. Under Country X's tax system, the corporate tax on particular earnings is reduced on distribution of those earnings and no withholding tax is imposed. In Year 1, CFC pays $100x of foreign tax with respect to its passive income. USP does not elect to exclude this income from subpart F under section 954(b)(4) and includes $200x in gross income ($100x of net foreign personal holding company income and $100x of the amount under section 78 (the "section 78 dividend")). At the time of the inclusion, the income is considered to be high-taxed income under paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(6)(i) of this section and is general category income to USP ($100x > $42x (21% x $200x)). CFC does not distribute any of its earnings in Year 1. In Year 2, CFC has no additional earnings. On December 31, Year 2, CFC distributes the $100x of earnings from Year 1. At that time, CFC receives a $60x refund from Country X attributable to the reduction of the Country X corporate tax imposed on the Year 1 earnings. The refund is a foreign tax redetermination under § 1.905-3(a) that under §§ 1.905-3(b)(2) and 1.954-1(d)(3)(iii) requires a redetermination of CFC's Year 1 subpart F income and the application of section 954(b)(4), as well as a redetermination of USP's Year 1 inclusion under section 951(a)(1), its deemed paid taxes under section 960(a), and its Year 1 U.S. tax liability. As recomputed taking into account the $60x refund, CFC's Year 1 passive category net foreign personal holding company income is increased by $60x to $160x, CFC's foreign income taxes attributable to that income are reduced from $100x to $40x, and the income still qualifies to be excluded from CFC's subpart F income under section 954(b)(4) ($40x > $37.80x (90% x 21% x $200x)). Assuming USP does not change its Year 1 election, USP's Year 1 inclusion under section 951(a)(1) is increased by $60x to $160x, and the associated deemed paid tax and section 78 dividend are reduced by $60x to $40x. Under paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this section, in connection with the adjustments required under section 905(c), USP must redetermine whether the adjusted Year 1 inclusion is high-taxed income of USP. Taking into account the $60x refund, the inclusion is not considered high-taxed income of USP ($40x < $42x (21% x $200x)). Therefore, USP must treat the $200x of income ($160x inclusion plus $40x section 78 amount) and the $40x of taxes associated with the inclusion in Year 1 as passive category income and taxes. USP must also follow the appropriate procedures under § 1.905-4.
