
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### ยง 1.904-4 Separate application of section 904 with respect to certain categories of income.
####### Example 4.

(iv)CFC, a controlled foreign corporation incorporated in foreign Country R, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of USP, a domestic corporation. USP and CFC have calendar year taxable years for both U.S. and Country R tax purposes. The highest tax rate under section 11 is 34% and 21% in Year 1 and Year 2, respectively. For Year 1, USP is required under section 951(a)(1) to include in gross income $80x (not including the section 78 amount) attributable to the earnings and profits of CFC for such year, all of which is foreign personal holding company income that is passive rent or royalty income. CFC does not make any distributions in Year 1. Foreign income taxes paid by CFC for Year 1 that are deemed paid by USP for such year under section 960(a) with respect to the section 951(a)(1) inclusion equal $20x. USP properly allocates $30x of expenses to the section 951(a)(1) inclusion. The foreign income tax paid with respect to the section 951(a)(1) inclusion does not exceed the highest U.S. tax rate multiplied by the amount of income after allocation of USP's expenses ($20x < $23.80x (34% x $70x)). Thus, USP's section 951(a)(1) inclusion for Year 1 is included in USP's passive category income and the $20x of taxes attributable to that inclusion are treated as taxes related to passive category income. In Year 2, CFC distributes $70x to USP, and under section 959 that distribution is treated as attributable to the earnings and profits with respect to the amount included in income by USP in Year 1 and is excluded from USP's gross income. Foreign Country R imposes a withholding tax of $14x on the distribution in Year 2. Under paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section, the withholding tax in Year 2 does not affect the characterization of the Year 1 inclusion as passive category income, nor does it affect the characterization of the $20x of taxes paid in Year 1 as taxes paid with respect to passive category income. No further expenses of USP are allocable to the receipt of that distribution. In Year 2, the foreign taxes paid ($14x) exceed the product of the highest U.S. tax rate and the amount of the inclusion reduced by taxes deemed paid in the year of inclusion ($14x > $3.80x ((34% x $70x) - $20x)). Thus, under paragraph (c)(6)(iii) of this section, $3.80x ((34% x $70x) - $20x) of the $14x withholding tax paid in Year 2 is treated as taxes related to passive category income and the remaining $10.20x ($14x - $3.80x) of the withholding tax is treated as related to general category income.
