
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### ยง 1.904-4 Separate application of section 904 with respect to certain categories of income.
####### Example 8.

(viii)(A) CFC, a controlled foreign corporation operating in Country G, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of USP, a domestic corporation. USP and CFC are calendar year taxpayers. Country G imposes a tax of 50% on CFC's earnings. Under Country G's system, the foreign corporate tax on particular earnings is reduced on distribution of those earnings to 30% and no withholding tax is imposed. Under Country G's law, distributions are treated as made out of a pool of undistributed earnings subject to the 50% tax rate. For Year 1, CFC's only earnings consist of passive income that is foreign personal holding company income that is earned in foreign Country G. CFC has taxable income of $110x for Federal income tax purposes and $100x for Country G purposes. Country G, therefore, imposes a tax of $50x on the Year 1 earnings of CFC. USP does not elect to exclude this income from subpart F under section 954(b)(4) and includes $110x in gross income ($60x of net foreign personal holding company income under section 951(a) and $50x of the section 78 dividend). The highest rate of tax under section 11 in Year 1 is 34%. Therefore, at the time of the section 951(a) inclusion, the income is considered to be high-taxed income under paragraph (c) of this section ($50x > $37.4x (34% x $110x)) and is general category income to USP. CFC does not distribute any of its earnings in Year 1.

(B) In Year 2, CFC earns general category income that is not subpart F income or tested income. CFC again has $110x in taxable income for Federal income tax purposes and $100x in taxable income for Country G purposes, and CFC pays $50x of tax to foreign Country G. In Year 3, CFC has no taxable income or earnings. On December 31, Year 3, CFC distributes $60x of its total $120x of earnings and receives a refund of foreign tax of $24x. The $24x refund is a foreign tax redetermination under ยง 1.905-3(a) that under ยง 1.905-3(b)(2) requires a redetermination of CFC's Year 1 subpart F income and USP's deemed paid taxes and Year 1 U.S. tax liability. Country G treats the distribution of earnings as out of the 50% tax rate pool of $200x of earnings accumulated in Year 1 and Year 2, as calculated for Country G tax purposes. However, under paragraph (c)(7)(ii) of this section, the distribution, and, therefore, the reduction of tax is treated as first attributable to the $60x of passive category earnings attributable to income previously taxed in Year 1, and none of the distribution is treated as made out of the $60x of earnings accumulated in Year 2 (which is not previously taxed). Because 40 percent (the reduction in tax rates from 50 percent to 30 percent is a 40 percent reduction in the tax) of the $50x of foreign taxes attributable to the $60x of Year 1 passive income as calculated for Federal income tax purposes is refunded, $20x of the $24x foreign tax refund reduces foreign taxes on CFC's Year 1 passive income from $50x to $30x. The other $4x of the tax refund reduces the taxes imposed in Year 2 on CFC's general category income from $50x to $46x.

(C) Under paragraph (c)(7) of this section, in connection with the section 905(c) adjustment USP must redetermine whether its Year 1 subpart F inclusion is considered high-taxed income. By taking into account the reduction in foreign tax, the inclusion is increased by $20x to $80x, the deemed paid taxes are reduced by $20x to $30x, and the inclusion is not considered high-taxed income ($30x < 34% x $110x). Therefore, USP must treat the revised section 951(a) inclusion and the taxes associated with the section 951(a) inclusion as passive category income and taxes in Year 1. USP must follow the appropriate procedures under ยง 1.905-4.
