
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### ยง 1.904-4 Separate application of section 904 with respect to certain categories of income.
####### Example 10.

(x)In Year 1, P, a U.S. citizen with a tax home in Country X, earns the following items of gross income: $400x of foreign source, passive interest income not subject to foreign withholding tax but subject to Country X income tax of $100x, $200x of foreign source, passive royalty income subject to a 5% foreign withholding tax (foreign tax paid is $10x), $1,300x of foreign source, passive rental income subject to a 25% foreign withholding tax (foreign tax paid is $325x), $500x of foreign source, general category loss, and $2,000x of U.S. source capital gain that is not subject to any foreign tax. P has a $900x deduction allocable to its passive rental income. P's only other deduction is a $700x capital loss on the sale of stock that is allocated to foreign source passive category income under ยง 1.865-2(a)(3)(i). The $700x capital loss is initially allocated to the group of passive income described in paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section (passive income subject to no withholding tax but subject to foreign tax other than withholding tax). This group comprises the $400x of interest income not subject to foreign withholding tax but subject to Country X income tax. Under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, the $300x amount by which the capital loss exceeds the income in the group must be reallocated to the net income in the other groups described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, but the $500x general category separate limitation loss is not allocated until the high-tax kickout rules are applied to determine whether the passive income is high-taxed income. P's $200x of royalty income subject to a 5% withholding tax is described in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section (passive income that is subject to a withholding tax of less than 15%, but greater than zero). P's $1,300x of rental income subject to a 25% withholding tax is described in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section (passive income that is subject to a withholding tax of 15% or greater). The $1,300x of rental income is reduced by the $900x deduction allocable to such income. Therefore, the total net income in the other groups under paragraph (c)(3) is $600x, the $200x of royalty income and the $400x of rental income. The ($300x) net loss in the net basis tax group thus reduces the royalty income by $100x to $100x ($200x - ($300x x (200x/600x))) and the rental income by $200x to $200x ($400x - ($300x x (400x/600x))). The $100x of net royalty income is not high-taxed and remains passive category income because the foreign taxes of $10x do not exceed the highest U.S. rate of tax on that income, which is 37% for individuals ($10x < $37x (37% x $100x)). Under the high-tax kickout, the $200x of rental income and the $325x of associated foreign tax are assigned to the general category.
