
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### ยง 1.904-4 Separate application of section 904 with respect to certain categories of income.
####### Example 4: Disregarded payment for non-inventory property,Facts.

(iv)-(A)P, a domestic corporation, owns FDE, a disregarded entity that is a foreign branch within the meaning of paragraph (f)(3)(vii) of this section. FDE's functional currency is the U.S. dollar. P holds Asset A, a non-depreciable asset, with an adjusted basis of $200x. In Year 1, P sells Asset A, which will be used in FDE's manufacturing business, to FDE for $500x. FDE makes no other disregarded payments with respect to Asset A. No adjustments described in section 1016(a) apply with respect to Asset A while FDE holds Asset A. In Year 3, FDE sells Asset A to a third party for $600x and reflects $400x of gross income on its separate set of books and records (that is, $600x amount realized less Asset A's $200x adjusted basis). Under sections 865(e)(1) and 904(d)(2)(B)(i), the income arising from the sale of Asset A is foreign source income that is not treated as passive category income. Asset A is not inventory property. Absent the application of paragraph (f)(2)(vi) of this section, the entire $400x of gross income earned by P by reason of FDE's sale of Asset A would be attributable to FDE and be treated as foreign branch category income.
