
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### § 1.904-4 Separate application of section 904 with respect to certain categories of income.
####### Example 3: Disregarded payment for services,Facts.

(iii)-(A)P, a domestic corporation, owns FDE, a disregarded entity that is a foreign branch within the meaning of paragraph (f)(3)(vii) of this section. FDE's functional currency is the U.S. dollar. In Year 1, P accrues and records on its books and records (and not FDE's books and records) $1,000x of gross income from the performance of services to unrelated parties that is not passive category income, $400x of which is foreign source income in respect of services performed outside the United States by employees of FDE and $600x of which is U.S. source income in respect of services performed in the United States. Absent the application of paragraph (f)(2)(vi) of this section, the $1,000x of gross income earned by P would be general category income that would not be attributable to FDE. FDE provides services in support of P's gross income from services. P compensates FDE for its services with an arm's length payment of $400x, which is disregarded for Federal income tax purposes. The deduction for the payment of $400x from P to FDE would be allocated to P's $1,000x of general category gross services income and apportioned entirely to the $400x of foreign source services income under §§ 1.861-8 and 1.861-8T principles (treating foreign source general category gross income and U.S. source general category gross income each as a statutory grouping) if the payment were regarded for Federal income tax purposes.
