
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### ยง 1.904-4 Separate application of section 904 with respect to certain categories of income.
####### Analysis,1,Sale of FDE2.

(B)-()Under paragraph (f)(1)(i)(B) of this section, P's distributive share of gain recognized by PRS in connection with the sales of FDE1 and FDE2 constitutes foreign branch category income if it is attributable to a foreign branch held by PRS directly or indirectly through one or more disregarded entities. PRS's gross income from the Year 1 sale of FDE2 is reflected on the separate set of books and records maintained with respect to the Country B Business (a foreign branch) operated by FDE1. Therefore, absent an exception, under paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section PRS's gross income from the sale of FDE2 would be attributable to the Country B Business, and would constitute foreign branch category income. However, under paragraph (f)(2)(iv) of this section, gross income attributable to the Country B Business does not include gain from the sale or exchange of an interest in FDE2, a disregarded entity, unless the interest in FDE2 is held by the Country B Business in the ordinary course of its active trade or business (within the meaning of paragraph (f)(2)(iv)(B) of this section). In this case, the Country B Business does not hold FDE2 in the ordinary course of its active trade or business within the meaning of paragraph (f)(2)(iv)(B) of this section. As a result, P's distributive share of gain from the sale of FDE2 is not attributable to a foreign branch, and is not foreign branch category income.
