
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### § 1.904-4 Separate application of section 904 with respect to certain categories of income.
####### Example 13: Disregarded payment from domestic corporation to foreign branch,Facts.

(xiii)-(A)P, a domestic corporation, owns FDE, a disregarded entity that is a foreign branch. FDE's functional currency is the U.S. dollar. In Year 1, P accrues and records on its books and records for Federal income tax purposes $400x of gross income from the license of intellectual property to unrelated parties that is not passive category income, all of which is U.S. source income. P also accrues $600x of foreign source passive category interest income. P compensates FDE for services that FDE performs in a foreign country with an arm's length payment of $350x, which FDE records on its books and records; the transaction is disregarded for Federal income tax purposes. Absent the application of paragraph (f)(2)(vi) of this section, the $400x of gross income earned by P from the license would be general category income that would not be attributable to FDE. If the $350x disregarded payment from P to FDE were regarded for Federal income tax purposes, the deduction for the payment would be allocated and apportioned entirely to P's $400x of general category gross licensing income under the principles of §§ 1.861-8 and 1.861-8T (treating U.S. source general category gross income and foreign source passive category gross income each as a statutory grouping). P and FDE incur no other expenses.
