
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### ยง 1.904-5 Look-through rules as applied to controlled foreign corporations and other entities.
####### Example 1.

(i)USP, a domestic corporation, owns all of the stock of CFC1, a controlled foreign corporation. CFC1 owns 40% of the stock of CFC2, a Country X corporation that is a controlled foreign corporation. The remaining 60% of the stock of CFC2 is owned by V, a domestic corporation, unrelated to USP. The percentages of value and voting power of CFC2 owned by CFC1 and V correspond to their percentages of stock ownership. CFC2 owns 40% (by vote and value) of the stock of CFC3, a Country Z corporation that is a controlled foreign corporation. The remaining 60% of CFC3 is owned by unrelated United States persons. CFC3 earns exclusively general category income that is neither subpart F income nor tested income. In Year 1, CFC3 makes an interest payment of $100x to CFC2. Look-through principles do not apply because CFC2 and CFC3 are not related look-through entities under paragraph (i)(1) of this section (because CFC2 does not own more than 50% of the voting power or value of CFC3). The interest is passive category income to CFC2 and is subpart F income of CFC2 that is taxable to USP and V. Under paragraph (c)(5) of this section, USP and V's subpart F inclusion with respect to CFC2 is passive category income.
