
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### ยง 1.904-5 Look-through rules as applied to controlled foreign corporations and other entities.
####### Analysis.

(ii)This transaction does not involve circular payments and, therefore, the ordering rules of paragraph (k)(2) of this section do not apply. Instead, pursuant to paragraph (k)(1) of this section, income received is characterized first. CFC2's earnings and, thus, the dividend from CFC2 to CFC1 are characterized first. Under paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section, CFC1 includes the $100x dividend from CFC2 in gross income as general category income because none of CFC2's earnings are passive category income. CFC1 thus has $100x of passive category foreign personal holding company income and $100x of general category income that is excluded from subpart F income under section 954(c)(6)(A). The interest payment from CFC1 to CFC3 is then characterized as $100x passive category income under paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(C) of this section because it is allocable to passive foreign personal holding company income of CFC1. For Year 1, CFC3 thus has $200x of general category income that is subpart F income, and $100x of passive category foreign personal holding company income. For Year 1, under ยง 1.904-4(d) and paragraph (c)(5) of this section, USP includes in its gross income an inclusion under section 951(a)(1)(A) with respect to CFC3, $200x of which is general category income and $100x of which is passive category income.
