
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### ยง 1.904-5 Look-through rules as applied to controlled foreign corporations and other entities.
####### Analysis

(ii)-(A) Under paragraph (k)(2)(i) of this section, the royalty paid by CFC3 to CFC2 is characterized first. With respect to CFC2, the royalty is general category non-subpart F income.

(B) Under paragraph (k)(2)(ii) of this section, the interest payments from CFC1 to CFC2 and CFC3 are characterized next. Under paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(C) of this section, the interest payments are first allocable to CFC1's passive category income. Therefore, under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, $50x of the interest payment to CFC2 is passive category income and $50x of the interest payment to CFC3 is passive category income. The remaining $50x paid to CFC2 is general category income and the remaining $50x paid to CFC3 is general category income. Because $100x of the interest income received or accrued from CFC1 is properly allocable to income of CFC1 which is not subpart F income, under section 954(c)(6) the general category interest income is not treated as foreign personal holding company income to CFC2 and CFC3. The remaining $100x of interest income received or accrued from CFC1 is passive category subpart F foreign personal holding company income to both recipients. Therefore, CFC3 and CFC2 each have $50x of passive category subpart F foreign personal holding company income related to the interest received from CFC1.

(C) Under paragraph (k)(2)(iii) of this section, USP's $50x inclusion under section 951(a)(1)(A) with respect to CFC2 is characterized next. Under paragraph (c)(5) of this section, USP's inclusion under section 951(a)(1)(A) is attributable to the passive category portion of the interest income received by CFC2 from CFC1 and is passive category income to USP. Under paragraph (k)(2)(iii) of this section, USP's $50x inclusion under section 951(a)(1)(A) with respect to CFC3 is also characterized next. Under paragraph (c)(5) of this section, USP's inclusion under section 951(a)(1)(A) is attributable to the passive category portion of the interest income received by CFC3 from CFC2 and is passive category income to USP.

(D) Under paragraph (k)(2)(iv) of this section, the $150x distribution from CFC2 to CFC1 is characterized next. The first $50x of the distribution is out of passive category earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(2). The remaining $100x of the distribution is a dividend that is not attributable to CFC2's passive category income, so under paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section it is general category income to CFC1 in its entirety. Because $100x of the dividend received or accrued from CFC2 is attributable to income of CFC2 which is not subpart F income, under section 954(c)(6) such dividend income is not treated as foreign personal holding company income of CFC1.
