
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### ยง 1.904-5 Look-through rules as applied to controlled foreign corporations and other entities.
####### Analysis

(ii)-(A) Under paragraph (k)(2) of this section, the $100x interest payment from CFC2 to CFC1 reduces the $150x interest payment from CFC1 to CFC2. CFC1 is treated as though it paid $50x of interest to CFC2. CFC2 is treated as though it made no interest payment to CFC1.

(B) Under paragraph (k)(2)(ii) of this section, the remaining $50x interest payment from CFC1 to CFC2 is then characterized. The interest payment is first allocable under the rules of paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(C) of this section to CFC1's passive category income. Therefore, under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, the $50x interest payment to CFC2 is passive category income. The interest income is foreign personal holding company income in CFC2's hands. CFC2, therefore, has $50x of passive category subpart F income and $200x of general category non-subpart F income.

(C) Under paragraph (k)(2)(iii) of this section, inclusions under section 951(a)(1)(A) are characterized next. USP has an inclusion under section 951(a)(1)(A) with respect to CFC1 of $50x that is attributable to passive category income of CFC1 and is treated as passive category income to USP. USP has an inclusion under section 951(a)(1)(A) with respect to CFC2 of $50x that is attributable to passive category income of CFC2 and is treated as passive category income to USP.
