
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### ยง 1.904-5 Look-through rules as applied to controlled foreign corporations and other entities.
####### Facts.

(A)Controlled foreign corporation CFC is incorporated in Country A and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of USP, a domestic corporation. In Year 1, CFC earns $80x of general category foreign base company sales income in Country A and $40x of passive category U.S. source interest income. CFC incurs $20x of expenses attributable to its sales business. CFC pays USP $40x of interest that is allocated to CFC's U.S. source passive category income under paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(C) of this section and so is U.S. source passive category income to USP under paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (m)(2) of this section. Assume that earnings and profits equal net income. All of CFC's net income of $60x is subpart F income includible in USP's gross income under section 951(a)(1). For Year 1, USP also has $100x of foreign source passive category income derived from investments in Country B. Pursuant to section 904(h)(3) and paragraph (m)(2) of this section, the $40x interest payment from CFC is U.S. source income to USP because it is attributable to U.S. source interest income of CFC. The United States-Country A income tax treaty, however, treats all interest payments by residents of Country A as Country A sourced and USP elects to apply the treaty.
