
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### § 1.904-6 Allocation and apportionment of foreign income taxes.
####### In general.

(a)The amount of foreign income taxes paid or accrued with respect to a separate category (as defined in § 1.904-5(a)(4)(v)) of income (including U.S. source income assigned to the separate category) includes only those foreign income taxes that are allocated and apportioned to the separate category under the rules of § 1.861-20 (as modified by this section). In applying the foreign tax credit limitation under sections 904(a) and (d) to general category income described in section 904(d)(2)(A)(ii) and § 1.904-4(d), foreign source income in the general category is a statutory grouping. However, general category income is the residual grouping of income for purposes of assigning foreign income taxes to separate categories. In addition, in determining the numerator of the foreign tax credit limitation under sections 904(a) and (d), where U.S. source income is the residual grouping, the amount of foreign income taxes paid or accrued for which a deduction is allowed, for example, under section 901(k)(7), with respect to foreign source income in a separate category includes only those foreign income taxes that are allocated and apportioned to foreign source income in the separate category under the rules of § 1.861-20 (as modified by this section). For purposes of this section, unless otherwise stated, terms have the same meaning as provided in § 1.861-20(b). For examples illustrating the application of this section, see § 1.861-20(g).
