
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### ยง 1.904-7 Transition rules.
####### Recipient of dividends and subpart F inclusions is subject to the Act and payor is not subject to the Act.

(4)If dividends are paid or accrued or section 951(a)(1) inclusions occur before the start of the first taxable year of a controlled foreign corporation beginning on or after January 1, 1987, but on or after the start of the first taxable year of the distributee or United States shareholder beginning on or after January 1, 1987, the dividends or section 951(a)(1) inclusions in the hands of the distributee or United States shareholder shall be initially characterized in accordance with former section 904(d)(3) (including the ordering rules of section 904(d)(3)(A). Therefore, under former section 904(d)(3)(A), dividends are considered to be paid or derived first from earnings attributable to separate limitation interest income. To the extent the dividend or section 951(a)(1) inclusion is initially characterized under these rules as separate limitation interest income in the hands of the distributee or United States shareholder, the dividend or section 951(a)(1) inclusion shall be recharacterized as passive income in the hands of the distributee or United States shareholder. The portion, if any, of the dividend or section 951(a)(1) inclusion that is not characterized as passive income shall be characterized according to the rules in paragraph (a) of this section. Therefore, a taxpayer may establish that income that would otherwise be characterized as general limitation income is shipping or financial services income. Rules comparable to the rules contained in section 904(d)(2)(I) shall be applied for purposes of characterizing foreign taxes deemed paid with respect to distributions and section 951(a)(1) inclusions covered by this paragraph (b)(4).
