
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### ยง 1.904-7 Transition rules.
####### Safe harbor method.

(ii)A taxpayer that was eligible for look-through treatment with respect to a distribution from the foreign corporation in the taxpayer's first taxable year ending after the first day of the foreign corporation's first taxable year beginning after December 31, 2002, may allocate the undistributed earnings and taxes in the non-look-through pools to the foreign corporation's look-through pools of post-1986 undistributed earnings and post-1986 foreign income taxes in other separate categories on the first day of the foreign corporation's first taxable year beginning after December 31, 2002, in the same percentages as the taxpayer properly characterizes the stock of the foreign corporation in the separate categories for purposes of apportioning the taxpayer's interest expense in its first taxable year ending after the first day of the foreign corporation's first taxable year beginning after December 31, 2002, under ยง 1.861-12T(c)(3) or ยง 1.861-12(c)(4), as the case may be. If the modified gross income method described in ยง 1.861-9T(j) is used to apportion interest expense of the foreign corporation in its first taxable year beginning after December 31, 2002, the taxpayer must allocate the undistributed earnings and taxes in the non-look-through pools to the foreign corporation's look-through pools of post-1986 undistributed earnings and post-1986 foreign income taxes based on an average of the foreign corporation's modified gross income ratios for the foreign corporation's taxable years beginning in 2003 and 2004. A taxpayer may also use the safe harbor method described in this paragraph (f)(4)(ii) to allocate to separate categories any previously-taxed earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(1)(A) that are attributable to the non-look-through pool. A taxpayer may choose to use the safe harbor method on either a timely filed or amended tax return or during an audit. However, a taxpayer that uses the safe harbor method on an amended return or in the course of an audit must make appropriate adjustments to eliminate any duplicate benefits arising from application of the safe harbor method to taxable years that are not open for assessment. A taxpayer's choice to use the safe harbor method is evidenced by employing the method. The taxpayer need not file any separate statement.
