
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### ยง 1.904(b)-1 Special rules for capital gains and losses.
####### Long-term capital gains.

(ii)With respect to a long-term capital gain, the rate group is the particular rate of tax to which such gain is subject under section 1(h). Such a rate group is a long-term rate group. For example, the 28 percent rate group of capital gain net income from sources outside the United States consists of the capital gain net income from sources outside the United States that is subject to tax at a rate of 28 percent under section 1(h). Such 28 percent rate group is a long-term rate group. If a taxpayer has long-term capital gains that may be subject to tax at more than one rate under section 1(h) and the taxpayer's net capital gain attributable to such long-term capital gains and any qualified dividend income are taxed at one rate of tax under section 1(h), then all of such long-term capital gains shall be treated as long-term capital gains in that one rate group. If a taxpayer has long-term capital gains that may be subject to tax at more than one rate of tax under section 1(h) and the taxpayer's net capital gain attributable to such long-term capital gains and any qualified dividend income are taxed at more than one rate pursuant to section 1(h), the taxpayer shall determine the rate group for such long-term capital gains from sources within or outside the United States (and, to the extent from sources outside the United States, from each separate category) ratably based on the proportions of net capital gain and any qualified dividend income taxed at each applicable rate. For example, under the section 1(h) rates in effect for tax years beginning in 2004, a long-term capital gain (other than a long-term capital gain described in section 1(h)(4)(A) or (h)(6)) may be subject to tax at 5 percent or 15 percent.
