
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### ยง 1.904(b)-3 Disregard of certain dividends and deductions under section 904(b)(4).
####### Section 951A category income.,See

(B)Before application of section 904(b)(4) and the rules in this section, USP's foreign source taxable income in the section 951A category is $700x, which equals $2,200x (USP's GILTI inclusion amount) less $1,100x (USP's section 250 deduction) less $400x (interest apportioned to section 951A category income). Under paragraphs (b) and (c)(1) of this section, USP has no deductions properly allocable and apportioned to gross income in a section 245A subgroup of the section 951A category. Under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, USP has no deductions properly allocable and apportioned to stock of specified 10-percent owned foreign corporations in a section 245A subgroup of section 951A category stock because no portion of section 951A category stock is assigned to a section 245A subgroup.ยง 1.861-13(a)(5)(v). Therefore, under paragraph (a) of this section no adjustment is made to USP's foreign source taxable income in the section 951A category. However, the adjustments to USP's worldwide taxable income described in paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(A) of this section apply for purposes of calculating USP's foreign tax credit limitation for the section 951A category. Accordingly, USP's foreign source taxable income in the section 951A category is $700x and its worldwide taxable income is $1,400x. Under section 904(a) and (d)(1), USP's foreign tax credit limitation for the section 951A category is $126x ($252x x $700x/$1,400x).
