
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### ยง 1.904(b)-3 Disregard of certain dividends and deductions under section 904(b)(4).
####### General category income.

(A)Before application of section 904(b)(4) and the rules in this section, USP's foreign source taxable income in the general category is a loss of $200x, which equals $0 (USP's foreign source general category income) less $200x (interest expense apportioned to general category income), and USP's worldwide taxable income is $1,200. Under paragraph (d) of this section, the rules in section 904(f) and (g) apply after section 904(b)(4) and the rules in this section. Under paragraphs (b) and (c)(1) of this section, USP has no deductions properly allocable or apportioned to gross income in the section 245A subgroup because USP has no dividend income in the general category for which a deduction is allowed under section 245A. Under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, USP has $200x of deductions for interest expense that are properly allocable or apportioned to stock of specified 10-percent owned foreign corporations in the section 245A subgroup because USP's only general category assets are the general category stock of CFC1, CFC2, and CFC3, all of which are in the section 245A subgroup. Therefore, under paragraph (a) of this section, USP's foreign source taxable income in the general category and its worldwide taxable income are determined without regard to the $200x of deductions for interest expense. Accordingly, USP's foreign source taxable income in the general category is $0 and its worldwide taxable income is $1,400x, and therefore, there is no separate limitation loss for purposes of section 904(f). Under section 904(a) and (d)(1) USP's foreign tax credit limitation for the general category is $0.
