
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### ยง 1.904(g)-1 Overall domestic loss and the overall domestic loss account.
####### Taxable year in which overall domestic loss is sustained.

(2)When a domestic loss is carried back or carried forward as part of a net operating loss, and offsets foreign source income in a carryover year, the resulting overall domestic loss is treated as sustained in the later of the year in which the domestic loss was incurred or the year to which the loss was carried. Accordingly, when a taxpayer incurs a domestic loss that is carried back as part of a net operating loss to offset foreign source income in a qualified taxable year, as defined in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the resulting overall domestic loss is treated as sustained in the later year in which the domestic loss was incurred and not in the earlier year in which the loss offset foreign source income. In addition, when a taxpayer incurs a domestic loss that is carried forward as part of a net operating loss and applied to offset foreign source income in a later taxable year, the resulting overall domestic loss is treated as sustained in the later year in which the domestic loss offsets foreign source income and not in the earlier year in which the loss was incurred. For example, if a taxpayer incurs a domestic loss in the 2007 taxable year that is carried back to the 2006 qualified taxable year and offsets foreign source income in 2006, the resulting overall domestic loss is treated as sustained in the 2007 taxable year. If a taxpayer incurs a domestic loss in a pre-2007 taxable year that is carried forward to a post-2006 qualified taxable year and offsets foreign source income in the post-2006 year, the resulting overall domestic loss is treated as sustained in the post-2006 year. An overall domestic loss account is established, or increased under paragraph (d) of this section, at the end of the taxable year in which the overall domestic loss is treated as sustained and will be recaptured from U.S. source income arising in subsequent taxable years.
