
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### § 1.904(g)-3 Ordering rules for the allocation of net operating losses, net capital losses, U.S. source losses, and separate limitation losses, and for the recapture of separate limitation losses, overall foreign losses, and overall domestic losses.
####### Step One: Allocation of net operating loss and net capital loss carryovers,In general.

(b)-(1)Net operating losses from a current taxable year are carried forward or back to a taxable year in the following manner. Net operating losses that are carried forward pursuant to section 172 are combined with income or loss in the carryover year in the manner described in this paragraph (b). The combined amounts are then subject to the ordering rules provided in paragraphs (c) through (i) of this section. Net operating losses that are carried back to a prior taxable year pursuant to section 172 are allocated to income in the carryback year in the manner set forth in paragraphs (b)(2), (b)(3), (c), (d), and (e) of this section. The income in the carryback year to which the net operating loss is allocated is the foreign source income in each separate category and the U.S. source income after the application of sections 904(f) and 904(g) to income and loss in that previous year, including as a result of net operating loss carryovers or carrybacks from taxable years prior to the current taxable year. See §§ 1.861-8(e)(8), 1.904(b)-3(d)(2), and 1.1502-4(c)(1)(iii) for rules to determine the source and separate category components of a net operating loss.
