
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### § 1.905-1 When credit for foreign income taxes may be taken.
####### Correction of improper accruals,In general.

(5)-(i)The accrual of a foreign income tax expense generally involves the determination of the proper timing for recognizing the expense for Federal income tax purposes. Thus, foreign income tax expense is a material item within the meaning of section 446. See § 1.446-1(e)(2)(ii). As a material item, a change in the timing of accruing a foreign income tax expense is generally a change in method of accounting. See section 446(e). A change from an improper method of accruing foreign income taxes to the proper method of accrual described in this paragraph (d) is treated as a change in a method of accounting, regardless of whether the taxpayer (or a partner or beneficiary taking into account a distributive share of foreign income taxes paid by a partnership or other pass-through entity) chooses to claim a deduction or a credit for such taxes in any taxable year. For purposes of this paragraph (d)(5), an improper method of accruing foreign income taxes includes a method under which foreign income tax is accrued in a taxable year other than the taxable year in which the requirements of the all events test in §§ 1.446-1(c)(1)(ii)(A) and 1.461-4(g)(6)(iii)(B) are met, or which fails to apply the relation-back rule in paragraph (d)(1) of this section that applies for purposes of the foreign tax credit, but does not include corrections to estimated accruals or errors in computing the amount of foreign income tax that is allowed as a deduction or credit in any taxable year. Taxpayers must file a Form 3115, Application for Change in Accounting Method, in accordance with Revenue Procedure 2015-13 (or any successor administrative procedure prescribed by the Commissioner) to obtain the Commissioner's permission to change from an improper method of accruing foreign income taxes to the proper method described in this paragraph (d). In order to prevent a duplication or omission of a benefit for foreign income taxes that accrue in any taxable year (whether through the double allowance or double disallowance of either a deduction or a credit, the allowance of both a deduction and a credit, or the disallowance of either a deduction or a credit, for the same amount of foreign income tax), the rules in paragraphs (d)(5)(ii) through (iv) of this section, describing a modified cut-off approach, apply if the Commissioner grants permission for the taxpayer to change to the proper method of accrual. Under the modified cut-off approach, a section 481(a) adjustment is neither required nor permitted with respect to the amounts of foreign income tax that were improperly accrued (or improperly not accrued) under the taxpayer's improper method in taxable years before the taxable year of change.
