
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### ยง 1.905-1 When credit for foreign income taxes may be taken.
####### Election to claim a provisional credit for contested taxes remitted before accrual,Conditions of election.

(4)-(i)A taxpayer may, under the conditions provided in this paragraph (d)(4), elect to claim a foreign tax credit for a contested foreign income tax liability (or a portion thereof) in the relation-back year when the contested amount (or a portion thereof) is remitted to the foreign country, notwithstanding that the liability is not finally determined and so has not accrued. This election is available only for contested foreign income taxes that relate to a taxable year in which the taxpayer has elected under section 901(a) to claim a credit, instead of a deduction under section 164(a)(3), for foreign income taxes that accrue in such year. If the election is made by a taxpayer with respect to contested foreign income taxes of a controlled foreign corporation, such taxes are treated as deemed paid in the relation-back year and the controlled foreign corporation may deduct the taxes in computing its taxable income in the relation-back year. To make the election, a taxpayer must file an amended return for the taxable year to which the contested tax relates, together with a Form 1116 (Foreign Tax Credit (Individual, Estate, or Trust)) or Form 1118 (Foreign Tax Credit-Corporations), and the agreement described in paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section. In addition, the taxpayer must, for each subsequent taxable year up to and including the taxable year in which the contest is resolved, file the annual notice described in paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section. Any portion of a contested foreign income tax liability for which a provisional credit is claimed under this paragraph (d)(4) that is subsequently refunded by the foreign country results in a foreign tax redetermination under ยง 1.905-3(a).
