
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### § 1.905-1 When credit for foreign income taxes may be taken.
####### Rules for creditable foreign tax expenditures of partners, shareholders, or beneficiaries of a pass-through entity,Effect of pass-through entity's method of accounting on when foreign tax credit or deduction can be claimed.,b

(f)-(1)Each partner that elects to claim the foreign tax credit for a particular taxable year may treat its distributive share of the creditable foreign tax expenditures (as defined in § 1.704-1(b)(4)(viii)()) of the partnership that are paid or accrued by the partnership, under the partnership's method of accounting, during the partnership's taxable year ending with or within the partner's taxable year, as foreign income taxes paid or accrued (as the case may be, according to the partner's method of accounting for such taxes) by the partner in that particular taxable year. See §§ 1.702-1(a)(6) and 1.703-1(b)(2). Under §§ 1.905-3(a) and 1.905-4(b)(2), additional creditable foreign tax expenditures of the partnership that result from a change in the partnership's foreign tax liability for a prior taxable year, including additional taxes paid when a contest with a foreign tax authority is resolved, must be identified by the partnership as a prior year creditable foreign tax expenditure in the information reported to its partners for its taxable year in which the additional tax is actually paid. Subject to the rules in paragraphs (c) and (e) of this section, a partner using the cash method of accounting for foreign income taxes may claim a credit (or a deduction) for its distributive share of such additional taxes in the partner's taxable year with or within which the partnership's taxable year ends. Subject to the rules in paragraph (d) of this section, a partner using the accrual method of accounting for foreign income taxes may claim a credit for the partner's distributive share of such additional taxes in the relation-back year, or may claim a deduction in its taxable year with or within which the partnership's taxable year ends. The principles of this paragraph (f)(1) apply to determine the year in which a shareholder of a S corporation, or the grantor or beneficiary of an estate or trust, may claim a foreign tax credit (or a deduction) for its proportionate share of foreign income taxes paid or accrued by the S corporation, estate or trust. See sections 642(a), 671, 901(b)(5), and 1373(a) and §§ 1.1363-1(c)(2)(iii) and 1.1366-1(a)(2)(iv). See §§ 1.905-3 and 1.905-4 for notifications and adjustments of U.S. tax liability that are required if creditable foreign tax expenditures of a partnership or S corporation, or foreign income taxes paid or accrued by a trust or estate, are refunded or otherwise reduced.
