
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### ยง 1.905-3 Adjustments to U.S. tax liability and to current earnings and profits as a result of a foreign tax redetermination.
####### Example 2: Refund of tax improperly claimed as a credit,1,Facts.

(B)-()USC holds a note issued by FC, an unrelated foreign corporation in Country Y. In Year 1, FC owed USC 500u of interest on the loan. The statutory rate of withholding on interest paid to a nonresident of Country Y is 20%. On December 1, Year 1, when the spot rate was $1x:1u, FC withheld and remitted to Country Y 100u of tax and paid 400u to USC. Effective for Year 1, USC elected under ยง 1.986(a)-1(a)(2)(iv) to translate its taxes denominated in nonfunctional currency into dollars at the spot rate on the date the taxes are paid. Under the United States-Country Y Income Tax Treaty (Treaty), USC was entitled to a reduced 15% rate of withholding that would result in a withholding tax of 75u. However, USC improperly claimed a foreign tax credit under section 901 for 100u = $100x on its Year 1 Federal income tax return. (See ยง 1.901-2(e)(2)(i) and (e)(5), providing that an amount is not tax paid to the extent it exceeds the taxpayer's liability for tax or is reasonably certain to be refunded.) In Year 4, USC filed a refund claim with Country Y for 25u, the difference between the amount actually withheld at the 20% statutory rate of tax and the amount owed by USC at the 15% Treaty rate. On March 15, Year 6, when the spot rate was $1.10x:1u, USC received a refund from Country Y of 25u. USC converted the 25u into dollars on the same day.
