
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### § 1.905-3 Adjustments to U.S. tax liability and to current earnings and profits as a result of a foreign tax redetermination.
####### 2,Analysis.

()Notwithstanding that the 25u of refundable tax did not constitute an amount of tax paid within the meaning of § 1.901-2(e) at the time USC improperly claimed it as a credit, the 25u refund in Year 6 is a foreign tax redetermination under paragraph (a) of this section. Under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, USC must redetermine its U.S. tax liability for Year 1, the taxable year to which the redetermined tax relates. Under § 1.986(a)-1(c), the refund is translated at the exchange rate that was used to translate such amount when originally claimed as a credit. Accordingly, if not previously adjusted by USC or the Internal Revenue Service, USC must file an amended return for Year 1, reducing the amount of foreign tax credit claimed for Year 1 by $25x (25u translated at the spot rate on December 1, Year 1; that is, $1x:1u). Under § 1.986(a)-1(e)(1), USC's basis in the 25u is the same dollar value of the refund as determined under § 1.986(a)-1(c), or $25x. When USC converted the 25u to $27.50x (translated at the spot rate on March 15, Year 6, that is, $1.10x:1u), it realized an exchange gain (within the meaning of § 1.988-1(e)) equal to $2.50x ($27.50x-$25x basis).
