
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### ยง 1.905-3 Adjustments to U.S. tax liability and to current earnings and profits as a result of a foreign tax redetermination.
####### Redetermination of U.S. tax liability,Foreign income taxes other than taxes deemed paid under section 960,In general.

(b)-(1)-(i)This paragraph (b)(1) applies to foreign income taxes claimed as a credit under section 901 other than foreign income taxes deemed paid under section 960. If a foreign tax redetermination occurs with respect to foreign income tax claimed as a credit under section 901 (other than a tax deemed paid under section 960), then a redetermination of U.S. tax liability is required for the taxable year in which the tax was claimed as a credit and any year to which unused foreign taxes from such year were carried under section 904(c). In the case of a taxpayer that claims the credit in the year the taxes are paid, the redetermination of U.S. tax liability is made by reducing the tax paid in such year by the amount refunded. In the case of a taxpayer that claims the credit in the year the taxes accrue, the redetermination of U.S. tax liability is made by treating the redetermined amount of foreign tax as the amount of tax that accrued in the year to which the redetermined tax relates. However, a redetermination of U.S. tax liability is not required (and a taxpayer need not notify the IRS) if the foreign income taxes are taken into account when accrued but translated into dollars on the date of payment, the difference between the dollar value of the accrued foreign income tax and the dollar value of the foreign income tax paid is solely attributable to fluctuations in the value of the foreign currency relative to the dollar between the date or taxable year of accrual and the date of payment, and the net dollar amount of the currency fluctuations attributable to the foreign tax redeterminations with respect to each and every foreign country is less than the lesser of $10,000 or two percent of the total dollar amount of the foreign income tax initially accrued with respect to that foreign country for the taxable year. In such case, if no redetermination of U.S. tax liability is made, an appropriate adjustment is made to the taxpayer's U.S. tax liability in the taxable year during which the foreign tax redeterminations occur.
