
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### § 1.905-3 Adjustments to U.S. tax liability and to current earnings and profits as a result of a foreign tax redetermination.
####### 2,Analysis.

()The 10u refund in Year 3 is a foreign tax redetermination under paragraph (a) of this section. Under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, USC must redetermine its U.S. tax liability for Year 1, the taxable year to which the redetermined tax relates. Under § 1.986(a)-1(c), the refund is translated at the exchange rate that was used to translate such amount when originally claimed as a credit. Accordingly, USC must file an amended return, reducing the amount of foreign tax credit claimed for Year 1 by $10x (10u translated at the average exchange rate for Year 1, that is $1x:1u). USC must also make corresponding adjustments in determining its taxable income and net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss in Year 1. See §§ 1.987-3(c)(2)(v) and 1.987-4(d)(8). Because the foreign branch changed its functional currency to the dollar in Year 2, the 10u it receives is a refund of nonfunctional currency tax that is denominated in a currency that was the functional currency of the foreign branch at the time USC originally claimed a credit for that foreign income tax. Under §§ 1.985-5(d)(2) and 1.987-4(d), in Year 1 USC must recognize an additional $1x of section 987 gain (or $1x less of section 987 loss) by reason of the 10u being treated as an asset of the foreign branch at the time of the foreign branch's termination. Under § 1.986(a)-1(e)(2), USC's basis in the 10u refund is $11x, which is determined by using the exchange rate used under § 1.985-5(c) when the foreign branch changed its functional currency in Year 2 ($1.10x:1u). When the foreign branch converted the 10u to $13x (translated at the spot rate on June 15, Year 3, which is $1.30x:1u), it realized an exchange gain (within the meaning of § 1.988-1(e)) equal to $2x ($13x-$11x (10u translated at $1.10x:1u)).
