
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### ยง 1.905-3 Adjustments to U.S. tax liability and to current earnings and profits as a result of a foreign tax redetermination.
####### ii,Result in Year 5.

()CFC's payment of 80u of additional foreign income tax in Year 5 with respect to Year 1 is a foreign tax redetermination as defined in paragraph (a) of this section. Under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, USP must reduce CFC's subpart F income and its earnings and profits in Year 1 by the additional tax amount of 80u. Further, USP must reduce its subpart F inclusion, adjust the amount of foreign taxes deemed paid, and adjust the amount of the section 78 dividend to account for CFC's additional payment of foreign tax. Under section 986(a)(1)(B)(i) and ยง 1.986(a)-1(a)(2)(i), because CFC's payment of additional tax occurs more than 24 months after the close of the taxable year to which it relates, the additional tax is translated into dollars at the spot rate on the date of payment ($1x:0.8u). Therefore, CFC has foreign income taxes of $200x (100u translated at $1x:1u plus 80u translated at $1x:0.8u) that are properly attributable to CFC's foreign base company sales income that gives rise to USP's subpart F inclusion in Year 1. As a result of the foreign tax redetermination, for Year 1, USP has a subpart F inclusion of $820x (1,000u-180u = 820u translated at $1x:1u). Under section 960(a) and ยง 1.960-2(b), USP is deemed to have paid $200x of foreign income taxes. Under section 78 and ยง 1.78-1(a), USP's section 78 dividend is $200x. USP's redetermined U.S. taxable income is $1,020x ($820x + $200x) and its pre-credit U.S. tax liability is $214.20x (21% x $1,020x). Therefore, USP's redetermined U.S. tax liability is $14.20x ($214.20x-$200x), a decrease of $95.80x ($110x-$14.20x). If USP makes a timely refund claim within the period allowed by section 6511, USP will be entitled to a refund of any overpayment resulting from the redetermination of its U.S. tax liability.
