
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### ยง 1.905-4 Notification of foreign tax redetermination.
####### Taxpayers under examination within the jurisdiction of the Large Business and International Division,In general.

(4)-(i)The alternative notification requirements of this paragraph (b)(4) apply if all of the conditions described in paragraphs (b)(4)(i)(A) through (E) of this section are satisfied.

(A) A foreign tax redetermination occurs while the taxpayer is under examination within the jurisdiction of the Large Business and International Division.

(B) The foreign tax redetermination results in an adjustment to the amount of foreign income taxes paid or accrued by the taxpayer or a foreign corporation with respect to which the taxpayer computes an amount of foreign income taxes deemed paid.

(C) The foreign tax redetermination requires a redetermination of U.S. tax liability that increases the amount of U.S. tax liability, and accordingly, but for this paragraph (b)(4), the taxpayer would be required to notify the IRS of such foreign tax redetermination under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section (determined without regard to paragraphs (b)(1)(iv) and (v) of this section) or paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section. See paragraph (b)(4)(v) of this section regarding foreign tax redeterminations that decrease the amount of U.S. tax liability.

(D) The return for the taxable year for which a redetermination of U.S. tax liability is required is under examination.

(E) The due date specified in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) or (b)(2)(ii) of this section for providing notice of such foreign tax redetermination is not before the later of the opening conference or the hand-delivery or postmark date of the opening letter concerning an examination of the return for the taxable year for which a redetermination of U.S. tax liability is required by reason of such foreign tax redetermination.
