
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### foreign tax credit
###### § 1.905-4 Notification of foreign tax redetermination.
####### Example 1.

(i)(A) X, a domestic corporation, is an accrual basis taxpayer and uses the calendar year as its U.S. taxable year. X conducts business through a branch in Country M, the currency of which is the m, and also conducts business through a branch in Country N, the currency of which is the n. X uses the average exchange rate to translate foreign income taxes. X is able to claim a credit under section 901 for all foreign income taxes paid or accrued.

(B) In Year 1, X accrued and paid 100m of Country M income taxes with respect to 400m of foreign source foreign branch category income. The average exchange rate for Year 1 was $1:1m. Also in Year 1, X accrued and paid 50n of Country N income taxes with respect to 150n of foreign source foreign branch category income. The average exchange rate for Year 1 was $1:1n. On its Year 1 Federal income tax return, X claimed a foreign tax credit under section 901 of $150 ($100 (100m translated at $1:1m) + $50 (50n translated at $1:1n)) with respect to its foreign source foreign branch category income. See § 1.986(a)-1(a)(1).

(C) In Year 2, X accrued and paid 100n of Country N income taxes with respect to 300n of foreign source foreign branch category income. The average exchange rate for Year 2 was $1.50:1n. On its Year 2 Federal income tax return, X claimed a foreign tax credit under section 901 of $150 (100n translated at $1.5:1n). See § 1.986(a)-1(a)(1).

(D) On June 15, Year 5, when the spot rate was $1.40:1n, X received a refund of 10n from Country N, and, on March 15, Year 6, when the spot rate was $1.20:1m, X was assessed by and paid Country M an additional 20m of tax. Both payments were with respect to X's foreign source foreign branch category income in Year 1. On May 15, Year 6, when the spot rate was $1.45:1n, X received a refund of 5n from Country N with respect to its foreign source foreign branch category income in Year 2.

(E) Both of the refunds and the assessment are foreign tax redeterminations under § 1.905-3(a). Under § 1.905-3(b)(1), X must redetermine its U.S. tax liability for both Year 1 and Year 2. With respect to Year 1, under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section X must notify the IRS of the June 15, Year 5, refund of 10n from Country N that increased X's U.S. tax liability by filing an amended return, Form 1118, and the statement required by paragraph (c) of this section for Year 1 by the due date of the original return (with extensions) for Year 5. The amended return and Form 1118 would reflect the reduced amount of foreign income taxes claimed as a credit under section 901 and the increase in X's U.S. tax liability of $10 (10n refund translated at the average exchange rate for Year 1, or $1:1n (see § 1.986(a)-1(c)). With respect to the March 15, Year 6, additional assessment of 20m by Country M, under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section X must notify the IRS within the time period provided by section 6511, increasing the foreign income taxes available as a credit and reducing X's U.S. tax liability by $24 (20m translated at the spot rate on the date of payment, or $1.20:1m). See sections 986(a)(1)(B)(i) and 986(a)(2)(A) and § 1.986(a)-1(a)(2)(i). X may so notify the IRS by filing a second amended return, Form 1118, and the statement described in paragraph (c) of this section for Year 1, within the time period provided by section 6511. Alternatively, under paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section, when X redetermines its U.S. tax liability for Year 1 to take into account the 10n refund from Country N that occurred in Year 5, X may also take into account the 20m additional assessment by Country M that occurred on March 15, Year 6. If X reflects both foreign tax redeterminations on the same amended return, Form 1118, and in the statement described in paragraph (c) of this section for Year 1, the amount of X's foreign income taxes available as a credit would be reduced by $10 (10n refund translated at $1:1n), and increased by $24 (20m additional assessment translated at the spot rate on the date of payment, March 15, Year 6, or $1.20:1m). The foreign income taxes available as a credit therefore would be increased by $14 ($24 (additional assessment)-$10 (refund)). Because the net effect of the foreign tax redeterminations is to increase the amount of foreign taxes paid or accrued and decrease X's U.S. tax liability for Year 1, under paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section the Year 1 amended return, Form 1118, and the statement required in paragraph (c) of this section reflecting foreign tax redeterminations in both years must be filed within the period provided by section 6511.

(F) With respect to Year 2, under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section X must notify the IRS by filing an amended return, Form 1118, and the statement required by paragraph (c) of this section for Year 2, in addition to the amended return, Form 1118, and statement that are required by reason of the separate foreign tax redeterminations that affect Year 1. The amended return, Form 1118, and the statement required by paragraph (c) of this section for Year 2 must be filed by the due date (with extensions) of X's original return for Year 6. The amended return and Form 1118 must reflect the reduced amount of foreign income taxes claimed as a credit under section 901 and the increase in X's U.S. tax liability of $7.50 (5n refund translated at the average exchange rate for Year 2, or $1.50:1n).
