
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Normal Taxes and Surtaxes
###### ยง 1.3-1 Application of optional tax.
####### Use of tax table.

(c)(1) To determine the amount of the tax, the individual ascertains the amount of his adjusted gross income, refers to the appropriate table set forth in section 3 or the regulations thereunder, ascertains the income bracket into which such income falls, and, using the number of exemptions applicable to his case, finds the tax in the vertical column having at the top thereof a number corresponding to the number of exemptions to which the taxpayer is entitled.

(2) Section 3(b) (relating to taxable years beginning after Dec. 31, 1964 and ending before Jan. 1, 1970) contains 5 tables for use in computing the tax. Table I is to be used by a single person who is not a head of household. Table II is to be used by a head of household. Table III is to be used by married persons filing joint returns and by a surviving spouse. Table IV is to be used by married persons filing separate returns using the 10 percent standard deduction. Table V is to be used by married persons filing separate returns using the minimum standard deduction. For an explanation of the standard deduction see section 141 and the regulations thereunder.

(3) 30 tables are provided for use in computing the tax under the Tax Reform Act of 1969. Tables I through XV apply for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1969 and ending before January 1, 1971. Tables XVI through XXX apply for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1970. The standard deduction for Tables I through XV, applicable to taxable years beginning in 1970, is 10 percent. The standard deduction for Tables XVI through XXX, applicable to taxable years beginning in 1971, is 13 percent. For an explanation of the standard deduction and the low income allowance see section 141 as amended by the Tax Reform Act of 1969.

(4) In the case of married persons filing separate returns who qualify to use the optional tax imposed by section 3, such persons shall use the tax imposed by the table for the applicable year in accordance with the rules prescribed by sections 4(c) and 141 and the regulations thereunder governing the use and application of the standard deduction and the low income allowance.

(5) The tax shown in the tax tables set forth in section 3 or the regulations thereunder reflects full income splitting in the case of a joint return (including the return of a surviving spouse) and lesser income splitting in the case of a head of household. Therefore, it is possible for the tax shown in the tables relating to joint returns, or relating to a return of a head of a household, to be lower than that shown in the table for separate returns even though the amounts of adjusted gross income and the number of exemptions are the same.
