
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### earned income of citizens of united states
###### ยง 1.921-1T Temporary regulations providing transition rules for DISCs and FSCs.
####### A-1:

A corporation electing FSC or small FSC status must file Form 8279. A corporation electing interest charge DISC status must file Form 4876A. A corporation electing to be treated as a FSC, small FSC, or interest charge DISC for its first taxable year shall make its election within 90 days after the beginning of that year. A corporation electing to be treated as a FSC, small FSC, or interest charge DISC for any taxable year other than its first taxable year shall make its election during the 90-day period immediately preceding the first day of that taxable year. The election to be a FSC, small FSC, or interest charge DISC may be made by the corporation, however, during the first 90 days of a taxable year, even if that taxable year is not the corporation's first taxable year, if that taxable year begins before July 1, 1985. Likewise, the election to be a FSC (or a small FSC) may be made during the first 90 days of any taxable year of a corporation if the corporation had in a prior taxable year elected small FSC (or FSC) status and the corporation revokes the small FSC (or FSC) election within the 90 day period. A corporation which was a DISC for its taxable year ending December 31, 1984, which wishes to be treated as an interest charge DISC beginning with its first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1984, may make the election to be treated as an interest charge DISC by filing Form 4876A on or before July 1, 1987. Also, if a corporation which has elected FSC, small FSC or interest charge DISC status, or a shareholder of that corporation, is acquired in a qualified stock purchase under section 338(d)(3), and if an election under section 338(a) is effective with regard to that corporation, the corporation may re-elect FSC, small FSC or interest charge DISC status, (whichever is applicable) not later than the date of the election under section 338(a), see section 338(g)(i) and ยง 1.338-2(d). This re-election is necessary because the original elections are deemed terminated if an election is made under section 338(a). The rules contained in ยง 1.992-2 (a)(1), (b)(1) and (b)(3) shall apply to the manner of making the election and the manner and form of shareholder consent.
