
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### earned income of citizens of united states
###### § 1.921-2 Foreign Sales Corporation - general rules.
####### A-1.

As defined in section 922(a), an FSC must satisfy the following eight requirements.

(i) The FSC must be a corporation organized or created under the laws of a foreign country that meets the requirements of section 927(e)(3) (a "qualifying foreign country") or a U.S. possession other than Puerto Rico (an "eligible possession"). See Q&As 3, 4, and 5 of § 1.922-1.

(ii) A FSC may not have more than 25 shareholders at any time during the taxable year. See Q&A 6 of § 1.922-1.

(iii) A FSC may not have any preferred stock outstanding during the taxable year. See Q&As 7 and 8 of § 1.922-1.

(iv) A FSC must maintain an office outside of the United States in a qualifying foreign country or an eligible possession and maintain a set of permanent books of account (including invoices or summaries of invoices) at such office. See Q&As 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, and 15 of § 1.922-1.

(v) A FSC must maintain within the United States the records required under section 6001. See Q&A 16 of § 1.922-1.

(vi) The FSC must have a board of directors which includes at least one individual who is not a resident of the United States at all times during the taxable year. See Q&As 17, 18, 19, 20, and 21 of § 1.922-1.

(vii) A FSC may not be a member, at any time during the taxable year, of any controlled group of corporations of which an interest charge DISC is a member. See Q&A 2 of this section and Q&A 13, of § 1.921-1T(b)(13).

(viii) A FSC must have made an election under section 927(f)(1) which is in effect for the taxable year. See Q&A 1 of § 1.921-1T(b)(1) and § 1.927(f)-1.
