
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### earned income of citizens of united states
###### ยง 1.921-2 Foreign Sales Corporation - general rules.
####### Organization of a FSC.

(d)

Q-7. Under the laws of what countries may a FSC be organized?

A-7. A FSC may not be created or organized under the laws of the United States, a state, or other political subdivision. However, a FSC may be created or organized under the laws of a possession of the United States, including Guam. American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands and the Virgin Islands of the United States, but not Puerto Rico. These eligible possessions are located outside the U.S. customs territory. In addition, a FSC may incorporate under the laws of a foreign country that is a party to-

(i) An exchange of information agreement that meets the standards of the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act of 1983 (Code section 274(h)(6)(C)), or

(ii) A bilateral income tax treaty with the United States if the Secretary certifies that the exchange of information program under the treaty carries out the purpose of the exchange of information requirements of the FSC legislation as set forth in section 927(e)(3), if the company is covered under the exchange of information program under subdivision (i) or (ii). The Secretary may terminate the certification. Any termination by the Secretary will be effective six months after the date of the publication of the notice of such termination in the
