
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### earned income of citizens of united states
###### ยง 1.921-2 Foreign Sales Corporation - general rules.
####### A-3.

A small FSC is a Foreign Sales Corporation which meets the requirements of section 922(a)(1) enumerated in Q&A 1 of this section as well as the requirements of section 922(b). Section 922(b) requires that a small FSC make a separate election to be treated as a small FSC. See Q&A 1 of ยง 1.921-1T(b) and ยง 1.927(f)-1. In addition, section 922(b) requires that the small FSC not be a member, at any time during the taxable year, of a controlled group of corporations which includes a FSC unless such FSC is a small FSC.

Q-4. What is the effect of an election as a small FSC?

A-4. Under section 924(b)(2), a small FSC need not meet the foreign management and economic processes tests of section 924(b)(1) in order to have foreign trading gross receipts. However, in determining the exempt foreign trade income of a small FSC, any foreign trading gross receipts for the taxable year in excess of $5 million are not taken into account. If the foreign trading gross receipts of a small FSC for the taxable year exceed the $5 million limitation, the FSC may select the gross receipts to which the limitation is allocated. In order to use the administrative pricing rules under section 925(a), a small FSC must satisfy the activities test under section 925(c). In addition, under section 441(h), the taxable year of a small FSC must conform to the taxable year of its principal shareholder (defined in Q&A 4 of ยง 1.921-1T(b)(4) as the shareholder with the highest percentage of its voting power).

Q-5. What is the effect on a small FSC (or FSC) ("target") if it is acquired, directly or indirectly, by a corporation if that acquiring corporation ("acquiring"), or a member of the acquiring corporation's controlled group, is a FSC (or small FSC)?

A-5. Unless the corporations in the controlled group elect to terminate the FSC (or small (FSC) election of the acquiring corporation, the target's small FSC's (or FSC's) taxable year and election will terminate as of the day preceding the date the target small FSC and acquiring FSC became members of the same controlled group. The target small FSC will receive FSC benefits for the period prior to termination, but the $5 million small FSC limitation will be reduced to the amount which bears the same ratio to the $5 million as the number of days in the short year created by the termination bears to 365. The due date of the income tax return for the short taxable year created by this provision will be the date prescribed by section 6072(b), including extensions, starting with the last day of the short taxable year. If the short taxable year created by this provision ends prior to March 3, 1987, the filing date of the tax return for the short taxable year will be automatically extended until the earlier of May 18, 1987 or the date under section 6072 (b) assuming a short taxable year had not been created by these regulations.
