
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### possessions of the united states
###### ยง 1.932-1 Coordination of United States and Virgin Islands income taxes.
####### Application of general rule.

(ii)Contexts in which the general rule of paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section apply include-

(A) The characterization of taxes paid to the Virgin Islands. An individual to whom section 932(a) applies may take income tax required to be paid to the Virgin Islands under section 932(b) into account under sections 31, 6315, and 6402(b) as payments to the United States. Taxes paid to the Virgin Islands and otherwise satisfying the requirements of section 164(a) will be allowed as a deduction under that section, but income taxes required to be paid to the Virgin Islands under section 932(b) will be disallowed as a deduction under section 275(a);

(B) The determination of the source of income for purposes of the foreign tax credit (for example, sections 901 through 904). Thus, for example, after an individual to whom section 932(a) applies determines which items of income constitute income from sources within the Virgin Islands under the rules of section 937(b), such income will be treated as income from sources within the United States for purposes of section 904;

(C) The eligibility of a corporation to make a subchapter S election (sections 1361 through 1379). Thus, for example, for purposes of determining whether a corporation created or organized in the Virgin Islands may make an election under section 1362(a) to be a subchapter S corporation, it will be treated as a domestic corporation and a shareholder to whom section 932(a) applies will not be treated as a nonresident alien individual with respect to such corporation. While such an election is in effect, the corporation will be treated as a domestic corporation for all purposes of the Internal Revenue Code. For the consistency requirement with respect to entity status elections, see paragraph (h) of this section;

(D) The treatment of items carried over from other taxable years. Thus, for example, if an individual to whom section 932(a) applies has for a taxable year a net operating loss carryback or carryover under section 172, a foreign tax credit carryback or carryover under section 904, a business credit carryback or carryover under section 39, a capital loss carryover under section 1212, or a charitable contributions carryover under section 170, the carryback or carryover will be reported on the return filed in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section, even though the return of the taxpayer for the taxable year giving rise to the carryback or carryover was required to be filed with the Virgin Islands under section 932(c); and

(E) The treatment of property exchanged for property of a like kind (section 1031). Thus, for example, if an individual to whom section 932(a) applies exchanges real property located in the United States for real property located in the Virgin Islands, notwithstanding the provisions of section 1031(h), such exchange may qualify as a like-kind exchange under section 1031 (provided that all the other requirements of section 1031 are satisfied).
