
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### possessions of the united states
###### ยง 1.935-1 Coordination of individual income taxes with Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands.
####### Nonapplication of general rule.

(iii)Contexts in which the general rule of paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section does not apply include-

(A) The application of any rules or regulations that explicitly treat the United States and any (or all) of its possessions as separate jurisdictions (for example, sections 931 through 937, 7651, and 7654);

(B) The determination of any aspect of an individual's residency (for example, sections 937(a) and 7701(b)). Thus, for example, an individual whose principal place of abode is in the relevant possession is not considered to have a principal place of abode in the United States for purposes of section 32(c);

(C) The determination of the source of income for purposes other than the foreign tax credit (for example, sections 935, 937, and 7654). Thus, for example, income determined to be derived from sources within the relevant possession under section 937(b) will not be considered income from sources within the United States for purposes of Form 5074, "Allocation of Individual Income Tax to Guam or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI)";

(D) The definition of wages (section 3401). Thus, for example, services performed by an employee for an employer in the relevant possession do not constitute services performed in the United States under section 3401(a)(8); and

(E) The characterization of a corporation for purposes other than subchapter S (for example, sections 367, 951 through 964, 1291 through 1298, 6038, and 6038B). Thus, for example, if a U.S. taxpayer transfers appreciated tangible property to a corporation created or organized in the relevant possession in a transaction described in section 351, he or she must recognize gain unless an exception under section 367(a) applies. Also, if a corporation created or organized in the relevant possession qualifies as a passive foreign investment company under sections 1297 and 1298 with respect to a U.S. taxpayer, a dividend paid to such shareholder does not constitute qualified dividend income under section 1(h)(11)(B).
