
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### possessions of the united states
###### ยง 1.936-4 Intangible property income in the absence of an election out.
####### A. 3:

Income attributable to intangible property includes the amount received by a possessions corporation from the sale, exchange, or other disposition of any product or from the rendering of a service which is in excess of the reasonable costs it incurs in manufacturing the product or rendering the service (other than costs incurred in connection with intangibles) plus a reasonable profit margin. A reasonable profit margin shall be computed with respect to direct and indirect costs other than (i) costs incurred in connection with intangibles, (ii) interest expense, and (iii) the cost of materials which are subject to processing or which are components in a product manufactured by the possessions corporation. Notwithstanding the above, certain taxpayers who have been permitted by the Internal Revenue Service in taxable years beginning before January 1, 1983, to use the cost-plus method of pricing without reflecting a return from intangibles, but including the cost of materials in the cost base, will not be precluded from doing so. (Sec. 3.02(3), Rev. Proc. 63-10, 1963-1 C.B. 490.) Thus, the Internal Revenue Service may continue in appropriate cases to permit such taxpayers to continue to report their income as they have been under existing procedures described in the previous sentence if it is appropriate under all the facts and circumstances and does not distort the income of the taxpayer.
