
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### possessions of the united states
###### ยง 1.936-7 Manner of making election under section 936 (h)(5); special election for export sales; revocation of election under section 936(a).
####### A. 1

: A possessions corporation makes an election to use the cost sharing or profit split method by filing Form 5712-A ("Election and Verification of the Cost Sharing or Profit Split Method Under Section 936(h)(5)") and attaching it to its tax return. Form 5712-A must be filed on or before the due date (including extensions) of the tax return of the possessions corporation for its first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1982. The electing corporation must set forth on the form the name and the taxpayer identification number or address of all members of the affiliated group (including foreign affiliates not required to file a U.S. tax return). All members of the affiliated group must consent to the election. For elections filed with respect to taxable years beginning before January 1, 2003, an authorized officer of the electing corporation must sign the statement of election and must declare that he has received a signed statement of consent from an authorized officer, director, or other appropriate official of each member of the affiliated group. Elections filed for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2002, must incorporate a declaration by the electing corporation that it has received a signed consent from an authorized officer, director, or other appropriate official of each member of the affiliated group and will be verified by signing the return. The election is not valid for a taxable year unless all affiliates consent. A failure to obtain an affiliate's written consent will not invalidate the election out if the possessions corporation made a good faith effort to obtain all the necessary consents or the failure to obtain the missing consent was inadvertent. Subsequently created or acquired affiliates are bound by the election. If an election out is revoked under section 936(h)(5)(F)(iii), a new election out with respect to that product area cannot be made without the consent of the Commissioner. The possessions corporation shall file an amended Form 5712-A with its timely filed (including extensions) income tax return to reflect any changes in the names or number of the members of the affiliated group for any taxable year after the first taxable year to which the election out applies. By consenting to the election out, all affiliates agree to provide information necessary to compute the cost sharing payment under the cost sharing method or combined taxable income under the profit split method, and failure to provide such information shall be treated as a request to revoke the election out under section 936(h)(5)(F)(iii).
