
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### possessions of the united states
###### ยง 1.936-10 Qualified investments.
####### Single-purpose entity.

(iii)A single-purpose entity is an entity that meets all of the following conditions:

(A) The entity is organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and is a corporation, a partnership or a trust, which conducts substantially all of its activities in Puerto Rico.

(B) The sole purpose of the entity is to use qualified funds from possessions corporations to make one or more qualified investments in a qualified Caribbean Basin country and the entity actually uses such funds only for such purpose.

(C) In the case of an entity that is a trust, one of the trustees is a qualified financial institution described in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section.

(D) The entity is licensed as an eligible institution under Puerto Rican Regulation No. 3582 (or any successor regulation).

(E) Any temporary investment by the entity for its own account of funds received from a possessions corporation, and the income from the investment thereof, and any temporary investment by the entity for its own account of principal and interest paid by a borrower to the entity, and the income from the investment thereof, are limited to investments in eligible activities, as described in section 6.2.4 of Puerto Rican Regulation No. 3582, as in effect on September 22, 1989.
