
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### possessions of the united states
###### ยง 1.936-10 Qualified investments.
####### Incidental expenditures.

(iii)An amount in addition to the loan proceeds borrowed to make an investment in active business assets shall be considered an investment in active business assets if such amount is applied to finance expenditures that are incidental to making the investment in active business assets, provided such amount is disbursed at or about the same time the proceeds for making the investment in active business assets are disbursed. For purposes of this section, expenditures incidental to an investment in active business assets include only the following items:

(A) A reasonable amount of costs (other than the cost of credit enhancement or bond insurance premiums) associated with arranging the financing of an investment in active business assets, not to exceed 3.5 percent of the proceeds of the loan or bond issue.

(B) A reasonable amount of installation costs and other reasonable costs associated with placing an active business asset in service in the qualified business activity.

(C) An amount not in excess of 10 percent of the total amount of investment in qualified assets to finance the acquisition of inventory, and other working capital requirements, but if an investment is in connection with a manufacturing or farming business, the percentage limitation shall be 50 percent rather than 10 percent provided the excess over the 10 percent limitation is used to finance inventory property. For purposes of this paragraph (c), whether a business is a manufacturing business shall be determined under principles similar to those described in section 954(d)(1)(A) and the regulations thereunder; whether a business is a farming business shall be determined under ยง 1.263-1T(c)(4)(i).

(D) An amount not in excess of 5 percent of the sum of the investment in active business assets and the costs described in paragraphs (c)(4)(iii)(A), (B), and (C) of this section for the refinancing of an existing debt of the qualified recipient if such refinancing is incidental to an investment in active business assets. For this purpose, the replacement of an existing loan arrangement shall not be considered the refinancing of an existing indebtedness to the extent that the funds under such loan arrangement have not yet been disbursed to the qualified recipient.
