
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### possessions of the united states
###### ยง 1.936-10 Qualified investments.
####### Replacement of temporary non-section 936 financing of a qualified investment.

(i)This paragraph (c)(7)(i) prescribes the maximum time limits within which temporary non-section 936 financing of qualified investments may be replaced with section 936 funds without being considered a prohibited refinancing transaction. This paragraph (c)(7)(i) applies to the refinancing of costs incurred with respect to investments that, at the time the costs were first incurred, were either qualified investments in a qualified Caribbean Basin country or were investments by a qualified recipient in active business assets or a development project in a qualified Caribbean Basin country. This paragraph (c)(7)(i) applies also to the refinancing of costs incurred with respect to any other investment. However, in the latter case, the amount of costs that may be refinanced with section 936 funds is limited to the amount of costs that are incurred with respect to the investment after the investment becomes a qualified investment in a qualified Caribbean Basin country. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(7)(i), the time when costs are incurred shall be determined under principles similar to those applicable under section 461(h) dealing with the economic performance test for the accrual of deductible liabilities. This paragraph (c)(7)(i) applies only to the situations described in this paragraph (c)(7)(i).

(A) In the case of an investment in active business assets or a development project, a loan shall be a qualified investment for purposes of this paragraph (c) if the loan proceeds are disbursed, or the obligations are issued, no later than six months after the date on which the qualified recipient takes possession of the asset or the facility or, if earlier, places the asset or the facility in service. However, in the case of a small project described in paragraph (c)(8)(v) of this section, the six-month period shall be one year.

(B) In the case of an investment in active business assets or a development project that is part of a long term project described in paragraph (c)(6)(iv)(B) of this section, a loan shall also be a qualified investment for purposes of this paragraph (c) if the loan proceeds are disbursed, or the obligations are issued, no later than six months after completion of the project or, in the case of a farming business, after the beginning of production, and in any event, no later than three years after the date on which the first payment is made toward the eligible costs of the project. The amount of the qualified investment may not exceed the sum of-
