
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### possessions of the united states
###### ยง 1.936-10 Qualified investments.
####### Investments in a qualified Caribbean Basin country,Rules for determining the place of an investment.

(10)-(i)The rules of this paragraph (c)(10)(i) shall apply to determine the extent to which an investment in an active business asset or a development project will be considered made in qualified Caribbean Basin Country.

(A) An investment in real property is considered made in the qualified Caribbean Basin country in which the real property is located.

(B) Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (c)(10)(i)(B), an investment in tangible personal property is considered made in a qualified Caribbean Basin Country so long as the tangible personal property is predominantly used in that country. Whether property is used predominantly in a qualified Caribbean Basin country shall be determined under principles similar to those described in ยง 1.48-1(g)(1), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(vi), (g)(2)(viii), and (g)(2)(x) (relating to investment tax credits for property used outside the United States) as in effect on December 31, 1985. A vessel, container, or aircraft shall be considered for use predominantly in a qualified Caribbean Basin country in any year if it is used for transport to and from such country with some degree of frequency during that year and at least 30 percent of the income from the use of such vessel, container or aircraft for that year is sourced in such country under principles similar to those described in section 863(c)(1) and (2) (relating to source rules for certain transportation income). Cables and pipelines which are premanently installed as part of a communication or transportation system between a qualified Caribbean Basin country and another country or among several countries which include a qualified Caribbean Basin country shall be considered used in a qualified Caribbean Basin country to the extent of 50 percent of the portion of the facility that directly links the qualified country to another country or to a hub, unless it is established by notice or other guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin or by ruling issued to a qualified institution or qualified recipient upon request that it is appropriate to attribute a greater portion of the cost of the facility to the qualified Caribbean Basin country.

(C) An investment in rights to intangible property is considered made in a qualified Caribbean Basin country to the extent such rights are used in that country. Where rights to intangible property are used shall be determined under principles similar to those described in ยง 1.954-2T(b)(3)(vii) or a successor provision.
