
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Specifically Included in Gross Income
###### ยง 1.72-5 Expected return.
####### Expected return where two or more annuity elements providing for fixed payments are acquired for a single consideration.

(e)(1) In the case of a contract described in paragraph (a)(2) of ยง 1.72-2, which provides for specified payments to be made under two or more annuity elements, the expected return shall be found for the contract as a whole by aggregating the expected returns found with respect to each annuity element. If individual life annuity elements are involved (including joint and survivor annuities where the primary annuitant died before January 1, 1954) the expected return for each of them shall be determined in the manner prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section. If joint and survivor annuity elements are involved, the expected return for such elements shall be determined under the appropriate subparagraph of paragraph (b) of this section. If terms certain or amounts certain are involved, the expected returns for such elements shall be determined under paragraph (c) or (d) of this section, respectively.

(2) The aggregate expected return found in accordance with the rules set forth in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph shall constitute the expected return for the contract as a whole. The investment in the contract shall be divided by the amount thus determined to obtain the exclusion ratio for the contract as a whole, This exclusion ratio shall be applied to all amounts received as an annuity under the contract by any recipient (in accordance with the provisions of ยง 1.72-4), except in the case of amounts received by a surviving annuitant under a joint and survivor annuity element to which the provisions of section 72(i) and paragraph (b)(3) of this section would apply if it were a separate contract. See subparagraph (3) of this paragraph.

(3) In the case of a contract providing two or more annuity elements, one of which is a joint and survivor annuity element of the type described in section 72(i) and paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the general exclusion ratio for the contract as a whole, for the purpose of computations with respect to all the other annuity elements shall be determined in accordance with the principles of subparagraphs (1) and (2) of this paragraph. A special exclusion ratio shall thereafter be determined for the surviving annuitant receiving payments under the annuity element described in section 72(i) and paragraph (b)(3) of this section by using the investment in the contract and the expected return determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(4) In the case of a contract providing for payments to be made to two persons in the manner described in paragraph (b)(6) of this section, the expected return is to be computed as though there were two joint and survivor annuities under the same contract, in the following manner. First, the multiple appropriate to the ages (as of the annuity starting date) and, if applicable, sexes of the annuitants involved shall be found in Table II or VI (whichever is applicable) of ยง 1.72-9 and adjusted, if necessary, in the manner described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. Second, the multiple so found shall be applied to the sum of the payments to be made each year to both annuitants. The result is the expected return for the contract as a whole.

(5) For rules relating to expected return where two or more annuity elements are acquired for a single consideration and one or more of such elements does not specify a fixed payment for each period, see paragraph (f) of this section.
