
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### possessions of the united states
###### ยง 1.937-2 Income from sources within a possession.
####### Gains from certain dispositions of property,Property of former U.S. residents.

(f)-(1)(i) Except to the extent an election is made under paragraph (f)(1)(vi) of this section, income from sources within the relevant possession will not include gains from the disposition of property described in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section by an individual described in paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section. See also section 1277(e) of the Tax Reform Act of 1986, Public Law 99-514 (100 Stat. 2085) (providing that gains from the disposition of certain property by individuals who acquired residency in certain possessions will be considered to be from sources within the United States).

(ii) Property is described in this paragraph (f)(1)(ii) when the following conditions are satisfied-

(A) The property is of a kind described in section 731(c)(3)(C)(i) or 954(c)(1)(B); and

(B) The property was owned by the individual before such individual became a bona fide resident of the relevant possession.

(iii) An individual is described in this paragraph (f)(1)(iii) when the following conditions are satisfied-

(A) For the taxable year for which the source of the gain must be determined, the individual is a bona fide resident of the relevant possession; and

(B) For any of the 10 years preceding such year, the individual was a citizen or resident of the United States (other than a bona fide resident of the relevant possession).

(iv) If an individual described in paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section exchanges property described in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section for other property in a transaction in which gain or loss is not required to be recognized (in whole or in part) under U.S. income tax principles, such other property will also be considered property described in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section.

(v) If an individual described in paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section owns, directly or indirectly, at least 10 percent (by value) of any entity to which property described in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section is transferred in a transaction in which gain or loss is not required to be recognized (in whole or in part) under U.S. income tax principles, any gain recognized upon a disposition of the property by such entity will be treated as income from sources outside the relevant possession if any gain recognized upon a direct or indirect disposition of the individual's interest in such entity would have been so treated under paragraph (f)(1)(iv) of this section.

(vi) Notwithstanding the general rule of paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section and section 1277(e) of the Tax Reform Act of 1986, Public Law 99-514 (100 Stat. 2085), an individual described in paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section may elect to treat as gain from sources within the relevant possession the portion of the gain attributable to the individual's possession holding period. The election under this paragraph (f)(1)(vi) will be considered made if the individual's income tax return for the year of disposition of the property reports the portion of gain attributable to the taxpayer's possession holding period as determined in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(vi)(A) or paragraph (f)(1)(vi)(B) of this section, as the case may be.

(A) In the case of marketable securities, the portion of gain attributable to the possession holding period will be determined by reference to the fair market value of the marketable security at the close of the market on the first day of the individual's possession holding period. In the event that the individual is a bona fide resident of the relevant possession for more than a single continuous period, the portion of gain described in this paragraph (f)(1)(vi)(A) will be the aggregate of the portions of gain (or offsetting loss) attributable to each possession holding period.

(B) In the case of property other than marketable securities, the portion of gain attributable to the possession holding period in the relevant possession will be determined by multiplying the total gain on disposition of the property by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in the possession holding period and the denominator of which is the total number of days in the individual's holding period for the property. For purposes of the preceding sentence, in the event that the individual is a bona fide resident of the relevant possession for more than a single continuous period, the number of days in the numerator will be the aggregate of the number of days in each possession holding period. For purposes of this paragraph (f)(1)(vi)(B), the denominator will include days that are required to be included in an individual's holding period under section 735(b), section 1223, and any other applicable holding period rule in the Internal Revenue Code.

(vii) For purposes of paragraph (f)(1)(vi) of this section-
