
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### ยง 1.951-1 Amounts included in gross income of United States shareholders.
####### Facts.

(i)Except as otherwise stated, the following facts are assumed for purposes of the examples:

(A) FC1 is a controlled foreign corporation.

(B) USP1 and USP2 are domestic corporations.

(C) Individual A is a foreign individual, and FC2 is a foreign corporation that is not a controlled foreign corporation.

(D) All persons use the calendar year as their taxable year.

(E) Any ownership of FC1 by any shareholder is for all of Year 1.

(F) The common shareholders of FC1 are entitled to dividends when declared by FC1's board of directors.

(G) There are no accrued but unpaid dividends with respect to preferred shares, the preferred stock is not described in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section, and common shares have positive liquidation value.

(H) There are no other facts and circumstances related to the economic rights and interest of any class of stock in the allocable earnings and profits of a foreign corporation, and no transaction or arrangement was entered into as part of a plan a principal purpose of which is the avoidance of Federal income taxation.

(I) FC1 has neither tested income within the meaning of section 951A(c)(2)(A) and ยง 1.951A-2(b)(1) nor tested loss within the meaning of section 951A(c)(2)(B)(i) and ยง 1.951A-2(b)(2).
