
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### ยง 1.951-1 Amounts included in gross income of United States shareholders.
####### Analysis.

(B)The agreement restricting FC1's ability to pay dividends to common shareholders while the preferred stock is outstanding is a restriction or other limitation within the meaning of paragraph (e)(5) of this section. Therefore, the restriction is disregarded for purposes of determining the amount of FC1's allocable earnings and profits distributed in the hypothetical distribution to a class of stock. Under paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section, no amount of allocable earnings and profits is distributed in the hypothetical distribution to the preferred shareholders on the hypothetical distribution date as a result of FC1's right to redeem the preferred shares. This is the case regardless of the restriction on paying dividends to the common shareholders while the preferred stock is outstanding, and regardless of the fact that a redemption of FC2's preferred shares would be treated as a distribution to which section 301 applies under section 302(d) (due to FC2's constructive ownership of the common shares). Thus, neither the restriction on paying dividends to the common shareholders while the preferred stock is outstanding nor FC1's redemption rights with respect to the preferred shares affects the distribution of allocable earnings and profits in the hypothetical distribution to FC1's shareholders. However, the distribution rights of the preferred shares are not a restriction or other limitation within the meaning of paragraph (e)(5) of this section. As a result, the amount of FC1's allocable earnings and profits distributed in the hypothetical distribution with respect to FC2's preferred shares is $20x (0.04 x $50x x 10) and with respect to USP1's common shares is $80x ($100x-$20x). Accordingly, under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, USP1's pro rata share of FC1's subpart F income is $80x for Year 1.
