
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### § 1.951A-1 General provisions.
####### Overview,In general.,section 951A regulations

(a)-(1)This section and §§ 1.951A-2 through 1.951A-7 (collectively, the) provide rules to determine a United States shareholder's income inclusion under section 951A, describe certain consequences of an income inclusion under section 951A with respect to controlled foreign corporations and their United States shareholders, and define certain terms for purposes of section 951A and the section 951A regulations. This section provides general rules for determining a United States shareholder's inclusion of global intangible low-taxed income, including a rule relating to the application of section 951A and the section 951A regulations to domestic partnerships and their partners. Section 1.951A-2 provides rules for determining a controlled foreign corporation's tested income or tested loss. Section 1.951A-3 provides rules for determining a controlled foreign corporation's qualified business asset investment. Section 1.951A-4 provides rules for determining a controlled foreign corporation's tested interest expense and tested interest income. Section 1.951A-5 provides rules relating to the treatment of the inclusion of global intangible low-taxed income for certain purposes. Section 1.951A-6 provides certain adjustments to earnings and profits and basis of a controlled foreign corporation related to a tested loss. Section 1.951A-7 provides dates of applicability.
