
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Specifically Included in Gross Income
###### § 1.72-7 Adjustment in investment where a contract contains a refund feature.
####### Adjustment of investment for the refund feature in the case of a joint and survivor annuity.

(c)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, if a joint and survivor annuity contract described in paragraph (b) (1), (2) or (6) of § 1.72-5 contains a refund feature and the special rule of paragraph (d) of this section does not apply, the investment in the contract shall be adjusted in the following manner:

(i) Find the percentage determined under the following formula:

(ii) Multiply the percentage found in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section by the lesser of (A) the investment in the contract found in accordance with § 1.72-6, or (B) the total amount guaranteed as of the annuity starting date.

(iii) Subtract the amount found in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section from the investment in the contract found in accordance with § 1.72-6.

(2) If the multiples in Tables I through IV of § 1.72-9 are used to determine any portion of the expected return under a contract described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, only the post-June 1986 investment in the contract (if any) shall be adjusted in the manner described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, and the pre-July 1986 investment in the contract shall, in the case of a contract described in paragraph (b) (1) or (6) of § 1.72-5, be adjusted in the following manner:

(i) Determine the number of years necessary for the guaranteed amount to be fully paid by dividing the maximum amount guaranteed as of the annuity starting date by the amount to be received annually under the contract. The number of years should be stated in terms of the nearest whole year, considering for this purpose a fraction of one-half or more as an additional whole year.

(ii) Consult Table III of § 1.72-9 for the appropriate percentages under the whole number of years found in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph and the age (as of the annuity starting date) and sex of each annuitant. If the annuitants are not of the same sex, substitute for the female annuitant a male annuitant 5 years younger, or for the male annuitant a female annuitant 5 years older, so that Table III will be entered in both cases with the ages of annuitants of the same sex.

(iii) Find the sum of the two percentages found in accordance with subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph.

(iv) To the age of the elder of the two annuitants (as determined under subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph), add the number of years (indicated in the table below) opposite the number of years by which such annuitants' ages differ:

(v) Consult Table III for the appropriate percentage under the whole number of years found in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph and the age and sex of the elder annuitant as adjusted under subdivision (iv) of this subparagraph.

(vi) Subtract the percentage obtained in subdivision (v) of this subparagraph from the sum of the percentages found under subdivision (iii) of this subparagraph. If the result is less than one, subdivisions (vii) and (viii) of this subparagraph shall be disregarded and no adjustment made to the investment in the contract.

(vii) Multiply the percentage found in subdivision (vi) of this subparagraph by whichever of the following is the smaller: (A) the investment in the contract found in accordance with § 1.72-6 or (B) the total amount guaranteed as of the annuity starting date.

(viii) Subtract the amount found in subdivision (vii) of this subparagraph from the investment in the contract found in accordance with § 1.72-6.

(3) The principles of this paragraph (c) may be illustrated by the following examples:

(4) If an annuity described in paragraph (b) of § 1.72-5 contains a refund feature and the manner of determining the adjustment to the investment in the contract (or to any part of such investment) is not prescribed or requires use of the formula in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, the Commissioner will determine the amount of the adjustment upon request. The request must contain the date of birth of each annuitant, the guaranteed amount, the annual annuity payable to each annuitant, and the annuity starting date. Send the request to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, Attention: OP:E:EP:GA, Washington, D.C. 20224.
