
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### ยง 1.951A-1 General provisions.
####### Determination of pro rata share,In general.

(d)-(1)For purposes of paragraph (c) of this section, each United States shareholder that owns section 958(a) stock of a controlled foreign corporation as of a hypothetical distribution date determines its pro rata share (if any) of each tested item of the controlled foreign corporation for the CFC inclusion year that includes the hypothetical distribution date and ends with or within the U.S. shareholder inclusion year. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (d), a United States shareholder's pro rata share of each tested item is determined independently of its pro rata share of each other tested item. In no case may the sum of the pro rata share of any tested item of a controlled foreign corporation for a CFC inclusion year allocated to stock under this paragraph (d) exceed the amount of such tested item of the controlled foreign corporation for the CFC inclusion year. Except as modified in this paragraph (d), a United States shareholder's pro rata share of any tested item is determined under the rules of section 951(a)(2) and ยง 1.951-1(b) and (e) in the same manner as those provisions apply to subpart F income. Under section 951(a)(2) and ยง 1.951-1(b) and (e), as modified by this paragraph (d), a United States shareholder's pro rata share of any tested item for a U.S. shareholder inclusion year is determined with respect to the section 958(a) stock of the controlled foreign corporation owned by the United States shareholder on a hypothetical distribution date with respect to a CFC inclusion year that ends with or within the U.S. shareholder inclusion year. A United States shareholder's pro rata share of any tested item is translated into United States dollars using the average exchange rate for the CFC inclusion year of the controlled foreign corporation. Paragraphs (d)(2) through (5) of this section provide rules for determining a United States shareholder's pro rata share of each tested item of a controlled foreign corporation.
