
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### ยง 1.951A-1 General provisions.
####### ii,Determination of pro rata share of qualified business asset investment.

()The special rule of paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(A) of this section applies because FS's tested income of $120x is less than FS's hypothetical tangible return of $150x, which is 10% of FS's qualified business asset investment of $1,500x. Under paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(A) of this section, Individual A's and P Corp's respective pro rata shares of FS's qualified business asset investment bears the same ratio to FS's qualified business asset investment as their respective pro rata shares of the hypothetical tangible return of FS bears to the total hypothetical tangible return of FS. Under paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, P Corp's and Individual A's respective pro rata share of FS's hypothetical tangible return is determined under paragraph (d)(2) of this section in the same manner as their respective pro rata shares of the tested income of FS by treating the hypothetical tangible return as the amount of tested income. The amount of FS's allocable earnings and profits for purposes of the hypothetical distribution described in ยง 1.951-1(e)(1)(i) is $150x, the greater of its earnings and profits as determined under section 964 ($100x) and the sum of its subpart F income and hypothetical tangible return ($0 + $150x). The amount of FS's allocable earnings and profits distributed in the hypothetical distribution is $12x (.04 x $10x x 30) with respect to Individual A's preferred shares and $138x ($150x - $12x) with respect to P Corp's common shares. Accordingly, Individual A's pro rata share of FS's qualified business asset investment is $120x ($1,500x x $12x/$150x), and P Corp's pro rata share of FS's qualified business asset investment is $1,380x ($1,500x x $138x/$150x).
