
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### § 1.951A-2 Tested income and tested loss.
####### vii,Gross income items excluded under sections 954(b)(4) and 951A(c)(2)(A)(i)(III).

()The FDE1Y tentative tested income item is subject to tax at an effective foreign tax rate (25%) that is greater than 18.9% (90% of the maximum rate of tax specified in section 11). Therefore, the requirement of paragraph (c)(7)(i)(B) of this section is satisfied, and the FDE1Y tentative gross tested income item qualifies under paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this section for the high-tax exception of section 954(b)(4) and is excluded from tested income under sections 951A(c)(2)(A)(i)(III) and 954(b)(4) and paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section. In computing the tested income of CFC1X under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the deductions of CFC1X that were allocated and apportioned to the FDE1Y tentative gross tested income item (that is, the €200x of interest expense and the €200x of FDE1Y group taxes) are allocated and apportioned to this item of tentative gross tested income. As a result, the €1,000x of tentative gross tested income excluded from tested income under section 954(b)(4), as well as the €200x of interest expense and €200x of foreign tax expense allocable to that gross income, are allocated and apportioned to the residual category under paragraph (c)(3) of this section for purposes of determining the tested income of CFC1X. Under § 1.960-1(d)(3), the $200x of foreign income taxes allocated and apportioned to the excluded gross income would also be assigned to the residual income group for purposes of determining CFC1X's tested taxes for purposes of section 960(d). The CFC1X tentative tested income item and CFC3Z tentative tested income item each have effective foreign tax rates (8.3% and 10%, respectively) that are not greater than 90% of the maximum rate of tax specified in section 11. Therefore, the CFC1X tentative gross tested income item and the CFC3Z tentative gross tested income item do not qualify under paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this section for the high-tax exception of section 954(b)(4), and are not excluded from tested income under sections 951A(c)(2)(A)(i)(III) and 954(b)(4) and paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section. Under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the corresponding deductions are allocated and apportioned to that gross tested income in a manner that achieves a result that is consistent the result of the allocation and apportionment of those deductions under paragraph (c)(7) of this section. Accordingly, because CFC3Z's tentative gross tested income is not excluded from gross tested income under sections 951A(c)(2)(A)(i)(IIII) and 954(b)(4) and paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, under paragraph (c)(3) of this section the €200x of CFC1X's interest expense that was apportioned to tentative gross tested income of CFC3Z under the modified gross income method in § 1.861-9 is allocated and apportioned to gross tested income of CFC1X and therefore reduces CFC1X's tested income. In contrast, if the CFC3Z tentative gross tested item had been excluded from gross tested income under sections 951A(c)(2)(A)(i)(III) and 954(b)(4) and paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, then the €200x of CFC1X's interest expense that was allocated and apportioned to that income would be assigned to the residual category.
