
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Specifically Included in Gross Income
###### § 1.72-11 Amounts not received as annuity payments.
####### Introductory.

(a)(1) This section applies to amounts received under a contract to which section 72 applies if either:

(i) Paragraph (b) of § 1.72-2 is inapplicable to such amounts.

(ii) Paragraph (b) of § 1.72-2 is applicable but the annuity payments received differ either in amount, duration, or both, from those originally provided under the contract, or

(iii) Paragraph (b) of § 1.72 is applicable, but such annuity payments are received by a beneficiary after the death of an annuitant (or annuitants) in full discharge of the obligation under the contract and solely because of a guarantee.

(2) The principles of this section apply, to the extent appropriate thereto, to amounts paid which are taxable under section 72 (except, for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1964, section 72(e)(3)) in accordance with sections 402 and 403 and the regulations thereunder. However, if contributions used to purchase the contract include amounts for which a deduction was allowed under section 404 as contributions on behalf of an owner-employee, the rules of this section are modified by the rules of paragraph (b) of § 1.72-17. Further, in applying the provisions of this section, the aggregate premiums or other consideration paid shall not include contributions on behalf of self-employed individuals to the extent that deductions were allowed under section 404 for such contributions. Nor, shall the aggregate of premiums or other consideration paid include amounts used to purchase life, accident, health, or other insurance protection for an owner-employee. See paragraph (b)(4) of § 1.72-16 and paragraph (c) of § 1.72-17. The principles of this section also apply to payments made in the manner described in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of § 1.72-2.
