
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Specifically Included in Gross Income
###### ยง 1.72-11 Amounts not received as annuity payments.
####### Periodic payments received for a different term.

(e)If, after the date on which an amount is first received as an annuity under a contract to which section 72 applies, the terms of the contract are modified or the annuity obligations are exchanged so that periodic payments are to be received for a different term than originally provided under the contract (whether or not accompanied by the receipt of a lump sum to which paragraph (d) of this section applies), the rules of this paragraph shall apply to such payments. Hence, the provisions of section 72(e) and paragraphs (b), (c), (d), and (f) of this section are inapplicable for the purpose of determining the includibility of such payments in gross income and the general principles of section 72 with respect to the use of an exclusion ratio shall be applied to such payments as if they were provided under a new contract received in exchange for the contract providing the original annuity payments. If such payments are received as the result of the surrender, redemption, or discharge of a contract to which section 72 applies, they shall be considered to be received as an annuity under a contract exchanged for the contract whose redemption, surrender, or discharge was involved. For the purpose of determining the extent to which the payments so received are to be included in the gross income of the recipient, an exclusion ratio shall be determined for such contract as of the later of January 1, 1954, or the first day of the first period for which an amount is received as an annuity thereunder, whichever is the later. See paragraph (b) of ยง 1.72-4. In determining the investment in the contract for this purpose, any lump sum amount received at the time of the exchange shall not be considered an amount to which paragraph (a)(2) of ยง 1.72-6 applies. However, such lump sum shall be subtracted from the aggregate of premiums or other consideration paid to the extent it is excludable as an amount not received as an annuity under this section as if it were an amount received before the annuity starting date of the contract obtained in exchange.
