
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### § 1.951A-3 Qualified business asset investment.
####### 2,Analysis.

()Because the trucks are used in both the production of gross tested income and the production of gross income that is not gross tested income in Year 1, the trucks are dual use property within the meaning of paragraph (d)(2) of this section. Under paragraph (h)(2)(i)(A) of this section, the disqualified basis in the trucks is disregarded for purposes of determining FS's qualified business asset investment for Year 1. Under paragraph (h)(2)(i)(B) of this section, paragraph (h)(2)(i)(A) of this section applies by reducing the amount of FS's adjusted basis in the trucks treated as adjusted basis in specified tangible property for Year 1 under paragraph (d)(1) of this section (determined without regard to § 1.951A-2(c)(5)) by the amount of the disqualified basis in the trucks. Without regard to § 1.951A-2(c)(5), FS's adjusted basis in the trucks treated as adjusted basis in specified tangible property for Year 1 under paragraph (d)(1) of this section is FS's adjusted basis in the trucks multiplied by FS's dual use ratio with respect to the trucks for Year 1. Because none of the depreciation with respect to the trucks is capitalized into inventory or other property held for sale, FS's dual use ratio with respect to the trucks is determined entirely by reference to the depreciation deduction with respect to the trucks. Therefore, under paragraph (d)(3) of this section, without regard to § 1.951A-2(c)(5), FS's dual use ratio with respect to the trucks for Year 1 is 75%, which is FS's depreciation deduction with respect to the trucks that is allocated and apportioned to gross tested income under § 1.951A-2(c)(3) for Year 1 ($15x), divided by FS's depreciation deduction with respect to the trucks for Year 1 ($20x). Accordingly, paragraph (d)(1) of this section, without regard to paragraph (h)(2)(i)(A) of this section, FS's adjusted basis in the trucks treated as adjusted basis in specified tangible property is $3,000x ($4,000x x 0.75). Under paragraph (h)(2)(i)(A) and (B) of this section, the amount of the adjusted basis in the trucks treated as adjusted basis in specified tangible property is reduced by the $2,500x of disqualified basis in the trucks. Accordingly, $500x ($3,000x - $2,500x) of FS's average adjusted basis in the trucks is taken into account under paragraph (b) of this section in determining FS's qualified business asset investment for Year 1.
