
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### ยง 1.951A-4 Tested interest expense and tested interest income.
####### Example 4: Holding company; qualified interest expense,Facts.

(4)-(i)C Corp, a domestic corporation, owns 100% of the single class of stock of each of FS1 and FS2, each a controlled foreign corporation. FS2 owns 100% of the single class of stock of FS3, a qualifying insurance company within the meaning of section 953(e)(3). For Year 1, FS1, FS2, and FS3 are all tested income CFCs. C Corp, FS1, FS2, and FS3 all use the calendar year as their taxable year. In Year 1, FS1 pays $100x of interest to FS3. The interest expense of FS1 is allocated and apportioned to its gross tested income under ยง 1.951A-2(c)(3). The interest income of FS3 is excluded from its foreign personal holding company income by reason of section 954(c)(6). In addition, FS3 receives $300x of interest from persons that are not related to FS3, which interest income is excluded from FS's foreign personal holding company income by reason of section 954(i). Also in Year 1, FS2 pays $300x of interest to a bank, which interest expense is allocated and apportioned to FS2's gross tested income under ยง 1.951A-2(c)(3). None of FS1, FS2, or FS3 owns stock of another controlled foreign corporation, except for the stock of FS3 owned by FS2. FS2 has no assets other than the stock of FS3. Neither FS1 nor FS2 hold qualified assets directly. FS2's average adjusted bases in the FS3 stock is $6,000x. FS3's average adjusted bases in qualified assets is $8,000x, and FS3's average adjusted bases in all its assets is $12,000x.
