
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### ยง 1.951A-4 Tested interest expense and tested interest income.
####### Example 3: Operating company; qualified interest expense,Facts.

(3)-(i)B Corp, a domestic corporation, owns 100% of the single class of stock of each of FS1 and FS2, each a controlled foreign corporation. For Year 1, FS1 and FS2 are both tested income CFCs. B Corp, FS1, and FS2 all use the calendar year as their taxable year. FS2 is an eligible controlled foreign corporation within the meaning of section 954(h)(2). In Year 1, FS1 pays $100x of interest to FS2. The interest expense of FS1 is allocated and apportioned to its gross tested income under ยง 1.951A-2(c)(3). The interest income of FS2 is excluded from its foreign personal holding company income by reason of section 954(c)(6). In addition, in Year 1, FS2 receives $300x of interest from customers that are not related to FS2, which interest income is excluded from FS2's foreign personal holding company income by reason of section 954(h), and FS2 pays $300x of interest to a bank, which interest expense is allocated and apportioned to FS2's gross tested income under ยง 1.951A-2(c)(3). Neither FS1 nor FS2 owns stock of another controlled foreign corporation. FS1 does not hold qualified assets. FS2's average adjusted bases in qualified assets is $8,000x, and FS2's average adjusted bases in all its assets is $12,000x.
