
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### ยง 1.953-2 Actual United States risks.
####### United States location,In general.

(2)-(i)Property will be considered property in the United States when it is exclusively located in the United States. Conversely, property will be considered property not in the United States when it is exclusively located outside the United States. In addition, property which is ordinarily located in, but temporarily located outside, the United States will be considered property in the United States both when it is ordinarily located in, and when it is temporarily located outside, the United States if the premium which is attributable to the reinsuring or issuing of any insurance contract in connection with such property cannot be allocated to, or apportioned between, risks incurred when such property is actually located in the United States and risks incurred when it is actually located outside the United States. If such premium can be so allocated or apportioned on a reasonable basis, however, such property will be considered property not in the United States when it is actually located outside the United States. However, property will not be considered property in the United States if it is neither property which is exclusively located in the United States nor property which is ordinarily located in, but temporarily located outside, the United States. The rules prescribed in subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph shall apply in determining whether a premium can be allocated or apportioned on a reasonable basis to or between risks incurred when property is actually located in the United States and risks incurred when such property is actually located outside the United States. The rules prescribed in subdivisions (iii) through (x) of this subparagraph shall apply in determining whether property is, or will be considered, exclusively located in or outside the United States and whether property is, or will be considered, ordinarily located in the United States; such rules also limit the rule of premium allocation and apportionment prescribed in this subdivision and subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph. The determinations required by this subparagraph shall be made with respect to the location of property during the policy period applicable to the taxable year of the insuring or reinsuring corporation, or, if more than one policy period exists with respect to such taxable year, such determinations shall be made separately with respect to the location of property during each such policy period.
