
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### ยง 1.953-2 Actual United States risks.
####### Substantial activity carried on in the United States.,a,b

(ii)The term "activity" is used in its broadest sense and includes the performance of an act unlawfully undertaken, the wrongful performance of an act lawfully undertaken, and the wrongful failure to perform an act lawfully required to be undertaken. With respect to a loss described in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, the term "activity" includes the occurrence of the event insured against. The determination of whether an activity ordinarily is carried on in, but is partly carried on outside, the United States will depend on all the facts and circumstances in each case. An activity ordinarily is carried on in the United States if a substantial amount of such activity is carried on in the United States. Factors which will be taken into account in determining whether a substantial amount of activity is carried on in the United States are those which are connected with the activity and include, but are not limited to, the location of the insured's assets, the place where personal services are performed, and the place where sales occur, but only if such assets, services, and sales are connected with the activity. In all cases an activity will be considered substantially carried on in the United States if more than 50 percent of the insured's total assets, personal services, and sales, if any, connected with such activity are located, performed, or occur in the United States. On the other hand, an activity will, under no circumstances, be considered substantially carried on in the United States if not more than 30 percent of the insured's total assets, personal services, and sales, if any, connected with such activity are located, performed, or occur in the United States. For this purpose, the mean of the value of the total assets at the beginning and end of the policy period shall be used, determined by taking assets into account at their actual value (not reduced by liabilities), which, in the absence of affirmative evidence to the contrary, shall be deemed to be () face value in the case of bills receivable, accounts receivable, notes receivable, and open accounts held by an insured using the cash receipts and disbursements method of accounting and () adjusted basis in the case of all other assets. Personal services shall be measured by the amount of compensation paid or accrued for such services, and sales shall be measured by the volume of gross sales. An activity is carried on partly outside the United States if it is carried on, whether substantially or in substantially, outside the United States.
