
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### § 1.953-2 Actual United States risks.
####### Lives or health of United States residents.

(d)Risks in connection with the lives or health of residents of the United States include those risks which are the subject of insurance contracts referred to in section 801(a), relating to the definition of a life insurance company. If the insured is a resident of the United States at the time the insurance contract is approved, the risk is in connection with the life or health of a resident of the United States for the period of coverage under the contract. However, if during such period of coverage the insured notifies the insurer, or circumstances known to the insurer indicate, that the insured is no longer a resident of the United States, the risk shall cease to be a risk in connection with the life or health of a resident of the United States for the policy period in which the insured gives such notice or such circumstances are known to the insurer, and for each subsequent policy period. Conversely, if the insured is a resident of a particular foreign country at the time the insurance contract is approved, the risk is in connection with the life or health of a resident of such foreign country for the period of coverage under the contract. However, if during such period of coverage the insured notifies the insurer, or circumstances known to the insurer indicate, that the insured is no longer a resident of such foreign country, the risk shall cease to be a risk in connection with the life or health of a resident of such particular foreign country for the policy period in which the insured gives such notice or such circumstances are known to the insurer, and for each subsequent policy period. In determining the country of residence of an insured, the principles of §§ 301.7701(b)-1 through 301.7701(b)-9 of this chapter, relating to the determination of residence and nonresidence in the United States and of foreign residence, shall apply. Citizens of the United States are not residents of the United States merely because of their citizenship. The application of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following example:
