
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### ยง 1.954-2 Foreign personal holding company income.
####### Time and manner of election.

(ii)The controlling United States shareholders, as defined in ยง 1.964-1(c)(5), make the election on behalf of the controlled foreign corporation by filing a statement with their original income tax returns for the taxable year of such United States shareholders ending with or within the taxable year of the controlled foreign corporation for which the election is made, clearly indicating that such election has been made. If the controlling United States shareholders elect to apply these regulations retroactively, under ยง 1.954-0(a)(1)(ii), the election under this paragraph (g)(3) may be made by the amended return filed pursuant to the election under ยง 1.954-0(a)(1)(ii). The controlling United States shareholders filing the election statement described in this paragraph (g)(3)(ii) must provide copies of the election statement to all other United States shareholders of the electing controlled foreign corporation. Failure to provide copies of such statement will not cause an election under this paragraph (g)(3) to be voidable by the controlled foreign corporation or the controlling United States shareholders. However, the District Director has discretion to void the election if it is determined that three was no reasonable cause for the failure to provide copies of such statement. The statement shall include the following information-

(A) The name, address, taxpayer identification number, and taxable year of such United States shareholder;

(B) The name, address, and taxable year of the controlled foreign corporation for which the election is effective; and

(C) Any additional information required by the Commission by administrative pronouncement.
