
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### ยง 1.954-3 Foreign base company sales income.
####### c,Application of substantial contribution test.,b,b,b,b,d,Examples 8, 10,11,d,Example 9

()When considering whether a controlled foreign corporation makes a substantial contribution to the manufacture, production, or construction of the personal property, the performance of any activity in paragraph (a)(4)(iv)() of this section will be taken into account. The performance or lack of performance of any particular activity in paragraph (a)(4)(iv)() of this section, or of a particular number of activities in (a)(4)(iv)() of this section, is not determinative. The weight accorded to the performance of any quantum of any activity (whether or not specified in paragraph (a)(4)(iv)() of this section) will vary with the facts and circumstances of the particular business. See paragraph (a)(4)(iv)()andof this section. In determining whether the activities of the controlled foreign corporation constitute a substantial contribution, there is no minimum performance threshold before an activity can be considered. The fact that other persons make a substantial contribution to the manufacture, production, or construction of the personal property prior to sale does not preclude the controlled foreign corporation from making a substantial contribution to the manufacture, construction, or production of that property through the activities of its employees. See paragraph (a)(4)(iv)()of this section.
