
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### ยง 1.954-8 Foreign base company oil related income.
####### Marketing income described in section 907(c)(2)(C).

(2)With regard to a controlled foreign corporation's marketing income from the distribution or sale of minerals extracted from oil or gas wells or of primary products, as described in section 907(c)(2)(C), a pro rata method will be applied for purposes of determining the part of the marketing income that qualifies for the extraction exception of paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section. When applying the pro rata method to the sale of a fuel product other than a primary product, the pro rata method will be based on the proportion that the barrels of the fuel product extracted in the country of sale bears to the total barrels of the fuel product sold in that country. When applying the pro rata method to the sale of primary products, the method will be based on the proportion that the barrels of the fuel product extracted in the country of sale bears to the total barrels of the fuel product processed. For purposes of applying the pro rata method, data of the controlled foreign corporation's related group (as defined in section 954(g)(2)(C)) will be taken into account. The pro rata method will not apply, however, if the mineral or primary product is purchased by the controlled foreign corporation from a person not within the controlled foreign corporation's related group. In that situation, the marketing income will be presumed to qualify for the extraction exception if the country of the source of the marketing income is a net exporter of crude oil or gas, whichever is relevant. If the country of the source of the marketing income is not a net exporter of crude oil or gas, whichever is relevant, the marketing income will be presumed not to qualify for the extraction exception. The controlled foreign corporation may, however, rebut this latter presumption by demonstrating on the basis of all the facts and circumstances that its marketing income does qualify for the extraction exception. If a primary product that is acquired from a person within the controlled foreign corporation's related group is commingled with like products acquired from persons not within that related group, the pro rata method based on the proportion that the barrels of the fuel product extracted in the country of sale bears to the total barrels of the fuel product processed will be applied to that portion of the total products sold that was purchased from persons within the related group, to the extent that that person did not sell product purchased from an unrelated person, and either the presumption or facts and circumstances will determine the characterization of the remainder.
