
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### ยง 1.955-3 Election as to date of determining qualified investments in less developed countries.
####### Revocation.

(3)Upon application by the United States shareholder, the election made under this section may, subject to the approval of the Commissioner, be revoked. Approval will not be granted unless the United States shareholder and the Commissioner agree to the terms, conditions, and adjustments under which the rev- ocation will be effected. Unless such agreement provides otherwise, the change in the controlled foreign corporation's qualified investments in less developed countries for its first taxable year for which income is computed without regard to the election previously made will be considered to be zero for purposes of effectuating the revocation. The application for consent to revocation shall be made by the United States shareholder's mailing a letter for such purpose to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, Washington, DC 20224. The application shall be mailed before the close of the first taxable year of the controlled foreign corporation with respect to which the shareholder desires to compute the amounts described in section 954(b)(1) or 955(a) without regard to the election provided in this section. The application may also be filed in a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1975. The application shall include the following information:

(i) The name, address, and taxpayer identification number of the United States shareholder;

(ii) The name and address of the controlled foreign corporation;

(iii) The taxable year of the controlled foreign corporation for which such amounts are to be so computed;

(iv) The amount of the controlled foreign corporation's qualified investments in less developed countries at the close of its preceding taxable year;

(v) The sum of the amounts excluded under section 954(b)(1) and paragraph (b)(1) of ยง 1.954-1 from the foreign base company income of the controlled foreign corporation for all prior taxable years during which such shareholder was a United States shareholder of such corporation and the sum of the amounts of its previously excluded subpart F income withdrawn from investment in less developed countries for all prior taxable years during which such shareholder was a United States shareholder of such corporation; and

(vi) The reasons for the request for consent to revocation.
