
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### ยง 1.955A-3 Election as to qualified investments by related persons.
####### Revocation.

(2)(i) Except as provided in subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph, an election under this section by a United States shareholder shall be binding for the group taxable year for which it is made and for subsequent years.

(ii) Upon application by the United States shareholder (and any other United States shareholder controlled by such shareholder which consented under paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section to the election), an election made under this section may, subject to the approval of the Commissioner, be revoked. An application to revoke the election, as of a specified group taxable year, with respect to one or more (but not all) controlled foreign corporations, subject to an election shall be deemed to be an application to revoke the election. Approval will not be granted unless a material and substantial change in circumstances occurs which could not have been anticipated when the election was made. The application for consent to revocation shall be made by mailing a letter for such purpose to Commissioner of Internal Revenue, Attention: T:C:C, Washington, DC 20224, containing a statement of the facts which justify such consent. If a member of a related group subject to an election ceases to meet the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section for membership in the group by reason of any action taken by it or any member of the group or the electing United States shareholder, then the election will be deemed to be revoked as of the beginning of the taxable year in which such action occurred. If such action is taken principally for the purpose of revoking the election without applying for and obtaining the approval of the Commissioner to the revocation, then no further election covering any member of that related group may be made by any United States shareholder for the remainder of the taxable year in which the action occurred and the five succeeding taxable years.
