
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### ยง 1.955A-3 Election as to qualified investments by related persons.
####### Coordination with section 955(b)(3)

(e). If a United States shareholder elects under this section to treat two or more controlled foreign corporations as a related group for any taxable year, and if such United States shareholder is required under ยง 1.955A-4(c)(2) for purposes of filing any return to estimate the qualified investments in foreign base company shipping operations of any member of such group, then such United States shareholder shall, for purposes of filing such return, determine the amount includible in his gross income in respect of each member of such related group on the basis of such estimate. If the actual amount of such investments is not the same as the amount of the estimate, the United States shareholder shall immediately notify the Commissioner. The Commissioner will thereupon redetermine the amount of tax of such United States shareholder for the year or years with respect to which the incorrect amount was taken into account. The amount of tax, if any, due upon such redetermination shall be paid by the United States shareholder upon notice and demand by the district director. The amount of tax, if any, shown by such redetermination to have been overpaid shall be credited or refunded to the United States shareholder in accordance with the provisions of sections 6402 and 6511 and the regulations thereunder. If a United States shareholder elects under this section and if the United States shareholder has made an election under section 955(b)(3) as to at least one member of the related group, then the qualified investment amounts necessary for the calculations of paragraphs (c)(3) and (4) of this section shall be obtained, for each member of the related group, as of the determination dates applicable to each of the members.
