
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### ยง 1.956-1 Shareholder's pro rata share of the average of the amounts of United States property held by a controlled foreign corporation.
####### Applicability dates.

(g)(1) Paragraph (a)(1) of this section applies to taxable years of controlled foreign corporations ending on or after November 3, 2016, and to taxable years of United States shareholders in which or with which such taxable years end.

(2) Paragraph (b) of this section applies to taxable years of controlled foreign corporations ending on or after September 1, 2015, and to taxable years of United States shareholders in which or with which such taxable years end, with respect to property acquired on or after September 1, 2015. See paragraph (b)(4) of ยง 1.956-1T, as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2015, for the rules applicable to taxable years of controlled foreign corporations ending before September 1, 2015, and property acquired before September 1, 2015. For purposes of this paragraph (g)(2), a deemed exchange of property pursuant to section 1001 on or after September 1, 2015 constitutes an acquisition of the property on or after that date.

(3) Paragraph (e)(2) of this section applies to taxable years of controlled foreign corporations ending on or after November 3, 2016, and taxable years of United States shareholders in which or with which such taxable years end, with respect to pledges or guarantees entered into on or after September 1, 2015. For purposes of this paragraph (g)(3), a pledgor or guarantor is treated as entering into a pledge or guarantee when there is a significant modification, within the meaning of ยง 1.1001-3(e), of an obligation with respect to which it is a pledgor or guarantor on or after September 1, 2015.

(4) Paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section apply to taxable years of controlled foreign corporations beginning on or after July 22, 2019, and to taxable years of a United States shareholder in which or with which such taxable years of the controlled foreign corporations end. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, a United States shareholder may apply paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section to taxable years of controlled foreign corporations beginning after December 31, 2017, and to taxable years of the United States shareholder in which or with which such taxable years of the controlled foreign corporations end, provided that the United States shareholder and United States persons that are related (within the meaning of section 267 or 707) to the United States shareholder consistently apply those paragraphs with respect to all controlled foreign corporations in which they are United States shareholders for taxable years of the controlled foreign corporations beginning after December 31, 2017. For taxable years of controlled foreign corporations beginning before January 25, 2022, and taxable years of United States shareholders in which or with which such taxable years of foreign corporations end, see ยง 1.956-1(a)(2)(i) and (iii) and (a)(3)(iv) as in effect and contained in 26 CFR part 1, as revised April 1, 2021.

(5) Paragraph (e)(6) of this section applies to property acquired in exchanges occurring on or after June 24, 2011.
