
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### ยง 1.956-2 Definition of United States property.
####### 2,2

(3) Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (h)(3), paragraphs (a)(4) and (c)(5) of this section apply to obligations or stock acquired or to pledges or guarantees entered into, or treated as entered into, on or after September 22, 2014, but only if the inversion transaction was completed on or after September 22, 2014. The phrase ", regardless of whether, when the obligation or stock was acquired, the acquirer was a controlled foreign corporation or an expatriated foreign subsidiary" in paragraph (a)(4)(i)(A) of this section, the phrase "regardless of whether, when the obligation or stock was acquired, the foreign person or foreign corporation was a non-EFS foreign related person" in paragraph (a)(4)(i)(B) of this section, and paragraphs (a)(4)(i)(C)(), (c)(5)(ii)(A), and (c)(5)(ii)(B)() of this section apply to obligations or stock acquired or pledges or guarantees entered into or treated as entered into on or after April 4, 2016, but only if the inversion transaction was completed on or after September 22, 2014. Paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section applies to obligations acquired on or after April 4, 2016. For inversion transactions completed on or after September 22, 2014, however, taxpayers may elect to apply paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section to an obligation acquired before April 4, 2016. For purposes of paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section and this paragraph (h)(3), a deemed exchange of an obligation or stock pursuant to section 1001 constitutes an acquisition of the obligation or stock. For purposes of paragraph (c)(5) of this section and this paragraph (h)(3), a pledgor or guarantor or deemed pledgor or guarantor is treated as entering into a pledge or guarantee when there is a significant modification, within the meaning of ยง 1.1001-3(e), of an obligation with respect to which it is a pledgor or guarantor or is treated as a pledgor or guarantor.

(4) Paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section are effective June 14, 1988, with respect to investments made on or after June 14, 1988.

(5) Paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section applies to obligations acquired on or after April 4, 2016, but only if the inversion transaction was completed on or after September 22, 2014. For inversion transactions completed on or after September 22, 2014, however, taxpayers may elect to apply paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section to an obligation acquired on or after September 22, 2014, and before April 4, 2016. For purposes of paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section and this paragraph (h)(5), a significant modification, within the meaning of ยง 1.1001-3(e), of an obligation on or after April 4, 2016, constitutes an acquisition of an obligation on or after April 4, 2016.

(6) Paragraph (d)(2)(iv) of this section applies to obligations held on or after September 16, 1988. See ยง 1.956-2T(d)(2)(v), as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2017, for additional rules applicable to certain taxable years of a foreign corporation beginning before January 1, 2011.
