
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### § 1.960-1 Overview, definitions, and computational rules for determining foreign income taxes deemed paid under section 960(a), (b), and (d).
####### Overview,Scope of §§ 1.960-1 through 1.960-3.

(a)-(1)This section and §§ 1.960-2 and 1.960-3 provide rules to associate foreign income taxes of a controlled foreign corporation with the income that a domestic corporation that is a United States shareholder of the controlled foreign corporation takes into account in determining a subpart F inclusion or GILTI inclusion amount of the domestic corporation, as well as to associate foreign income taxes of a controlled foreign corporation with distributions of previously taxed earnings and profits. This section and §§ 1.960-2 and 1.960-3 provide the exclusive rules for determining the foreign income taxes deemed paid by a domestic corporation under section 960. Therefore, only foreign income taxes of a controlled foreign corporation that are associated under these rules with a subpart F inclusion or GILTI inclusion amount of a domestic corporation that is a United States shareholder of the controlled foreign corporation, or with previously taxed earnings and profits, are eligible to be deemed paid. This section provides definitions and computational rules for determining foreign income taxes deemed paid under section 960(a), (b), and (d). Section 1.960-2 provides rules for computing the amount of foreign income taxes deemed paid by a domestic corporation that is a United States shareholder of a controlled foreign corporation under section 960(a) and (d). Section 1.960-3 provides rules for computing the amount of foreign income taxes deemed paid by a domestic corporation that is a United States shareholder of a controlled foreign corporation, or by a controlled foreign corporation, under section 960(b). This section and §§ 1.960-2 and 1.960-3 also apply for purposes of any provision that treats a taxpayer as a domestic corporation that is deemed to pay foreign income taxes or treats a foreign corporation as a controlled foreign corporation for purposes of section 960. See, for example, sections 962(a)(2) and 1293(f).
