
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### § 1.960-1 Overview, definitions, and computational rules for determining foreign income taxes deemed paid under section 960(a), (b), and (d).
####### Computational rules,In general.

(c)-(1)For purposes of computing foreign income taxes deemed paid by either a domestic corporation that is a United States shareholder with respect to a controlled foreign corporation under § 1.960-2 or § 1.960-3 or by a controlled foreign corporation under § 1.960-3 for the current taxable year, the following rules apply in the following order, beginning with the lowest-tier controlled foreign corporation in a chain with respect to which the domestic corporation is a United States shareholder:

(i) First, items of gross income of the controlled foreign corporation for the current taxable year other than a section 959(b) distribution are assigned to section 904 categories and included in income groups within those section 904 categories under the rules in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. The receipt of a section 959(b) distribution by the controlled foreign corporation is accounted for under § 1.960-3(c)(3).

(ii) Second, deductions (other than for current year taxes) of the controlled foreign corporation for the current taxable year are allocated and apportioned to reduce gross income in the section 904 categories and the income groups within a section 904 category. See paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section. Deductions for current year taxes (other than eligible current year taxes) of the controlled foreign corporation for the current taxable year are allocated and apportioned to reduce gross income in the section 904 categories and the income groups within a section 904 category. Additionally, the functional currency amounts of eligible current year taxes are allocated and apportioned to reduce gross income in the section 904 categories and the income groups within a section 904 category, and to reduce earnings and profits in the PTEP groups that were increased as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section. No deductions other than eligible current year taxes are allocated and apportioned to PTEP groups. See paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section.

(iii) Third, for purposes of computing foreign taxes deemed paid, eligible current year taxes that were allocated and apportioned to income groups and PTEP groups in the section 904 categories are translated into U.S. dollars in accordance with section 986(a).

(iv) Fourth, eligible current year taxes deemed paid under section 960(a) and (d) by the domestic corporation with respect to income of the controlled foreign corporation are computed under the rules of § 1.960-2. In addition, foreign income taxes deemed paid under section 960(b)(2) with respect to the receipt of a section 959(b) distribution by the controlled foreign corporation are computed under the rules of § 1.960-3(b).

(v) Fifth, any previously taxed earnings and profits of the controlled foreign corporation resulting from subpart F inclusions and GILTI inclusion amounts with respect to the controlled foreign corporation's current taxable year are separated from other earnings and profits of the controlled foreign corporation and added to an annual PTEP account, and a PTEP group within the PTEP account, under the rules of § 1.960-3(c).

(vi) Sixth, paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section are repeated for each next higher-tier controlled foreign corporation in the chain.

(vii) Seventh, with respect to the highest-tier controlled foreign corporation in a chain that is owned directly (or indirectly through a partnership) by the domestic corporation, foreign income taxes that are deemed paid under section 960(b)(1) in connection with the receipt of a section 959(a) distribution by the domestic corporation are computed under the rules of § 1.960-3(b).
