
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### § 1.960-1 Overview, definitions, and computational rules for determining foreign income taxes deemed paid under section 960(a), (b), and (d).
####### Allocation and apportionment of deductions among section 904 categories, income groups within a section 904 category, and certain PTEP groups,In general.

(3)-(i)Gross income of the controlled foreign corporation in each income group within each section 904 category is reduced by deductions (including losses) of the controlled foreign corporation for the current taxable year under the rules in this paragraph (d)(3)(i). No deductions of the controlled foreign corporation for the current taxable year other than a deduction for eligible current year taxes imposed solely by reason of the receipt of a section 959(b) distribution are allocated or apportioned to reduce earnings and profits in a PTEP group.

(A) First, the rules of sections 861 through 865 and 904(d) (taking into account the rules of section 954(b)(5) and § 1.954-1(c), and section 951A(c)(2)(A)(ii) and § 1.951A-2(c)(3), as appropriate) apply to allocate and apportion to reduce gross income (or create a loss) in each section 904 category and income group within a section 904 category any deductions of the controlled foreign corporation that are definitely related to less than all of the controlled foreign corporation's gross income as a class. See paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section for special rules for allocating and apportioning current year taxes to section 904 categories, income groups, and PTEP groups.

(B) Second, related person interest expense is allocated to and apportioned among the subpart F income groups within the passive category under the principles of §§ 1.904-5(c)(2) and 1.954-1(c)(1)(i).

(C) Third, any remaining deductions are allocated and apportioned to reduce gross income (or create a loss) in the section 904 categories and income groups within each section 904 category under the rules referenced in paragraph (d)(3)(i)(A) of this section.
