
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### ยง 1.960-1 Overview, definitions, and computational rules for determining foreign income taxes deemed paid under section 960(a), (b), and (d).
####### Facts,Income of CFC1 and CFC2.

(1)-(i)CFC1, a controlled foreign corporation, conducts business in Country X. CFC1 uses the "u" as its functional currency. At all relevant times, 1u=$1x. CFC1 owns all of the stock of CFC2, a controlled foreign corporation. CFC1 and CFC2 both use the calendar year as their U.S. and foreign taxable years. In 2019, CFC1 earns 2,000,000u of gross income that is foreign oil and gas extraction income, within the meaning of section 907(c)(1), and 2,000,000u of interest income from unrelated persons, for both U.S. and Country X tax law purposes. Country X exempts interest income from tax. In 2019, CFC1 also receives a section 959(b) distribution from CFC2 of 4,000,000u of previously taxed earnings and profits attributable to an inclusion under section 965(a) for CFC2's 2017 U.S. taxable year. The inclusion under section 965(a) was income in the general category. There are no PTEP group taxes associated with the previously taxed earnings and profits distributed by CFC2 at the level of CFC2. The section 959(b) distribution is treated as a dividend taxable to CFC1 under Country X law. In 2019, CFC2 earns no gross income and receives no distributions.
