
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### § 1.960-1 Overview, definitions, and computational rules for determining foreign income taxes deemed paid under section 960(a), (b), and (d).
####### Foreign taxable income that includes previously taxed earnings and profits.

(B)For purposes of allocating and apportioning an eligible current year tax under this paragraph (d)(3)(ii), a PTEP group that is increased under § 1.960-3(c)(3) as a result of the receipt of a section 959(b) distribution in the current taxable year of the controlled foreign corporation is treated as an income group within the section 904 category. In such case, under § 1.861-20, the portion of the foreign gross income (as defined in § 1.861-20(b)(5)) that is characterized under Federal income tax principles as a distribution of previously taxed earnings and profits that results in the increase in the PTEP group in the current taxable year is assigned to that PTEP group. If a PTEP group is not treated as an income group under the first sentence of this paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(B), and the rules of § 1.861-20 would otherwise apply to assign foreign gross income to a PTEP group, that foreign gross income is instead assigned to the subpart F income group or tested income group to which the income that gave rise to the previously taxed earnings and profits would be assigned if the income were recognized by the recipient controlled foreign corporation under Federal income tax principles in the current taxable year. For example, a net basis or withholding tax imposed on a controlled foreign corporation's receipt of a section 959(b) distribution is allocated or apportioned to a PTEP group. In contrast, a withholding tax imposed on a disregarded payment from a disregarded entity to its controlled foreign corporation owner is never treated as related to a PTEP group, even if all of the controlled foreign corporation's earnings are previously taxed earnings and profits, because the payment that gives rise to the foreign gross income from which the tax was withheld does not constitute a section 959(b) distribution in the current taxable year. That foreign gross income, however, may be assigned to a subpart F income group or tested income group.
