
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### ยง 1.960-1 Overview, definitions, and computational rules for determining foreign income taxes deemed paid under section 960(a), (b), and (d).
####### 2,Allocation and apportionment of current year taxes.

()Under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, CFC1's current year taxes are allocated and apportioned among the section 904 categories, income groups within a section 904 category, and any PTEP groups that were increased as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section. Under paragraphs (d)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, for purposes of allocating and apportioning taxes to reduce the income in a section 904 category, an income group, or PTEP group, ยง 1.904-6(a)(1) and (ii) are applied to determine the amount of foreign taxable income, computed under Country X law but characterized under Federal income tax law, in each section 904 category, income group, and PTEP group that is included in the Country X tax base. For Country X purposes, 1,000,000u of deductions are apportioned to CFC1's PTEP group within the general category, 500,000u of deductions are apportioned to the residual income group within the general category, and no deductions are apportioned to the subpart F income group in the passive category. Therefore, for Country X purposes, CFC1 has 3,000,000u of foreign taxable income attributable to the PTEP group within the general category, 1,500,000u of foreign taxable income attributable to the residual income group within the general category, and no income attributable to the subpart F income group within the passive category. Under paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section, 600,000u (3,000,000u/4,500,000u x 900,000u) of the 900,000u eligible current year taxes paid by CFC1 are related to the PTEP group within the general category, and 300,000u (1,500,000u/4,500,000u x 900,000u) are related to the residual income group within the general category. No current year taxes are allocated or apportioned to the subpart F income group within the passive category because the interest expense is exempt from Country X tax. Thus, for U.S. tax purposes, CFC1 has 3,400,000u of previously taxed earnings and profits (4,000,000u-600,000u) in the PTEP group within the general category, 1,250,000u of income in the subpart F income group within the passive category, and 950,000u of income (1,250,000u-300,000u) in the residual income group within the general category.
