
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### ยง 1.960-2 Foreign income taxes deemed paid under sections 960(a) and (d).
####### Facts.

(i)USP, a domestic corporation, owns 80% of the stock of CFC, a controlled foreign corporation. The remaining portion of the stock of CFC is owned by an unrelated person. USP and CFC both use the calendar year as their U.S. taxable year, and CFC also uses the calendar year as its foreign taxable year. CFC uses the "u" as its functional currency. At all relevant times, 1u=$1x. For its U.S. taxable year ending December 31, 2018, after the application of the rules in ยง 1.960-1(d) the income of CFC after foreign taxes is assigned to the following income groups: 1,000,000u of dividend income in a subpart F income group within the passive category ("subpart F income group 1"); 2,400,000u of gain from commodities transactions in a subpart F income group within the passive category ("subpart F income group 2"); and 1,800,000u of foreign base company services income in a subpart F income group within the general category ("subpart F income group 3"). CFC has current year taxes, all of which are eligible current year taxes, translated into U.S. dollars, of $740,000x that are allocated and apportioned as follows: $50,000x to subpart F income group 1; $240,000x to subpart F income group 2; and $450,000x to subpart F income group 3.USP has a subpart F inclusion with respect to CFC of 4,160,000u = $4,160,000x, of which 800,000u is attributable to subpart F income group 1, 1,920,000u to subpart F income group 2, and 1,440,000u to subpart F income group 3.
