
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### ยง 1.960-2 Foreign income taxes deemed paid under sections 960(a) and (d).
####### Example 1: Directly owned controlled foreign corporation,Facts.

(i)- (A)USP, a domestic corporation, owns 100% of the stock of a number of controlled foreign corporations, including CFC1. USP and CFC1 each use the calendar year as their U.S. taxable year. CFC1 uses the "u" as its functional currency. At all relevant times, 1u = $1x. For its U.S. taxable year ending December 31, 2018, after application of the rules in ยง 1.960-1(d), the income of CFC1 is assigned to a single income group: 2,000u of income from the sale of goods in a tested income group within the general category ("tested income group"). CFC1 has current year taxes, all of which are eligible current year taxes, translated into U.S. dollars, of $400x that are all allocated and apportioned to the tested income group. For its U.S. taxable year ending December 31, 2018, USP has a GILTI inclusion amount determined by reference to all of its controlled foreign corporations, including CFC1, of $6,000x, and an aggregate amount described in section 951A(c)(1)(A) and ยง 1.951A-1(c)(2)(i) of $10,000x. All of the income in CFC1's tested income group is included in computing USP's aggregate amount described in section 951A(c)(1)(A) and ยง 1.951A-1(c)(2)(i).
