
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### ยง 1.960-2 Foreign income taxes deemed paid under sections 960(a) and (d).
####### Example 2: Controlled foreign corporation owned through domestic partnership,Facts.,1

(ii)-(A)() US1, a domestic corporation, owns 95% of PRS, a domestic partnership. The remaining 5% of PRS is owned by US2, a domestic corporation that is unrelated to US1. PRS owns all of the stock of CFC1, a controlled foreign corporation. In addition, US1 owns all of the stock of CFC2, a controlled foreign corporation. US1, US2, PRS, CFC1, and CFC2 all use the calendar year as their taxable year. CFC1 and CFC2 both use the "u" as their functional currency. At all relevant times, 1u=$1x. For its U.S. taxable year ending December 31, 2018, after application of the rules in ยง 1.960-1(d), the income of CFC1 is assigned to a single income group: 300u of income from the sale of goods in a tested income group within the general category ("CFC1's tested income group"). CFC1 has current year taxes, all of which are eligible current year taxes, translated into U.S. dollars, of $100x that are all allocated and apportioned to CFC1's tested income group. The income of CFC2 is also assigned to a single income group: 200u of income from the sale of goods in a tested income group within the general category ("CFC2's tested income group"). CFC2 has current year taxes, all of which are eligible current year taxes, translated into U.S. dollars, of $20x that are allocated and apportioned to CFC2's tested income group.
