
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### ยง 1.960-3 Foreign income taxes deemed paid under section 960(b).
####### Example 1: Establishment of PTEP groups and PTEP accounts,Facts.

(1)-(i)USP, a domestic corporation, owns all of the stock of CFC1, a controlled foreign corporation. CFC1 owns all of the stock of CFC2, a controlled foreign corporation. USP, CFC1, and CFC2 each use the calendar year as their U.S. taxable year. CFC1 and CFC2 use the "u" as their functional currency. At all relevant times, 1u = $1x. With respect to CFC2, USP includes in gross income a subpart F inclusion of 1,000,000u = $1,000,000x for the taxable year ending December 31, 2018. The inclusion is with respect to passive category income. In its U.S. taxable year ending December 31, 2019, CFC2 distributes 1,000,000u to CFC1. CFC2 has no earnings and profits except for the 1,000,000u of previously taxed earnings and profits resulting from USP's 2018 taxable year subpart F inclusion. CFC2's country of organization, Country X, imposes a withholding tax on CFC1 of 300,000u on CFC2's distribution to CFC1. Under ยง 1.960-1(d)(3)(ii), CFC1's 300,000u of current year taxes are allocated and apportioned to the PTEP group within the annual PTEP account within the section 904 category to which the 1,000,000u of previously taxed earnings and profits are assigned.
