
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### ยง 1.960-3 Foreign income taxes deemed paid under section 960(b).
####### Example 2: Foreign income taxes deemed paid under section 960(b),Facts.

(2)-(i)USP, a domestic corporation, owns 100% of the stock of CFC1, which in turn owns 60% of the stock of CFC2, which in turn owns 100% of the stock of CFC3. USP, CFC1, CFC2, and CFC3 all use the calendar year as their U.S. taxable year. CFC1, CFC2, and CFC3 all use the "u" as their functional currency. At all relevant times, 1u = $1x. On July 1, 2020, CFC2 distributes 600u to CFC1 and the entire distribution is a section 959(b) distribution ("distribution 1"). On October 1, 2020, CFC1 distributes 800u to USP and the entire distribution is a section 959(a) distribution ("distribution 2"). CFC1 and CFC2 make no other distributions in the year ending December 31, 2020, earn no other income, and incur no taxes on distribution 1 or distribution 2. Before taking into account distribution 1, CFC2 has 1,000u of section 951(a)(1)(A) PTEP within an annual PTEP account for the 2016 taxable year within the general category. The previously taxed earnings and profits in CFC2's PTEP group relate to subpart F income of CFC3 that was included by USP in 2016. CFC3 distributed the earnings and profits to CFC2 before the 2020 taxable year and, solely as a result of the distribution of the previously taxed earnings and profits, CFC2 incurred withholding and net basis tax, resulting in $150 of PTEP group taxes with respect to section 951(a)(1)(A) PTEP. Before taking into account distribution 1 and distribution 2, CFC1 has 200u in section 951A PTEP within an annual PTEP account for the 2018 taxable year within the section 951A category. The previously taxed earnings and profits in CFC1's PTEP group relate to the portion of a GILTI inclusion amount that was included by USP in 2018 and allocated to CFC2 under section 951A(f)(2) and ยง 1.951A-5(b)(2). CFC2 distributed the earnings and profits to CFC1 before the 2020 taxable year and, solely as a result of the distribution of the previously taxed earnings and profits, CFC1 incurred withholding and net basis tax, resulting in $25x of PTEP group taxes with respect to section 951A PTEP.
