
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### ยง 1.960-6 Overpayments resulting from increase in limitation for taxable year of exclusion.
####### Facts.

(1)USP, a domestic corporation, owns all of the one class of stock of CFC, a controlled foreign corporation. Both corporations use the calendar year as the taxable year, and the functional currency of CFC is the U.S. dollar. For Year 1, CFC has total income of $100,000x on which it pays foreign income taxes of $20,000x. All of CFC's earnings and profits for Year 1 of $80,000x are attributable to an amount which is required under section 951(a) to be included in USP's gross income for Year 1 because such income is general category foreign base company services income of CFC. By reason of such income inclusion USP is deemed for Year 1 to have paid under section 960(a), and is required under section 78 to include in gross income for such year, the $20,000x ($20,000x x $80,000x/$80,000x) of foreign income taxes paid by CFC for such year. USP also derives $100,000x of taxable income from sources within the United States for Year 1. For Year 2, USP has $4,000x of taxable income, all of which is derived from sources within the United States. No part of CFC's earnings and profits for Year 2 is attributable to an amount required under section 951(a) or section 951A(a) to be included in USP's gross income. During Year 2, CFC makes one distribution consisting of its $80,000x earnings and profits for Year 1, all of which is excluded under section 959(a)(1) from USP's gross income for Year 2, and from which distribution foreign income taxes of $1,000x are withheld. For Year 1 and Year 2, USP claims the foreign tax credit under section 901, subject to the limitation of section 904.
