
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### § 1.962-1 Limitation of tax for individuals on amounts included in gross income under section 951(a).
####### Analysis with respect to section 962 taxable income

(2). (i) Section 962(a)(1) and § 1.962-1(a)(1) provide that when an individual United States shareholder elects to apply section 962 for a taxable year, the U.S. tax imposed with respect to amounts that the individual includes under section 951(a) (the "section 951(a) inclusions") equals the tax that would be imposed under section 11 if the amounts were included by a domestic corporation under section 951(a). For purposes of section 962, an amount included under section 951A is treated as an inclusion under section 951(a). See section 951A(f)(1)(A). Therefore, A has total section 951(a) inclusions of $5,000,000: a $2,000,000 passive category subpart F inclusion and a $3,000,000 GILTI inclusion amount. A is taxed at the corporate rates under section 11 with respect to these inclusions.

(ii) Section 962(a)(2), § 1.962-1(a)(2), and § 1.962-1(b)(2) provide that sections 960(a) and 960(d) apply to the section 951(a) inclusions of an electing individual United States shareholder as though the inclusions were received by a domestic corporation, and the electing individual United States shareholder is allowed a credit against the U.S. tax imposed with respect to the section 951(a) inclusions.

(iii) Section 960(a) deems a domestic corporation that is a United States shareholder of a controlled foreign corporation to pay the foreign income taxes paid or accrued by the foreign corporation that are properly attributable to the foreign corporation's items of income included in the domestic corporation's income under section 951(a). The foreign income taxes of a CFC that are properly attributable to such items are the domestic corporation's proportionate share of the taxes that are allocated and apportioned to the relevant subpart F income group. See § 1.960-1(c) and § 1.960-2(b). A owns 100 percent of CFC, and includes all of its subpart F income, which is in a single subpart F income group. Therefore, all of the $400,000 of foreign income taxes that are allocable to CFC's subpart F income are properly attributable to the section 951(a) inclusion of A, and A is deemed to pay these taxes.

(iv) Section 960(d) provides that a domestic corporation that has an inclusion in income under section 951A is deemed to pay an amount of foreign income taxes equal to 80 percent of the product of the domestic corporation's inclusion percentage multiplied by the sum of all tested foreign income taxes. Tested foreign income taxes are the foreign income taxes of a controlled foreign corporation that are properly attributable to its tested income that the domestic corporation takes into account under section 951A. The foreign income taxes that are properly attributable to the tested income taken into account by a domestic corporation are the domestic corporation's proportionate share of the controlled foreign corporation's foreign income taxes that are allocated and apportioned to the relevant tested income. See § 1.960-1(c) and § 1.960-2(c). Because A owns 100% of CFC and takes all $3,000,000 of CFC's tested income into account in computing A's GILTI inclusion amount, all $600,000 of the foreign income taxes that are allocated and apportioned to the general category tested income group of CFC are tested foreign income taxes. A has an inclusion percentage of 100 percent because A's GILTI inclusion amount equals all of A's share of the tested income of CFC. A is therefore deemed to pay under section 960(d) 80 percent of the $600,000 of tested foreign income taxes of CFC, or $480,000 of the tested foreign income taxes.

(v) Section 1.962-1(b)(1)(i)(A) provides that, for purposes of computing taxable income under section 962, gross income includes amounts that would be included under section 78 if the shareholder with the section 951(a) inclusions were a domestic corporation. Section 78 requires a domestic corporation to include in its gross income the foreign income taxes that it is deemed to pay under section 960, computed without regard to the 80 percent limitation under section 960(d), and to which the benefits of section 901 apply. See section 78. A therefore includes in gross income the $600,000 of foreign income taxes that A is deemed to pay under section 960(d), computed without regard to the 80 percent limitation, and the $400,000 of taxes that A is deemed to pay under section 960(a).
