
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### ยง 1.962-1 Limitation of tax for individuals on amounts included in gross income under section 951(a).
####### 3

(vi) Section 1.962-1(b)(1)(i)(B)() provides that, for purposes of computing taxable income under section 962, gross income is reduced only by specified deductions, which include the deduction allowed to a domestic corporation under section 250 and ยง 1.250(a)-1 equal to 50 percent of the sum of the GILTI inclusion amount and the inclusion under section 78 with respect to the GILTI inclusion amount. See section 250(a). A is therefore allowed a deduction under section 250 equal to 50 percent of $3,600,000 (the $3,000,000 GILTI inclusion amount plus the $600,000 inclusion under section 78), or $1,800,000.

(vii) A's taxable income and pre-credit U.S. tax liability with respect to the section 951(a) inclusions are computed as follows:

(viii) Section 962 and ยง 1.962-1(b)(2) provide that, in computing the section 904 limitation on the credit for foreign income taxes that an electing individual United States shareholder is deemed to pay under sections 960(a) and (d), the individual's taxable income for a taxable year is considered to consist only of section 951(a) inclusions and the deductions allowed under section 962. Section 904 limits the credit that a taxpayer may claim for the taxes that it pays or accrues, or is deemed to pay, to the amount of its U.S. tax that is attributable to the taxpayer's foreign source income, and applies this limitation separately with respect to each separate category of income. The limitation amount is computed by multiplying the taxpayer's total pre-credit U.S. tax by the ratio of the taxpayer's foreign source taxable income in a separate category for the taxable year to the taxpayer's total taxable income for the taxable year. See section 904(a) and ยง 1.904-1(a).

(ix) A must compute the limitation on the credit for the foreign income taxes deemed paid under section 960(d) separately with respect to A's taxable income in the separate category described in section 904(d)(1)(A) (the "GILTI category"), namely, taxable income attributable to the GILTI inclusion amount. The limitation is computed using only A's 2019 taxable income under section 962 and the pre-credit U.S. tax of $882,000 on this income. A therefore computes the limitation by multiplying $882,000 by the ratio of A's foreign source GILTI category taxable income under section 962 to A's total taxable income under section 962, as follows:

(x) A also must compute the limitation on the credit for the foreign income taxes deemed paid under section 960(a) separately with respect to the foreign source passive category taxable income under section 962, namely, A's taxable income attributable to the subpart F inclusion. A computes the limitation by multiplying A's pre-credit U.S. tax of $882,000 by the ratio of A's foreign source passive category taxable income under section 962 to A's total taxable income under section 962, as follows:

(xi) A may claim a foreign tax credit for $378,000 of the $480,000 of foreign income taxes deemed paid under section 960(d), and a foreign tax credit for all $400,000 of the foreign income taxes deemed paid under section 960(a), for a total foreign tax credit of $778,000. The U.S. tax on A's 2019 taxable income with respect to CFC under section 962 is reduced from $882,000 to $104,000 ($882,000 minus $778,000).
