
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### ยง 1.963-6 Deficiency distribution.
####### Nature and details of determination.

(c)(1) A determination that the section 963 exclusion does not apply to a United States shareholder for a taxable year due to its failure to receive a minimum distribution for such year shall, for the purposes of this section, be established by-

(i) A decision by the Tax Court or a judgment, decree, or other order by any court of competent jurisdiction, which has become final;

(ii) A closing agreement made under section 7121; or,

(iii) An agreement which is signed by the district director, or such other official to whom authority to sign the agreement is delegated, and by, or on behalf of, such shareholder and which relates to the liability of such shareholder for the tax under chapter 1 of the Code for such year.

(2) The date of determination by a decision of the Tax Court shall be the date upon which such decision becomes final, as prescribed in section 7481.

(3) The date upon which a judgment of a court becomes final shall be determined upon the basis of the facts in the particular case. Ordinarily, a judgment of a United States district court shall become final upon the expiration of the time allowed for taking an appeal, if no such appeal is duly taken within such time; and a judgment of the United States Court of Claims shall become final upon the expiration of the time allowed for filing a petition for certiorari, if no such petition is duly filed within such time.

(4) The date of determination by a closing agreement made under section 7121 shall be the date such agreement is approved by the Commissioner.

(5) The date of a determination made by an agreement which is signed by the district director, or such other official to whom authority to sign the agreement is delegated, shall be the date prescribed by this subparagraph. The agreement shall be sent to the United States shareholder at his last known address by either registered or certified mail. For further guidance regarding the definition of last known address, see ยง 301.6212-2 of this chapter. If registered mail is used for such purpose, the date of registration shall be treated as the date of determination; if certified mail is used for such purpose, the date of the postmark on the sender's receipt for such mail shall be treated as the date of determination. However, if the deficiency distribution is received by such shareholder before such registration or postmark date but on or after the date the agreement is signed by the district director or such other official to whom authority to sign the agreement is delegated, the date of determination shall be the date on which the agreement is so signed.

(6) The determination under this paragraph shall find that, due to the United States shareholder's failure to receive a minimum distribution, the section 963 exclusion does not apply for the taxable year with respect to stock to which the election under such section relates. A determination described in subdivision (ii) or (iii) of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph shall set forth the amount of the deficiency distribution and the amount of additional income tax for which the United States shareholder is liable under Chapter 1 of the Code by reason of not including in gross income for such year the amount of the deficiency distribution. If a determination described in subdivision (i) of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph does not establish the amount of the deficiency distribution and such amount of additional tax, such amounts may be established by an agreement which is signed by the district director, or such other official to whom authority to sign the agreement is delegated.
