
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### ยง 1.964-1 Determination of the earnings and profits of a foreign corporation.
####### Action not required until significant.

(6)Notwithstanding any other provision of this paragraph, action by or on behalf of a foreign corporation (other than a foreign corporation subject to tax under section 882) to make an election or to adopt a taxable year or method of accounting shall not be required until the due date (including extensions) of the return for a controlling domestic shareholder's first taxable year with or within which ends the foreign corporation's first taxable year in which the computation of its earnings and profits is significant for United States tax purposes with respect to its controlling domestic shareholders (as defined in ยง 1.964-1(c)(5)). The filing of the information return required by section 6038 shall not itself constitute a significant event. For taxable years beginning after April 25, 2006, events that cause a foreign corporation's earnings and profits to have United States tax significance include, without limitation:

(A) A distribution from the foreign corporation to its shareholders with respect to their stock.

(B) An amount is includible in gross income with respect to such corporation under section 951(a).

(C) An amount is excluded from subpart F income of the foreign corporation or another foreign corporation by reason of section 952(c).

(D) Any event making the foreign corporation subject to tax under section 882.

(E) The use by the foreign corporation's controlling domestic shareholders of the tax book value (or alternative tax book value) method of allocating interest expense under section 864(e)(4).

(F) A sale or exchange of the foreign corporation's stock of the controlling domestic shareholders that results in the recharacterization of gain under section 1248.
