
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Specifically Included in Gross Income
###### ยง 1.79-2 Exceptions to the rule of inclusion.
####### In general.

(a)(1) Section 79(b) provides exceptions for the cost of group-term life insurance provided under certain policies otherwise described in section 79(a). The policy or policies of group-term life insurance which are described in section 79(a) but which qualify for one of the exceptions set forth in section 79(b) are described in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section. Paragraph (b) of this section discusses the exception provided in section 79(b) (1); paragraph (c) of this section discusses the exception provided in section 79(b)(2); and paragraph (d) of this section discusses the exception provided in section 79(b)(3).

(2)(i) If a policy of group-term life insurance qualifies for an exception provided by section 79(b), then the amount equal to the cost of such insurance is excluded from the application of the provisions of section 79(a).

(ii) If a policy, or portion of a policy of group-term life insurance qualifies for an exception provided by section 79(b), the amount (if any) paid by the employee toward the purchase of such insurance is not to be taken into account as an amount referred to in section 79 (a)(2). In the case of a policy or policies of group-term life insurance which qualify for an exception provided by section 79(b) (1) or (3), the amount paid by the employee which is not to be taken into account as an amount referred to in section 79(a) (2) is the amount paid by the employee for the particular policy or policies of group-term life insurance which qualify for an exception provided under such section. If the exception provided in section 79(b)(2) is applicable only to a portion of the group-term life insurance on the employee's life, the amount considered to be paid by the employee toward the purchase of such portion is the amount equal to the excess of the cost of such portion of the insurance over the amount otherwise includible in the employee's gross income with respect to the group-term life insurance on his life carried directly or indirectly by such employer.

(iii) The rules of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following example:
