
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### ยง 1.965-2 Adjustments to earnings and profits and basis.
####### Scope.

(a)This section provides rules relating to adjustments to earnings and profits and basis to determine and account for the application of section 965(a) and (b) and ยง 1.965-1(b) and a rule that limits the amount of gain recognized under section 961(b)(2) by reason of distributions attributable to section 965 previously taxed earnings and profits (as defined in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section) in the inclusion year. Paragraph (b) of this section provides rules relating to adjustments to earnings and profits of a specified foreign corporation for purposes of applying sections 902, 959, 960, and 965. Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules regarding adjustments to earnings and profits by reason of section 965(a). Paragraph (d) of this section provides rules regarding adjustments to earnings and profits by reason of section 965(b). Paragraph (e) provides rules regarding adjustments to basis by reason of section 965(a). Paragraph (f) of this section provides an election to make certain adjustments to basis corresponding to adjustments to earnings and profits by reason of section 965(b). Paragraph (g) of this section provides rules that limit the amount of gain recognized in connection with the application of section 961(b)(2) and that require related reductions in basis. Paragraph (h) of this section provides rules regarding basis adjustments. Paragraph (i) of this section provides definitions that apply for purposes of this section. Paragraph (j) of this section provides examples illustrating the application of this section.
