
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### ยง 1.965-2 Adjustments to earnings and profits and basis.
####### Example 4. Determination of accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income with distribution made after E&P measurement date on November 2, 2017,Facts.

(4)-(i)USP, a domestic corporation, owns all of the stock of CFC1, a foreign corporation, which owns all of the stock of CFC2, also a foreign corporation. USP, CFC1, and CFC2 all have taxable years ending December 31, 2017. As of January 1, 2017, CFC1 has 10u of earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(3) that were accumulated in taxable years beginning after December 31, 1986, while CFC1 was a specified foreign corporation, and $2x of post-1986 foreign income taxes; and CFC2 has 100u of earnings and profits described in section 959(c)(3) that were accumulated in taxable years beginning after December 31, 1986, while CFC2 was a specified foreign corporation and $10x of post-1986 foreign income taxes. For purposes of section 904, the post-1986 undistributed earnings and post-1986 foreign income taxes are in the general category. None of CFC1's or CFC2's earnings and profits are attributable to income treated as effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business within the United States. On December 1, 2017, CFC2 distributes 100u to CFC1, and CFC1 distributes 10u to USP. USP does not have an aggregate foreign E&P deficit. USP includes in gross income all amounts that it is required to include under section 951. No foreign income tax is imposed or withheld on the distribution by CFC2 to CFC1 or the distribution by CFC1 to USP. USP does not apply ยง 1.965-4(f)(3) to determine the post-1986 earnings and profits of CFC1 and CFC2.
