
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### § 1.965-7 Elections, payment, and other special rules.
####### Example 1: Net operating loss in inclusion year,Facts.

(i)-(A)USP, a domestic corporation, has a section 965(a) inclusion of $100x and has a section 965(c) deduction of $70x for its taxable year ending December 31, 2017. USP also includes in gross income the amount treated as dividends under section 78 of $50x (the foreign taxes deemed paid under section 960(a) for the taxable year with respect to USP's section 965(a) inclusion). The section 965(a) inclusion and the section 78 dividends are foreign source general category income. During the 2017 taxable year, USP also has U.S. source gross income of $150x and other deductions of $210x, comprising $60x of interest expense and $150x of other deductible expenses that are not definitely related to any gross income. USP's total tax book value of its assets, as determined under §§ 1.861-9(g)(2) and 1.861-9T(g)(3), is divided equally between assets that generate foreign source general category income and assets that generate U.S. source income. USP elects under paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section to not take into account the amount described in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section in determining its net operating loss under section 172 for the taxable year. Before taking into account the section 965(n) election, USP's total deductions are $280x ($210x + $70x) and USP's taxable income is $20x ($100x + $50x + $150x-$70x-$210x).
