
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### controlled foreign corporations
###### § 1.965-7 Elections, payment, and other special rules.
####### Example 2: Net operating loss carryover to the inclusion year,Facts.

(ii)-(A)USP, a domestic corporation, has a section 965(a) inclusion of $100x and has a section 965(c) deduction of $60x for its taxable year ending December 31, 2017. USP also includes in gross income the amount treated as dividends under section 78 of $40x (the foreign taxes deemed paid under section 960(a) for the taxable year with respect to USP's section 965(a) inclusion). The section 965(a) inclusion and the section 78 dividends are foreign source general category income. USP also has U.S. source gross income of $200x, foreign source passive category gross income of $100x, and other deductions of $140x. Under § 1.861-8(b), USP's $60x section 965(c) deduction is definitely related to the section 965(a) inclusion, and, therefore, is allocated solely to foreign source general category income. Under §§ 1.861-8 through 1.861-17, USP allocates and apportions the other $140x of deductions as follows: $40x to foreign source general category income, $40x to foreign source passive category income, and $60x to U.S. source income. USP has a net operating loss of $260x for the 2016 taxable year consisting of a $120x U.S. source loss, a $75x general category separate limitation loss, and a $65x passive category separate limitation loss. Under paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section, USP elects to not take into account the amount described in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section in determining the amount of taxable income that may be reduced by net operating loss carryovers and carrybacks to the taxable year under section 172. USP's taxable income before taking into account the section 965(n) election and any net operating loss carryover deduction is $240x:
