
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### export trade corporations
###### ยง 1.971-1 Definitions with respect to export trade corporations.
####### Sale of export property.

(i)Gross export trade income of a controlled foreign corporation includes gross income it derives from the sale of export property (as defined in paragraph (e) of this section) which it purchases, if the sale is made to an unrelated person for use, consumption, or disposition outside the United States. See section 971(b)(1). As a general rule, property will be presumed to have been sold for use, consumption, or disposition in the country of destination of the sale. However, if at the time of the sale the controlled foreign corporation knows, or should have known from the facts and circumstances surrounding the sales transaction, that the property will probably be used, consumed, or disposed of in the United States, such property will be presumed to have been sold for use, consumption, or disposition in the United States unless the controlled foreign corporation establishes that such property was used, consumed, or disposed of outside the United States. For purposes of this subdivision, export property must be sold by a controlled foreign corporation in essentially the same form in which such property is purchased. Whether export property sold is in essentially the same form in which such property is purchased shall be determined on the basis of all the facts and circumstances in each case. Storage, handling, transportation, packaging, or servicing of property will be considered not to alter the form in which property is purchased. However, manufacture or production, within the meaning of paragraph (a)(4) of ยง 1.954-3, will be considered to alter the form in which property is purchased and no part of the gross income from the sale of such property will be treated as export trade income. The application of this subdivision may be illustrated by the following example:
