
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### export trade corporations
###### § 1.971-1 Definitions with respect to export trade corporations.
####### Inventory of export property.

(3)For purposes of subparagraph (1)(ii) of this paragraph, the inclusion of items in inventory shall be determined in accordance with rules applicable to domestic corporations. See §§ 1.471-1 through 1.471-9. Inventory of export property of a controlled foreign corporation includes export property held for use, consumption, or disposition outside the United States regardless of where it is located on the applicable determination date. Thus, such property may be physically located in the United States on such date. However, for property physically located in the United States to constitute export property, it must have been acquired by the controlled foreign corporation with a clear intent that it would dispose of the property for use, consumption, or disposition outside the United States. As a general rule, if during the year following the applicable determination date export property which was physically located in the United States on such date is actually exported for use, consumption, or disposition outside the United States, such property will be deemed held for such purpose on the applicable determination date. On the other hand, the indefinite warehousing of export property in the United States by the controlled foreign corporation, or the subsequent sale of export property by such corporation for use, consumption, or disposition in the United States, will evidence a lack of intent by such corporation on the applicable determination date to hold such property for use, consumption, or disposition outside the United States.
