
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### export trade corporations
###### ยง 1.981-2 Foreign law community income for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1967.
####### Election for special treatment,In general.

(a)-(1)For all open taxable years beginning before January 1, 1967, for which an individual citizen of the United States meets the requirements of subparagraphs (A) and (C) of section 981(a)(1) and subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, such citizen and his nonresident alien spouse may make a joint election to have section 981(c)(2) and paragraph (b) of this section apply to their income which is treated as community income under the applicable community property laws of a foreign country or countries. However, if the conditions prescribed by section 981(d)(3) and subparagraph (3) of this paragraph are met, the nonresident alien spouse is not required to join in the election and such citizen may make a separate election to have section 981(c)(2) and paragraph (b) of this section apply to such income for such taxable years. An election under section 981(c)(1) and this section shall apply to every open taxable year of such citizen and his nonresident alien spouse beginning before January 1, 1967, for which all the requirements of subparagraphs (A) and (C) of section 981(a)(1) and subparagraph (2) of this paragraph are met. It is immaterial whether such open taxable year is a taxable year subject to the provisions of the 1954 Code, the 1939 Code, or any other internal revenue law in effect before the 1939 Code. An election under section 981(c)(1) and this section has no effect for any taxable year beginning after December 31, 1966. For the definition of "open taxable year" see section 981(e)(2) and paragraph (a) of ยง 1.981-3. If the citizen and his nonresident alien spouse have different taxable years, see paragraph (c) of ยง 1.981-3. If one of the spouses is deceased, see paragraph (d) of ยง 1.981-3. An election under section 981(c)(1) and this section is binding and may not be revoked.
