
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### export trade corporations
###### ยง 1.981-1 Foreign law community income for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1966, and before January 1, 1977.
####### Written request to terminate required.

(ii)A request to terminate an election under this section for a subsequent taxable year or years shall be made in writing by the persons who made the election and shall be addressed to the Director of International Operations, Internal Revenue Service, Washington, DC 20225. The request must include the name, address, and account number, if any, of each spouse and must be signed by the persons making the request. It must specify the taxable year or years for which the termination is to be effective and the grounds which justify the termination. The request shall be filed not later than 90 days before the close of the period for assessing a deficiency against the U.S. citizen for the earliest taxable year of such citizen for which the termination is to be effective. The Director of International Operations may require such other information as may be necessary in order to determine whether the termination will be permitted. A copy of the consent by the Director of International Operations to terminate must be attached to an amended income tax return for each taxable year for which the termination is effective and for which a return has previously been filed.
