
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### export trade corporations
###### § 1.981-3 Definitions and other special rules.
####### Open taxable years.

(a)(1) For purposes of paragraph (a) of § 1.981-1, and paragraph (a) of § 1.981-2, a taxable year of the U.S. citizen, and the taxable year or years of his nonresident alien spouse ending or beginning within such taxable year of such citizen, shall be treated as open if the period prescribed by section 6501(a) (or section 6501(c)(4) if the period is extended by agreement) for assessing a deficiency against the citizen for his taxable year has not expired before the date of the election, determined under paragraph (b) of this section. Thus, for example, a taxable year of a U.S. citizen beginning before January 1, 1967, is open for purposes of this subparagraph if, before the election under section 981(c)(1) and § 1.981-2, such citizen has never filed a return for such year and a return was required under section 6012 without reference to section 981. For example, if a U.S. citizen spouse on a calendar year basis who has never filed a return for 1960 decides in 1975 that he wishes to make the election under section 981(c)(1) and § 1.981-2 in order to avoid being subject to tax for 1960 on his share of the community income for that year, he may in 1975 elect the benefits of section 981(c)(2) by filing an election in accordance with paragraph (c) of § 1.981-2. In such case, a taxable year or years of the nonresident alien spouse of such citizen ending or beginning within 1960 shall be treated in 1975 as an open taxable year.

(2) Subparagraph (1) of this paragraph shall apply even though the period prescribed by section 6501 for assessing a deficiency against the nonresident alien spouse for his taxable year or years ending or beginning within the taxable year of the U.S. citizen has expired before the election is made.

(3) If either spouse dies during a taxable year to which an election under § 1.981-1 or § 1.981-2 applies, the taxable year of the decedent and the surviving spouse shall be determined under this paragraph without regard to section 981(e)(4), relating to death of spouse during the taxable year. See paragraph (a)(2) of § 1.443-1.

(4) For definition of the term "taxable year", see section 441(b) and the regulations thereunder.
