
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### export trade corporations
###### ยง 1.986(a)-1 Translation of foreign income taxes for purposes of the foreign tax credit.
####### 2,Result.

()The Euro taxes paid by USP with respect to its distributive share of income from PS and the Euro taxes withheld from distributions from HPS are nonfunctional currency taxes attributable to USP, a QBU with a dollar functional currency. Accordingly, these taxes are translated into dollars at the spot rate on the date the taxes are paid. USP's distributive share of the Euro taxes paid by HPS are attributable to HPS, a Euro functional currency QBU of USP. Because these taxes are not attributable to a dollar QBU of USP, they are not covered by USP's election and so are translated into dollars at the average exchange rate for HPS's U.S. taxable year ending on November 30. See ยง 1.986(a)-1(a)(1). Foreign income taxes paid by CFC are not covered by USP's election; however, if USP so chooses it may make a separate election on behalf of CFC to use the spot rate on the date of payment to translate either all of CFC's nonfunctional currency taxes, or only those taxes that are attributable to CFC's dollar QBUs (which includes CFC). If instead USP had elected to use the spot rate on the date of payment to translate all of its foreign income taxes denominated in nonfunctional currency, rather than only those taxes attributable to QBUs with dollar functional currencies, then the spot rate on the date of payment would apply to translate all of the Euro taxes paid or accrued by USP, including its distributive share of taxes paid by HPS. However, this election would still not apply to taxes paid or accrued by CFC. See ยง 1.986(a)-1(a)(2)(iv)(B).
