
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### export trade corporations
###### ยง 1.986(a)-1 Translation of foreign income taxes for purposes of the foreign tax credit.
####### Scope of election.

(B)In general, an individual taxpayer may make an election under this paragraph (a)(2)(iv) for all foreign income taxes denominated in nonfunctional currency, or only for those foreign income taxes that are denominated in nonfunctional currency and that are attributable to the individual's non-QBU activities and all QBUs with dollar functional currencies. A corporate taxpayer may make an election under this paragraph (a)(2)(iv) for all foreign income taxes that are denominated in nonfunctional currency, or only for those foreign income taxes that are denominated in nonfunctional currency and that are attributable to all QBUs (including the corporate taxpayer) with dollar functional currencies. Therefore, an election under this paragraph (a)(2)(iv) may not be made for foreign income taxes that are denominated in a nonfunctional currency of the taxpayer and attributable to QBUs with non-dollar functional currencies, except as part of an election to translate all taxes denominated in nonfunctional currency at the spot rate on the date of payment. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(2)(iv)(B), foreign income tax is attributable to a QBU if the tax is properly recorded on the books and records of the QBU in accordance with sections 985 through 989. An election under this paragraph (a)(2)(iv) by a domestic corporation (or an individual that has made an election under section 962) does not apply to any taxes paid or accrued by foreign corporations with respect to which the individual or corporation is a United States shareholder. However, an election may be made on behalf of a foreign corporation to translate either all of the foreign corporation's foreign income taxes denominated in nonfunctional currency, or only the foreign income taxes denominated in nonfunctional currency that are attributable to the foreign corporation's QBUs with dollar functional currencies, using the spot rate on the date of payment. Such an election is made using the procedures under ยง 1.964-1(c)(3) that apply to permit controlling domestic shareholders to make or change a tax accounting election on behalf of a foreign corporation.
