
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### export trade corporations
###### § 1.986(a)-1 Translation of foreign income taxes for purposes of the foreign tax credit.
####### Example,1,Facts.

(D)-()USP, a domestic corporation that uses the calendar year as its taxable year, owns a partnership interest in PS, a non-hybrid partnership organized in Country X. USP also owns an equity interest in HPS, a Country X corporation that has filed an entity classification election under § 301.7701-3 of this chapter to be treated as a partnership for Federal income tax purposes. USP also owns 100% of CFC, a Country Y controlled foreign corporation that uses the U.S. dollar as its functional currency. PS and HPS each use a fiscal year ending November 30 as its taxable year both for Federal income tax purposes and for Country X tax purposes, and their functional currency is the Euro. HPS is the section 901 taxpayer of foreign income taxes denominated in Euros that it pays to Country X and properly records on its books and records. USP takes its distributive share of the HPS taxes into account under sections 702(a)(6) and 901(b)(5) and §§ 1.702-1(a)(6) and 1.704-1(b)(4)(viii) in computing its foreign tax credit. USP is the section 901 taxpayer of Euro-denominated foreign income taxes it pays to Country X with respect to its distributive share of the income of PS, and also pays Country X taxes withheld in Euros from distributions from HPS to USP and properly records these taxes on its books and records. Pursuant to § 1.985-1(b)(1)(iii), USP's functional currency is the dollar. USP timely elects under § 1.986(a)-1(a)(2)(iv) to use the spot rate on the date of payment to translate into dollars its foreign income taxes denominated in nonfunctional currency that are attributable to all QBUs with dollar functional currencies.
