
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### export trade corporations
###### § 1.987-1 Scope, definitions, and special rules.
####### In general.

(a)These regulations under section 987 (§§ 1.987-1 through 1.987-11) provide rules for determining the taxable income or loss of a taxpayer with respect to a section 987 QBU (as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section). Further, these regulations provide rules for determining the timing, amount, character, and source of section 987 gain or loss recognized with respect to a section 987 QBU. This section addresses the scope of these regulations and provides certain definitions, special rules, and the procedures for making the elections provided for in the regulations. Section 1.987-2 provides rules for attributing assets and liabilities and items of income, gain, deduction, and loss to an eligible QBU. It also provides rules regarding the translation of items transferred to a section 987 QBU. Section 1.987-3 provides rules for determining and translating the taxable income or loss of a taxpayer with respect to a section 987 QBU. Section 1.987-4 provides rules for determining net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss. Section 1.987-5 provides rules regarding the recognition of section 987 gain or loss. It also provides rules for determining an owner's basis in assets transferred from a section 987 QBU. Section 1.987-6 provides rules regarding the character and source of section 987 gain or loss. Section 1.987-7 provides rules with respect to section 987 aggregate partnerships. Section 1.987-8 provides rules regarding the termination of a section 987 QBU. Section 1.987-9 provides rules regarding the recordkeeping required under section 987. Section 1.987-10 provides transition rules. Section 1.987-11 provides the effective/applicability date of these regulations.
