
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### export trade corporations
###### ยง 1.987-1 Scope, definitions, and special rules.
####### Election to use a spot rate convention,In general-spot rate convention.

(ii)-(A)An owner may elect to use a spot rate convention that reasonably approximates the spot rate determined in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section in lieu of such spot rate. A spot rate convention may be determined with respect to a spot rate at the beginning of a reasonable period, the end of a reasonable period, as an average of spot rates for a reasonable period, or by reference to spot and forward rates for a reasonable period. For this purpose, a reasonable period shall not exceed three months. For example, in lieu of the spot rate determined in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, the spot rate for all transactions during a monthly period can be determined pursuant to one of the following conventions: The spot rate at the beginning of the current month or at the end of the preceding month; the monthly average of daily spot rates for the current or preceding month; or an average of the beginning and ending spot rates for the current or preceding month. Similarly, in lieu of the spot rate determined in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, the spot rate can be determined pursuant to an average of the spot rate and the 30-day forward rate on a day of the preceding month. Use of a spot rate convention that is consistent with the convention used for financial accounting purposes is presumed to reasonably approximate the rate in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section. The Commissioner can rebut this presumption if the Commissioner determines that the use of the convention would not clearly reflect income based on the facts and circumstances available at the time of the election.

(B) [Reserved] For further guidance, see ยง 1.987-1T(c)(1)(ii)(B).
