
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### export trade corporations
###### ยง 1.987-2 Attribution of items to eligible QBUs; definition of a transfer and related rules.
####### Separation of section 987 QBUs.

(iii)The separation of a section 987 QBU (separating QBU) into two or more section 987 QBUs (separated QBUs) that, after the separation, are directly owned by the same owner, or that are indirectly owned by the same partner through a single section 987 aggregate partnership, does not result in a transfer of the separating QBU's assets or liabilities to the owner under ยง 1.987-2(c). Additionally, transactions that occurred between the separating QBUs in the taxable year of the separation prior to the completion of the separation do not result in transfers for purposes of section 987. For this purpose, a separation occurs when the assets and liabilities that are properly reflected on the books and records of a separating QBU begin to be properly reflected on the books and records of two or more separated QBUs. A separation may result from any transaction or series of transactions in which a separating QBU becomes two or more separated QBUs. A separation may also result when a section 987 QBU that is subject to a grouping election under ยง 1.987-1(b)(2)(ii) changes its functional currency. For rules regarding the determination of net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss of a separated QBU, see ยง 1.987-4(f)(2).
