
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### export trade corporations
###### ยง 1.987-9 Recordkeeping requirements.
####### Supplemental information.

(b)An owner's obligation to maintain records under section 6001 and paragraph (a) of this section is not satisfied unless the following information is maintained in such records with respect to each section 987 QBU:

(1) The amount of the items of income, gain, deduction, or loss attributed to the section 987 QBU in the functional currency of the section 987 QBU.

(2) The amount of assets and liabilities attributed to the section 987 QBU in the functional currency of the section 987 QBU.

(3) The exchange rates used to translate items of income, gain, deduction, or loss of the section 987 QBU into the owner's functional currency and, if a spot rate convention is used, the manner in which such convention is determined.

(4) The exchange rates used to translate the assets and liabilities of the section 987 QBU into the owner's functional currency and, if a spot rate convention is used, the manner in which such convention is determined.

(5) The amount of the items of income, gain, deduction, or loss attributed to the section 987 QBU translated into the functional currency of the owner.

(6) The amount of assets and liabilities attributed to the section 987 QBU translated into the functional currency of the owner.

(7) The amount of assets and liabilities transferred by the owner to the section 987 QBU determined in the functional currency of the owner.

(8) The amount of assets and liabilities transferred by the section 987 QBU to the owner determined in the functional currency of the owner.

(9) The amount of the unrecognized section 987 gain or loss for the taxable year.

(10) The amount of the net accumulated unrecognized section 987 gain or loss at the close of the taxable year.

(11) If a remittance is made, the computations determined under ยง 1.861-9T(g) for purposes of sourcing and characterizing the remittance under ยง 1.987-5.

(12) The transition information required to be determined under ยง 1.987-10(e).
