
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### export trade corporations
###### § 1.987-12 Deferral of section 987 gain or loss.
####### Analysis.

(ii)(A) The transactions deemed to occur under Rev. Rul. 99-5 are not taken into account for purposes of this section. The Entity A sale and resulting existence of a partnership, however, have consequences under section 987 and this section, as described in this Example 4 in paragraphs (h)(4)(ii)(B) through (D) of this section.

(B) Immediately after the Entity A sale, Entity A is a section 987 aggregate partnership within the meaning of § 1.987-1(b)(5) because DC1 and DC2 own all the interests in partnership capital and profits, DC1 and DC2 are related within the meaning of section 267(b), and the partnership has an eligible QBU (Business A) that would be a section 987 QBU with respect to a partner if owned by the partner directly. As a result of the Entity A sale, 50 percent of the assets and liabilities of Business A ceased to be reflected on the books and records of DC1's Business A section 987 QBU. As a result, such assets and liabilities are treated as if they were transferred from DC1's Business A section 987 QBU to DC1. Additionally, following DC2's acquisition of 50 percent of the interest in Entity A, DC2 is allocated 50 percent of the assets and liabilities of Business A under §§ 1.987-2(b). Because DC2 and Business A have different functional currencies, DC2's portion of the Business A assets and liabilities constitutes a section 987 QBU. Accordingly, 50 percent of the assets and liabilities of Business A are treated as transferred by DC2 to DC2's Business A section 987 QBU.

(C) The Entity A sale is a deferral event described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section because:
