
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### export trade corporations
###### ยง 1.988-5 Section 988(d) hedging transactions.
####### Example 11

(C) If a hedge has more than one component (and such components have been properly identified as being part of the qualified hedging transaction) and at least one but not all of the components that comprise the hedge has been disposed of or otherwise terminated, or if part of any component of the hedge has been terminated (whether a hedge consists of a single or multiple components), the date such component (or part thereof) is disposed of or terminated is considered the leg-out date and the qualifying debt instrument is treated as sold or otherwise terminated by the taxpayer for its fair market value in accordance with the rules of paragraph (a)(6)(ii)(B) of this section on such leg-out date. In addition, all of the remaining components (or parts thereof) that have not been disposed of or otherwise terminated are treated as sold by the taxpayer for their fair market value on the leg-out date, and any gain or loss from the identification date to the leg-out date is realized and recognized on the leg-out date. To the extent relevant, the spot rate on the leg-out date is used to determine exchange gain or loss on the remaining components (or parts thereof) for the period beginning on the leg-out date and ending on the date such components (or parts thereof) are disposed of or otherwise terminated. See paragraph (a)(9)(iv) of this section,for an illustration of this rule.

(D) If the qualifying debt instrument is disposed of or otherwise terminated in whole or in part, the date of such disposition or termination is considered the leg-out date. Accordingly, the hedge (including all components making up the hedge in their entirety) that is part of the qualified hedging transaction is treated as sold by the taxpayer for its fair market value on the leg-out date, and any gain or loss from the identification date to the leg-out date is realized and recognized on the leg-out date. To the extent relevant, the spot rate on the leg-out date is used to determine exchange gain or loss on the hedge (including all components thereof) for the period beginning on the leg-out date and ending on the date such hedge is disposed of or otherwise terminated.

(E) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(8)(iii) of this section (regarding identification by the Commissioner), the part of the qualified hedging transaction that has not been disposed of or otherwise terminated (that is, the remaining debt instrument in its entirety even if partially hedged, or the remaining components of the hedge) cannot be part of a qualified hedging transaction for any period after the leg-out date.
