
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Domestic International Sales Corporations
###### ยง 1.992-1 Requirements of a DISC.
####### Capitalization requirement,In general.

(d)-(1)To qualify as a DISC for a taxable year, a corporation must have, on each day of that taxable year, only one class of stock. The par value (or, in the case of stock without par value, the stated value) of the corporation's outstanding stock must be on each day of the taxable year at least $2,500. In the case of a corporation which elects to be treated as a DISC for its first taxable year, the requirements of this paragraph (d)(1) are satisfied if the corporation has no more than one class of stock at any time during the year and if the par value (or, in the case of stock without par value, the stated value) of the corporation's outstanding stock is at least $2,500 on the last day of the period within which the election must be made and on each succeeding day of the year. For purposes of this paragraph (d)(1), the stated value of shares is the aggregate amount of the consideration paid for such shares which is not allotted to paid in surplus, or other surplus. The law of the State of incorporation of the DISC determines what consideration may be used to capitalize the DISC. A corporation will not be a qualified DISC unless at least $2,500 of valid consideration was used for this purpose. If a corporation has a realized or unrealized loss during a taxable year which results in the impairment of all or part of the capital required under this paragraph (d)(1), that impairment does not result in disqualification under this paragraph (d)(1), provided that the corporation does not take any legal or formal action under State law to reduce capital for that year below the amount required under this paragraph (d)(1).
