
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Domestic International Sales Corporations
###### ยง 1.992-2 Election to be treated as a DISC.
####### Consent by holder of transferred shares,In general.

(c)-(1)If a shareholder of a corporation transfers-

(i) Prior to the first day of the first taxable year for which such corporation elects to be treated as a DISC, some or all of the shares held by him without having consented to such election, or

(ii) On or before the 90th day after the first day of the first taxable year for which such corporation elects to be treated as a DISC, some or all of the shares held by him as of the first day of such year (or if later, held by him as of the time such shares are issued) without having consented to such election, then consent may be made by any recipient of such shares on or before the 90th day after the first day of such first taxable year. If such recipient fails to file his consent on or before such 90th day, an extension of time for filing such consent may be granted in the manner, and subject to the conditions, described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. In addition, if the transfer occurs more than 90 days after the first day of such taxable year, an extension of time for filing such consent may be granted to such recipient only if it is determined under paragraph (b)(3) of this section that an extension of time would have been granted the transferor for the filing of such consent if the transfer had not occurred. A consent which is not attached to the original Form 4876 or statement of election (as the case may be) shall be filed with the same service center as the original Form 4876 or statement of election and shall have attached a copy of such original form or statement of election. The form of such consent shall be the same as that set forth in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section. For the purposes of this paragraph, a transfer of shares includes any sale, exchange, or other disposition, including a transfer by gift or at death.
