
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Domestic International Sales Corporations
###### ยง 1.992-3 Deficiency distributions to meet qualification requirements.
####### In general.

(a)A corporation which meets the requirements described in ยง 1.992-1 for treatment as a DISC for a taxable year, other than the 95 percent of gross receipts test described in ยง 1.992-1(b) or the 95-percent assets test described in ยง 1.992-1(c), or both tests, may nevertheless qualify as a DISC for such year by making deficiency distributions (attributable to its gross receipts other than qualified export receipts and its assets other than qualified export assets) if all of the following requirements are satisfied:

(1) The corporation distributes the amount determined under paragraph (b) of this section as a deficiency distribution. The amount of a deficiency distribution is determined without regard to the amount by which the corporation fails to meet either test.

(2) The reasonable cause requirements prescribed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section are satisfied with respect to both the corporation's failure to meet either test and its failure to make a deficiency distribution prior to the time the distribution is made.

(3) The corporation makes such deficiency distribution pro rata to all its shareholders.

(4) The corporation designates the distribution, at the time of the distribution, as a deficiency distribution, pursuant to section 992(c), to meet the qualification requirements to be a DISC. Such designation shall be in the form of a communication sent at the time of such distribution to each shareholder and to the service center with which the corporation has filed or will file its return for the taxable year to which the distribution relates. A corporation may not retroactively designate a prior distribution as a deficiency distribution to meet qualification requirements. Subject to the limitation described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, a corporation may make a deficiency distribution with respect to a taxable year at any time after the close of such taxable year or, in the case of a deficiency distribution made on or before September 29, 1975, at any time during or after such taxable year.
