
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Domestic International Sales Corporations
###### ยง 1.992-3 Deficiency distributions to meet qualification requirements.
####### Time limit for deficiency distribution.

(3)Except as otherwise provided in this subparagraph, the time limit prescribed by this subparagraph for making a deficiency distribution is satisfied if the amount of the distribution required by paragraph (b) of this section is made within 90 days from the date of the first written notification to the corporation by the Internal Revenue Service that it had not satisfied the 95 percent of gross receipts test or the 95 percent assets test or both tests, for a taxable year. Upon a showing by the corporation that an extension of the 90-day time limit is reasonable and necessary, the Commissioner may grant such extension of such time limit. In any case in which a corporation contests the decision of the Internal Revenue Service that such corporation has not met the 95 percent of gross receipts test, the 95 percent assets test, or both tests, an extension of the 90-day time limit will be allowed until 30 days after the final determination of such contest. The date of the final determination of such contest shall, for purposes of section 992(c), be established in the manner specified in subdivisions (i) through (iv) of this subparagraph:

(i) The date of final determination by a decision of the United States Tax Court is the date upon which such decision becomes final, as prescribed in section 7481.

(ii) The date of final determination in a case which is contested in a court (and upon which there is a judgment) other than the Tax Court is the date upon which the judgment becomes final and will be determined on the basis of the facts and circumstances of each particular case. For example, ordinarily a judgment of a United States district court becomes final upon the expiration of the time allowed for taking an appeal, if no such appeal is duly taken within such time; and a judgment of the United States Court of Claims becomes final upon the expiration of the time allowed for filing a petition for certiorari if no such petition is duly filed within such time.

(iii) The date of a final determination by a closing agreement, made under section 7121, is the date such agreement is approved by the Commissioner.

(iv) A final determination under section 992(c) may be made by an agreement signed by the district director or director of the service center with which the corporation files its annual return or by such other official to which authority to sign has been delegated, and by or on behalf of the taxpayer. The agreement shall set forth the total amount of the deficiency distribution to be paid to the shareholders of the DISC for the taxable year or years. An agreement under this subdivision shall be sent to the taxpayer at his last known address by either registered or certified mail. For further guidance regarding the definition of last known address, see ยง 301.6212-2 of this chapter. If registered mail is used for such purpose, the date of registration is considered the date of final determination; if certified mail is used for such purpose, the date of postmark on the sender's receipt for such mail is considered the date of final determination. If the corporation makes a deficiency distribution before such registration or postmark date but on or after the date the district director or director of the service center or other official has signed the agreement, the date of signature by the district director or director of the service center or other official is considered the date of final determination. If the corporation makes a deficiency distribution before the district director or director of the service center or other official signs the agreement, the date of final determination is considered to be the date of the making of the deficiency distribution. During any extension of time the interest charge provided in subparagraph (4) of this paragraph will continue to accrue at the rate provided for in such subparagraph.
