
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Domestic International Sales Corporations
###### ยง 1.993-3 Definition of export property.
####### Computation of foreign content,Valuation.

(4)-(i)For purposes of applying the 50 percent test described in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, it is necessary to determine the fair market value of all articles which constitute foreign content of the property being tested to determine if it is export property. The fair market value of such imported articles is determined as of the time such articles are imported into the United States. With respect to articles imported into the United States before July 1, 1980, the fair market value of such articles is their appraised value as determined under section 402 or 402a of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1401a or 1402) in connection with their importation. With respect to articles imported into the United States on or after July 1, 1980, the fair market value of such articles is their appraised value as determined under section 402 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1401a) in connection with their importation. The appraised value of such articles is the full dutiable value of such articles, determined, however, without regard to any special provision in the United States tariff laws which would result in a lower dutiable value. Thus, an article which is imported into the United States is treated as entirely imported even if all or a portion of such article was originally manufactured, produced, grown, or extracted in the United States.
