
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Domestic International Sales Corporations
###### ยง 1.994-1 Inter-company pricing rules for DISC's.
####### Transactions to which section 994 applies.

(b)Section 994(a)(3) may be applied, as described in paragraph (a) of this section, to any transaction between a related supplier and a DISC. Section 994(a)(1) or (2) may be applied, as described in paragraph (a) of this section, to a transaction between a related supplier and a DISC only in the following cases:

(1) Where the related supplier sells export property to the DISC for resale or where the DISC is commission agent for the related supplier on sales by the related supplier of export property to third parties whether or not related parties. For purposes of this section, references to sales include exchanges.

(2) Where the related supplier leases export property to the DISC for sublease for a comparable period with comparable terms of payment or where the DISC is commission agent for the related supplier on leases by the related supplier of export property to third parties whether or not related parties.

(3) Where services are furnished by a related supplier which are related and subsidiary to any sale or lease by the DISC, acting as principal or commission agent, of export property under subparagraph (1) or (2) of this paragraph.

(4) Where engineering or architectural services for construction projects located (or proposed for location) outside of the United States are furnished by a related supplier where the DISC is acting as principal or commission agent with respect to the furnishing of such services to a third party whether or not a related party.

(5) Where the related supplier furnishes managerial services in furtherance of the production of qualified export receipts of an unrelated DISC where the related DISC is acting as principal or commission agent with respect to the furnishing of such services to an unrelated DISC.
