
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Domestic International Sales Corporations
###### ยง 1.994-1 Inter-company pricing rules for DISC's.
####### b

() If, for example, during 1972, a DISC which uses the calendar year as its taxable year sold a product which it purchased that year from its related supplier and paid a price of $10,000 which price is a reasonable estimate under subparagraph (3)(iii) of this paragraph but is later determined under section 994 to be $8,000 immediately before the DISC filed its return for 1972, the DISC must be paid $2,000 (i.e., $10,000-$8,000) by its related supplier or establish an account receivable from its related supplier of $2,000. The account receivable may be paid without tax consequences, provided that such account receivable is paid within 90 days after the date it is established (or deemed established). Such account receivable paid within such 90 days will be considered to relate to the taxable year in which the transaction occurred which gave rise thereto rather than the taxable year during which it is established or paid.

(ii) Payment must be in a form specified in subparagraph (3) of this paragraph.

(iii) If an account receivable of a DISC described in subdivision (i) of this paragraph (e)(5) is not paid within 90 days of the date it is established (or deemed established), then, as of the end of the taxable year of the DISC in which the transaction occurred which gives rise to the indebtedness, the account receivable shall be treated as an asset except that, if the account receivable is established (or deemed established) in a taxable year of the DISC ending on or before August 15, 1975, at the taxpayer's option, the account receivable shall be treated as an asset as of the end of such taxable year. However, under ยง 1.993-2(d)(3), an account receivable referred to in the preceding sentence shall not be treated as a trade receivable or other qualified export asset.

(iv) An account receivable established in accordance with subdivision (i) of this subparagraph shall bear interest at an arm's length rate, computed in the manner provided by ยง 1.482-2(a)(2) from the day after the date the account receivable is deemed established to the date of payment. The interest so computed shall be accrued and included in the taxpayer's taxable income for each taxable year during which the account receivable is outstanding.
