
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Domestic International Sales Corporations
###### § 1.995-2 Deemed distributions in qualified years.
####### General rule.

(a)Under section 995 (b)(1), each shareholder of a DISC shall be treated as having received a distribution taxable as a dividend with respect to his stock on the last day of each taxable year of the DISC, in an amount which is equal to his pro rata share of the sum (as limited by paragraph (b) of this section), of the following seven items:

(1) An amount equal to the gross interest derived by the DISC during such year from producer's loans (as defined in § 1.993-4).

(2) An amount equal to the lower of-

(i) Any gain recognized by the DISC during such year on the sale or exchange of property (other than property which in the hands of the DISC is a qualified export asset) which was previously transferred to it in a transaction in which the transferor realized gain which was not recognized in whole or in part, or

(ii) The amount of the transferor's gain which was not recognized on the previous transfer of the property to the DISC.

(3) An amount equal to the lower of-

(i) Any gain recognized by the DISC during such year on the sale or exchange of property which in the hands of the DISC is a qualified export asset (other than stock in trade or property described in section 1221(1)) and which was previously transferred to the DISC in a transaction in which the transferor realized gain which was not recognized in whole or in part, or

(ii) The amount of the transferor's gain which was not recognized on the previous transfer of the property to the DISC and which would have been includible in the transferor's gross income as ordinary income if its entire realized gain had been recognized upon the transfer.

(4) For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1975, an amount equal to 50 percent of the taxable income of the DISC for the taxable years attributable to military property (as defined in § 1.995-6).

(5) For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1975, the taxable income for the taxable year attributable to base period export gross receipts (as defined in § 1.995-7).

(6) The sum of-

(i)(A) In the case of a corporate share holder, an amount equal to 57.5 percent of the excess (if any) (one-half for DISCs' taxable years beginning before January 1, 1983) of the taxable income of the DISC for such year (computed as provided in § 1.991-1(b)(1)) over the sum of the amounts deemed distributed for the taxable year in accordance with subparagraphs (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) of this paragraph, or

(B) In the case of a non-corporate share holder, an amount equal to one-half of the excess (if any) of the taxable income of the DISC for such year (computed as provided in § 1.991-1(b)(1)) over the sum of the amounts deemed distributed for the taxable year in accordance with subparagraphs (1), (2), (3), (4), and (5) of this paragraph.

(ii)(A) An amount equal to the amount under subdivision (i) of paragraph (a)(6) of this section multiplied by the international boycott factor as determined under section 999 (c)(1) , or

(B) In lieu of the amount determined under subdivision (ii)(A) of paragraph (a)(6) of this section, the amount described under section 999 (c)(2) of such international boycott income, and

(iii) An amount equal to the sum of any illegal bribes, kickbacks, or other payments paid by or on behalf of the DISC directly or indirectly to an official, employee, or agent in fact of a government. An amount is paid by a DISC where it is paid by any officer, director, employee, shareholder, or agent of the DISC for the benefit of such DISC. For purposes of this section, the principles of section 162 (c) and the regulations thereunder shall apply. The fair market value of an illegal payment made in the form of property or services shall be considered the amount of such illegal payment.

(7) The amount of foreign investment attributable to producer's loans of the DISC, as of the close of the "group taxable year" ending with such taxable year of the DISC, determined in accordance with § 1.995-5. The amount of such foreign investment attributable to producer's loans so determined for any taxable year of a former DISC shall be deemed distributed as a dividend to the shareholders of such former DISC on the last day of such taxable year. See § 1.995-3(e) for the effect that such deemed distribution has on scheduled installments of deemed distributions of accumulated DISC income under § 1.995-3(a) upon disqualification.
