
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Domestic International Sales Corporations
###### § 1.995-1 Taxation of DISC income to shareholders.
####### Treatment of actual distributions.

(c)(1) Except as provided in subparagraph (3) of this paragraph, amounts actually distributed to a shareholder of a DISC, or former DISC, with respect to his stock are includible in his gross income in accordance with section 301.

(2) Since a deemed distribution does not reduce the earnings and profits of a DISC, it does not affect the determination as to whether a subsequent actual distribution is a "dividend" under section 316(a). Since, however, the amount of a deemed distribution increases "previously taxed income", it does affect the determination as to whether a subsequent actual distribution is excluded (as described in subparagraph (3) of this paragraph) from gross income.

(3) Under § 1.996-1(c), the amount of any actual distribution (including a deficiency distribution made pursuant to § 1.992-3), with respect to stock in a DISC, or former DISC, which is treated under § 1.996-1 as made out of previously taxed income, is excluded by the distributee from gross income, but only to the extent that such amount does not exceed the adjusted basis of the distributee's stock. Under § 1.996-5(b), that portion of any actual distribution which is treated as made out of previously taxed income shall be applied against and reduce the adjusted basis of the stock and, to the extent that it exceeds the adjusted basis of the stock, it shall be treated as gain from the sale or exchange of property.

(4) A deficiency distribution pursuant to § 1.992-3 may be made after the close of the DISC's taxable year with respect to which it is made. The determinations as to whether such deficiency distribution is a dividend under section 301 and as to which division of earnings and profits is the source thereof depend upon the status of the DISC's earnings and profits account and divisions thereof at the time the distribution is actually made. See § 1.996-1(d) for the priority of such deficiency distribution over other actual distributions made during the same taxable year.
