
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Domestic International Sales Corporations
###### § 1.995-1 Taxation of DISC income to shareholders.
####### In general.

(a)(1) Under § 1.991-1(a), a corporation which is a DISC for a taxable year is not subject to any tax imposed by subtitle A of the Code (sections 1 through 1564) for the taxable year, except for the tax imposed by chapter 5 thereof (sections 1491 through 1494) on certain transfers to avoid tax.

(2) Under section 995(a), the shareholders of a DISC, or a former DISC, are subject to taxation on the earnings and profits of the DISC in accordance with the provisions of chapter 1 of the Code generally applicable to shareholders, but subject to the modifications provided in sections 995, 996, and 997.

(3) Under § 1.996-3, three divisions of earnings and profits of a DISC, or former DISC, are defined: "accumulated DISC income", "previously taxed income", and "other earnings and profits". Under § 1.995-2, certain amounts of the DISC's earnings and profits are deemed to be distributed as dividends to shareholders of the DISC at the close of the DISC's taxable year in which such earnings were derived. Such deemed distributions do not cause a reduction in the DISC's earnings and profits, but are taken into account in § 1.996-3(c) as an increase in previously taxed income. To the extent the DISC's earnings and profits are paid out in a subsequent distribution which is, under § 1.996-1, treated as made out of such "previously taxed income," they will not be taxable to the shareholders a second time.

(4) In general, "accumulated DISC income" is the earnings and profits of the DISC which have not been deemed distributed and which may be deferred from taxation so long as they are not actually distributed with respect to its stock. However, deferral of taxation on "accumulated DISC income" may be terminated, in whole or in part, in the event of: (i) Certain foreign investment attributable to producer's loans (see § 1.995-2(a)(5) and § 1.995-5); (ii) revocation of the election to be treated as a DISC or other disqualification (see § 1.995-3); and (iii) certain dispositions of DISC stock in which gain is realized (see § 1.995-4).

(5) Since a DISC is not taxed on its taxable income, section 246(d) and § 1.246-4 provide that the deduction otherwise allowed under section 243 shall not be allowed with respect to a dividend from a DISC, or former DISC, paid or treated as paid out of accumulated DISC income or previously taxed income or with respect to a deemed distribution in a qualified year under § 1.995-2(a).
