
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Domestic International Sales Corporations
###### ยง 1.995-5 Foreign investment attributable to producer's loans.
####### Three-year elective limitation.

(5)(i) A DISC may elect to take into account only amounts described in paragraphs (b) (relating to net increase in foreign assets) and (c) (relating to actual foreign investment by domestic members) of this section for the 3 taxable years of each member immediately preceding its taxable year included in that first group taxable year which includes a member's first taxable year during which it qualifies (or is treated) as a DISC. For purposes of the preceding sentence, determinations shall be made by reference to the taxable year of the issuer or transferor (as the case may be). If an election is made under this subdivision, the offset for uncommitted transitional funds under paragraph (b)(7) of this section is not allowed. If an election is made under this subdivision, the 3-year limitation applies to amounts described in paragraphs (b)(4) and (c)(1) and (2) of this section.

(ii) An election under subdivision (i) of this subparagraph shall not apply with respect to amounts which must be carried over under paragraph (d) of this section in the case of certain corporate acquisitions and reorganizations.

(iii) An election under subdivision (i) of this subparagraph shall be made by the DISC attaching to its first return, filed under section 6011(e)(2), a statement to the effect that the 3-year limitation is being elected under ยง 1.995-5(a)(5)(i).
