
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Domestic International Sales Corporations
###### § 1.996-3 Divisions of earnings and profits.
####### Accumulated DISC income defined.

(b)(1) Accumulated DISC income is that portion of a corporation's earnings and profits which were derived during taxable years for which it qualified as a DISC and which were deferred from taxation. Accumulated DISC income as of the close of each taxable year of the corporation is-

(i) The amount of accumulated DISC income as of the close of the immediately preceding taxable year increased by,

(ii) The amount of DISC income for the year (as determined in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph) and reduced (but not below zero) by,

(iii) The items enumerated in subparagraph (3) of this paragraph.

(2) Under section 996(f)(1), DISC income is (i) the earnings and profits derived by the corporation during a taxable year for which such corporation is a DISC minus (ii) amounts deemed distributed under § 1.995-2 other than the amount of foreign investment attributable to producer's loans described in § 1.995-2(a)(5). For example, the earnings and profits of a DISC for a taxable year include any amounts includible in such DISC's gross income pursuant to section 951(a) (relating to controlled foreign corporations). Deemed distributions under § 1.995-2(a)(5) are taken into account under subparagraph (3) of this paragraph as a reduction in computing accumulated DISC income.

(3) The accumulated DISC income (as increased by DISC income for the year determined under subparagraph (2) of this paragraph) is reduced by each of the following items in the following order:

(i) Any amount deemed distributed for such year under § 1.995-3 (relating to deemed distributions upon disqualification),

(ii) Any amount of foreign investment attributable to producer's loans deemed distributed for such year under § 1.995-2(a)(5) to the extent it is charged to accumulated DISC income under § 1.996-1(b)(1)(i),

(iii) The amount of any adjustment to accumulated DISC income for such year under § 1.966-4(b)(1), and

(iv) To the extent they are treated, under § 1.996-1 (a) or (b) (relating to ordering rules for distributions), as made out of accumulated DISC income, the amounts of any actual qualifying distributions pursuant to § 1.992-3 in the order in which they are made, and thereafter by the amounts of any other actual distributions in the order in which they are made, except that, prior to each actual distribution, accumulated DISC income shall be reduced by the portion of any deficit in earnings and profits for the taxable year chargeable at that time under § 1.996-2(a)(2) to accumulated DISC income.

(4) Every distribution or other reduction in accumulated DISC income pursuant to subparagraph (3) of this paragraph shall be charged to the most recently accumulated DISC income.
