
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Determination of Amount of and Recognition of Gain or Loss
###### ยง 1.1001-6 Transition from certain interbank offered rates.
####### Definitions,Covered modification.,covered modification

(h)-(1)Ais a modification or portion of a modification of the terms of a contract that is described in one or more of paragraphs (h)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section and that is not described in any of paragraphs (j)(1) through (5) of this section. Any modification of the terms of a contract described in section 4.02 of Rev. Proc. 2020-44, 2020-45 I.R.B. 991, or described in other guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin that supplements the list of modifications described in section 4.02 of Rev. Proc. 2020-44 or the definitions on which that section relies (see ยง 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(a) of this chapter) is treated as a covered modification. For purposes of this section, a modification of the terms of a contract includes any modification of the terms of the contract, regardless of the form of the modification (for example, a modification may be an exchange of one contract for another, an amendment to the existing contract, or a modification accomplished indirectly through one or more transactions with third parties) and regardless of whether the modification is evidenced by an express agreement (oral or written), conduct of the parties, or otherwise. For purposes of this section, a contract includes but is not limited to a debt instrument, a derivative contract, stock, an insurance contract, and a lease agreement.

(i) The terms of the contract are modified to replace an operative rate that references a discontinued IBOR with a qualified rate, to add an obligation for one party to make a qualified one-time payment (if any), and to make associated modifications (if any).

(ii) The terms of the contract are modified to include a qualified rate as a fallback to an operative rate that references a discontinued IBOR and to make associated modifications (if any).

(iii) The terms of the contract are modified to replace a fallback rate that references a discontinued IBOR with a qualified rate and to make associated modifications (if any).
