
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Determination of Amount of and Recognition of Gain or Loss
###### ยง 1.1001-6 Transition from certain interbank offered rates.
####### 2,Analysis.,i.e.,,2

()The fallback rate is a qualified floating rate and is, therefore, described in paragraph (h)(3)(ii)(A) of this section. Moreover, because both six-month USD LIBOR and six-month CME Term SOFR are based on transactions conducted in U.S. dollars, the fallback rate satisfies the currency requirement in paragraph (h)(3)(i) of this section. As further provided in paragraph (h)(3)(i) of this section, B and L must also apply the rules in paragraph (h)(3)(iii)(A), (B), and (C) of this section to determine if the fallback rate is a qualified rate. Because the rate being tested as a qualified rate (the fallback rate) is comprised of only one fallback rate, paragraph (h)(3)(iii)(A) of this section has no effect. As discussed elsewhere in this paragraph (h)(3)(iv)(A)(), it is evident at the time of the fallback rate's addition that the fallback rate satisfies the requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph (h)(3)(i) of this section, so paragraph (h)(3)(iii)(B) of this section has no effect. Because it appears likely at the time of the modification that the fallback rate will be used to determine interest on the debt instrument, paragraph (h)(3)(iii)(C) of this section has no effect. In summary, the fallback rate is described in paragraph (h)(3)(ii)(A) of this section and satisfies the currency requirement in paragraph (h)(3)(i) of this section, and none of the rules in paragraph (h)(3)(iii) of this section affect the analysis. Therefore, the fallback rate is a qualified rate.
