
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Determination of Amount of and Recognition of Gain or Loss
###### ยง 1.1001-6 Transition from certain interbank offered rates.
####### Example 3: Inducement spread,Facts.,Example 1,inducement spread

(iii)-(A)The facts are the same as in paragraph (j)(6)(i)(A) of this section (), except that the debt instrument is part of a widely held issue of debt with identical terms. Under the trust indenture applicable to the debt instrument, if B proposes a modification of the terms of the debt and all holders of the debt consent to that modification, the terms of the debt are modified as B proposed. In accordance with the trust indenture, B proposes the LIBOR replacement modification with basis adjustment spread on January 1, 2022. To induce holders such as L to perform the acts necessary to consent to the LIBOR replacement modification with basis adjustment spread, B also proposes to increase the interest rate paid to each consenting holder by an additional spread of 10 basis points (the). All holders, including L, consent to B's proposed modifications by June 1, 2022. On July 1, 2022, the debt instrument is modified to implement the LIBOR replacement modification with basis adjustment spread and to increase the interest rate by the inducement spread. Once all modifications are effective, the debt instrument pays interest at a rate of six-month CME Term SOFR plus 152.826 basis points.
