
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Basis Rules of General Application
###### ยง 1.1012-1 Basis of property.
####### Time and manner for making the average basis method election,In general.

(9)-(i)A taxpayer makes an election to use the average basis method for shares of stock described in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section that are covered securities (within the meaning of section 6045(g)(3)) by notifying the custodian or agent in writing by any reasonable means. For purposes of this paragraph (e), a writing may be in electronic format. A taxpayer has not made an election within the meaning of this section if the taxpayer fails to notify a broker of the taxpayer's basis determination method and basis is determined by the broker's default method under paragraph (e)(2) of this section. A taxpayer may make the average basis method election at any time, effective for sales or other dispositions of stock occurring after the taxpayer notifies the custodian or agent. The election must identify each account with that custodian or agent and each stock in that account to which the election applies. The election may specify that it applies to all accounts with a custodian or agent, including accounts the taxpayer later establishes with the custodian or agent. If the election applies to gift shares, the taxpayer must provide the statement required by paragraph (e)(8)(ii) of this section, if applicable, to the custodian or agent with the taxpayer's election.
