
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Basis Rules of General Application
###### § 1.1014-7 Example applying rules of §§ 1.1014-4 through 1.1014-6 to case involving multiple interests.

(a) On January 1, 1950, the decedent creates a trust to pay the income to A for life, remainder to B or his estate. The trust instrument provides that if the decedent should survive A, the income shall be paid to the decedent for life. The decedent, who died on January 1, 1955, predeceases A, so that, due to the operation of the estate tax, only the present value of the remainder interest is included in the decedent's gross estate. The trust consists of an apartment building with a basis of $30,000 at the time of transfer. Under the trust instrument the trustee is required to maintain a reserve for depreciation. During the decedent's lifetime depreciation is allowed in the amount of $800 annually. At the time of the decedent's death the value of the apartment building is $45,000. A, the life tenant, is 43 years of age at the time of the decedent's death. Immediately after the decedent's death, the uniform basis of the entire property under section 1014(a) is $32,027; A's basis for the life interest is $15,553; and B's basis for the remainder interest is $16,474, computed as follows:

(b) Assume the same facts as in paragraph (a) of this section. Assume further, that following the decedent's death depreciation is allowed in the amount of $1,000 annually. As of January 1, 1964, when A's age is 52, the adjusted uniform basis of the entire property is $23,027; A's basis for the life interest is $9,323; and B's basis for the remainder interest is $13,704, computed as follows:
