
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Basis Rules of General Application
###### ยง 1.1015-5 Increased basis for gift tax paid.
####### sold, exchanged, or otherwise disposed of,sold, exchanged, or otherwise disposed of,

(ii) With respect to property acquired by gift before September 2, 1958, the provisions of section 1015(d) and this section do not apply if, before such date, the donee has sold, exchanged, or otherwise disposed of such property. The phraseincludes the surrender of a stock certificate for corporate assets in complete or partial liquidation of a corporation pursuant to section 331. It also includes the exchange of property for property of a like kind such as the exchange of one apartment house for another. The phrase does not, however, extend to transactions which are mere changes in form. Thus, it does not include a transfer of assets to a corporation in exchange for its stock in a transaction with respect to which no gain or loss would be recognizable for income tax purposes under section 351. Nor does it include an exchange of stock or securities in a corporation for stock or securities in the same corporation or another corporation in a transaction such as a merger, recapitalization, reorganization, or other transaction described in section 368(a) or 355, with respect to which no gain or loss is recognizable for income tax purposes under section 354 or 355. If a binding contract for the sale, exchange, or other disposition of property is entered into, the property is considered as sold, exchanged, or otherwise disposed of on the effective date of the contract, unless the contract is not subsequently carried out substantially in accordance with its terms. The effective date of a contract is normally the date it is entered into (and not the date it is consummated, or the date legal title to the property passes) unless the contract specifies a different effective date. For purposes of this subdivision, in determining whether a transaction comes within the phraseif a transaction would be treated as a mere change in the form of the property if it occurred in a taxable year subject to the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, it will be so treated if the transaction occurred in a taxable year subject to the Internal Revenue Code of 1939 or prior revenue law.

(2) Application of the provisions of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:
