
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Basis Rules of General Application
###### ยง 1.1016-3 Exhaustion, wear and tear, obsolescence, amortization, and depletion for periods since February 28, 1913.
####### Determination of amount allowable in prior taxable years.,tax-benefit amount allowed

(f)(1) One of the factors in determining the adjustment to basis as of any date is the amount of depreciation, depletion, etc., allowable for periods prior to such date. The amount allowable for such prior periods is determined under the law applicable to such prior periods; all adjustments required by the law applicable to such periods are made in determining the adjusted basis of the property for the purpose of determining the amount allowable. Provisions corresponding to the rules in section 1016(a)(2)(B) described in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, which limit adjustments to thewhere an election is properly exercised, were first enacted by the Act of July 14, 1952 (66 Stat. 629). That law provided that corresponding rules are deemed to be includible in all revenue laws applicable to taxable years ending after December 31, 1931. Accordingly, those rules shall be taken into account in determining the amount of depreciation, etc., allowable for any taxable year ending after December 31, 1931. For example, if the adjusted basis of property held by the taxpayer since January 1, 1930, is determined as of January 1, 1955, and if an election was properly made under section 1020, or section 113(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939, then the amount allowable which is taken into account in computing the adjusted basis as of January 1, 1955, shall be determined by taking those rules into account for all taxable years ending after December 31, 1931. The Act of July 14, 1952, made no change in the law applicable in determining the amount allowable for taxable years ending before January 1, 1932. If there was a final decision of a court prior to the enactment of the Act of July 14, 1952, determining the amount allowable for a particular taxable year, such determination shall be adjusted. In such case the adjustment shall be made only for the purpose of taking the provision of that law into account and only to the extent made necessary by such provisions.

(2) Although the Act of July 14, 1952, amended the law applicable to all taxable years ending after December 31, 1931, the amendment does not permit refund, credit, or assessment of a deficiency for any taxable year for which such refund, credit, or assessment was barred by any law or rule of law.
