
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Basis Rules of General Application
###### ยง 1.1016-3 Exhaustion, wear and tear, obsolescence, amortization, and depletion for periods since February 28, 1913.
####### Determination of amount allowed which reduced taxpayer's taxes.,tax-benefit amount allowed.

(e)(1) As indicated in paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section, there are situations in which it is necessary to determine (for the purpose of ascertaining the basis adjustment required by paragraph (a) of this section) the extent to which the amount allowed as deductions resulted in a reduction for any taxable year of the taxpayer's taxes under subtitle A (other than chapter 2 relating to tax on self-employment income) of the Code, or prior income, war-profits, or excess-profits tax laws. This amount (amount allowed which resulted in a reduction of the taxpayer's taxes) is hereinafter referred to as theFor the purpose of determining whether the tax-benefit amount allowed exceeded the amount allowable, a determination must be made of that portion of the excess of the amount allowed over the amount allowable which, if disallowed, would not have resulted in an increase in any such tax previously determined. If the entire excess of the amount allowed over the amount allowable could be disallowed without any such increase in tax, the tax-benefit amount allowed shall not be considered to have exceeded the amount allowable. In such a case (if paragraph (b) or (d) of this section is applicable) the reduction in basis required by paragraph (a) of this section would be the amount properly allowable as a deduction. If only part of such excess could be disallowed without any such increase in tax, the tax-benefit amount allowed shall be considered to exceed the amount allowable to the extent of the remainder of such excess. In such a case (if paragraph (b) or (d) of this section is applicable), the reduction in basis required by paragraph (a) of this section would be the amount of the tax-benefit amount allowed.

(2) For the purpose of determining the tax-benefit amount allowed the tax previously determined shall be determined under the principles of section 1314. The only adjustments made in determining whether there would be an increase in tax shall be those resulting from the disallowance of the amount allowed. The taxable years for which the determination is made shall be the taxable year for which the deduction was allowed and any other taxable year which would be affected by the disallowance of such deduction. Examples of such other taxable years are taxable years to which there was a carryover or carryback of a net operating loss from the taxable year for which the deduction was allowed, and taxable years for which a computation under section 111 or section 1333 was made by reference to the taxable year for which the deduction was allowed. In determining whether the disallowance of any part of the deduction would not have resulted in an increase in any tax previously determined, proper adjustment must be made for previous determinations under section 1311, or section 3801 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939, and for any previous application of section 1016(a)(2)(B), or section 113(b) (1)(B)(ii) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939.

(3) If a determination under section 1016(a)(2)(B) must be made with respect to several properties for each of which the amount allowed for the taxable year exceeded the amount allowable, the tax-benefit amount allowed with respect to each of such properties shall be an allocated portion of the tax-benefit amount allowed determined by reference to the sum of the amounts allowed and the sum of the amounts allowable with respect to such several properties.

(4) In the case of property held by a partnership or trust, the computation of the tax-benefit amount allowed shall take into account the tax benefit of the partners or beneficiaries, as the case may be, from the deduction by the partnership or trust of the amount allowed to the partnership or the trust. For this purpose, the determination of the amount allowed which resulted in a tax benefit to the partners or beneficiaries shall be made in the same manner as that provided above with respect to the taxes of the person holding the property.

(5) A taxpayer seeking to limit the adjustment to basis to the tax-benefit amount allowed for any period, in lieu of the amount allowed, must establish the tax-benefit amount allowed. A failure of adequate proof as to the tax-benefit amount allowed with respect to one period does not preclude the taxpayer from limiting the adjustment to basis to the tax-benefit amount allowed with respect to another period for which adequate proof is available. For example, a corporate transferee may have available adequate records with respect to the tax effect of the deduction of erroneous depreciation for certain taxable years, but may not have available adequate records with respect to the deduction of excessive depreciation for other taxable years during which the property was held by its transferor. In such case the corporate transferee shall not be denied the right to apply this section with respect to the erroneous depreciation for the period for which adequate proof is available.
