
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Basis Rules of General Application
###### ยง 1.1017-1 Basis reductions following a discharge of indebtedness.
####### Modification of ordering rules for basis reductions under sections 108(b)(5) and 108(c),In general.,qualifying real property

(c)-(1)The ordering rules prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section apply, with appropriate modifications, to basis reductions under sections 108(b)(5) and (c). Thus, a taxpayer that elects to reduce basis under section 108(b)(5) may, to the extent that the election applies, reduce only the adjusted basis of property described in paragraphs (a) (1), (2), and (3) of this section and, if an election is made under paragraph (f) of this section, paragraph (a) (4) of this section. Within paragraphs (a) (1), (2), (3) and (4) of this section, such a taxpayer may reduce only the adjusted bases of depreciable property. A taxpayer that elects to apply section 108(c) may reduce only the adjusted basis of property described in paragraphs (a) (1) and (3) of this section and, within paragraphs (a)(1) and (3) of this section, may reduce only the adjusted bases of depreciable real property. Furthermore, for basis reductions under section 108(c), a taxpayer must reduce the adjusted basis of the qualifying real property to the extent of the discharged qualified real property business indebtedness before reducing the adjusted bases of other depreciable real property. The termmeans real property with respect to which the indebtedness is qualified real property business indebtedness within the meaning of section 108(c)(3). See paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section for elections relating to section 1221(1) property and partnership interests.
