
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Basis Rules of General Application
###### ยง 1.1020-1 Election as to amounts allowed in respect of depreciation, etc., before 1952.
####### In general.

(a)(1) Any person may elect to have the adjustments to the cost or other basis of property under section 1016(a)(2) determined in accordance with subparagraph (B) of such section by filing a statement of election in accordance with the requirements set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. Any election made after 1952 shall be irrevocable when made. Any election made after 1952 shall apply with respect to all property held by the person making the election at any time on or before December 31, 1952, and shall apply to all periods since February 28, 1913, and before January 1, 1952, during which such person held such property or for which adjustments must be made under section 1016(b). For rules with respect to an election made on or before December 31, 1952, see paragraph (c) of this section.

(2) An election by a partner on his own behalf is not an election for the partnership of which he is a member. A separate election must be made on behalf of the partnership. (See section 703(b) (relating to elections of the partnership).) An election on behalf of the partnership applies only with respect to the partnership, and does not apply to the separate property of the partners. A similar rule applies with respect to elections by trusts and beneficiaries of trusts. These rules also apply with respect to a revocation of an election where such election was made on or before December 31, 1952.
