
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Common Nontaxable Exchanges
###### ยง 1.1031(a)-3 Definition of real property.
####### 1,4

(iv) The factors in paragraphs (a)(2)(iii)(B)() through () of this section support the conclusion that the isolation valves and vents and pressure control and relief valves are structural components of H's pipelines within the meaning of paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section. Therefore, the isolation valves and vents and pressure control and relief valves are real property.

(v) Meters are used to measure the natural gas passing into or out of the pipeline transmission system for purposes of determining the end users' consumption. Over long distances, pressure is lost due to friction in the pipeline transmission system. Compressors are required to add pressure to transport natural gas through the entirety of the pipeline transmission system. H installed meters and compressors during the construction of the pipelines. However, unlike other types of such meters and compressors, these particular meters and compressors are not time consuming and expensive to install and remove from the pipelines; are not designed specifically for the particular pipelines for which they are a part; and their removal does not cause damage to the asset or the pipelines if removed. Therefore, the meters and compressors installed by H are not structural components within the meaning of paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section and, therefore, are not real property.
