
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Common Nontaxable Exchanges
###### ยง 1.1033(e)-1 Sale or exchange of livestock solely on account of drought.

(a) The sale or exchange of livestock (other than poultry) held for draft, breeding, or dairy purposes in excess of the number the taxpayer would sell or exchange during the taxable year if he followed his usual business practices shall be treated as an involuntary conversion to which section 1033 and the regulations thereunder are applicable if the sale or exchange of such livestock by the taxpayer is solely on account of drought. Section 1033(e) and this section shall apply only to sales and exchanges occurring after December 31, 1955.

(b) To qualify under section 1033(e) and this section, the sale or exchange of the livestock need not take place in a drought area. While it is not necessary that the livestock be held in a drought area, the sale or exchange of the livestock must be solely on account of drought conditions the existence of which affected the water, grazing, or other requirements of the livestock so as to necessitate their sale or exchange.

(c) The total sales or exchanges of livestock held for draft, breeding, or dairy purposes occurring in any taxable year which may qualify as an involuntary conversion under section 1033(e) and this section is limited to the excess of the total number of such livestock sold or exchanged during the taxable year over the number that the taxpayer would have sold or exchanged if he had followed his usual business practices, that is, the number he would have been expected to sell or exchange under ordinary circumstances if there had been no drought. For example, if in the past it has been a taxpayer's practice to sell or exchange annually one-half of his herd of dairy cows, only the number sold or exchanged solely on account of drought conditions which is in excess of one-half of his herd, may qualify as an involuntary conversion under section 1033(e) and this section.

(d) The replacement requirements of section 1033 will be satisfied only if the livestock sold or exchanged is replaced within the prescribed period with livestock which is similar or related in service or use to the livestock sold or exchanged because of drought, that is, the new livestock must be functionally the same as the livestock involuntarily converted. This means that the new livestock must be held for the same useful purpose as the old was held. Thus, although dairy cows could be replaced by dairy cows, a taxpayer could not replace draft animals with breeding or dairy animals.

(e) The provisions of ยง 1.1033(a)-2 shall be applicable in the case of a sale or exchange treated as an involuntary conversion under this section. The details in connection with such a disposition required to be reported under paragraph (c)(2) of ยง 1.1033(a)-2 shall include:

(1) Evidence of the existence of the drought conditions which forced the sale or exchange of the livestock;

(2) A computation of the amount of gain realized on the sale or exchange;

(3) The number and kind of livestock sold or exchanged; and

(4) The number of livestocks of each kind that would have been sold or exchanged under the usual business practice in the absence of the drought.
