
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Common Nontaxable Exchanges
###### ยง 1.1033(g)-1 Condemnation of real property held for productive use in trade or business or for investment.
####### Election to treat outdoor advertising displays as real property,In general.

(b)-(1)Under section 1033(g)(3) of the Code, a taxpayer may elect to treat property which constitutes an outdoor advertising display as real property for purposes of chapter 1 of the Code. The election is available for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1970. In the case of an election made on or before July 21, 1981, the election is available whether or not the period for filing a claim for credit or refund under section 6511 has expired. No election may be made with respect to any property for which (i) the investment credit under section 38 has been claimed, or (ii) an election to expense certain depreciable business assets under section 179(a) is in effect. The election once made applies to all outdoor advertising displays of the taxpayer which may be made the subject of an election under this paragraph, including all outdoor advertising displays acquired or constructed by the taxpayer in a taxable year after the taxable year for which the election is made. The election applies with respect to dispositions during the taxable year for which made and all subsequent taxable years (unless an effective revocation is made pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) (ii) or (iii)).
