
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Common Nontaxable Exchanges
###### ยง 1.1037-1 Certain exchanges of United States obligations.
####### Nonrecognition of gain or loss,In general.

(a)-(1)Section 1037(a) provides for the nonrecognition of gain or loss on the surrender to the United States of obligations of the United States issued under the Second Liberty Bond Act (31 U.S.C. 774(2)) when such obligations are exchanged solely for other obligations issued under that Act and the Secretary provides by regulations promulgated in connection with the issue of such other obligations that gain or loss is not to be recognized on such exchange. It is not necessary that at the time of the exchange the obligation which is surrendered to the United States be a capital asset in the hands of the taxpayer. For purposes of section 1037(a) and this subparagraph, a circular of the Treasury Department which offers to exchange obligations of the United States issued under the Second Liberty Bond Act for other obligations issued under that Act shall constitute regulations promulgated by the Secretary in connection with the issue of the obligations offered to be exchanged if such circular contains a declaration by the Secretary that no gain or loss shall be recognized for Federal income tax purposes on the exchange or grants the privilege of continuing to defer the reporting of the income of the bonds exchanged until such time as the bonds received in the exchange are redeemed or disposed of, or have reached final maturity, whichever is earlier. See, for example, regulations of the Bureau of the Public Debt, 31 CFR part 339, or Treasury Department Circular 1066, 26 FR 8647. The application of section 1037(a) and this subparagraph will not be precluded merely because the taxpayer is required to pay money on the exchange. See section 1031 and the regulations thereunder if the taxpayer receives money on the exchange.
