
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Common Nontaxable Exchanges
###### ยง 1.1038-1 Reacquisitions of real property in satisfaction of indebtedness.
####### Scope of section 1038,General rule on gain or loss.

(a)-(1)If a sale of real property gives rise to indebtedness to the seller which is secured by the real property which is sold, and the seller of such property reacquires such property in a taxable year beginning after September 2, 1964, in partial or full satisfaction of such indebtedness, then, except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (f) of this section, no gain or loss shall result to the seller from such reacquisition. The treatment so provided is mandatory; however, see ยง 1.1038-3 for an election to apply the provisions of this section to certain taxable years beginning after December 31, 1957. It is immaterial, for purposes of applying this subparagraph, whether the seller realized a gain or sustained a loss on the sale of the real property, or whether it can be ascertained at the time of the sale whether gain or loss occurs as a result of the sale. It is also immaterial what method of accounting the seller used in reporting gain or loss from the sale of the real property or whether at the time of reacquisition such property has depreciated or appreciated in value since the time of the original sale. Moreover, the character of the gain realized on the original sale of the property is immaterial for purposes of applying this subparagraph. The provisions of this section shall apply, except as provided in ยง 1.1038-2, to the reacquisition of real property which was used by the seller as his principal residence and with respect to the sale of which an election under section 121 is in effect or with respect to the sale of which gain was not recognized under section 1034.
