
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Common Nontaxable Exchanges
###### ยง 1.1038-1 Reacquisitions of real property in satisfaction of indebtedness.
####### Reacquisitions in partial or full satisfaction of indebtedness,Purpose of reacquisition.

(3)-(i)This section applies only where the seller reacquires the real property in partial or full satisfaction of the indebtedness to him that arose from the sale of the real property and was secured by the property. That is, the reacquisition must be in furtherance of the seller's security rights in the property with respect to indebtedness to him that arose at the time of the sale. Accordingly, if the seller in reacquiring the real property does not pay consideration in addition to discharging the purchaser's indebtedness to him that arose from the sale and was secured by such property, this section shall apply to the reacquisition even though the purchaser has not defaulted in his obligations under the contract or such a default is not imminent. If in addition to discharging the purchaser's indebtedness to him that arose from the sale the seller pays consideration in reacquiring the real property, this section shall generally apply to the reacquisition if the reacquisition and the payment of additional consideration is provided for in the original contract for the sale of the property. This section generally shall apply to a reacquisition of real property if the seller reacquires the property either when the purchaser has defaulted in his obligations under the contract or when such a default is imminent. This section generally shall not apply to a reacquisition of real property where the seller pays consideration in addition to discharging the purchaser's indebtedness to him that arose from the sale if the reacquisition and payment of additional consideration was not provided for in the original contract for the sale of the property and if the purchaser has not defaulted in his obligations under the contract or such a default is not imminent. Thus, for example, if the purchaser is in arrears on the payment of interest or principal or has in any other way defaulted on his contract for the purchase of the property, or if the facts of the case indicate that the purchaser is unable satisfactorily to perform his obligations under the contract, and the seller reacquires the property from the purchaser in a transaction in which the seller pays consideration in addition to discharging the purchaser's indebtedness to him that arose from the sale and was secured by the property, this section shall apply to the reacquisition. Additional consideration paid by the seller includes money and other property paid or transferred by the seller. Also, the reacquisition by the seller of real property subject to an indebtedness (or the assumption, upon the reacquisition, of indebtedness) which arose subsequent to the original sale shall be considered as a payment by the seller of additional consideration. However, the reacquisition by the seller of real property subject to an indebtedness (or the assumption, upon the reacquisition, of an indebtedness) which arose prior to or arose out of the original sale shall not be considered as a payment by the seller of additional consideration.
