
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Common Nontaxable Exchanges
###### § 1.1038-3 Election to have section 1038 apply for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1957.
####### Time and manner of making election,In general.

(b)-(1)(i) An election to have the provisions of § 1.1038-2 apply to reacquisitions of real property occurring in taxable years beginning after December 31, 1957, and before September 3, 1964, shall be made by filing on or before September 3, 1965, a return, an amended return, or a claim for refund, whichever is proper, for each taxable year in which the resale of such real property occurs. If the return for any such year is not due on or before such date and has not been filed, the election with respect to such taxable year shall be made by filing on or before such date the statement described in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph.

(ii) An election to have the provisions of § 1.1038-1 apply to reacquisitions of real property occurring in taxable years beginning after December 31, 1957, and before September 3, 1964, shall be made by filing on or before September 3, 1965, a return, an amended return, or a claim for refund, whichever is proper, for each taxable year in which such reacquisitions occur. If the return for any such year is not due on or before such date and has not been filed, the election with respect to such taxable year shall be made by filing on or before such date the statement described in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph.

(iii) If the facts are such that § 1.1038-2 applies to a reacquisition of property except that the reacquisition occurs in a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1957, and before September 3, 1964, an election may not be made under this paragraph to have the provisions of § 1.1038-1 apply to such reacquisition.

(iv) Once made, an election under this paragraph may not be revoked after September 3, 1965. To any return, amended return, or claim for refund filed under this subparagraph there shall be attached the statement described in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph.
