
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Common Nontaxable Exchanges
###### ยง 1.1041-1T Treatment of transfer of property between spouses or incident to divorce (temporary).
####### Scope of section 1041 in general.

(a)

Q-2: Does section 1041 apply only to transfers of property incident to divorce?

A-2: No. Section 1041 is not limited to transfers of property incident to divorce. Section 1041 applies to any transfer of property between spouses regardless of whether the transfer is a gift or is a sale or exchange between spouses acting at arm's length (including a transfer in exchange for the relinquishment of property or marital rights or an exchange otherwise governed by another nonrecognition provision of the Code). A divorce or legal separation need not be contemplated between the spouses at the time of the transfer nor must a divorce or legal separation ever occur.

Q-3: Do the rules of section 1041 apply to a transfer between spouses if the transferee spouse is a nonresident alien?

A-3: No. Gain or loss (if any) is recognized (assuming no other nonrecognition provision applies) at the time of a transfer of property if the property is transferred to a spouse who is a nonresident alien.

Q-4: What kinds of transfers are governed by section 1041?

A-4: Only transfers of property (whether real or personal, tangible or intangible) are governed by section 1041. Transfers of services are not subject to the rules of section 1041.

Q-5: Must the property transferred to a former spouse have been owned by the transferor spouse during the marriage?

A-5: No. A transfer of property acquired after the marriage ceases may be governed by section 1041.
