
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Common Nontaxable Exchanges
###### ยง 1.1042-1T Questions and answers relating to the sales of stock to employee stock ownership plans or certain cooperatives (temporary).
####### statement of election

A-3: (a) The election not to recognize the gain realized upon the sale of qualified securities to the extent provided under section 1042(a) shall be made in aattached to the taxpayer's income tax return filed on or before the due date (including extensions of time) for the taxable year in which the sale occurs. If a taxpayer does not make a timely election under this section to obtain section 1042(a) nonrecognition treatment with respect to the sale of qualified securities, it may not subsequently make an election on an amended return or otherwise. Also, an election once made is irrevocable.

(b) The statement of election shall provide that the taxpayer elects to treat the sale of securities as a sale of qualified securities under section 1042(a), and shall contain the following information:

(1) A description of the qualified securities sold, including the type and number of shares;

(2) The date of the sale of the qualified securities;

(3) The adjusted basis of the qualified securities;

(4) The amount realized upon the sale of the qualified securities;

(5) The identity of the employee stock ownership plan or eligible worker-owned cooperative to which the qualified securities were sold; and

(6) If the sale was part of a single, interrelated transaction under a prearranged agreement between taxpayers involving other sales of qualified securities, the names and taxpayer identification numbers of the other taxpayers under the agreement and the number of shares sold by the other taxpayers. See Q&A-2 of this section.

(c) If the taxpayer has not purchased qualified replacement property at the time of the filing of the statement of election, a timely election under this Q&A shall not be considered to have been made unless the taxpayer attaches the notarized statement of purchase described above to the taxpayer's income tax return filed for the taxable year following the year for which the election under section 1042(a) was made. Such notarized statement of purchase shall be filed with the district director or the director of the regional service center with whom such election was originally filed, if the return is not filed with such director.

Q-4: What is the basis of qualified replacement property?

A-4: If a taxpayer makes an election under section 1042(a), the basis of the qualified replacement property purchased by the taxpayer during the replacement period shall be reduced by an amount equal to the amount of gain which was not recognized. If more than one item of qualified replacement property is purchased, the basis of each of such items shall be reduced by an amount determined by multiplying the total gain not recognized by reason of the application of section 1042(a) by a fraction, the numerator of which is the cost of such item of property and the denominator of which is the total cost of all such items of property. For the rule regarding the holding period of qualified replacement property, see section 1223(13).

Q-5: What is the statute of limitations for the assessment of a deficiency relating to the gain on the sale of qualified securities?

A-5: (a) If any gain is realized by the taxpayer on the sale of any qualified securities and such gain has not been recognized under section 1042(a) in accordance with the requirements of this section, the statutory period provided in section 6501(a) for the assessment of any deficiency with respect to such gain shall not expire prior to the expiration of 3 years from the date of receipt, by the district director or director of regional service center with whom the statement of election under 1042(a) was originally filed, of:

(1) A notarized statement of purchase as described in Q&A-3;

(2) A written statement of the taxpayer's intention not to purchase qualified replacement property within the replacement period; or

(3) A written statement of the taxpayer's failure to purchase qualified replacement property within the replacement period.

(b) Any gain from the sale of qualified securities which is required to be recognized due to a failure to meet the requirements under section 1042 shall be included in the gross income for the taxable year in which the gain was realized. If any gain from the sale of qualified securities is not recognized under section 1042(a) in accordance with the requirements of this section, any deficiency attributable to any portion of such gain may be assessed at any time before the expiration of the 3-year period described in this Q&A, notwithstanding the provision of any law or rule of law which would otherwise prevent such assessment.

Q-6: When does section 1042 become effective?

A-6: Section 1042 applies to sales of qualified securities in taxable years of sellers beginning after July 18, 1984.
