
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Common Nontaxable Exchanges
###### ยง 1.1042-1T Questions and answers relating to the sales of stock to employee stock ownership plans or certain cooperatives (temporary).
####### the controlled group of corporations

(c) For purposes of determining whether paragraph (a)(3) of this section is satisfied with respect to the prohibition against an accrual or allocation of qualified securities, the accrual or allocation of any benefits or contributions or other assets that are not attributable to qualified securities sold to the employee stock ownership plan or eligible worker-owned cooperative in a sale with respect to which an election under section 1042(a) is made (including any accrual or allocation under any other plan or arrangement maintained by the corporation or any member ofwith such corporation for purposes of section 409(l)) must be made without regard to the allocation of such qualified securities. Paragraph (a)(3) of this section above may be illustrated in part by the following example: Individuals A, B, and C own 50, 25, and 25, respectively, of the 100 outstanding shares of common stock of Corporation X. Such shares constitute qualified securities as defined in Q&A-1 of this section. A and B, but not C, are employees of Corporation X. For the benefit of all its employees, Corporation X establishes an employee stock ownership plan that obtains a loan meeting the exemption requirements of section 4975(d)(3). The loan proceeds are used by the plan to purchase the 100 shares of qualified securities from A, B, and C, all of whom elect nonrecognition treatment under section 1042(a) with respect to the gain realized on their sale of such securities. Under the requirements of paragraph (a)(3) of this section, no part of the assets of the plan attributable to the 100 shares of qualified securities may accrue under the plan (or under any other plan or arrangement maintained by Corporation X) for the benefit of A or B or any person who is a member of the family of A or B (as determined under section 267(c)(4)). Furthermore, no other assets of the plan or assets of the employer may accrue for the benefit of such individuals in lieu of the receipt of assets attributable to such qualified securities.

(d) A sale under section 1042(a) shall not include any sale of securities by a dealer or underwriter in the ordinary course of its trade or business as a dealer or underwriter, whether or not guaranteed.

Q-3: What is the time and manner for making the election under section 1042(a)?
