
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Common Nontaxable Exchanges
###### ยง 1.1045-1 Application to partnerships.
####### Overview of section.,b

(a)A partnership that holds qualified small business stock (QSB stock) (as defined in paragraph (g)(1) of this section) for more than 6 months, sells such QSB stock, and purchases replacement QSB stock (as defined in paragraph (g)(2) of this section) may elect to apply section 1045. An eligible partner (as defined in paragraph (g)(3) of this section) of a partnership that sells QSB stock, may elect to apply section 1045 if the eligible partner purchases replacement QSB stock directly or through a purchasing partnership (as defined in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section). A taxpayer (other than a C corporation) that holds QSB stock for more than 6 months, sells such QSB stock and purchases replacement QSB stock through a purchasing partnership may elect to apply section 1045. A section 1045 election is revocable only with the prior written consent of the Commissioner. To obtain the Commissioner's prior written consent, the person who made the section 1045 election must submit a request for a private letter ruling. (For further guidance, see Rev. Proc. 2007-1, 2007-1 CB 1 (or any applicable successor) and ยง 601.601(d)(2)(ii)() of this chapter.) Paragraph (b) of this section provides rules for partnerships that elect to apply section 1045. Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules for certain taxpayers other than C corporations and for eligible partners that elect to apply section 1045. Paragraph (d) of this section provides a limitation on the amount of gain that an eligible partner does not recognize under section 1045. Paragraph (e) of this section provides rules for partnership distributions of QSB stock to an eligible partner. Paragraph (f) of this section provides rules for contributions of QSB stock or replacement QSB stock to a partnership. Paragraph (g) of this section provides definitions of certain terms used in section 1045 and this section. Paragraph (h) of this section provides reporting rules for partnerships and partners that elect to apply section 1045. Paragraph (i) of this section provides examples illustrating the provisions of this section. Paragraph (j) of this section contains the effective/applicability date.
