
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Common Nontaxable Exchanges
###### ยง 1.1045-1 Application to partnerships.
####### Partnership's replacement QSB stock,Rule.,Example 5

(ii)-(A)The basis of a partnership's replacement QSB stock is reduced (in the order acquired) by the amount of gain from the partnership's sale of QSB stock that is not recognized by an eligible partner as a result of the partnership's election under section 1045. The basis adjustment with respect to any amount described in this paragraph (b)(3)(ii) constitutes an adjustment to the basis of the partnership's replacement QSB stock with respect to that partner only. The effect of such a basis adjustment is determined under the principles of ยง 1.743-1(g), (h), and (j) except as modified in this paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(A). If a partnership sells QSB stock with respect to which a basis adjustment has been made under this paragraph (b)(3)(ii), and the partnership makes an election under paragraph (b)(1) of this section with respect to the sale and purchases replacement QSB stock, the basis adjustment shall carry over to the replacement QSB stock except to the extent otherwise provided in this paragraph (b)(3)(ii). The basis adjustment that carries over to the replacement QSB stock shall be reduced (but not below zero) by the eligible partner's distributive share of the excess, if any, of the greater of the amount determined under paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section from the sale of the QSB stock, over the partnership's gain from the sale of the QSB stock (determined without regard to basis adjustments under section 743 or paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section). The excess amount that reduces the basis adjustment shall be accounted for as gain in accordance with ยง 1.743-1(j)(3). Seeof paragraph (i) of this section. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(3)(ii), a partnership must presume that a partner did not recognize that partner's distributive share of the partnership section 1045 gain as a result of the partnership's section 1045 election unless the partner notifies the partnership to the contrary as described in paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section. However, if a partnership knows that a particular partner is classified, for Federal tax purposes, as a C corporation, then the partnership may presume that the partner did not defer recognition of its distributive share of the partnership section 1045 gain, even in the absence of a notification by the partner. If a partnership makes an election under section 1045, but an eligible partner opts out of the election under paragraph (b)(4) of this section and provides to the partnership the notification required under paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section, no basis adjustments under this paragraph (b)(3)(ii) are required with respect to that partner as a result of the section 1045 election by the partnership.
