
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Rules
###### ยง 1.1051-1 Basis of property acquired during affiliation.
####### period of affiliation

(a)(1) The basis of property acquired by a corporation during a period of affiliation from a corporation with which it was affiliated shall be the same as it would be in the hands of the corporation from which acquired. This rule is applicable if the basis of the property is material in determining tax liability for any year, whether a separate return or a consolidated return is made in respect of such year. For the purpose of this section, the termmeans the period during which such corporations were affiliated (determined in accordance with the law applicable thereto), but does not include any taxable year beginning on or after January 1, 1922, unless a consolidated return was made, nor any taxable year after the taxable year 1928.

(2) The application of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following example:

(b) The basis of property acquired by a corporation during any period, in the taxable year 1929 or any subsequent taxable year, in respect of which a consolidated return was made or was required under the regulations governing the making of consolidated returns, shall be determined in accordance with such regulations. The basis in the case of property held by a corporation during any period, in the taxable year 1929 or any subsequent taxable year, in respect of which a consolidated return is made or is required under the regulations governing the making of consolidated returns, shall be adjusted in respect of any items relating to such period in accordance with such regulations.

(c) Except as otherwise provided in the regulations promulgated under section 1502 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 or the regulations under section 141 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939 or the Revenue Act of 1938 (52 Stat. 447), 1936 (49 Stat. 1652), 1934 (48 Stat. 683), 1932 (47 Stat. 169), or 1928 (45 Stat. 791), the basis of property after a consolidated return period shall be the same as the basis immediately prior to the close of such period.
