
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Rules
###### ยง 1.1061-2 Applicable partnership interests and applicable trades or businesses.
####### Example 5: Indirect API, Related Person, and Passthrough Taxpayer.

(v)Each of A, B, and C is an equal partner in partnership GP, the general partner of PRS. GP's Specified Actions do not satisfy the ATB Activity Test under ยง 1.1061-1(a) and as a result, GP's actions do not establish an ATB. Management Company is a Related Person with respect to GP within the meaning of sections 267(b) and 707(b), is engaged in an ATB, and provides substantial management services to PRS that are sufficient to satisfy the ATB Activity Test. Management Company's actions are attributed to GP under paragraphs (a)(1)(iv) and (b)(1)(i)(C) of this section because Management Company is a Related Person to GP. In connection with Management Company's services to PRS, PRS issues a profits interest to GP. Because its PRS profits interest is issued to GP in connection with services provided by Management Company, a Related Person, GP is a Passthrough Taxpayer and its interest in PRS is an API. Unless an exception described in ยง 1.1061-3 applies, because A, B, and C are partners in GP, they each hold a Passthrough Interest in GP and an Indirect API in PRS. A, B, and C are treated as Owner Taxpayers because they hold an interest in GP, a Passthrough Taxpayer.
