
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Rules
###### ยง 1.1061-3 Exceptions to the definition of an API.
####### Determination of the Capital Interest Disposition Amount.

(ii)If a Passthrough Interest that includes a right to allocations of Capital Interest Gains and Losses is disposed of, the amount of long-term capital gain or loss that is treated as a Capital Interest Disposition Amount is determined under the rules provided in this paragraph (c)(4)(ii).

(A) First, determine the amount of long-term capital gain or loss that would be allocated to the Passthrough Interest (or the portion of the Passthrough Interest sold) if all the assets of the Passthrough Entity (including gain or loss with respect to assets described in ยง 1.1061-4(b)(7)) were sold for their fair market value in a fully taxable transaction immediately before the disposition of the Passthrough Interest (hypothetical asset sale). For purposes of this paragraph (c)(4)(ii), the assets of the Passthrough Entity include any assets held by a lower-tier Passthrough Entity in which the Passthrough Entity has a direct or indirect interest.

(B) Second, determine the amount from the hypothetical asset sale that would be allocated to the Passthrough Interest (or the portion of the Passthrough Interest sold) as Capital Interest Allocations under paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(C) Third, if the transferor recognized long-term capital gain upon disposition of the Passthrough Interest and only net short-term capital losses, net long-term capital losses, or both, are allocated to the Passthrough Interest under paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(B) of this section from the hypothetical asset sale, all of the long-term capital gain is API Gain. If the transferor recognized long-term capital loss on the disposition of the Passthrough Interest and only net short-term capital gains, net long-term capital gains, or both, are allocated to the Passthrough Interest under paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(B) of this section, then all the long-term capital loss is API Loss.

(D) If paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(C) of this section does not apply and long-term capital gain is recognized on the disposition of the Passthrough Interest, the amount of long-term capital gain that the transferor of the Passthrough Interest recognizes that is treated as a Capital Interest Disposition Amount is determined by multiplying long-term capital gain recognized on the disposition of the Passthrough Interest by a fraction, the numerator of which is the amount of long-term capital gain determined under paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(B) of this section, and the denominator of which is the amount of long-term capital gain determined under paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(A) of this section, with the percentage represented by the fraction limited to 100 percent. Alternatively, if paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(C) of this section does not apply and long-term capital loss is recognized on the disposition of the Passthrough Interest, the amount of long-term capital loss treated as a Capital Interest Disposition Amount is determined by multiplying the transferor's capital loss by a fraction, the numerator of which is the amount of long-term capital loss determined under paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(B) of this section, and the denominator of which is the amount of long-term capital loss determined under paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(A) of this section, with the percentage represented by the fraction limited to 100 percent.

(E) In applying this paragraph (c)(4)(ii), allocations of amounts that are not included in determining the amount of long-term capital gain or loss recognized on the sale or disposition of the Passthrough Interest are not included. See, for example, section 751(a).
