
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Rules
###### ยง 1.1061-3 Exceptions to the definition of an API.
####### Example 1: Capital Interest Allocations,Facts.

(i)-(A)Each of A, B, and C contributes $100 to GP and is an equal partner in GP, a partnership that is the general partner of PRS, a partnership. The contributions are not attributable to loans or advances described in paragraph (c)(3)(v)(A) of this section. PRS's other partners are Unrelated Non-Service Partners. Each of GP and PRS makes allocations to its partners in accordance with its partners' interests in that partnership, as described in ยง 1.704-1(b)(3). GP holds a 20% profits interest in PRS that is an API that GP received in exchange for providing substantial services to PRS in an ATB. GP's API is an Indirect API to each of A, B, and C. GP contributes the $300 of capital contributed by A, B and C to PRS. GP's $300 contribution equals 2% of the contributed capital made by all of PRS's partners ($15,000). PRS's partnership agreement describes its partners' economic distribution rights with respect to its liquidating proceeds as follows: First, liquidating proceeds are proportionately distributed to each of GP and the Unrelated Non-Service Partners equal to the amount necessary to return each of those partners' unreturned capital; second, liquidating proceeds are distributed to GP with respect to its API in PRS; and, finally, any residual liquidating proceeds are distributed, proportionately, 98% to the Unrelated Non-Service Partners and 2% to GP. During its initial taxable year, PRS has $10,000 of net capital gain, causing an increase in PRS's distributable proceeds of $10,000. In accordance with the partners' economic rights as described in PRS's partnership agreement, PRS allocates $2,160 of net capital gain to GP (a $2,000 API allocation plus $160 ($8,000 ($10,000-$2,000) x 2%), with respect to GP's contributed capital) and $7,840 of net capital gain to the Unrelated Non-Service Partners with respect to their contributed capital. GP allocates $720 ($2,160/3) of this net capital gain to each of A, B, and C in accordance with their interests in GP.
