
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Rules
###### ยง 1.1061-3 Exceptions to the definition of an API.
####### Example 2: Sale of a Passthrough Interest,Facts.

(ii)-(A)In Year 1, A, B, and C form GP, a partnership. Each of A, B, and C contributes $100 to GP and is an equal partner in GP. The contributions are not attributable to loans or advances described in paragraph (c)(3)(v)(A) of this section. GP invests the $300 in Asset X in Year 1. GP is also the general partner of PRS, a partnership. PRS's other partners are Unrelated Non-Service Partners. GP holds a 20% profits interest in PRS that is an API that GP received in exchange for providing substantial services to PRS in an ATB. GP's API is an Indirect API to each of A, B, and C. Each of GP and PRS makes allocations to its partners in accordance with its partners' interests in that partnership, as described in ยง 1.704-1(b)(3). In Year 3, A sells A's interest in GP to an unrelated third party for $800 and recognizes $700 of capital gain on the sale. If PRS had sold its assets in a hypothetical asset sale as required by paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(A) of this section and liquidated immediately before A sold its interest in GP, GP would have been allocated $1,800 of long-term capital gain with respect to GP's API in PRS, and GP would have allocated $600 of this $1,800 to A. If GP sold Asset X for its fair market value and liquidated immediately before A sold its interest in GP, A would have been allocated $100 of long-term capital gain.
