
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Rules
###### ยง 1.1061-4 Section 1061 computations.
####### Example 1: Lookthrough Rule.,1

(i)On July 1, 2021, A and B form partnership PRS. At the time of PRS's formation, A agrees to provide substantial services to PRS in exchange for a 20% profits interest in PRS, and B, a partner that is an Unrelated Non-Service Partner, contributes $1 million in exchange for an interest in PRS and PRS immediately uses the capital to purchase marketable securities. On July 1, 2023, C, another Unrelated Non-Service Partner becomes legally obligated to contribute capital to PRS ($75 million) for the purposes of investing in and developing Specified Assets and is admitted into PRS. On July 3, 2023, and after C makes a contribution of $75 million, PRS uses this capital to acquire stock in portfolio company Z. On July 1, 2025, when Z has a value of $500 million and the value of the marketable securities is $2 million, A sells its API in PRS for $85.2 million. As a result of this sale, the Lookthrough Rule applies because B's contribution was non-substantial under paragraph (b)(9)(i)(A)() of this section. Therefore, A includes $85.2 million in its API One Year Disposition Amount and under paragraph (b)(9)(ii)(B) of this section, $200,000 (20% share of $1 million gain in marketable securities) in its API Three Year Disposition Amount. Accordingly, under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, A's Recharacterization Amount is $85 million.
