
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Changes To Effectuate F.C.C. Policy
###### ยง 1.1071-1 Gain from sale or exchange to effectuate policies of Federal Communications Commission.

(a)(1) At the election of the taxpayer, section 1071 postpones the recognition of the gain upon the sale or exchange of property if the Federal Communications Commission grants the taxpayer a certificate with respect to the ownership and control of radio broadcasting stations which is in accordance with subparagraph (2) of this paragraph. Any taxpayer desiring to obtain the benefits of section 1071 shall file such certificate with the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, or the district director for the internal revenue district in which the income tax return of the taxpayer is required to be filed.

(2)(i) In the case of a sale or exchange before January 1, 1958, the certificate from the Federal Communications Commission must clearly identify the property and show that the sale or exchange is necessary or appropriate to effectuate the policies of such Commission with respect to the ownership and control of radio broadcasting stations.

(ii) In the case of a sale or exchange after December 31, 1957, the certificate from the Federal Communications Commission must clearly identify the property and show that the sale or exchange is necessary or appropriate to effectuate a change in a policy of, or the adoption of a new policy by, such Commission with respect to the ownership and control of radio broadcasting stations.

(3) The certificate shall be accompanied by a detailed statement showing the kind of property, the date of acquisition, the cost or other basis of the property, the date of sale or exchange, the name and address of the transferee, and the amount of money and the fair market value of the property other than money received upon such sale or exchange.

(b) Section 1071 applies only in the case of a sale or exchange made necessary by reason of the Federal Communications Commission's policies as to ownership or control of radio facilities. Section 1071 does not apply in the case of a sale or exchange made necessary as a result of other matters, such as the operation of a broadcasting station in a manner determined by the Commission to be not in the public interest or in violation of Federal or State law.

(c) An election to have the benefits of section 1071 shall be made in the manner prescribed in ยง 1.1071-4.
