
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Exchanges in Obedience to S.E.C. Orders
###### ยง 1.1081-2 Purpose and scope of exception.

(a) The general rule is that the entire amount of gain or loss from the sale or exchange of property is to be recognized (see section 1002) and that the entire amount received as a dividend is to be included in gross income. (See sections 61 and 301.) Exceptions to the general rule are provided elsewhere in subchapters C and O, chapter 1 of the Code, one of which is that made by section 1081 with respect to exchanges, sales, and distributions specifically described in section 1081. Section 1081 provides the extent to which gain or loss is not to be recognized on (1) the receipt of a distribution described in section 1081(c)(2), or (2) an exchange or sale, or the receipt of a distribution, made in obedience to an order of the Securities and Exchange Commission, which is issued to effectuate the provisions of section 11 (b) of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (15 U.S.C. 79k (b)). Section 331 provides that a distribution in liquidation of a corporation shall be treated as an exchange. Such distribution is to be treated as an exchange under the provisions of sections 1081 to 1083, inclusive. The order of the Securities and Exchange Commission must be one requiring or approving action which the Commission finds to be necessary or appropriate to effect a simplification or geographical integration of a particular public utility holding company system. For specific requirements with respect to an order of the Securities and Exchange Commission, see section 1081 (f).

(b) The requirements for nonrecognition of gain or loss as provided in section 1081 are precisely stated with respect to the following general types of transactions:

(1) The exchange that is provided for in section 1081 (a), in which stock or securities in a registered holding company or a majority-owned subsidiary company are exchanged for stock or securities.

(2) The exchange that is provided for in section 1081 (b), in which a registered holding company or an associate company of a registered holding company exchanges property for property.

(3) The distribution that is provided for in section 1081 (c)(1), in which stock or securities are distributed to a shareholder in a corporation which is a registered holding company or a majority-owned subsidiary company, or the distribution that is provided for in section 1081 (c)(2), in which a corporation distributes to a shareholder, rights to acquire common stock in a second corporation.

(4) The transfer that is provided for in section 1081 (d), in which a corporation which is a member of a system group transfers property to another member of the same system group.

(c) These exceptions to the general rule are to be strictly construed. Unless both the purpose and the specific requirements of sections 1081 to 1083, inclusive, are clearly met, the recognition of gain or loss upon the exchange, sale, or distribution will not be postponed under those sections. Moreover, even though a taxable transaction occurs in connection or simultaneously with a realization of gain or loss to which nonrecognition is accorded, nevertheless, nonrecognition will not be accorded to such taxable transaction. In other words, the provisions of section 1081 do not extend in any case to gain or loss other than that realized from and directly attributable to a disposition of property as such, or the receipt of a corporate distribution as such, in an exchange, sale, or distribution specifically described in section 1081.

(d) The application of the provisions of part VI (section 1081 and following), subchapter O, chapter 1 of the Code, is intended to result only in postponing the recognition of gain or loss until a disposition of property is made which is not covered by such provisions, and, in the case of an exchange or sale subject to the provisions of section 1081 (b), in the reduction of basis of certain property. The provisions of section 1082 with respect to the continuation of basis and the reduction in basis are designed to effect these results. Although the time of recognition may be shifted, there must be a true reflection of income in all cases, and it is intended that the provisions of such part VI, shall not be construed or applied in such a way as to defeat this purpose.
