
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Changes To Effectuate F.C.C. Policy
###### ยง 1.1071-2 Nature and effect of election.
####### Application of section 1033.

(b)(1) If the taxpayer elects, under either paragraph (a)(1) (i) or (ii) of this section, to treat the sale or exchange as an involuntary conversion, the provisions of section 1033, as modified by section 1071, together with the regulations prescribed under such sections, shall be applicable in determining the amount of recognized gain and the basis of property required as a result of such sale or exchange. For the purposes of section 1071 and the regulations thereunder, stock of a corporation operating a radio broadcasting station shall be treated as property similar or related in service or use to the property sold or exchanged. Securities of such a corporation other than stock, or securities of a corporation not operating a radio broadcasting station, do not constitute property similar or related in service or use to the property sold or exchanged. If the taxpayer exercises the election referred to in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, the gain realized upon such sale or exchange shall be recognized to the extent of that part of the money received upon the sale or exchange which is not expended in the manner prescribed in section 1033 and the regulations thereunder. If, however, the taxpayer exercises the elections referred to in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, the amount of the gain which would be recognized, determined in the same manner as in the case of an election under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, shall not be recognized but shall be applied to reduce the basis of property, remaining in the hands of the taxpayer after such sale or exchange or acquired by him during the same taxable year, which is of a character subject to the allowance for depreciation under section 167. Such reduction of basis shall be made in accordance with and under the conditions prescribed by ยง 1.1071-3.

(2) In the application of section 1033 to determine the recognized gain and the basis of property acquired as a result of a sale or exchange pursuant to an election under paragraph (a)(1) (i) or (ii) of this section, the entire amount of the proceeds of such sale or exchange shall be taken into account.
