
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Exchanges in Obedience to S.E.C. Orders
###### ยง 1.1082-1 Basis for determining gain or loss.

(a) For determining the basis of property acquired in a taxable year beginning before January 1, 1942, in any manner described in section 372 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939 prior to its amendment by the Revenue Act of 1942 (56 Stat. 798), see such section (before its amendment by such Act).

(b) If the property was acquired in a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1941, in any manner described in section 1082 (other than subsection (a)(2)), or section 372 (other than subsection (a)(2)) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939 after its amendments, the basis shall be that prescribed in section 1082 with respect to such property. However, in the case of property acquired in a transaction described in section 1081(c)(2), this paragraph is applicable only if the property was acquired in a distribution made in a taxable year subject to the Internal Revenue Code of 1954.

(c) Section 1082 makes provisions with respect to the basis of property acquired in a transfer in connection with which the recognition of gain or loss is prohibited by the provisions of section 1081 with respect to the whole or any part of the property received. In general, and except as provided in ยง 1.1082-3, it is intended that the basis for determining gain or loss pertaining to the property prior to its transfer, as well as the basis for determining the amount of depreciation or depletion deductible and the amount of earnings or profits available for distribution, shall continue notwithstanding the nontaxable conversion of the asset in form or its change in ownership. The continuance of the basis may be reflected in a shift thereof from one asset to another in the hands of the same owner, or in its transfer with the property from one owner into the hands of another. See also ยง 1.1081-2.
