
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Exchanges in Obedience to S.E.C. Orders
###### ยง 1.1082-3 Reduction of basis of property by reason of gain not recognized under section 1081(b).
####### Special cases.

(c)(1) With the consent of the Commissioner, the taxpayer may, however, have the basis of the various units of property within a particular category specified in section 1082(a)(2) adjusted in a manner different from the general rule set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. Variations from such general rule may, for example, involve adjusting the basis of only certain units of the taxpayer's property within a given category. A request for variations from the general rule should be filed by the taxpayer with its income tax return for the taxable year in which the transfer of property has occurred.

(2) Agreement between the taxpayer and the Commissioner as to any variations from such general rule shall be effective only if incorporated in a closing agreement entered into under the provisions of section 7121. If no such agreement is entered into by the taxpayer and the Commissioner, then the consent filed on Form 982 shall (except as otherwise provided in this subparagraph) be deemed to be a consent to the application of such general rule, and such general rule shall apply in the determination of the basis of the taxpayer's property. If, however, the taxpayer specifically states on such form that it does not consent to the application of the general rule, then, in the absence of a closing agreement, the document filed shall not be deemed a consent within the meaning of section 1081(b)(4).
