
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Wash Sales of Stock or Securities
###### ยง 1.1092(b)-3T Mixed straddles; straddle-by-straddle identification under section 1092(b)(2)(A)(i)(I) (Temporary).
####### All positions of a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle are disposed of on the same day.

(2)If all positions of a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle are disposed of (or deemed disposed of) on the same say, gains and losses from section 1256 contracts in the straddle shall be netted, and gains and losses from non-section 1256 positions in the straddle shall be netted. Net gain or loss from the section 1256 contracts shall then be offset against net gain or loss from the non-section 1256 positions to determine the net gain or loss from the straddle. If net gain or loss from the straddle is attributable to the positions of the straddle that are section 1256 contracts, such gain or loss shall be treated as 60 percent long-term capital gain or loss and 40 percent short-term capital gain or loss. If net gain or loss from the straddle is attributable to the positions of the straddle that are non-section 1256 positions, such gain or loss shall be treated as short-term capital gain or loss. This paragraph (b)(2) may be illustrated by the following examples. It is assumed in each example that the positions are the only positions held directly or indirectly (through a related person or flowthrough entity) by an individual calendar year taxpayer during the taxable year.
