
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Wash Sales of Stock or Securities
###### ยง 1.1092(b)-3T Mixed straddles; straddle-by-straddle identification under section 1092(b)(2)(A)(i)(I) (Temporary).
####### All of the non-section 1256 positions of a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle disposed of on the same day.

(3)This paragraph (b)(3) applies if all of the non-section 1256 positions of a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle are disposed of on the same day or if this paragraph (b)(3) is made applicable by paragraph (b)(5) of this section. In the case to which this paragraph (b)(3) applies, gain and loss realized from non-section 1256 positions shall be netted. Realized and unrealized gain and loss with respect to the section 1256 contracts of the straddle also shall be netted on that day. Realized net gain or loss from the non-section 1256 positions shall then be offset against net gain or loss from the section 1256 contracts to determine the net gain or loss from the straddle on that day. Net gain or loss from the straddle that is attributable to the non-section 1256 positions shall be realized and treated as short-term capital gain or loss on that day. Net gain or loss from the straddle that is attributable to realized gain or loss with respect to section 1256 contracts shall be realized and treated as 60 percent long-term capital gain or loss and 40 percent short-term capital gain or loss. Any gain or loss subsequently realized on the section 1256 contracts shall be adjusted (through an adjustment to basis or otherwise) to take into account the extent to which gain or loss was offset by unrealized gain or loss on the section 1256 contracts on that day. This paragraph (b)(3) may be illustrated by the following examples. It is assumed in each example that the positions are the only positions held directly or indirectly (through a related person or flowthrough entity) by an individual calendar year taxpayer during the taxable year.
