
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Wash Sales of Stock or Securities
###### ยง 1.1092(b)-3T Mixed straddles; straddle-by-straddle identification under section 1092(b)(2)(A)(i)(I) (Temporary).
####### All of the section 1256 contracts of a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle disposed of on the same day.

(4)This paragraph (b)(4) applies if all of the section 1256 contracts of a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle are disposed of (or deemed disposed of) on the same day or if this paragraph (b)(4) is made applicable by paragraph (b)(5) of this section. In the case to which this paragraph (b)(4) applies, gain and loss realized from section 1256 contracts shall be netted. Realized and unrealized gain and loss with respect to the non-section 1256 positions of the straddle also shall be netted on that day. Realized net gain or loss from the section 1256 contracts shall be treated as short-term capital gain or loss to the extent of net gain or loss on the non-section 1256 positions on that day. Net gain or loss with respect to the section 1256 contracts that exceeds the net gain or loss with respect to the non-section 1256 positions of the straddle shall be treated as 60 percent long-term capital gain or loss and 40 percent short-term capital gain or loss. See paragraph (b)(7) of this section relating to the gain or loss on such non-section 1256 positions. This paragraph (b)(4) may be illustrated by the following examples. It is assumed in each example that the positions are the only positions held directly or indirectly (through a related person or flowthrough entity) by an individual calendar year taxpayer during the taxable year.
