
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Wash Sales of Stock or Securities
###### ยง 1.1092(b)-3T Mixed straddles; straddle-by-straddle identification under section 1092(b)(2)(A)(i)(I) (Temporary).
####### Disposition of one or more, but not all, positions of a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle on the same day.

(5)If one or more, but not all, of the positions of a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle are disposed of on the same day, and paragraphs (b) (3) and (4) of this section are not applicable (without regard to this paragraph (b)(5)), the gain and loss from the non-section 1256 positions that are disposed of on that day shall be netted, and the gain and loss from the section 1256 contracts that are disposed of on that day shall be netted. In order to determine whether the rules of paragraph (b)(3) or (b)(4) of this section apply, net gain or loss from the section 1256 contracts disposed of shall then be offset against net gain or loss from the non-section 1256 positions disposed of to determine net gain or loss from such positions of the straddle. If net gain or loss from the disposition of such positions of the straddle is attributable to the non-section 1256 positions disposed of, the rules prescribed in paragraph (b)(3) of this section apply. If net gain or loss from the disposition of such positions is attributable to the section 1256 contracts disposed of, the rules prescribed in paragraph (b)(4) of this section apply. If the net gain or loss from the netting of non-section 1256 positions disposed of and the netting of section 1256 contracts disposed of are either both gains or losses, the rules prescribed in paragraph (b)(3) of this section shall apply to net gain or loss from such non-section 1256 positions, and the rules prescribed in paragraph (b)(4) of this section shall apply to net gain or loss from such section 1256 contracts. However, for purposes of determining the treatment of gain or loss subsequently realized on a position of such straddle, to the extent that unrealized gain or loss on other positions was used to offset realized gain or loss on a non-section 1256 position under paragraph (b)(3) of this section, or was used to treat realized gain or loss on a section 1256 contract as short-term capital gain or loss under paragraph (b)(4) of this section, such amount shall not be used for such purposes again. This paragraph (b)(5) may be illustrated by the following examples. It is assumed that the positions are the only positions held directly or indirectly (through a related person or flowthrough entity) by an individual calendar year taxpayer during the taxable year.
