
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Wash Sales of Stock or Securities
###### ยง 1.1092(b)-4T Mixed straddles; mixed straddle account (temporary).
####### Treatment of gains and losses from positions in a mixed straddle account,Daily account net gain or loss.,net non-section 1256 position gain or loss,net section 1256 contract gain or loss,daily account net gain or loss

(c)-(1)Except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section (relating to positions in a mixed straddle account before January 1, 1985) as of the close of each business day of the taxable year, gain or loss shall be determined for each position in a mixed straddle account that is disposed of during the day. Positions in a mixed straddle account that have not been disposed of as of the close of the day shall be treated as if sold for their fair market value at the close of each business day. Gains and losses for each business day from non-section 1256 positions in each mixed straddle account shall be netted to determinefor the account, and gains and losses for each business day from section 1256 contracts in each mixed straddle account shall be netted to determinefor the account. Net non-section 1256 position gain or loss from the account is then offset against net section 1256 contract gain or loss from the same mixed straddle account to determine thefor the account. If daily account net gain or loss is attributable to the net non-section 1256 position gain or loss, daily account net gain or loss for such account shall be treated as short-term capital gain or loss. If daily account net gain or loss is attributable to the net section 1256 contract gain or loss, daily account net gain or loss for such account shall be treated as 60 percent long-term capital gain or loss and 40 percent short-term capital gain or loss. If net non-section 1256 position gain or loss and net section 1256 contract gain or loss are either both gains or both losses, that portion of the daily account net gain or loss attributable to net non-section 1256 position gain or loss shall be treated as short-term capital gain or loss and that portion of the daily account net gain or loss attributable to net section 1256 contract gain or loss shall be treated as 60 percent long-term capital gain or loss and 40 percent short-term capital gain or loss. An adjustment (through an adjustment to basis or otherwise) shall be made to any subsequent gain or loss determined under this paragraph (c)(1) to take into account any gain or loss determined for prior business days under this paragraph (c)(1).
