
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Wash Sales of Stock or Securities
###### ยง 1.1092(b)-4T Mixed straddles; mixed straddle account (temporary).
####### Treatment of gains and losses from positions in a mixed straddle account for taxable years ending on or before December 31, 1984,In general.,1984 net non-section 1256 position gain or loss,1984 net section 1256 contract gain or loss,annual account net gain or loss

(e)-(1)For mixed straddle accounts established on or before December 31, 1984, in taxable years ending on or before December 31, 1984, the taxpayer at the close of the taxable year shall determine gain or loss for each position in the mixed straddle account that has been disposed of on any day during the period beginning on the later of the first day of the taxable year or January 1, 1984, and ending on the last day of the taxable year. Positions in the mixed straddle account that have not been disposed of as of the close of the last business day of the taxable year shall be treated as if sold for their fair market value at the close of such day. Gains and losses from non-section 1256 positions in each mixed straddle account shall be netted to determinefor the account and gains and losses from section 1256 contracts shall be netted to determinefor the account. The 1984 net non-section 1256 position gain or loss is then offset against 1984 net section 1256 contract gain or loss from the same mixed straddle account to determinefor the account. If annual account net gain or loss is attributable to 1984 net non-section 1256 position gain or loss, annual account net gain or loss shall be treated as short-term capital gain or loss. If annual account net gain or loss is attributable to 1984 net section 1256 contract gain or loss, annual account net gain or loss shall be treated as 60 percent long-term capital gain or loss and 40 percent short-term capital gain or loss. If 1984 net non-section 1256 position gain or loss and 1984 net section 1256 contract gain or loss are either both gains or both losses, that portion of annual account net gain or loss attributable to 1984 net non-section 1256 position gain or loss shall be treated as short-term capital gain or loss and that portion of annual account net gain or loss attributable to 1984 net section 1256 contract gain or loss shall be treated as 60 percent long-term capital gain or loss and 40 percent short-term capital gain or loss. An adjustment (through an adjustment to basis or otherwise) shall be made to any subsequent gain or loss realized with respect to such positions for any gain or loss recognized under this paragraph (e). See paragraph (c) (2) through (5) of this section relating to determining the total annual account net gain or loss, application of section 263(g) to mixed straddle accounts, the limitation on the total annual account net gain or loss, and treatment of accrued gain or loss with respect to positions includible in a mixed straddle account.
