
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Wash Sales of Stock or Securities
###### ยง 1.1092(b)-4T Mixed straddles; mixed straddle account (temporary).
####### Election,Time for making the election.

(f)-(1)Except as otherwise provided, the election under this section to establish one or more mixed straddle accounts for a taxable year must be made by the due date (without regard to automatic and discretionary extensions) of the taxpayer's income tax return for the immediately preceding taxable year (or part thereof). For example, an individual taxpayer on a calendar year basis must make the election by April 15, 1986, to establish one or more mixed straddle accounts for taxable year 1986. Similarly, a calendar year corporate taxpayer must make its election by March 15, 1986, to establish one or more mixed straddle accounts for 1986. If a taxpayer begins trading or investing in positions in a new class of activities during a taxable year, the election under this section with respect to the new class of activities must be made by the taxpayer by the later of the due date of the taxpayer's income tax return for the immediately preceding taxable year (without regard to automatic and discretionary extensions), or 60 days after the first mixed straddle in the new class of activities is entered into. Similarly, if on or after the date the election is made with respect to an account, the taxpayer begins trading or investing in positions that are includible in such account but were not specified in the original election, the taxpayer must make an amended election as prescribed in paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section by the later of the due date of the taxpayer's income tax return for the immediately preceding taxable year (without regard to automatic and discretionary extensions), or 60 days after the acquisition of the first of the positions. If an election is made after the times specified in this paragraph (f)(1), the election will be permitted only if the Commissioner concludes that the taxpayer had reasonable cause for failing to make a timely election. For example, if a calendar year taxpayer holds few positions in one class of activities prior to April 15 of a taxable year, and the taxpayer greatly increases trading activity with respect to positions in the class of activities after April 15, then the Commissioner may conclude that the taxpayer had reasonable cause for failing to make a timely election and allow the taxpayer to make a mixed straddle account election for the taxable year. See paragraph (f)(2) of this section for rules relating to the manner for making these elections.
