
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Wash Sales of Stock or Securities
###### ยง 1.1092(b)-4T Mixed straddles; mixed straddle account (temporary).
####### Treatment of gains and losses from positions in a mixed straddle account established on or before December 31, 1984, in taxable years ending after December 31, 1984; pre-1985 account net gain or loss.,pre-1985 net non-section 1256 position gain or loss,pre-1985 net section 1256 contract gain or loss.,pre-1985 account net gain or loss

(d)For mixed straddle accounts established on or before December 31, 1984, in taxable years ending after December 31, 1984, the taxpayer on December 31, 1984, shall determine gain or loss for each position in the mixed straddle account that has been disposed of on any day during the period beginning on the first day of the taxpayer's taxable year that includes December 31, 1984, and ending on December 31, 1984. Positions in the mixed straddle account that have not been disposed of as of the close of December 31, 1984, shall be treated as if sold for their fair market value as of the close of December 31, 1984. Gains and losses for such period from non-section 1256 positions in each mixed straddle account shall be netted to determineand gains and losses for such period from section 1256 contracts in each mixed straddle account shall be netted to determinePre-1985 net non-section 1256 position gain or loss is then offset against pre-1985 net section 1256 contract gain or loss from the same mixed straddle account to determine thefor the period. If the pre-1985 account net gain or loss is attributable to pre-1985 net non-section 1256 position gain or loss, the pre-1985 account net gain or loss from such account shall be treated as short-term capital gain or loss. If the pre-1985 account net gain or loss is attributable to pre-1985 net section 1256 contract gain or loss, the pre-1985 account net gain or loss from such account shall be treated as 60 percent long-term capital gain or loss and 40 percent short-term capital gain or loss. If pre-1985 net non-section 1256 position gain or loss and pre-1985 net section 1256 contract gain or loss are either both gains or losses, that portion of the pre-1985 account net gain or loss attributable to pre-1985 net non-section 1256 position gain or loss shall be treated as short-term capital gain or loss and that portion of the pre-1985 account net gain or loss attributable to pre-1985 net section 1256 contract gain or loss shall be treated as 60 percent long-term capital gain or loss and 40 percent short-term capital gain or loss. An adjustment (through an adjustment to basis or otherwise) shall be made to any subsequent gain or loss realized with respect to such positions for any gain or loss recognized under this paragraph (d). To determine the annual account net gain or loss for such account, the pre-1985 account net gain or loss shall be treated as daily account net gain or loss for purposes of paragraph (c)(2) of this section. See paragraph (c)(5) of this section for treatment of accrued gain or loss with respect to positions includible in a mixed straddle account.
