
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Wash Sales of Stock or Securities
###### § 1.1092(b)-6 Mixed straddles; accrued gain and loss associated with a position that becomes part of a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle that is established after August 18, 2014.
####### Treatment of unrealized gain or loss that arose before a position becomes part of an identified mixed straddle.

(a)Except as otherwise provided, if one or more positions of a straddle that is an identified mixed straddle described in section 1092(b)(2)(A)(i)(I) (identified mixed straddle) were held by the taxpayer on the day prior to the day the identified mixed straddle is established, any unrealized gain or loss on the day prior to the day the identified mixed straddle is established with respect to such position or positions is taken into account at the time, and has the character, provided by the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code that would apply to the gain or loss if the identified mixed straddle were not established. Thus, if a non-section 1256 capital asset was held for the long-term capital gain holding period before the identified mixed straddle was established, any unrealized gain or loss on that asset on the day prior to the day the identified mixed straddle was established will be long-term capital gain or loss when that asset is sold or otherwise disposed of in a taxable transaction. Unrealized gain or loss on a section 1256 contract that accrued prior to the day the contract became part of an identified mixed straddle will be recognized no later than the last business day of the taxpayer's taxable year. For each position, unrealized gain or loss is the difference between the fair market value of the position at the close of the day before the day the identified mixed straddle is established and the taxpayer's basis in that position. See § 1.1092(b)-2T and paragraph (b) of this section for the treatment of holding periods with respect to such positions. Changes in value of the position or positions that occur on or after the identified mixed straddle is established are accounted for under the provisions of § 1.1092(b)-3T (other than § 1.1092(b)-3T(b)(6)). The definitions in § 1.1092(b)-5T apply for purposes of this section.
