
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Wash Sales of Stock or Securities
###### ยง 1.1092(c)-4 Definitions.
####### Equity option with flexible terms

(a)means an equity option-

(1) That is described in any of the following Securities Exchange Act Releases-

(i) Self-Regulatory Organizations; Order Approving Proposed Rule Changes and Notice of Filing and Order Granting Accelerated Approval of Amendments by the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc. and the Pacific Stock Exchange, Inc., Relating to the Listing of Flexible Equity Options on Specified Equity Securities, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34-36841 (Feb. 21, 1996); or

(ii) Self-Regulatory Organizations; Order Approving Proposed Rule Changes and Notice of Filing and Order Granting Accelerated Approval of Amendment Nos. 2 and 3 to the Proposed Rule Change by the American Stock Exchange, Inc., Relating to the Listing of Flexible Equity Options on Specified Equity Securities, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34-37336 (June 27, 1996); or

(iii) Self-Regulatory Organizations; Order Approving Proposed Rule Change and Notice of Filing and Order Granting Accelerated Approval of Amendment Nos. 2, 4 and 5 to the Proposed Rule Change by the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc., Relating to the Listing of Flexible Exchange Traded Equity and Index Options, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34-39549 (Jan. 23, 1998); or

(iv) Any changes to the Security Exchange Act Releases described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section that are approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission; or

(2) That is traded on any national securities exchange that is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (other than those described in the Security Exchange Act Releases set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section) and is-

(i) Substantially identical to the equity options described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section; and
