
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Wash Sales of Stock or Securities
###### ยง 1.1201-1 Alternative tax.
####### Corporations,In general.

(a)-(1)(i) If for any taxable year a corporation has net capital gain (net section 1201 gain for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1977) (as defined in section 1222(11)) section 1201(a) imposes an alternative tax in lieu of the tax imposed by sections 11 and 511, but only if such alternative tax is less than the tax imposed by sections 11 and 511. The alternative tax is not in lieu of the personal holding company tax imposed by section 541 or of any other tax not specifically set forth in section 1201(a).

(ii) In the case of an insurance company, the alternative tax imposed by section 1201(a) is also in lieu of the tax imposed by sections 821 (a) or (c) and 831 (a), except that for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1963, the reference to section 821 (a) or (c) is to be read as reference to section 821 (a)(1) or (b). For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1954, and before January 1, 1958, the alternative tax imposed by section 1201(a) shall also be in lieu of the tax imposed by section 802(a), as amended by the Life Insurance Company Tax Act for 1955 (70 Stat. 38), if such alternative tax is less than the tax imposed by such section. See section 802(e), as added by the Life Insurance Company Tax Act for 1955 (70 Stat. 39). However, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1958, and before January 1, 1962, section 802(a)(2), as amended by the Life Insurance Company Income Tax Act of 1959 (73 Stat. 115), imposes a separate tax equal to 25 percent of the amount by which the net long-term capital gain of any life insurance company (as defined in section 801(a) and paragraph (b) of ยง 1.801-3) exceeds its net short-term capital loss. See paragraph (f) of ยง 1.802-3. For alternative tax for life insurance companies in the case of taxable years beginning after December 31, 1961, see section 802(a)(2) and the regulations thereunder.

(iii) See section 56 and the regulations thereunder for provisions relating to the minimum tax for tax preferences.
