
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Treatment of Capital Losses
###### ยง 1.1212-1 Capital loss carryovers and carrybacks.
####### Corporations; other taxpayers for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1964,Regular net capital loss sustained for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1970.

(a)-(1)(i) A corporation sustaining a net capital loss for any taxable year beginning before January 1, 1970, and a taxpayer other than a corporation sustaining a net capital loss for any taxable year beginning before January 1, 1964, shall carry over such net loss to each of the 5 succeeding taxable years and treat it in each of such 5 succeeding taxable years as a short-term capital loss to the extent not allowed as a deduction against any net capital gains (capital gain net income for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) of any taxable years intervening between the taxable year in which the net capital loss was sustained and the taxable year to which carried. The carryover is thus applied in each succeeding taxable year to offset any net capital gain in such succeeding taxable year. The amount of the capital loss carryover may not be included in computing a new net capital loss of a taxable year which can be carried over to the next 5 succeeding taxable years. For purposes of this subparagraph, a net capital gain (capital gain net income for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) shall be computed without regard to capital loss carryovers or carrybacks. In the case of nonresident alien individuals, see section 871 for special rules on capital loss carryovers. For the rules applicable to the portion of a net capital loss of a corporation which is attributable to a foreign expropriation capital loss sustained in taxable years beginning after December 31, 1958, see subparagraph (2) of this paragraph. For the rules applicable to a taxpayer other than a corporation in the treatment of that amount of a net capital loss which may be carried over under section 1212 and this subparagraph as a short-term capital loss to the first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1963, see paragraph (b) of this section.

(ii) The practical operation of the provisions of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following example:
