
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Treatment of Capital Losses
###### ยง 1.1212-1 Capital loss carryovers and carrybacks.
####### Husband and wife.

(c)(1) The following rules shall be applied in computing capital loss carryovers by husband and wife:

(i) If a husband and wife making a joint return for any taxable year made separate returns for the preceding year, any capital loss carryovers of each spouse from such preceding taxable year may be carried forward to the taxable year in accordance with paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.

(ii) If a joint return was made for the preceding taxable year, any capital loss carryover from such preceding taxable year may be carried forward to the taxable year in accordance with paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.

(iii) If a husband and wife make separate returns for the first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1963, or any prior taxable year, and they made a joint return for the preceding taxable year, any capital loss carryover from such preceding taxable year shall be allocated to the spouses on the basis of their individual net capital loss which gave rise to such capital loss carryover. The capital loss carryover so allocated to each spouse may be carried forward by such spouse to the taxable year in accordance with paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.

(iv) If a husband and wife making separate returns for any taxable year following the first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1963, made a joint return for the preceding taxable year, any long-term or short-term capital loss carryovers shall be allocated to the spouses on the basis of their individual net long-term and net short-term capital losses for the preceding taxable year which gave rise to such capital loss carryovers, and the portions of the long-term or short-term capital loss carryovers so allocated to each spouse may be carried forward by such spouse to the taxable year in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.

(v) If separate returns are made both for the taxable year and the preceding taxable year, any capital loss carryover of each spouse may be carried forward by such spouse in accordance with paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.

(2) The provisions of subparagraph (1) (i), (iii), and (iv) of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:
