
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### General Rules for Determining Capital Gains and Losses
###### ยง 1.1221-2 Hedging transactions.
####### Identification of hedges involving members of the same consolidated group,General rule: single-entity approach.,Example 1

(5)-(i)A member of a consolidated group must satisfy the requirements of this paragraph (f) as if all of the members of the group were divisions of a single corporation. Thus, the member entering into the hedging transaction with a third party must identify the hedging transaction under paragraph (f)(1) of this section. Under paragraph (f)(2) of this section, that member must also identify the item, items, or aggregate risk that is being hedged, even if the item, items, or aggregate risk relates primarily or entirely to other members of the group. If the members of a group use intercompany transactions to transfer risk within the group, the requirements of paragraph (f)(2) of this section may be met by identifying the intercompany transactions, and the risks hedged by the intercompany transactions, as hedges or hedged items, as appropriate. Because identification of the intercompany transaction as a hedge serves solely to identify the hedged item, the identification is timely if made within the period required by paragraph (f)(2) of this section. For example, if a member transfers risk in an intercompany transaction, it may identify under the rules of this paragraph (f) both its position in that transaction and the item, items, or aggregate risk being hedged. The member that hedges the risk outside the group may identify under the rules of this paragraph (f) both its position with the third party and its position in the intercompany transaction. Paragraph (e)(4)of this section illustrates this identification.
