
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### General Rules for Determining Capital Gains and Losses
###### ยง 1.1222-1 Other terms relating to capital gains and losses.
####### net capital loss,net capital loss.

(e) The termmeans the excess of the losses from sales or exchanges of capital assets over the sum allowed under section 1211. However, in the case of a corporation, amounts which are short-term capital losses under ยง 1.1212-1(a) are excluded in determining such

(f) See section 165(g) and section 166(e), under which losses from worthless stocks, bonds, and other securities (if they constitute capital assets) are required to be treated as losses under subchapter P (section 1201 and following), chapter 1 of the Code, from the sale or exchange of capital assets, even though such securities are not actually sold or exchanged. See also section 1231 and ยง 1.1231-1 for the determination of whether or not gains and losses from the involuntary conversion of capital assets and from the sale, exchange, or involuntary conversion of certain property used in the trade or business shall be treated as gains and losses from the sale or exchange of capital assets. See also section 1236 and ยง 1.1236-1 for the determination of whether or not gains from the sale or exchange of securities by a dealer in securities shall be treated as capital gains, or whether losses from such sales or exchanges shall be treated as ordinary losses.

(g) In the case of nonresident alien individuals not engaged in trade or business within the United States, see section 871 and the regulations thereunder for the determination of the net amount of capital gains subject to tax.

(h) The term net capital gain (net section 1201 gain for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1977) means the excess of the net long-term capital gain for the taxable year over the net short-term capital loss for such year.
