
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### General Rules for Determining Capital Gains and Losses
###### ยง 1.1223-3 Rules relating to the holding periods of partnership interests.
####### PRS,A,PRS,A,A,A,PRS,A,PRS,A,PRS,A,A,PRS,A,A,A

A publicly traded partnership () has ownership interests that are segregated into identifiable units of interest.owns 10 limited partnership units infor whichpaid $10,000 on January 1, 1999. On August 1, 2000,purchases five additional units for $10,000. At the time of purchase, the fair market value of each unit has increased to $2,000.'s holding period for one-third ($10,000/$30,000) of the interest inbegins on the day after the purchase of the five additional units. Less than one year later,sells five units of ownership infor $11,000. At the time,'s basis in the 15 units ofis $20,000, and's capital gain on the sale of 5 units is $4,333 (amount realized of $11,000-one-third of the adjusted basis or $6,667). For purposes of determining the holding period,can designate the specific units ofsold. Ifproperly identifies the five units sold as five of the ten units for whichhas a long-term holding period and elects to use the identification method for all subsequent sales or exchanges of interests in the partnership by using the actual holding period in reporting the transaction on's Federal income tax return, the capital gain realized will be long-term capital gain.
