
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Rules for Determining Capital Gains and Losses
###### § 1.1232-1 Bonds and other evidences of indebtedness; scope of section.
####### In general.

(a)Section 1232 applies to any bond, debenture, note, or certificate or other evidence of indebtedness (referred to in this section and §§ 1.1232-3 and 1.1232-3A as an obligation) which is a capital asset in the hands of the taxpayer, and which is issued by any corporation, or by any government or political subdivision thereof. In general, section 1232(a)(1) provides that the retirement of an obligation, other than certain obligations issued before January 1, 1955, is considered to be an exchange and, therefore, is usually subject to capital gain or loss treatment. In general, section 1232(a)(2)(B) provides that in the case of a gain realized on the sale or exchange of certain obligations issued at a discount after December 31, 1954, which are either corporate bonds issued on or before May 27, 1969, or government bonds, the amount of gain equal to such discount or, under certain circumstances, the amount of gain equal to a specified portion of such discount, constitutes ordinary income. In the case of certain corporate obligations issued after May 27, 1969, in general, section 1232(a)(3) provides for the inclusion as interest in gross income of a ratable portion of original issue discount for each taxable year over the life of the obligation, section 1232(a)(3)(E) provides for an increase in basis equal to the original issue discount included in gross income, and section 1232(a)(2)(A) provides that any gain realized on such an obligation held more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977) shall be considered gain from the sale or exchange of a capital asset held more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977). For the requirements for reporting original issue discount on certain obligations issued after May 27, 1969, see section 6049(a) and the regulations thereunder. Section 1232(c) treats as ordinary income a portion of any gain realized upon the disposition of coupon obligations which were acquired after August 16, 1954, and before January 1, 1958, without all coupons maturing more than 12 months after purchase attached, and coupon obligations which were acquired after December 31, 1957, without all coupons maturing after the date of purchase attached.
