
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Rules for Determining Capital Gains and Losses
###### ยง 1.1232-3 Gain upon sale or exchange of obligations issued at a discount after December 31, 1954.
####### Stated redemption price at maturity,a,stated redemption price at maturity,1,2,e,a,2,c,f

(iii)-() Definition. Except as otherwise provided in this subdivision (iii), the termmeans the amount fixed by the last modification of the purchase agreement, including dividends, interest, and any other amounts, however designated, payable at that time. If any amount based on a fixed rate of simple or compound interest is actually payable or will be treated as constructively received under section 451 and the regulations thereunder either: () At fixed periodic intervals of one year or less during the entire term of an obligation, or () except as provided in subdivision () of this paragraph (b)(1)(iii), at maturity in the case of an obligation with a term of one year or less, any such amount payable at maturity shall not be included in determining the stated redemption price at maturity. For purposes of subdivision ()() of this paragraph (b)(1)(iii), the term of an obligation shall include any renewal period with respect to which, under the terms of the obligation, the holder may either take action or refrain from taking action which would prevent the actual or constructive receipt of any interest on such obligation until the expiration of any such renewal period. To illustrate this paragraph (b)(1)(iii), assume that a note which promises to pay $1,000 at the end of three years provides for additional amounts labeled as interest to be paid at the rate of $50 at the end of the first year, $50 at the end of the second year, and $120 at the end of the third year. The stated redemption price at maturity will be $1,070 since only $50 of the $120 payable at the end of the third year is based on a fixed rate of simple or compound interest. If, however, the $120 were payable at the end of the second year, so that only $50 in addition to principal would be payable at the end of the third year, then under the rule for serial obligations contained in subparagraph (2)(iv)() of this paragraph, the $1,000 note is treated as consisting of two series. The first series is treated as maturing at the end of the second year at a stated redemption price of $70. The second series is treated as maturing at the end of the third year at a stated redemption price of $1,000. For the calculation of issue price and the allocation of original issue discount with respect to each such series, see example (3) of subparagraph (2)(iv)() of this paragraph.
