
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Rules for Determining Capital Gains and Losses
###### ยง 1.1232-3 Gain upon sale or exchange of obligations issued at a discount after December 31, 1954.
####### Investment units consisting of obligations and property-(a) In general.

(ii)An investment unit, within the meaning of this subdivision (ii) and for purposes of section 1232, consists of an obligation and an option, security, or other property. For purposes of this subparagraph, the initial offering price of an investment unit shall be allocated to the individual elements of the unit on the basis of their respective fair market values. However, if the fair market value of the option, security, or other property is not readily ascertainable (within the meaning of paragraph (c) of ยง 1.421-6), then the portion of the initial offering price or price paid by the first buyer of the unit which is allocable to the obligation issued as part of such unit shall be ascertained as of the time of acquisition of such unit by reference to the assumed price at which such obligation would have been issued had it been issued apart from such unit. The assumed price of the obligation shall be ascertained by comparison to the yields at which obligations of a similar character which are not issued as part of an investment unit are sold in arm's length transactions, and by adjusting the price of the obligation in question to this yield. The adjustment may be made by subtracting from the face amount of the obligation the total present value of the interest foregone by the purchaser as a result of purchasing the obligation at a lower yield as part of an investment unit. In most cases, assumed price may also be determined in a similar manner through the use of standard bond tables. Any reasonable method may be used in selecting an obligation for comparative purposes. Obligations of the same grade and classification shall be used to the extent possible, and proper regard shall be given, with respect to both the obligation in question and the comparative obligation, to the solvency of the issuer, the nature of the issuer's trade or business, the presence and nature of security for the obligation, the geographic area in which the loan is made, and all other factors relevant to the circumstances. An obligation which is convertible into stock or another obligation must not be used as a comparative obligation (except where the investment unit contains an obligation convertible into stock or another obligation), since such an obligation would not reflect the yield attributable solely to the obligation element of the investment unit.
