
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Rules for Determining Capital Gains and Losses
###### ยง 1.1232-3 Gain upon sale or exchange of obligations issued at a discount after December 31, 1954.
####### Issue price defined,In general.,issue price,the public,a,initial offering price,price paid by the first buyer

(2)-(i)The termin the case of obligations registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission means the initial offering price to the public at which price a substantial amount of such obligations were sold. For this purpose, the termdoes not include bond houses and brokers, or similar persons or organizations acting in the capacity of underwriters or wholesalers. Ordinarily, the issue price will be the first price at which the obligations were sold to the public, and the issue price will not change if, due to market developments, part of the issue must be sold at a different price. When obligations are privately placed, the issue price of each obligation is the price paid by the first buyer of the particular obligation, irrespective of the issue price of the remainder of the issue. In the case of an obligation issued by a foreign obligor, the issue price shall be increased by the amount, if any, of interest equalization tax paid under section 4911 (and not credited, refunded, or reimbursed) on the acquisition of the obligation by the first buyer. In the case of an obligation which is convertible into stock or another obligation, the issue price includes any amount paid in respect of the conversion privilege. However, in the case of an obligation issued as part of an investment unit (as defined in subdivision (ii)() of this subparagraph), the issue price of the obligation includes only that portion of the initial offering price or price paid by the first buyer properly allocable to the obligation under the rules prescribed in subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph. The termsandinclude the aggregate payments made by the purchaser under the purchase agreement, including modifications thereof. Thus, all amounts paid by the purchaser under the purchase agreement or a modification of it are included in the issue price (but in the case of an obligation issued as part of an investment unit, only to the extent allocable to such obligation under subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph), such as amounts paid upon face-amount certificates or installment trust certificates in which the purchaser contracts to make a series of payments which will be returnable to the holder with an increment at a later date.
