
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Rules for Determining Capital Gains and Losses
###### ยง 1.1232-3 Gain upon sale or exchange of obligations issued at a discount after December 31, 1954.
####### e,Amounts previously includible in income.

()Nothing in section 1232(a)(2) shall require the inclusion of any amount previously includible in gross income. Thus, if an amount was previously includible in a taxpayer's income on account of obligations issued at a discount and redeemable for fixed amounts increasing at stated intervals, or, under section 818(b) (relating to accrual of discount on bonds and other evidences of indebtedness held by life insurance companies), such amount is not again includible in the taxpayer's gross income under section 1232(a)(2). For example, amounts includible in gross income by a cash receipts and disbursements method taxpayer who has made an election under section 454 (a) or (c) (relating to accounting rules for certain obligations issued at a discount to which section 1232(a)(3) does not apply) are not includible in gross income under section 1232(a)(2). In the case of a gain which would include, under section 1232(a)(2), an amount considered to be ordinary income and a further amount considered long-term capital gain, any amount to which this paragraph applies is first used to offset the amount considered ordinary income. For example, on January 1, 1955, A purchases a 10-year bond which is redeemable for fixed amounts increasing at stated intervals. At the time of original issue, there was no intention to call the bond before maturity. The purchase price of the bond is $75, which is also the issue price. The stated redemption price at maturity of the bond is $100. A elects to treat the annual increase in the redemption price of the bond as income pursuant to section 454(a). On January 1, 1960, A sells the bond for $90. The total stated increase in the redemption price of the bond which A has reported annually as income for the taxable years 1955 through 1959 is $7. The portion of the original issue discount of $25 attributable to this period is $12.50, computed as follows:
