
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Rules for Determining Capital Gains and Losses
###### ยง 1.1234-2 Special rule for grantors of straddles applicable to certain options granted on or before September 1, 1976.
####### Special rules in the case of a multiple option.

(c)(1) If, in the case of a multiple option, the number of the options to sell and the number of the options to buy are the same and if the terms of all of the options are identical (as to the quantity of the security, price, and period of time), then each of the options contained in the multiple option shall be deemed to be a component of a straddle for purposes of section 1234(c)(1) and paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) If, in the case of a multiple option, the number of the options to sell and the number of the options to buy are not the same or if the terms of all of the options are not identical (as to the quantity of the security, price, and period of time), then section 1234(c)(1) applies to gain on the lapse of an option granted as part of the multiple option only if:

(i) The grantor of the multiple option identifies the two options which comprise each straddle contained in the multiple option in the manner prescribed in subparagraph (3) of this paragraph; or

(ii) It is clear from the facts and circumstances that the lapsed option was part of a straddle. See example (6) of paragraph (f) of this section. A multiple option to which this subdivision applies may not be regarded as consisting of a number of straddles which exceeds the lesser of the options to sell or the options to buy as the case may be. For example, if a multiple option of five puts and four calls is granted it may not be regarded as consisting of more than four straddles, although the particular facts and circumstances could dictate that the option consists of less than four straddles.

(3) The identification required under subparagraph (2)(i) of this paragraph shall be made by the grantor indicating in his records, to the extent feasible, the individual serial number of, or other characteristic symbol imprinted upon, each of the two individual options which comprise the straddle, or by adopting any other method of identification satisfactory to the Commissioner. Such identification must be made before the expiration of the 15th day after the day on which the multiple option is granted. The preceding sentence shall apply only with respect to multiple options granted after January 24, 1972. In computing the 15-day period prescribed by this paragraph, the first day of such period is the day following the day on which the multiple option is granted.
