
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Rules for Determining Capital Gains and Losses
###### § 1.1245-2 Definition of recomputed basis.
####### Allocation of adjustments attributable to periods after certain dates.

(6)(i) For purposes of determining recomputed basis, the amount of adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis of property other than property described in subparagraph (2) (ii), (iii), or (iv) of this paragraph are limited to adjustments attributable to periods after December 31, 1961. Accordingly, if depreciation deducted with respect to such property of a calendar year taxpayer is $1,000 a year (the amount allowable) for each of 10 years beginning with 1956, only the depreciation deducted in 1962 and succeeding years shall be treated as reflected in the adjusted basis for purposes of determining recomputed basis. With respect to a taxable year beginning in 1961 and ending in 1962, the deduction for depreciation or amortization shall be ascertained by applying the principles stated in paragraph (c)(3) of § 1.167(a)-8 (relating to determination of adjusted basis of retired asset). The amount of the deduction, determined in such manner, shall be allocated on a daily basis in order to determine the portion thereof which is attributable to a period after December 31, 1961. Thus, for example, if a taxpayer, whose fiscal year ends on May 31, 1962, acquires section 1245 property on November 12, 1961, and the deduction for depreciation attributable to the property for such fiscal year is ascertained (under the principles of paragraph (c)(3) of § 1.167(a)-8) to be $400, then the portion thereof attributable to a period after December 31, 1961, is $302 (of $400). If, however, the property were acquired by such taxpayer after December 31, 1961, the entire deduction for depreciation attributable to the property for such fiscal year would be allocable to a period after December 31, 1961. For treatment of certain normal retirements described in paragraph (e)(2) of § 1.167(a)-8, see paragraph (c) of § 1.1245-6. For principles of determining the amount of adjustments for depreciation or amortization reflected in the adjusted basis of property upon an abnormal retirement of property in a multiple asset account, see paragraph (c)(3) of § 1.167(a)-8.

(ii) For purposes of determining recomputed basis, the amount of adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis of an elevator or escalator are limited to adjustments attributable to periods after June 30, 1963.

(iii) For purposes of determining recomputed basis, the amount of adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis of livestock (described in subparagraph (2)(iii) of this paragraph) are limited to adjustments attributable to periods after December 31, 1969.
