
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### credits allowable under sections 30 through 45D
###### ยง 1.36B-2 Eligibility for premium tax credit.
####### ii,1,2,2

() E and F are members of D's family as defined in ยง 1.36B-1(d). G is not a member of D's family under ยง 1.36B-1(d), because G is not D's dependent. Under paragraph (c)(3)(v)(A)() of this section, D's employer's coverage is affordable for D because D's required contribution for self-only coverage does not exceed the required contribution percentage of D's and E's household income. D's employer's coverage also is affordable for E and F, because, under paragraph (c)(3)(v)(A)() of this section, D's required contribution for coverage of D, E, and F does not exceed the required contribution percentage of D's and E's household income. Although D's cost to cover D, E, F, and G exceeds the required contribution percentage of D's and E's household income, under paragraph (c)(3)(v)(A)() of this section, the cost to cover G is not considered in determining whether D's employer's coverage is affordable for E and F, regardless of whether G actually enrolls in the plan, because G is not in D's family. D, E, and F are eligible for minimum essential coverage for all months in 2023. Under paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section, G is considered eligible for the coverage offered by D's employer only if G enrolls in the coverage.
