
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Specifically Excluded From Gross Income
###### ยง 1.103A-2 Qualified mortgage bond.
####### Definitions and special rules.

(4)(i) For purposes of this paragraph the term "annualized gross income" means the borrower's gross monthly income muliplied by 12. Gross monthly income is the sum of monthly gross pay, any additional income from investments, pensions, Veterans Administration (VA) compensation, part-time employment, bonuses, dividends, interest, current overtime pay, net rental income, etc., and other income (such as alimony and child support, if the borrower has chosen to disclose such income). Information with respect to gross monthly income may be obtained from available loan documents, e.g., the sum of lines 23D and 23E on the Application for VA or FmHA Home Loan Guaranty or for HUD/FHA Insured Mortgage (VA Form 26-1802a, HUD 92900, Jan. 1982), or the total line from the Gross Monthly Income section of FHLMC Residential Loan Application form (FHLMC 65 Rev. 8/78). With respect to obligations issued prior to October 1, 1985, issuers may submit data based on annualized gross income or, instead, based on the adjusted income (as defined in ยง 1.167(k)-3(b)(3)) of the mortgagor's family for the previous calendar year. If data is submitted based on adjusted income, the issuer must note this fact in the report.

(ii) For purposes of this paragraph, the term "reporting period" means the following periods:

(A) The period beginning January 1, 1985, and ending on September 30, 1985,

(B) The period beginning on October 1, 1985, and ending on June 30, 1986, and

(C) After June 30, 1986, each 1-year period beginning July 1 and ending June 30.

(iii) See the regulations under section 103(l) for the definitions of the terms "date of issue", "maturity", and "term of issue".

(iv) For purposes of this paragraph, verification of information concernig a borrower's gross monthly income with other available information concerning the borrower's income (e.g., Federal income tax returns) is not required. In determining whether a borrower acquiring a residence in a targeted area satisfies the 3-year requirement, the issuer may rely on a statement signed by the borrower.
