
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Specifically Excluded From Gross Income
###### ยง 1.103A-2 Qualified mortgage bond.
####### Time for filing.

(5)(i) The report required by paragraph (k)(2)(i) of this section shall be filed not later than the 15th day of the second calendar month after the close of the calendar quarter in which the obligation is issued. The statement may be filed at any time before such date but must be complete based on facts and reasonable expectations as of the date of issue. The statement need not be amended to report information learned subsequent to the date of issue or to reflect changed circumstances with respect to the issuer.

(ii) The report required by paragraph (k)(2)(ii) of this section (relating to use of proceeds) shall be filed not later than the 15th day of the second calendar month after the close of the reporting period, except that the report for the reporting period ending September 30, 1985, is due not later than February 15, 1986. The report may be filed at any time before such date but must be complete based on facts and reasonable expectations as of the date the report is filed. The report need not be amended to reflect information learned subsequent to the date the report is filed or to reflect changed circumstances with respect to any borrower.

(iii) The Commissioner may grant an extension of time for the filing of a report required by paragraph (k)(2) (i) or (ii) of this section if there is reasonable cause for the failure to file such report in a timely fashion.

(iv) An issue of qualified veterans' mortgage bonds issued after July 18, 1984, and prior to January 1, 1985, will be treated as satisfying the information reporting requirement of this paragraph if a Form 8038 with respect to the issue is properly filed not later than February 15, 1985; the report described in paragraph (k)(2)(ii) of this section need not be filed with respect to such issues.
