
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Specifically Excluded From Gross Income
###### ยง 1.103A-2 Qualified mortgage bond.
####### Public hearing.

(4)The public hearing required by paragraph (l)(1) of this section means a forum providing a reasonable opportunity for interested individuals to express their views, both orally and in writing, on the report that the applicable representative proposes to publish to satisfy the requirements of this paragraph (l). A public hearing held prior to January 1, 1985, will not fail to satisfy the requirements of this paragraph (l)(4) merely because the proposed policy statement was not available prior to the public hearing. In general, a governmental unit may select its own procedure for the hearing, provided that interested individuals have a reasonable opportunity to express their views. Thus, it may impose reasonable requirements on persons who wish to participate in the hearing, such as a requirement that persons desiring to speak at the hearing so request in writing at least 24 hours before the hearing or that they limit their oral remarks to 10 minutes. For purposes of this public hearing requirement, it is not necessary that the applicable elected representative who will publish the report be present at the hearing, that a report on the hearing be submitted to that official, or that State administrative procedural requirements for public hearings in general be observed. However, compliance with such State procedural requirements (except those at variance with a specific requirement set forth in this paragraph) will generally assure that the hearing satisfies the requirements of this paragraph. The hearing may be conducted by any individual appointed or employed to perform such function by the governmental unit, its agencies, or by the issuer. Thus, for example, for a report to be issued by an issuing authority that acts on behalf of a county, the hearing may be conducted by the issuing authority, the county, or an appointee or employee of either.
