
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Rules for Determining Capital Gains and Losses
###### ยง 1.1250-3 Exceptions and limitations.
####### Disposition of principal residence,In general.

(g)-(1)(i) Section 1250(d)(7)(A) provides that section 1250(a) shall not apply to a disposition of property by a taxpayer to the extent the property is used by the taxpayer as his principal residence (within the meaning of section 1034(a) and the regulations thereunder, relating to a sale or exchange of residence). Thus, for example, if a doctor sells a house, of which one portion was used as his principal residence within the meaning of section 1034(a) and the other portion was properly subject to the allowance for depreciation as property used in his trade or business, then, by reason of the application of section 1250(d)(7)(A), section 1250(a) does not apply in respect of the disposition of the portion used as his principal residence. The provisions of this subparagraph shall apply regardless of whether section 1034 applies. Thus, for example, if section 1034 did not apply to the sale because the doctor did not invest in a new principal residence within the period specified in section 1034, nevertheless section 1250(a) would not apply to the disposition of the portion used as a principal residence.

(ii) Section 1250(d)(7)(B) provides that section 1250(a) shall not apply to a disposition of section 1250 property by a taxpayer who, in respect of the property, satisfies the age and ownership requirements of section 121 (relating to exclusion from gross income of gain on sale or exchange of residence of individual who has attained age 65), but only to the extent the taxpayer satisfies the use requirements of section 121 in respect of such property. Thus, if a taxpayer has attained the age of 65 before the date on which he disposes of section 1250 property, and if during the 8-year period ending on the date of the disposition the property has been owned and used by the taxpayer solely as his principal residence for periods aggregating 5 years or more, then section 1250(a) does not apply in respect to the disposition. This result would not be changed even if the taxpayer does not or cannot make the election provided for in section 121 and even if section 121 applies to only a portion of the gain because the adjusted sales price exceeds the $20,000 limitation in section 121(b)(1). If, however, only a portion of the property has been used as his principal residence for such periods aggregating 5 years or more, then, by reason of the application of section 1250(d)(7)(B), section 1250(a) is inapplicable only to the portion so used. For special rules for determining whether the age, ownership, and use requirements of section 121 are treated as satisfied, and for the manner of applying such requirements, see section 121(d) and the regulations thereunder.
