
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Rules for Determining Capital Gains and Losses
###### ยง 1.1250-4 Holding period.
####### Beginning of holding period.

(b)(1) For the purpose of determining the applicable percentage, in the case of property acquired by the taxpayer (other than by means of a transaction referred to in paragraph (c) or (d) of this section), the holding period of the property shall begin on the day after the date of its acquisition. See section 1250(e)(1)(A). Thus, for example, if a taxpayer purchases section 1250 property on January 1, 1965, the holding period of the property begins on January 2, 1965. If he sells the property on October 1, 1966, the holding period on the day of the sale is 21 full months, and, accordingly, the applicable percentage is 99 percent. This result would not be changed even if the property initially had been used solely as the taxpayer's residence for a portion of the 21-month period. If, however, the property were sold on September 30, 1966, the holding period would be only 20 full months.

(2) For the purpose of determining the applicable percentage in the case of property constructed, reconstructed, or erected by the taxpayer, the holding period of the property shall begin on the first day of the month during which the property is placed in service. See section 1250(e)(1)(B). Thus, for example, if a taxpayer constructs section 1250 property and places it in service on January 15, 1965, its holding period begins on January 1, 1965. If the taxpayer sells the property on December 31, 1966, its holding period on the day of sale is 24 full months, and, accordingly, the applicable percentage is 96 percent. For purposes of this subparagraph, property is placed in service on the date on which it is first used, whether in a trade or business, in the production of income, or in a personal activity. Thus, for example, a residence constructed by a taxpayer for his personal use is placed in service on the date it is occupied as a residence. For purposes of determining the date property is placed in service, it is immaterial when the period begins for depreciation with respect to the property under any depreciation practice under which depreciation begins in any month other than the month in which the property is placed in service. If one or more units of a single property are placed in service on different dates before the completion of the property, see paragraph (c)(3) of ยง 1.1250-5 (relating to treatment of each such unit as an element).
