
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Specifically Excluded From Gross Income
###### ยง 1.103A-2 Qualified mortgage bond.
####### Certification.

(2)(i) An issue satisfied the requirements of section 103A(j)(4) and this paragraph (m)(2) only if the State official designated by law (or, if there is no State official, the Governor) certifies on or before the later of the date of issue or October 3, 1985, following a request for such certification by the issuer, that, as of the date the certification is executed, the issue meets the requirements of section 103A(g) and the regulations thereunder (relating to volume limitation). In the case of any constitutional home rule city, the certification shall be made by the chief executive officer of the city. To the extent consistent with State and local law, the Governor (or the chief executive officer of any constitutional home rule city) may delegate the responsibility to execute the certification required by this paragraph.

(ii) The certifying official need not perform an independent investigation in order to determine whether the issue meets the requirements of section 103A(g). In determining the aggregate amount of qualified mortgage bonds previously issued by an issuer during a calendar year, the certifying official may rely on copies of the reports submitted, to date, by the issuer pursuant to section 103A(j)(3) for other issues of qualified mortgage bonds issued during that year and copies of any elections previously made pursuant to section 25(c)(2) not to issue qualified mortgage bonds, together with an affidavit executed by an officer of the issuer responsible for issuing the bonds stating that the issuer has not, to date during the calendar year, issued any other qualified mortgage bonds, the amount, if any, of the issuer's market limitation that it has, to date during the calendar year, surrendered to other issuing authorities, and that it has not, to date during the calendar year, made any other elections not to issue qualified mortgage bonds. If, based on such information, the certifying official determines that, as of the date the certification is executed, the issue will not exceed the issuer's market limitation for the year, the official may certify that the issue meets the requirements of section 103A(g).
