
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Rules for Determining Capital Gains and Losses
###### ยง 1.1250-5 Property with two or more elements.
####### Additional depreciation and holding period of property acquired in certain transactions,Transferred basis.

(e)-(1)If property consisting of two or more elements is disposed of, and if the holding period of the property in the hands of the transferee for purposes of computing applicable percentage includes the holding period of the transferor by reason of the application of paragraph (c) (other than subparagraph (2) thereof) of ยง 1.1250-4, then the additional depreciation for each element of the property in the hands of the transferee immediately after the transfer shall be computed in the manner set forth in this subparagraph. First, any element having a deficit in additional depreciation in the hands of the transferor immediately before such transfer shall be considered to have the same deficit in the hands of the transferee. Second, elements having additional depreciation in the hands of the transferor immediately before the transfer shall be considered to have additional depreciation in the hands of the transferee. The sum of the transferee's additional depreciation for all elements of the property having additional depreciation in the hands of the transferor shall be an amount equal to the additional depreciation in respect of the property as a whole immediately after the transfer increased by the sum of the deficits in addition depreciation for all elements having such deficits. In case there is more than one element having additional depreciation, the additional depreciation for any such element in the hands of the transferee shall be computed by multiplying (i) the amount computed under the preceding sentence by (ii) the additional depreciation for such element in the hands of the transferor divided by the sum of the additional depreciation for all such elements having additional depreciation in the hands of the transferor. For purposes of computing applicable percentage, the holding period for an element of such property in the hands of the transferee shall include the holding period of such element in the hands of the transferor.
