
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Rules for Determining Capital Gains and Losses
###### § 1.1251-2 Excess deductions account.
####### Expenditures which must be capitalized.,properly chargeable to capital account,

(ii)Expenditures subject to the requirement of subparagraph (1)(ii) of this paragraph are all expenditures, whether direct or indirect, paid or incurred, which are properly chargeable to capital account. For examples of the meaning of the termsee §§ 1.61-4, 1.162-12, 1.263(a)-1, and 1.263(a)-2, and paragraph (a)(4) (ii) and (iii) of § 1.446-1. Other examples of expenditures referred to in subparagraph (1)(ii) of this paragraph are expenditures under sections 175 (relating to soil and water conservation), 180 (relating to fertilizer, etc.), 182 (relating to land clearing), and 266 (relating to certain carrying charges) which (without regard to section 1251) a taxpayer may treat or elect to treat as expenditures which are not chargeable to capital account. Thus, for example, with respect to developing a farm, ranch, orchard, or grove, amounts properly chargeable to capital account include amounts paid or incurred for upkeep, taxes, interest, and other carrying charges, water for irrigation, fertilizing, controlling undergrowth, and the cultivating and spraying of trees. For a further example, with respect to a produced animal, amounts properly chargeable to capital account for the animal include all expenditures paid or incurred for producing the animal, such as for stud, breeding, and veterinary services, as well as all amounts paid or incurred with respect to the brood animal during the gestation period of the produced animal including all amounts paid or incurred for feed, maintenance, utilities, indirect overhead, depreciation, insurance, and carrying charges. Direct and indirect expenditures properly chargeable to capital account with respect to raising an animal may include, in addition to expenditures for feed, maintenance, etc., expenditures for training. Direct and indirect expenditures with respect to feed may include, in the case of a grazing operation, fees for the rental of grazing land, and the portion of all labor, taxes, interest, fencing costs, and carrying charges paid or incurred by the taxpayer allocable to grazing. For purposes of this subparagraph, reasonable allocations shall be made by the taxpayer of items between animals held for different purposes and as to each animal held. However, all amounts allocated to a brood animal during the period of gestation are, for purposes of this subparagraph, entirely chargeable to the capital of the produced animal.
