
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Rules for Determining Capital Gains and Losses
###### ยง 1.1252-2 Special rules.
####### Transfers covered.

(2)The transfers referred to in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph are transfers of farm land in which the basis of such property in the hands of the transferee is determined by reference to its basis in the hands of the transferor by reason of the application of any of the following provisions:

(i) Section 332 (relating to distributions in complete liquidation of an 80-percent-or-more controlled subsidiary corporation). For application of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph to such a complete liquidation, the principles of paragraph (c)(3) of ยง 1.1245-4 shall apply. Thus, for example, the provisions of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph do not apply to a liquidating distribution of farm land by an 80-percent-or-more controlled subsidiary to its parent if the parent's basis for the property is determined, under section 334(b)(2), by reference to its basis for the stock of the subsidiary.

(ii) Section 351 (relating to transfer to a corporation controlled by transferor).

(iii) Section 361 (relating to exchanges pursuant to certain corporate reorganizations).

(iv) Section 371(a) (relating to exchanges pursuant to certain receivership and bankruptcy proceedings).

(v) Section 374(a) (relating to exchanges pursuant to certain railroad reorganizations).

(vi) Section 721 (relating to transfers to a partnership in exchange for a partnership interest). See paragraph (e) of this section.

(vii) Section 731 (relating to distributions by a partnership to a partner). For special carryover of basis rule, see paragraph (e) of this section.
