
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Rules for Determining Capital Gains and Losses
###### ยง 1.1254-1 Treatment of gain from disposition of natural resource recapture property.
####### Calculation of amount described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(B) of this section (hypothetical depletion offset),In general.

(vii)-(A)In calculating the amount described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(B) of this section, the taxpayer shall apply the following rules. The taxpayer may use the 65-percent-of-taxable-income limitation of section 613A(d)(1). If the taxpayer uses that limitation, the taxpayer is not required to recalculate the effect of such limitation with respect to any property not disposed of. That is, the taxpayer may assume that the hypothetical capitalization of intangible drilling and development costs with respect to any property disposed of does not affect the allowable depletion with respect to property retained by the taxpayer. Any intangible drilling and development costs that, if they had not been treated as expenses under section 263(c), would have properly been capitalized under ยง 1.612-4(b)(2) (relating to items recoverable through depreciation under section 167 or cost recovery under section 168) are treated as costs described in ยง 1.612-4(b)(1) (relating to items recoverable through depletion). The increase in depletion attributable to the capitalization of intangible drilling and development costs is computed by subtracting the amount of cost or percentage depletion actually claimed from the amount of cost or percentage depletion that would have been allowable if intangible drilling and development costs had been capitalized. If the remainder is zero or less than zero, the entire amount of intangible drilling and development costs attributable to the property is recapturable.
