
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Rules for Determining Capital Gains and Losses
###### ยง 1.1273-2 Determination of issue price and issue date.
####### Issuer-holder consistency requirement,General rule.

(9)-(i)For purposes of this section, an issuer must determine whether property is traded on an established market and, if so, the fair market value of the property. An issuer is required to exercise reasonable diligence to determine whether purchases or sales have taken place, the quantity of purchases and sales, the price at which purchases or sales occurred, the existence of firm or indicative quotes, and any other relevant information using the rules provided in paragraph (f) of this section to determine the fair market value of the property. If an issuer determines that property is traded on an established market, the issuer is required to make that determination as well as the fair market value of the property (which can be stated as the issue price of the debt instrument) available to holders in a commercially reasonable fashion, including by electronic publication, within 90 days of the date that the debt instrument is issued. Each determination by an issuer is binding on a holder of the debt instrument unless the holder explicitly discloses that its determination is different from the issuer's determination (for example, the holder determines a different fair market value for the property or determines that the property is not traded on an established market). A holder must describe in the disclosure the reasons for its different determination and, if applicable, how the holder determined the fair market value. A holder's disclosure must be filed on a timely filed Federal income tax return for the taxable year that includes the acquisition date of the debt instrument. If an issuer for any reason does not make the fair market value or issue price of a debt instrument reasonably available to a holder, the holder must determine the fair market value of the property and issue price of the debt instrument using the rules provided in paragraph (f) of this section.
