
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Rules for Determining Capital Gains and Losses
###### § 1.1275-6 Integration of qualifying debt instruments.
####### Integration by Commissioner.

(2)The Commissioner may treat a qualifying debt instrument and a financial instrument (whether entered into by the taxpayer or by a related party) as an integrated transaction if the combined cash flows on the qualifying debt instrument and financial instrument are substantially the same as the combined cash flows required for the financial instrument to be a § 1.1275-6 hedge. The Commissioner, however, may not integrate a transaction unless the qualifying debt instrument either is subject to § 1.1275-4 or is subject to § 1.1275-5 and pays interest at an objective rate. The circumstances under which the Commissioner may require integration include, but are not limited to, the following:

(i) A taxpayer fails to identify a qualifying debt instrument and the § 1.1275-6 hedge under paragraph (e) of this section.

(ii) A taxpayer issues or acquires a qualifying debt instrument and a related party (within the meaning of section 267(b) or 707(b)(1)) enters into the § 1.1275-6 hedge.

(iii) A taxpayer issues or acquires a qualifying debt instrument and enters into the § 1.1275-6 hedge with a related party (within the meaning of section 267(b) or 707(b)(1)).

(iv) The taxpayer legs out of an integrated transaction and within 30 days enters into a new § 1.1275-6 hedge with respect to the same qualifying debt instrument or another debt instrument that is part of the same issue.
