
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Rules for Determining Capital Gains and Losses
###### § 1.1275-6 Integration of qualifying debt instruments.
####### Integrated transaction,Integration by taxpayer.

(c)-(1)Except as otherwise provided in this section, a qualifying debt instrument and a § 1.1275-6 hedge are an integrated transaction if all of the following requirements are satisfied:

(i) The taxpayer satisfies the identification requirements of paragraph (e) of this section on or before the date the taxpayer enters into the § 1.1275-6 hedge.

(ii) None of the parties to the § 1.1275-6 hedge are related within the meaning of section 267(b) or 707(b)(1), or, if the parties are related, the party providing the hedge uses, for Federal income tax purposes, a mark-to-market method of accounting for the hedge and all similar or related transactions.

(iii) Both the qualifying debt instrument and the § 1.1275-6 hedge are entered into by the same individual, partnership, trust, estate, or corporation (regardless of whether the corporation is a member of an affiliated group of corporations that files a consolidated return).

(iv) If the taxpayer is a foreign person engaged in a U.S. trade or business and the taxpayer issues or acquires a qualifying debt instrument, or enters into a § 1.1275-6 hedge, through the trade or business, all items of income and expense associated with the qualifying debt instrument and the § 1.1275-6 hedge (other than interest expense that is subject to § 1.882-5) would have been effectively connected with the U.S. trade or business throughout the term of the qualifying debt instrument had this section not applied.

(v) Neither the qualifying debt instrument, nor any other debt instrument that is part of the same issue as the qualifying debt instrument, nor the § 1.1275-6 hedge was, with respect to the taxpayer, part of an integrated transaction that was terminated or otherwise legged out of within the 30 days immediately preceding the date that would be the issue date of the synthetic debt instrument.

(vi) The qualifying debt instrument is issued or acquired by the taxpayer on or before the date of the first payment on the § 1.1275-6 hedge, whether made or received by the taxpayer (including a payment made to purchase the hedge). If the qualifying debt instrument is issued or acquired by the taxpayer after, but substantially contemporaneously with, the date of the first payment on the § 1.1275-6 hedge, the qualifying debt instrument is treated, solely for purposes of this paragraph (c)(1)(vi), as meeting the requirements of the preceding sentence.

(vii) Neither the § 1.1275-6 hedge nor the qualifying debt instrument was, with respect to the taxpayer, part of a straddle (as defined in section 1092(c)) prior to the issue date of the synthetic debt instrument.
