
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Rules for Determining Capital Gains and Losses
###### § 1.1275-6 Integration of qualifying debt instruments.
####### Operating rules.

(ii)If a taxpayer legs out (or is treated as legging out) of an integrated transaction, the following rules apply:

(A) The transaction is treated as an integrated transaction during the time the requirements of paragraph (c) (1) or (2) of this section, as appropriate, are satisfied.

(B) Immediately before the taxpayer legs out, the taxpayer is treated as selling or otherwise terminating the synthetic debt instrument for its fair market value and, except as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(D) of this section, any income, deduction, gain, or loss is realized and recognized at that time.

(C) If, immediately after the taxpayer legs out, the taxpayer holds or remains primarily liable on the qualifying debt instrument, adjustments are made to reflect any difference between the fair market value of the qualifying debt instrument and the adjusted issue price of the qualifying debt instrument. If, immediately after the taxpayer legs out, the taxpayer is a party to a § 1.1275-6 hedge, the § 1.1275-6 hedge is treated as entered into at its fair market value.

(D) If a taxpayer legs out of an integrated transaction by disposing of or otherwise terminating a § 1.1275-6 hedge within 30 days of legging into the integrated transaction, then any loss or deduction determined under paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B) of this section is not allowed. Appropriate adjustments are made to the qualifying debt instrument for any disallowed loss. The adjustments are taken into account on a yield to maturity basis over the remaining term of the qualifying debt instrument.

(E) If a holder of a debt instrument subject to § 1.1275-4 legs into an integrated transaction with respect to the instrument and subsequently legs out of the integrated transaction, any gain recognized under paragraph (d)(2)(ii) (B) or (C) of this section is treated as interest income to the extent determined under the principles of § 1.1275-4(b)(8)(iii)(B) (rules for determining the character of gain on the sale of a debt instrument all of the payments on which have been fixed). If the synthetic debt instrument would qualify as a variable rate debt instrument, the equivalent fixed rate debt instrument determined under § 1.1275-5(e) is used for this purpose.
