
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Rules for Determining Capital Gains and Losses
###### ยง 1.1275-7 Inflation-indexed debt instruments.
####### Issuer.

(ii)A deflation adjustment reduces the interest otherwise deductible by the issuer with respect to the debt instrument for the taxable year. For purposes of this paragraph (f)(1)(ii), interest includes OID and qualified stated interest. If the amount of the deflation adjustment exceeds the interest otherwise deductible by the issuer with respect to the debt instrument for the taxable year, the excess is treated as ordinary income by the issuer for the taxable year. However, the amount treated as ordinary income is limited to the amount by which the issuer's total interest deductions on the debt instrument in prior taxable years exceed the total amount treated by the issuer as ordinary income on the debt instrument in prior taxable years. If the deflation adjustment exceeds the interest otherwise deductible by the issuer with respect to the debt instrument for the taxable year and the amount treated as ordinary income for the taxable year, this excess is carried forward to reduce the interest otherwise deductible by the issuer with respect to the debt instrument for subsequent taxable years. If there is any excess remaining upon the retirement of the debt instrument, the issuer takes the excess amount into account as ordinary income.
