
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Rules for Determining Capital Gains and Losses
###### ยง 1.1291-9 Deemed dividend election.
####### Deemed dividend election,In general.

(a)-(1)This section provides rules for making the election under section 1291(d)(2)(B) (deemed dividend election). Under that section, a shareholder (as defined in paragraph (j)(3) of this section) of a PFIC that is an unpedigreed QEF may elect to include in income as a dividend the shareholder's pro rata share of the post-1986 earnings and profits of the PFIC attributable to the stock held on the qualification date (as defined in paragraph (e) of this section), provided the PFIC is a controlled foreign corporation (CFC) within the meaning of section 957(a) for the taxable year for which the shareholder elects under section 1295 to treat the PFIC as a QEF (section 1295 election). If the shareholder makes the deemed dividend election, the PFIC will become a pedigreed QEF with respect to the shareholder. The deemed dividend is taxed under section 1291 as an excess distribution received on the qualification date. The excess distribution determined under this paragraph (a) is allocated under section 1291(a)(1)(A) only to those days in the shareholder's holding period during which the foreign corporation qualified as a PFIC. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the holding period of the PFIC stock with respect to which the election is made ends on the day before the qualification date. For the definitions of PFIC, QEF, unpedigreed QEF, and pedigreed QEF, see paragraph (j) (1) and (2) of this section.
