
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Rules for Determining Capital Gains and Losses
###### ยง 1.1291-10 Deemed sale election.
####### Deemed sale election.

(a)This section provides rules for making the election under section 1291(d)(2)(A) (deemed sale election). Under that section, a shareholder (as defined in ยง 1.1291-9(j)(3)) of a PFIC that is an unpedigreed QEF may elect to recognize gain with respect to the stock of the unpedigreed QEF held on the qualification date (as defined in paragraph (e) of this section). If the shareholder makes the deemed sale election, the PFIC will become a pedigreed QEF with respect to the shareholder. A shareholder that makes the deemed sale election is treated as having sold, for its fair market value, the stock of the PFIC that the shareholder held on the qualification date. The gain recognized on the deemed sale is taxed under section 1291 as an excess distribution received on the qualification date. In the case of an election made by an indirect shareholder, the amount of gain to be recognized and taxed as an excess distribution is the amount of gain that the direct owner of the stock of the PFIC would have realized on an actual sale or other disposition of the stock of the PFIC indirectly owned by the shareholder. Any loss realized on the deemed sale is not recognized. For the definitions of PFIC, QEF, unpedigreed QEF, and pedigreed QEF, see ยง 1.1291-9(j) (1) and (2).
