
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Rules for Determining Capital Gains and Losses
###### ยง 1.1294-1T Election to extend the time for payment of tax on undistributed earnings of a qualified electing fund (temporary).
####### Termination of the extension.

(e)The election to extend the date for payment of tax will be terminated in whole or in part upon the occurrence of any of the following events:

(1) The QEF's distribution of earnings to which the section 1294 extension to pay tax is attributable; the extension will terminate only with respect to the tax attributable to the earnings that were distributed.

(2) The electing shareholder's transfer of stock in the QEF (or use thereof as security for a loan) with respect to which an election under this ยง 1.1294-1T was made. The election will be terminated with respect to the undistributed earnings attributable to the shares of the stock transferred. In the case of a pledge of the stock, the election will be terminated with respect to undistributed earnings equal to the amount of the loan for which the stock is pledged.

(3) Revocation of the QEF's election as a QEF or cessation of the QEF's status as a PFIC. A revocation of the QEF election or cessation of PFIC status will result in the complete termination of the extension.

(4) A loan of property by the QEF directly or indirectly to the electing shareholder or related person, or a pledge or guarantee by the QEF with respect to a loan made by another party to the electing shareholder or related person. The election will be terminated with respect to undistributed earnings in an amount equal to the amount of the loan, pledge, or guarantee.

(5) A determination by the District Director pursuant to section 1294(c)(3) that collection of the tax is in jeopardy. The amount of undistributed earnings with respect to which the extension is terminated under this paragraph (d)(5) will be left to the discretion of the District Director.
