
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Rules for Determining Capital Gains and Losses
###### ยง 1.1295-3 Retroactive elections.
####### In general.

(a)This section prescribes the exclusive rules under which a shareholder, as defined in ยง 1.1295-1(j), may make a section 1295 election for a taxable year after the election due date, as defined in ยง 1.1295-1(e) (retroactive election). Therefore, a shareholder may not seek such relief under any other provision of the law, including ยง 301.9100 of this chapter. Paragraph (b) of this section describes the general rules for a shareholder to preserve the ability to make a retroactive election. These rules require that the shareholder possess reasonable belief as of the election due date that the foreign corporation was not a PFIC for its taxable year that ended in the shareholder's taxable year to which the election due date pertains, and that the shareholder file a Protective Statement to preserve its ability to make a retroactive election. Paragraph (c) of this section establishes the terms, conditions and other requirements with respect to a Protective Statement required to be filed under the general rules. Paragraph (d) of this section sets forth factors that establishes a shareholder's reasonable belief that a foreign corporation was not a PFIC. Paragraph (e) of this section prescribes special rules for certain shareholders that are deemed to satisfy the reasonable belief requirement and therefore are not required to file a Protective Statement. Paragraph (f) of this section describes the limited circumstances under which the Commissioner may permit a shareholder that lacked the requisite reasonable belief or failed to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (b) or (e) of this section to make a retroactive election. Paragraph (g) of this section provides the time for and manner of making a retroactive election. Paragraph (h) of this section provides the effective date of this section.
