
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Rules for Determining Capital Gains and Losses
###### ยง 1.1295-3 Retroactive elections.
####### Reasonable belief,In general.

(d)-(1)A foreign corporation is a PFIC for a taxable year if the foreign corporation satisfies either the income or asset test of section 1297(a). To determine whether a shareholder had reasonable belief that the foreign corporation is not a PFIC under section 1297(a), the shareholder must consider all relevant facts and circumstances. Reasonable belief may be based on a variety of factors, including reasonable asset valuations as well as reasonable interpretations of the applicable provisions of the Code, regulations, and administrative guidance regarding the direct and indirect ownership of the income or assets of the foreign corporation, the proper character of that income or those assets, and similar issues. Reasonable belief may be based on reasonable predictions regarding income to be earned and assets to be owned in subsequent years where qualifications of the foreign corporation as a PFIC for the current taxable year will depend on the qualification of the corporation as a PFIC in a subsequent year. Reasonable belief may be based on an analysis of generally available financial information of the foreign corporation. To determine whether a shareholder had reasonable belief that the foreign corporation was not a PFIC, the Commissioner may consider the size of the shareholder's interest in the foreign corporation.
