
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### credits allowable under sections 30 through 45D
###### ยง 1.36B-2 Eligibility for premium tax credit.
####### 11

() Affordability determined for part of a taxable year (part-year period):

(i) Taxpayer F is an employee of Employer X. X's employee health insurance plan year is September 1 to August 31. F's required contribution for self-only coverage for the period September 2014 through August 2015 is $150 per month or $1,800 for the plan year. F does not enroll in X's plan during X's open season but enrolls in a qualified health plan for September through December 2014. F does not request advance credit payments and does not ask the Exchange for his rating area to determine whether X's coverage is affordable for F. F's household income in 2014 is $18,000.

(ii) Because F is a calendar year taxpayer and Employer X's plan is not a calendar year plan, F must determine the affordability of X's coverage for the part-year period in 2014 (September-December) under paragraph (c)(3)(v)(B) of this section. F determines the affordability of X's plan for the September through December 2014 period by comparing the annual premiums ($1,800) to F's 2014 household income. F's required contribution of $1,800 is 10 percent of F's 2014 household income. Because F's required contribution exceeds 9.5 percent of F's 2014 household income, X's plan is not affordable for F for the part-year period September through December 2014 and F is not eligible for minimum essential coverage under X's plan for that period.

(iii) F enrolls in Exchange coverage for 2015 and does not ask the Exchange to approve advance credit payments or determine whether X's coverage is affordable. F's 2015 household income is $20,000.

(iv) F must determine if X's plan is affordable for the part-year period January 2015 through August 2015. F's annual required contribution ($1,800) is 9 percent of F's 2015 household income. Because F's required contribution does not exceed 9.5 percent of F's 2015 household income, X's plan is affordable for F for the part-year period January through August 2015 and F is eligible for minimum essential coverage for that period.

(12) Coverage unaffordable at year end:
