
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Rules for Determining Capital Gains and Losses
###### ยง 1.1295-3 Retroactive elections.
####### Manner of making a retroactive election.

(2)A shareholder that has satisfied the requirements of paragraph (b) or (e) of this section, or a shareholder that has been granted consent under paragraph (f) of this section, must make a retroactive election in the manner provided in Form 8621 for making a section 1295 election, and must attach Form 8621 to an amended return for the later of the retroactive election year or the earliest open taxable year of the shareholder. The shareholder also must file an amended return for each of its subsequent taxable years affected by the retroactive election. In each amended return the shareholder must redetermine its income tax liability for that year to take into account the assessment of PFIC related taxes. If the period of limitations for the assessment of taxes for a taxable year affected by the retroactive election has expired except to the extent the waiver of limitations, described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, has extended such period, no adjustments, other than consequential changes, may be made to any other items of income, deduction, or credit in that year. In addition, the shareholder must pay all taxes and interest owing by reason of the PFIC and QEF status of the foreign corporation in those years (except to the extent a section 1294 election extends the time to pay the taxes and interest). A shareholder that filed a Protective Statement must attach to Form 8621 filed with each amended return a representation that the shareholder, until the taxable year in which it determined or reasonably should have determined that the foreign corporation was a PFIC, reasonably believed, within the meaning of paragraph (d) of this section, that the foreign corporation was not a PFIC in the taxable year for which the amended return is filed, and in all other taxable years to which the Protective Statement applies. A shareholder that entered into a closing agreement must comply with the terms of that agreement, as provided in paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section, to eliminate any prejudice to the United States government's interests, as described in paragraph (f)(3) of this section.
