
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Rules for Determining Capital Gains and Losses
###### § 1.1297-2 Special rules regarding look-through subsidiaries and look-through partnerships.
####### Overview.

(a)This section provides rules concerning the treatment of income and assets of a look-through subsidiary (as defined in § 1.1297-2(g)(3)) or look-through partnership (as defined in § 1.1297-2(g)(4)) for purposes of determining whether a tested foreign corporation (as defined in § 1.1297-1(f)(9)) is a passive foreign investment company (PFIC) under section 1297(a). Paragraph (b) of this section provides guidance for purposes of section 1297(c) on how to determine a tested foreign corporation's ownership in a corporation and how to determine a tested foreign corporation's proportionate share of a look-through subsidiary's or look-through partnership's assets and income. Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules that eliminate certain income and assets related to look-through subsidiaries and look-through partnerships for purposes of determining a tested foreign corporation's PFIC status. Paragraph (d) of this section provides a rule to determine whether certain income received or accrued by look-through subsidiaries and look-through partnerships is received or accrued from a related person for purposes of section 1297(b)(2)(C). Paragraph (e) of this section provides rules concerning the attribution of activities from qualified affiliates (as defined in § 1.1297-2(e)(2)) for purposes of characterizing the income and assets of a look-through subsidiary or look-through partnership. Paragraph (f) of this section provides rules for determining the amount of gain from the direct or indirect sale or exchange of stock of a look-through subsidiary or partnership interests in a partnership described in section 954(c)(4) that is taken into account under section 1297(a) and for determining the passive or non-passive character of gain from the sale of a look-through subsidiary. Paragraph (g) of this section provides definitions applicable for this section, and paragraph (h) of this section provides the applicability date of this section.
