
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Rules for Determining Capital Gains and Losses
###### ยง 1.1297-2 Special rules regarding look-through subsidiaries and look-through partnerships.
####### Results.

(B)Under paragraph (b)(1) of this section and pursuant to the principles of section 958(a), TFC owns 100% of the value of LTS, and TFC indirectly owns 25% of the value of FS. Under paragraph (b) of this section, in determining whether TFC is a PFIC under section 1297(a), TFC is treated as if it held 100% of LTS's assets on each of the measuring dates in its taxable year and received directly 100% of the gross income of LTS for the taxable year. Furthermore, TFC is treated as if it held 25% of each of FS's assets and received directly 25% of the gross income of FS. Pursuant to ยง 1.1297-1(c)(1)(ii), the excess of gains over losses from property transactions described in section 954(c)(1)(B) is taken into account as gross income for purposes of section 1297, and items of gain or loss of look-through subsidiaries are treated as recognized by a tested foreign corporation. Accordingly, TFC takes into account the net $5x loss from the sales of property by FS. TFC's income from its own sales of property constitutes passive income pursuant to ยง 1.1297-1(c) and section 954(c)(1)(B), although, pursuant to ยง 1.1297-1(c)(1)(ii), only the excess of gains over losses, $15x ($25x - $10x), is taken into account as gross income for purposes of section 1297. As a result, TFC's income (including the $5x loss from FS), all of which is passive income, equals $10x ($15x - $5x) of gross income.
