
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Rules for Determining Capital Gains and Losses
###### ยง 1.1297-2 Special rules regarding look-through subsidiaries and look-through partnerships.
####### Results,1,Asset test.

(B)-()Under paragraph (c) of this section, for purposes of applying section 1297(a)(2) to TFC's final measuring period, the following analysis applies. TFC's assets do not include the stock of LTS1 and LTS2. Similarly, TFC's assets include only $1,000x ($5,000x license - (80% x $5,000x)) of the license to LTS1. However, TFC's assets include the entire $500x of cash it received from LTS1 as a result of the royalty. Moreover, although TFC would be treated under paragraph (b)(2) of this section as owning $1,600x (80% x $2,000x) of the LTS1 sub-license to LTS2, under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section TFC does not take into account its proportionate share of an indirect LTS obligation, and accordingly TFC does not take into account $960x (60% x $1,600x) of LTS1's sub-license to LTS2. As a result, TFC's assets include $640x ($1,600x - $960x) of the sub-license. In addition, TFC's assets include $160x (80% x $200x) of LTS1's cash received from LTS2 as a result of the royalty to LTS1. Similarly, although TFC would be treated under paragraph (b)(2) of this section as owning $2,400x (60% x $4,000x) of the LTS2 lease to LTS1, under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section TFC does not take into account $1,920x (80% x $2,400x) of the LTS2 building lease, and accordingly, its assets include $480x ($2,400x - $1,920x) of the lease. TFC's assets also include $240x (60% x $100x x 4) of LTS2's cash received from LTS1 as a result of the rental payment to LTS2.
