
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Income Averaging
###### ยง 1.1301-1 Averaging of farm and fishing income.
####### Guidelines for calculation of section 1 tax,Actual taxable income not affected.

(d)-(1)Under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a determination of the section 1 tax for the election year involves a computation of the section 1 tax that would be imposed if taxable income for the election year were reduced by elected farm income and taxable income for each of the base years were increased by one-third of elected farm income. The reduction and increases required for purposes of this computation do not affect the actual taxable income for either the election year or the base years. Thus, for each of those years, the actual taxable income is taxable income determined without regard to any hypothetical reduction or increase required for purposes of the computation under paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The following illustrates this principle:

(i) Any reduction or increase in taxable income required for purposes of the computation under paragraph (a)(2) of this section is disregarded in determining the taxable year in which a net operating loss carryover or net capital loss carryover is applied.

(ii) The net section 1231 gain or loss and the character of any section 1231 items for the election year is determined without regard to any reduction in taxable income required for purposes of the computation under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(iii) The section 68 overall limitation on itemized deductions for the election year is determined without regard to any reduction in taxable income required for purposes of the computation under paragraph (a)(2) of this section. Similarly, the section 68 limitation for a base year is not recomputed to take into account any allocation of elected farm income to the base year for such purposes.

(iv) If a base year had a partially used capital loss, the remaining capital loss may not be applied to reduce the elected farm income allocated to the year for purposes of the computation under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(v) If a base year had a partially used credit, the remaining credit may not be applied to reduce the section 1 tax attributable to the elected farm income allocated to the year for purposes of the computation under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
