
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Income Averaging
###### ยง 1.1301-1 Averaging of farm and fishing income.
####### Electible farm income,Identification of items attributable to a farming or fishing business,In general.

(e)-(1)-(i)Farm and fishing income includes items of income, deduction, gain, and loss attributable to an individual's farming or fishing business. Farm and fishing losses include, to the extent attributable to a farming or fishing business, any net operating loss carryover or carryback or net capital loss carryover to an election year. Income, gain, or loss from the sale of development rights, grazing rights, and other similar rights is not treated as attributable to a farming business. In general, farm and fishing income does not include compensation received as an employee. However, a shareholder of an S corporation engaged in a farming or fishing business may treat compensation received from the corporation as farm or fishing income if the compensation is paid by the corporation in the conduct of the farming or fishing business. If a crewmember on a vessel engaged in commercial fishing (within the meaning of section 3 of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act, 16 U.S.C. 1802(4)) is compensated by a share of the boat's catch of fish or a share of the proceeds from the sale of the catch, the crewmember is treated for purposes of section 1301 as engaged in a fishing business and the compensation is treated for such purposes as income from a fishing business.
