
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Readjustment of Tax Between Years and Special Limitations
###### ยง 1.1314(a)-2 Adjustment to other barred taxable years.

(a) An adjustment is authorized under section 1311 with respect to a taxable year or years other than the year of the error, but only if all of the following requirements are met:

(1) The tax liability for such other year or years must be affected, or must have been treated as affected, by a net operating loss deduction (as defined in section 172) or by a capital loss carryback or carryover (as defined in section 1212).

(2) The net operating loss deduction or capital loss carryback or carryover must be determined with reference to the taxable year with respect to which the error was made.

(3) On the date of the determination the adjustment with respect to such other year or years must be prevented by some law or rule of law, other than sections 1311 through 1315 and section 7122 and the corresponding provisions of prior revenue laws.

(b) The amount of the adjustment for such other year or years shall be computed in a manner similar to that provided in ยง 1.1314(a)-1. The tax previously determined for such other year or years shall be ascertained. A recomputation must then be made to ascertain the increase or decrease in tax, if any, resulting solely from the correction of the net operating loss deduction or capital loss carryback or carryover. The difference between the tax previously determined and the tax as recomputed is the amount of the adjustment. In the recomputation, no consideration shall be given to items other than the following:

(1) The items upon which the tax previously determined for such other year or years was based, and

(2) The net operating loss deduction or capital loss carryback or carryover as corrected.

(c) A net operating loss deduction or a capital loss carryback or carryover determined with reference to the year of the error may affect, or may have been treated as affecting, a taxable year with respect to which an adjustment is not prevented by the operation of any law or rule of law. In such case, the appropriate adjustment shall be made with respect to such open taxable year. However, the redetermination of the tax for such open taxable year is not made pursuant to part II (section 1311 and following), subchapter Q, chapter 1 of the Code, and the adjustment for such open year and the method of computation are not limited by the provisions of said sections.

(d) The application of this section may be illustrated by the following example:
