
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Readjustment of Tax Between Years and Special Limitations
###### § 1.1314(b)-1 Method of adjustment.

(a) If the amount of the adjustment ascertained pursuant to § 1.1314(a)-1 or § 1.1314(a)-2 represents an increase in tax, it is to be treated as if it were a deficiency determined by the Commissioner with respect to the taxpayer as to whom the error was made and for the taxable year or years with respect to which such adjustment was made. The amount of such adjustment is thus to be assessed and collected under the law and regulations applicable to the assessment and collection of deficiencies, subject, however, to the limitations imposed by § 1.1314(c)-1. Notice of deficiency, unless waived, must be issued with respect to such amount or amounts, and the taxpayer may contest the deficiency before the Tax Court of the United States or, if he chooses, may pay the deficiency and later file claim for refund. If the amount of the adjustment ascertained pursuant to § 1.1314(a)-1 or § 1.1314(a)-2 represents a decrease in tax, it is to be treated as if it were an overpayment claimed by the taxpayer with respect to whom the error was made for the taxable year or years with respect to which such adjustment was made. Such amount may be recovered under the law and regulations applicable to overpayments of tax, subject, however, to the limitations imposed by § 1.1314(c)-1. The taxpayer must file a claim for refund thereof, unless the overpayment is refunded without such claim, and if the claim is denied or not acted upon by the Commissioner within the prescribed time, the taxpayer may then file suit for refund.

(b) For the purpose of the adjustments authorized by section 1311, the period of limitations upon the making of an assessment or upon refund or credit, as the case may be, for the taxable year of an adjustment shall be considered as if, on the date of the determination, one year remained before the expiration of such period. The Commissioner thus has one year from the date of the determination within which to mail a notice of deficiency in respect of the amount of the adjustment where such adjustment is treated as if it were a deficiency. The issuance of such notice of deficiency, in accordance with the law and regulations applicable to the assessment of deficiencies will suspend the running of the 1-year period of limitations provided in section 1314(b). In accordance with the applicable law and regulations governing the collection of deficiencies, the period of limitation for collection of the amount of the adjustment will commence to run from the date of assessment of such amount. (See section 6502 and corresponding provisions of prior revenue laws.) Similarly, the taxpayer has a period of one year from the date of the determination within which to file a claim for refund in respect of the amount of the adjustment where such adjustment is treated as if it were an overpayment. Where the amount of the adjustment is treated as if it were a deficiency and the taxpayer chooses to pay such deficiency and contest it by way of a claim for refund, the period of limitation upon filing a claim for refund will commence to run from the date of such payment. See section 6511 and corresponding provisions of prior revenue laws.

(c) The amount of an adjustment treated as if it were a deficiency or an overpayment, as the case may be, will bear interest and be subject to additions to the tax to the extent provided by the internal revenue laws applicable to deficiencies and overpayments for the taxable year with respect to which the adjustment is made. In the case of an adjustment resulting from an increase or decrease in a net operating loss or net capital loss which is carried back to the year of adjustment, interest shall not be collected or paid for any period prior to the close of the taxable year in which the net operating loss or net capital loss arises.

(d) If, as a result of a determination provided for in § 1.1313(a)-4, an adjustment has been made by the assessment and collection of a deficiency or the refund or credit of an overpayment, and subsequently such determination is altered or revoked, the amount of the adjustment ascertained under § 1.1314(a)-1 and § 1.1314(a)-2 shall be redetermined on the basis of such alteration or revocation, and any overpayment or deficiency resulting from such redetermination shall be refunded or credited, or assessed and collected, as the case may be, as an adjustment under section 1311. For the circumstances under which such an agreement can be altered or revoked, see paragraph (d) of § 1.1313(a)-4.
