
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Involuntary Liquidation and Replacement of Lifo Inventories
###### ยง 1.1321-1 Involuntary liquidation of lifo inventories.
####### et seq.

(2) The various directives, orders, regulations, and allotments issued by the Federal Government in connection with national preparedness are among such circumstances and conditions which might be recognized as effecting an involuntary liquidation under this section. Likewise, a voluntary compliance with a request of an authorized representative of the Federal Government made upon an industry or an important segment thereof, or a voluntary allocation of materials by an industry or important segment thereof sanctioned by the Federal Government, if made in connection with the national preparedness program, might be considered as such a circumstance or condition. Similarly, so much of an inventory decrease as is directly and exclusively attributable to the Federal Government's stockpiling program for periods during which an item is not subject to allotment shall also be considered as subject to the provisions of section 1321. Thus, so much of an inventory decrease as is due wholly to the effect of directives, orders, regulations, or allotments issued pursuant to the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (50 U.S.C. App. 2061), or to any other circumstance or condition which is solely dependent upon other action taken by the Federal Government in furtherance of the national preparedness program, ordinarily shall be considered as an involuntary liquidation under section 1321 and this section; however, to the extent that such a decrease is due to the disposition of goods acquired in violation of such directives, orders, regulations, or allotments, such decrease shall not be considered as such an involuntary liquidation. An inventory decrease due directly and exclusively to a disruption of normal trade relations between countries shall be considered as an involuntary liquidation subject to the rules and requirements prescribed in this section, including the requirement that the taxpayer establish to the satisfaction of the Commissioner the cause of the involuntary liquidation. A disruption of normal trade relations between countries may be reflected by unusual export limitations imposed by a foreign government, by unusual exchange restrictions, or by other unusual circumstances or conditions beyond the control of the taxpayer.
