
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### War Loss Recoveries
###### ยง 1.1332-1 Inclusion in gross income of war loss recoveries.
####### Amount of gain includible.

(b)(1) A taxpayer who has sustained a war loss described in section 127(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939 and who has not elected to have the provisions of section 1333 apply to any taxable year in which he recovered any money or property in respect of a war loss in any previous taxable year must include in his gross income for each taxable year, to the extent provided in section 1332, the amount of his recoveries of money and property for such taxable year in respect of any war loss in a previous taxable year. Section 1332 provides that such recoveries for any taxable year are not includible in income until the taxpayer has recovered an amount equal to his allowable deductions in prior taxable years on account of such war losses which did not result in a reduction of any tax under chapter 1 or 2 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939. War loss recoveries are considered as made first on account of war losses allowable but not actually allowed as a deduction, and second on account of war losses allowed as a deduction but which did not result in a reduction of tax under chapter 1 or 2 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939. If there were deductions allowed on account of war losses for two or more taxable years which did not result in a reduction of any tax under chapter 1 or 2 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939, a recovery on account of such losses is considered as made on account of such losses in the order of the taxable years for which they were allowed beginning with the latest. See ยง 1.1337-1 for the determination of the amount of such deductions. Recoveries in excess of such amount are treated as ordinary income until such excess equals the amount of the taxpayer's allowable deductions in prior taxable years on account of war losses which did result in a reduction of any such tax under chapter 1 or 2 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939. Any further recoveries in excess of all the taxpayer's allowable deductions in prior taxable years for war losses are treated as gain on an involuntary conversion of property as a result of its destruction or seizure, and such gain is recognized or not recognized under the provisions of section 1033. See section 1033 and the regulations thereunder. Such gain, if recognized, is included in gross income as ordinary income unless section 1231(a) applies to cause such gain to be treated as gain from the sale or exchange of a capital asset held for more than six months. See section 1231(a) and the regulations thereunder.

(2) The determination as to whether and to what extent any recoveries are to be included in gross income is made upon the basis of the amount of all the recoveries for each day upon which there are any such recoveries, as follows:

(i) The amount of the recoveries for any day is not included in gross income, and is not considered gain on an involuntary conversion, to the extent, if any, that the aggregate of the allowable deductions in prior taxable years on account of war losses which did not result in a reduction of any tax of the taxpayer under chapter 1 or 2 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939, as determined under ยง 1.1337-1, exceeds the amount of all previous recoveries in the same and prior taxable years.

(ii) The amount of the recoveries for any day which is not excluded from gross income under subdivision (i) of this subparagraph is included in gross income as ordinary income, and is not considered gain on an involuntary conversion, to the extent, if any, that the aggregate of all the allowable deductions in prior taxable years on account of war losses (both those which resulted in a reduction of a tax of the taxpayer and those which did not) exceeds the sum of the amount of all previous recoveries in the same and prior taxable years and of that portion, if any, of the amount of the recoveries for such day which is not included in gross income under subdivision (i) of this subparagraph.

(iii) The amount of the recoveries for any day which is not excluded from gross income under subdivision (i) of this subparagraph and is not included in gross income as ordinary income under subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph is considered gain on an involuntary conversion of property as a result of its destruction or seizure. The following provisions then apply to this gain:
