
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Other Limitations
###### ยง 1.1348-3 Definitions.
####### Pension, etc., plans.

(ii)(A) In accordance with subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, the taxable portion of distributions under a pension, annuity, profit-sharing, or stock bonus plan, whether or not such plan meets the requirements of section 401(a), or pursuant to a method having the effect of such a plan, generally constitutes deferred compensation. However, under subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, such portion constitutes earned income if includible in gross income before the end of the taxable year following the first taxable year of the taxpayer in which his right to receive such amount is not subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture. In the case of a distribution under a contributory plan, the preceding sentence applies only to that part of the taxable portion of the distribution which is attributable to employer contributions to the plan. For purposes of the preceding sentence, that part of the taxable portion of a distribution which is attributable to employer contributions is the amount of such part, multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the employer contributions to the plan on behalf of the employee (determined in accordance with the principles of ยง 1.402(a)-2), and the denominator of which is the sum of such employer contributions and the net employee contributions to the plan (as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of ยง 1.402(a)-2). Thus, if the employer does not contribute to the plan, no part of any distribution thereunder constitutes earned income. Amounts included in gross income under section 402(b), 403(c), or 1379(b)(1) in respect of employer contributions to a plan described in this subdivision do not constitute deferred compensation.

(B) If a recipient's rights to receive amounts pursuant to a plan cease to be subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture in more than one of his taxable years, each payment pursuant to such plan shall be considered to consist of a ratable portion of all of the amounts which are not subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture at the time of such payment. Thus, for example, if an employment contract provides in part that an employee or his estate is to receive in each of the fifteen years after the year in which he attains or would have attained age 65 an amount equal to $2,000 times his years of service with the employer and if he had eighteen years of service with the employer, each $36,000 payment would be considered to consist of 18 payments of $2,000, his right to receive one of which ceased to be subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture upon completing his first year of service with the employer, his right to receive another of which ceased to be subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture upon completing his second year of service with the employer, etc. Therefore, if the employee's last year of service with the employer was completed in the year in which he attained age 65, $2,000 of the first payment in the next year would not be deferred compensation under subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, and the remaining $34,000 of that payment and all of the other fourteen payments of $36,000 would be deferred compensation. If the employee's last year of service was completed in an earlier year, all fifteen payments would constitute deferred compensation in full.
