
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Specifically Excluded From Gross Income
###### ยง 1.108(i)-1 Deferred discharge of indebtedness income and deferred original issue discount deductions of C corporations.
####### Net value acceleration rule,In general.

(iii)-(A)The electing corporation engages in an impairment transaction and, immediately after the transaction, the gross value of the electing corporation's assets (gross asset value) is less than one hundred and ten percent of the sum of its total liabilities and the tax on the net amount of its deferred items (the net value floor) (the net value acceleration rule). Impairment transactions are any transactions, however effected, that impair an electing corporation's ability to pay the amount of Federal income tax liability on its deferred COD income and include, for example, distributions (including section 381(a) transactions), redemptions, below-market sales, charitable contributions, and the incurrence of additional indebtedness without a corresponding increase in asset value. Value-for-value sales or exchanges (for example, an exchange to which section 351 or section 721 applies), or mere declines in the market value of the electing corporation's assets are not impairment transactions. In addition, an electing corporation's investments and expenditures in pursuance of its good faith business judgment are not impairment transactions. For purposes of determining an electing corporation's gross asset value, the amount of any distribution that is not treated as an impairment transaction under paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(D) of this section (distributions and charitable contributions consistent with historical practice) or under paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(E) of this section (special rules for RICs and REITs) is treated as an asset of the electing corporation. Solely for purposes of computing the amount of the net value floor, the tax on the deferred items is determined by applying the highest rate of tax specified in section 11(b) for the taxable year.
