
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Specifically Excluded From Gross Income
###### ยง 1.108(i)-1 Deferred discharge of indebtedness income and deferred original issue discount deductions of C corporations.
####### Exceptions for distributions and charitable contributions that are consistent with historical practice.

(D)An electing corporation's distributions are not treated as impairment transactions (and are not taken into account as a reduction of the electing corporation's gross asset value when applying the net value acceleration rule to any impairment transaction), to the extent that the distributions are described in section 301(c) and the amount of these distributions, in the aggregate, for the applicable taxable year (applicable distribution amount) does not exceed the annual average amount of section 301(c) distributions over the preceding three taxable years (average distribution amount). If an electing corporation's applicable distribution amount exceeds its average distribution amount (excess amount), then the amount of the impairment transaction equals the excess amount. Appropriate adjustments must be made to take into account any issuances or redemptions of stock, or similar transactions, occurring during the taxable year of distribution or any of the preceding three taxable years. If the electing corporation has a short taxable year for the year of the distribution or for any of the preceding three taxable years, the amounts are determined on an annualized basis. If an electing corporation has been in existence for less than three years, the period during which the electing corporation has been in existence is substituted for the preceding three taxable years. For purposes of determining an electing corporation's average distribution amount, the electing corporation does not take into account the distribution history of a distributor or transferor in a transaction to which section 381(a) applies (other than a transaction described in section 368(a)(1)(F)). Rules similar to those prescribed in this paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(D) also apply to an electing corporation's charitable contributions (within the meaning of section 170(c)) that are consistent with its historical practice.
