
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Specifically Excluded From Gross Income
###### ยง 1.108(i)-1 Deferred discharge of indebtedness income and deferred original issue discount deductions of C corporations.
####### Special rules for consolidated groups,1,Impairment transactions and net value acceleration rule.

(F)-()In the case of an electing member, the determination of whether the member has engaged in an impairment transaction is made on a group-wide basis. An electing member is treated as engaging in an impairment transaction if any member's transaction impairs the group's ability to pay the tax liability associated with all electing members' deferred COD income. Accordingly, intercompany transactions are not impairment transactions. Similarly, the net value acceleration rule is applied by reference to the gross asset value of all members (excluding stock of members whether or not described in section 1504(a)(4)), the liabilities of all members, and the tax on all members' deferred items. For example, assume P is the common parent of the P-S consolidated group, S has a section 108(i) election in effect, and S makes a $100 distribution to P which, on a separate entity basis, would reduce S's gross asset value below the net value floor. S's intercompany distribution to P is not an impairment transaction. However, if P makes a $100 distribution to its shareholder, P's distribution is an impairment transaction (unless the distribution is consistent with its historical practice under paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(D) of this section), and the net value acceleration rule is applied by reference to the assets, liabilities, and deferred items of the P-S group.
