
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Items Specifically Excluded From Gross Income
###### ยง 1.108(i)-1 Deferred discharge of indebtedness income and deferred original issue discount deductions of C corporations.
####### 2,Departing member.

()If an electing member that previously engaged in one or more impairment transactions on a separate entity basis ceases to be a member of a consolidated group (departing member), the cessation is treated as an impairment transaction and the net value acceleration rule under paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(A) of this section is applied to the departing member on a separate entity basis immediately after ceasing to be a member (and taking into account the impairment transaction(s) that occurred on a separate entity basis). If the departing member's gross asset value is below the net value floor, the departing member's remaining deferred COD income is taken into account immediately before the departing member ceases to be a member (unless value is restored under paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(C) of this section). If the departing member's deferred COD income is not accelerated, the departing member is subject to the reporting requirements of section 108(i) on a separate entity basis. If the departing member becomes a member of another consolidated group, the cessation is treated as an impairment transaction and the net value acceleration rule under paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(A) of this section is applied by reference to the assets, liabilities, and the tax on deferred items of the members of the acquiring group immediately after the transaction. If the acquiring group's gross asset value is below the net value floor, the departing member's remaining deferred COD income is taken into account immediately before the departing member ceases to be a member (unless value is restored under paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(C) of this section). If the departing member's remaining deferred COD income is not accelerated, the common parent of the acquiring group succeeds to the reporting requirements of section 108(i) with respect to the departing member.
