
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Small Business Corporations and Their Shareholders
###### § 1.1368-1 Distributions by S corporations.
####### Time and manner of making election.,e.g.

(iii)A corporation makes an election under § 1.1368-1(g)(2)(i) for a taxable year by attaching a statement to a timely filed (including extensions) original or amended return required to be filed under section 6037 for a taxable year (without regard to the election under § 1.1368-1(g)(2)(i)). In the statement, the corporation must state that it is electing for the taxable year under § 1.1368-1(g)(2)(i) to treat the taxable year as if it consisted of separate taxable years. The corporation also must set forth facts in the statement relating to the qualifying disposition (, sale, gift, stock issuance, or redemption), and state that each shareholder who held stock in the corporation during the taxable year (without regard to the election under § 1.1368-1(g)(2)(i)) consents to this election. For purposes of this election, a shareholder of the corporation for the taxable year is a shareholder as described in section 1362(a)(2). A single election statement may be filed for all elections made under § 1.1368-1(g)(2)(i) for the taxable year. An election made under § 1.1368-1(g)(2)(i) is irrevocable. In the case of elections for taxable years beginning before January 1, 2003, the statement through which a corporation makes an election under § 1.1368-1(g)(2)(i) must be signed by an officer of the corporation under penalties of perjury. In the case of elections for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2002, the statement described in the preceding sentence shall be verified by signing the return.
