
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Small Business Corporations and Their Shareholders
###### ยง 1.1374-10 Effective date and additional rules.
####### In general.,Examples 2,4,Examples 2,4,Examples 2,4

(a)Sections 1.1374-1 through 1.1374-9, other than ยง 1.1374-3(b) and (c)through, apply for taxable years ending on or after December 27, 1994, but only in cases where the S corporation's return for the taxable year is filed pursuant to an S election or a section 1374(d)(8) transaction occurring on or after December 27, 1994. Section 1.1374-3(b) and (c)throughapply to section 1374(d)(8) transactions that occur in taxable years beginning after February 23, 2005. In addition, an S corporation may apply ยง 1.1374-3(b) and (c)throughto section 1374(d)(8) transactions that occur in taxable years beginning on or before February 23, 2005, if the S corporation (and any predecessors or successors) and all affected shareholders file original or amended returns that are consistent with these provisions for taxable years of the S corporation during the recognition period of the pool of assets the net unrealized built-in gain of which would be adjusted pursuant to those provisions that are not closed as of the first date after February 23, 2005, that the S corporation files an original or amended return. For purposes of this section, affected shareholders means all shareholders who received distributive shares of S corporation items in such taxable years. However, the Commissioner may, in appropriate circumstances, permit taxpayers to apply these provisions even if all affected shareholders cannot file consistent returns. In addition, for this purpose, a predecessor of an S corporation is a corporation that transfers its assets to the S corporation in a transaction to which section 381 applies. A successor of an S corporation is a corporation to which the S corporation transfers its assets in a transaction to which section 381 applies.
