
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Cooperatives and Their Patrons
###### ยง 1.1382-3 Taxable income of cooperatives; special deductions for exempt farmers' cooperatives.
####### Deduction for amounts paid in redemption of certain nonqualified written notices of allocation.

(d)In the case of a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1962, there is allowed as a deduction from the gross income of a cooperative association operated in compliance with the requirements of section 521 and ยง 1.521-1, amounts paid by such association during the payment period for such taxable year in redemption of certain nonqualified written notices of allocation, but only to the extent such amounts (1) are paid in money or other property (other than written notices of allocation) and (2) do not exceed the stated dollar amount of such nonqualified written notices of allocation. The nonqualified written notices of allocation referred to in the preceding sentence are those which were previously paid to patrons on a patronage basis with respect to earnings derived either from business done with or for the United States or any of its agencies or from sources other than patronage, provided that such nonqualified written notices of allocation were paid during the payment period for the taxable year during which such earnings were derived. No deduction shall be allowed under this paragraph, however, for amounts paid in redemption of nonqualified written notices of allocation which were paid with respect to earnings derived during a taxable year beginning before January 1, 1963. For purposes of this paragraph, if an amount is paid within the payment period for two or more taxable years, it will be allowable as a deduction only for the earliest of such taxable years. In determining the amount paid which is allowable as a deduction under this paragraph, property (other than written notices of allocation) shall be taken into account at its fair market value when paid. Amounts paid in redemption of a nonqualified written notice of allocation in excess of its stated dollar amount shall be treated under the applicable provisions of the Code.
