
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Cooperatives and Their Patrons
###### ยง 1.1382-2 Taxable income of cooperatives; treatment of patronage dividends.
####### Deduction for amounts paid in redemption of certain nonqualified written notices of allocation.

(c)In the case of a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1962, there is allowed as a deduction from the gross income of a cooperative organization to which part I of subchapter T applies, amounts paid by such organization during the payment period for such taxable year in redemption of a nonqualified written notice of allocation which was previously paid as a patronage dividend during the payment period for the taxable year during which the patronage occurred, but only to the extent such amounts (1) are paid in money or other property (other than written notices of allocation) and (2) do not exceed the stated dollar amount of such written notice of allocation. No deduction shall be allowed under this paragraph, however, for amounts paid in redemption of nonqualified written notices of allocation which were paid with respect to patronage occurring during a taxable year beginning before January 1, 1963. For purposes of this paragraph, if an amount is paid within the payment period for two or more taxable years, it will be allowable as a deduction only for the earliest of such taxable years. Thus, if a cooperative which reports its income on a calendar year basis pays an amount in redemption of a nonqualified written notice of allocation on January 15, 1966, it will be allowed a deduction for such amount only for its 1965 taxable year. In determining the amount paid which is allowable as a deduction under this paragraph, property (other than written notices of allocation) shall be taken into account at its fair market value when paid. Amounts paid in redemption of a nonqualified written notice of allocation in excess of its stated dollar amount shall be treated under the applicable provisions of the Code. For example, if such excess is in the nature of interest, its deductibility will be governed by section 163 and the regulations thereunder.
