
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Cooperatives and Their Patrons
###### ยง 1.1383-1 Computation of tax where cooperative redeems nonqualified written notices of allocation.
####### General rule.

(a)(1) If, during the taxable year, a cooperative organization is entitled to a deduction under section 1382 (b)(2) or (c)(2)(B) for amounts paid in redemption of nonqualified written notices of allocation, the tax imposed for the taxable year by chapter 1 of the Code shall be the lesser of:

(i) The tax for the taxable year computed under section 1383(a)(1), that is, with such deduction taken into account, or

(ii) The tax for the taxable year computed under section 1383(a)(2), that is, without taking such deduction into account, minus the decrease in tax (under chapter 1 of the Code) for any prior taxable year (or years) which would result solely from treating all such nonqualified written notices of allocation redeemed during the taxable year as qualified written notices of allocation when paid. For the purpose of this subdivision, the amount of the decrease in tax is not limited to the amount of the tax for the taxable year. See paragraph (c) of this section for rules relating to a refund of tax where the decrease in tax for the prior taxable year (or years) exceeds the tax for the taxable year.

(2) If the cooperative organization computes its tax for the taxable year under the provisions of section 1383(a)(2) and subparagraph (1)(ii) of this paragraph, then no deduction under section 1382 (b)(2) or (c)(2)(B) shall be taken into account in computing taxable income or loss for the taxable year, including the computation of any net operating loss carryback or carryover. However, the amount of the deduction shall be taken into account in adjusting earnings and profits for the taxable year.

(3) If the tax determined under subparagraph (1)(i) of this paragraph is the same as the tax determined under subparagraph (1)(ii) of this paragraph, the tax imposed for the taxable year under chapter 1 of the Code shall be the tax determined under subparagraph (1)(l) of this paragraph, and section 1383 and this section shall not otherwise apply. The tax imposed for the taxable year shall be the tax determined under subparagraph (1)(ii) of this paragraph in any case when a credit or refund would be allowable for the taxable year under section 1383(b)(1).
