
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Rules Relating to Individuals' Title 11 Cases
###### § 1.1400Z2(a)-1 Deferring tax on capital gains by investing in opportunity zones.
####### Deferring tax on capital gains,Overview.

(a)-(1)Under section 1400Z-2(a) of the Internal Revenue Code (Code) and the section 1400Z-2 regulations (as defined in paragraph (b)(41) of this section), an eligible taxpayer may elect to defer recognition of some or all of one or more eligible gains that otherwise would be recognized by the eligible taxpayer in the taxable year to the extent that the eligible taxpayer timely acquires a qualifying investment in a qualified opportunity fund (QOF) within the meaning of section 1400Z-2(d)(1) and § 1.1400Z2(d)-1. Paragraph (a)(2) of this section describes how a taxpayer elects to defer gain. Paragraph (b) of this section defines terms used in the section 1400Z-2 regulations. Paragraph (c) of this section provides operational rules for applying section 1400Z-2 and the section 1400Z-2 regulations, including special rules regarding the election to defer gain under section 1400Z-2(a) and this section when an eligible taxpayer that is a partnership, S corporation, trust, or decedent's estate recognizes an eligible gain in a taxable year. Paragraph (d) of this section provides the manner in which a deferral election under section 1400Z-2(a) must be made. Paragraph (e) of this section provides the treatment of section 1400Z-2 for purposes of § 1.897-6T. Paragraph (f) of this section provides rules for mixed-funds investments. Paragraph (g) of this section provides dates of applicability. See §§ 1.1502-14Z and 1.1504-3 for special rules applicable to consolidated groups that invest in QOFs.
