
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Rules Relating to Individuals' Title 11 Cases
###### ยง 1.1400Z2(a)-1 Deferring tax on capital gains by investing in opportunity zones.
####### 2,Example 2.

()Taxpayer's taxable year is the calendar year. Taxpayer owns 100 shares of publicly traded Company Y common stock and has a basis in each share of $10.00. Taxpayer also owns put options on 100 shares of Company Y common stock. Taxpayer makes a valid and timely identification under section 1092(a)(2) of the 100 shares of Company Y common stock and the put options on the 100 shares of Company Y common stock. On January 10, Year 1, Taxpayer closes out all of the put options and has a $30.00 capital loss. On March 10, Year 1, Taxpayer sells 40 shares of the Company Y common stock for $11.00 per share. At the end of Year 1, the fair market value of each of the 60 remaining shares of Company Y common stock held by Taxpayer is $10.50. Under section 1092(a)(2)(A)(ii), when the put options are closed out at a loss of $30.00, the basis of each of Taxpayer's shares of Company Y common stock is increased by $0.30 ($30.00/100). Thus, Taxpayer has a gain of $28.00 ((40 * $11.00)-(40 * $10.30)) on the sale of the 40 shares of Company Y common stock. Paragraph (b)(11)(vi)(A) of this section applies to all of Taxpayer's gain during the taxable year from the straddle. Because Taxpayer has unrecognized gain from the straddle at the end of the taxable year, paragraph (b)(11)(vi)(C) of this section does not shield any of Taxpayer's gain from that result. The $28 of gain is thus not eligible gain. Taxpayer must recognize and include in taxable income for the taxable year the $28.00 capital gain. Under section 1092(a)(2)(A)(iv), Taxpayer may not deduct the $30.00 loss from the put options.
