
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Rules Relating to Individuals' Title 11 Cases
###### ยง 1.1400Z2(a)-1 Deferring tax on capital gains by investing in opportunity zones.
####### 4,Example 4.

()Taxpayer's taxable year is the calendar year. Taxpayer owns 100 shares of publicly traded Company Z common stock and has a basis in each share of $10. Taxpayer also owns put options on 100 shares of Company Z common stock. In Year 1, Taxpayer closes out the put options at a $100 loss. At the end of Year 1, the fair market value of each of the shares of Company Z common stock held by Taxpayer is $15 and, under section 1092(a)(3), Taxpayer has $500 of unrecognized gain. Because Taxpayer's unrecognized gain on the Company Z common stock at the end of Year 1 exceeds Taxpayer's loss on the put options, Taxpayer's loss is deferred under section 1092(a)(1). During Year 2, Taxpayer sells 40 shares of Company Z common stock for $14 per share. Taxpayer has a gain of $160 ((40 * $14)-(40 * $10)) on the sale of the 40 shares of Company Z common stock. Under paragraph (b)(11)(vi)(A) of this section, because Taxpayer's Company Z common stock was part of a straddle in a previous taxable year and a loss from a position in that straddle was deferred under section 1092(a) at the end of Year 1, the preceding taxable year, Taxpayer's $160 Year 2 gain on the sale of the Company Z common stock is not eligible gain. At the end of Year 2, the fair market value of each of the 60 remaining shares of Company Z common stock held by Taxpayer is $10 and Taxpayer has no unrecognized gain on its Company Z common stock. Under section 1092(a)(1)(B), Taxpayer's $100 loss from Year 1 is treated as sustained in Year 2. Because Taxpayer has no unrecognized gain on its Company Z common stock at the end of Year 2, Taxpayer may deduct the $100 loss in Year 2. In Year 3, Taxpayer sells the remaining 60 shares of Company Z common stock for $50 per share. Taxpayer has a gain of $2,400 ((60 * $50)-(60 * $10)) on the sale of the 60 shares of Company Z common stock. Because there was no loss from the straddle deferred under section 1092(a) at the end of Year 2, paragraph (b)(11)(vi)(A) of this section does not apply to prevent the $2,400 of Year 3 net gain from being eligible gain.
