
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Rules Relating to Individuals' Title 11 Cases
###### ยง 1.1400Z2(a)-1 Deferring tax on capital gains by investing in opportunity zones.
####### Example 5. FIFO method.

(v)In 2018, before Corporation R became a QOF, Taxpayer F invested $100 to R in exchange for 100 R common shares. Later in 2018, after R was a QOF, F invested $500 to R in exchange for 400 R common shares and properly elected under section 1400Z-2 to defer $500 of realized short-term capital gain from a separate investment. Even later in 2018, on different days, F realized $300 of short-term capital gain and $700 of long-term capital gain. On a single day that fell during the 180-day period for both of those gains, F invested $1,000 in R in exchange for 800 R common shares and properly elected under section 1400Z-2 to defer the two gains. In 2020, F sold 100 R common shares. F did not adequately identify which investment in R F sold. Under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, F must apply the FIFO method to identify which investments in R F disposed of. As determined by that identification, F sold the initially acquired 100 R common shares, which were not part of a deferral election under section 1400Z-2. R must recognize gain or loss on the sale of its R shares under the generally applicable Federal income tax rules, but the sale does not trigger an inclusion of any deferred gain.
