
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Rules Relating to Individuals' Title 11 Cases
###### ยง 1.1400Z2(a)-1 Deferring tax on capital gains by investing in opportunity zones.
####### Example 4. FIFO method.

(iv)For 2018, taxpayer E properly made an election under section 1400Z-2 to defer $300 of short-term capital gain. For 2020, E properly made a second election under section 1400Z-2 to defer $200 of long-term capital gain. In both cases, E properly invested in QOF corporation Q the amount of the gain to be deferred, resulting in a total investment in Q of $500. The two investments are fungible interests and the price of the interests was the same at the time of the two investments. E did not purchase any additional interest in Q or sell any of its interest in Q until 2024, when E sold for a gain 60 percent of its interest in Q. E did not adequately identify which investment in QOF Q E sold. Under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, E must apply the FIFO method to identify which investments in Q that E disposed of. 60 percent of E's total investment in Q is $300 (60% x $500), thus under the FIFO method, E sold its entire 2018 initial investment of $300 in Q. Under section 1400Z-2(a)(1)(B) and (b), the sale triggered an inclusion of deferred gain. Because the inclusion has the same character as the gain that had been deferred, the inclusion is short-term capital gain.
