
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Rules Relating to Individuals' Title 11 Cases
###### ยง 1.1400Z2(a)-1 Deferring tax on capital gains by investing in opportunity zones.
####### 2,Analysis.,2,1,2

()Paragraph (c)(6)(ii)(B) of this section applies because B transferred property other than cash to Q and, but for the application of section 1400Z-2(b)(2)(B), B's basis in the eligible interests in Q would be determined, in whole or in part, by reference to B's basis in the transferred property. The fair market value of the eligible interest B received is $100, and, without regard to section 1400Z-2(b)(2)(B), B's basis in the eligible interest received would be $60. Thus, pursuant to paragraph (c)(6)(ii)(B)() of this section, B's investment is a mixed-funds investment to which section 1400Z-2(e)(1) applies. Pursuant to paragraphs (c)(6)(ii)(B)() and () of this section, B's qualifying investment is $60 (the lesser of the taxpayer's adjusted basis in the eligible interest, without regard to section 1400Z-2(b)(2)(B), of $60 and the $100 fair market value of the eligible interest received). Pursuant to section 1400Z-2(b)(2)(B)(i), B's basis in the qualifying investment is $0. Additionally, B's non-qualifying investment is $40 (the excess of the fair market value of the eligible interest received ($100) over the taxpayer's adjusted basis in the eligible interest, without regard to section 1400Z-2(b)(2)(B) ($60)). B's basis in the non-qualifying investment is $0 (B's $60 basis in its investment determined without regard to section 1400Z-2(b)(2)(B), reduced by the $60 of adjusted basis allocated to the investment to which section 1400Z-2(e)(1)(A)(i) applies, determined without regard to section 1400Z-2(b)(2)(B)). See paragraph (c)(6)(ii)(D) of this section. Pursuant to section 362, Q's basis in the transferred property is $60.
