
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Rules Relating to Individuals' Title 11 Cases
###### ยง 1.1400Z2(b)-1 Inclusion of gains that have been deferred under section 1400Z-2(a).
####### Scope.

(a)This section provides rules under section 1400Z-2(b) of the Internal Revenue Code and the section 1400Z-2 regulations (as defined in ยง 1.1400Z2(a)-1(b)(41)) regarding the inclusion in income of gain deferred by a QOF owner under section 1400Z-2(a)(1)(A) and the section 1400Z-2 regulations. This section applies to a QOF owner only until all of such owner's gain deferred pursuant to a deferral election has been included in income, subject to the limitations described in paragraph (e)(5) of this section, and except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c) or (d) of this section. Paragraph (b) of this section provides general rules under section 1400Z-2(b)(1) regarding the timing of the inclusion in income of the deferred gain. Paragraph (c)(1) of this section provides the general rule regarding the determination of the extent to which an event triggers the inclusion in gross income of all, or a portion, of an eligible taxpayer's deferred gain, and paragraphs (c)(2) through (16) of this section provide specific rules for certain events that are or are not treated as inclusion events. Paragraph (d) of this section provides rules regarding holding periods for qualifying investments. Paragraph (e) of this section provides rules regarding the amount of deferred gain included in gross income under section 1400Z-2(a)(1)(B) and (b), including special rules for QOF partnerships and QOF S corporations. Paragraph (f) of this section provides examples illustrating the rules of paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section. Paragraph (g) of this section provides rules regarding basis adjustments under section 1400Z-2(b)(2)(B). Paragraph (h) of this section provides special reporting rules applicable to partners, partnerships, and direct or indirect owners of QOF partnerships. Paragraph (i) is reserved. Paragraph (j) of this section provides dates of applicability.
