
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Rules Relating to Individuals' Title 11 Cases
###### ยง 1.1400Z2(b)-1 Inclusion of gains that have been deferred under section 1400Z-2(a).
####### Section 721 contributions.

(B)Subject to paragraph (c)(6)(v) of this section, a contribution by a QOF owner (contributing partner), of its qualifying QOF stock, qualifying QOF partnership interest, or direct or indirect partnership interest in a qualifying investment to a partnership (transferee partnership) to the extent the transaction is governed by section 721(a) is not an inclusion event, provided the interest transfer does not cause a partnership termination of a QOF partnership, or the direct or indirect owner of a QOF, under section 708(b)(1). See paragraph (c)(6)(ii)(C) of this section for transactions governed by section 708(b)(2)(A). The inclusion rules in paragraph (c) of this section apply to any part of the transaction to which section 721(a) does not apply. The transferee partnership becomes subject to section 1400Z-2 and the section 1400Z-2 regulations with respect to the eligible gain associated with the contributed qualifying investment. The transferee partnership must allocate and report the remaining deferred gain that is associated with the contributed qualifying investment to the contributing partner to the same extent that the remaining deferred gain would have been allocated and reported to the contributing partner in the absence of the contribution. Additionally, the transferee partnership must allocate the basis increases described in section 1400Z-2(b)(2)(B)(iii) and (iv) to the contributing partner. If a transferee partnership is a direct QOF owner, only the transferee partnership may make the elections under section 1400Z-2(c) and the regulations in this part under section 1400Z-2(c) of the Code with respect to the contributed qualifying investment. See ยง 1.1400Z2(c)-1(b)(1)(ii) (election by transferee partnership).
