
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Rules Relating to Individuals' Title 11 Cases
###### ยง 1.1400Z2(d)-1 Qualified opportunity funds and qualified opportunity zone businesses.
####### Overview.,90-percent investment standard,70-percent tangible property standard

(a)This section provides rules that an eligible entity (as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section) must satisfy to be a qualified opportunity fund (QOF) or a qualified opportunity zone business. Paragraphs (a)(2) through (4) of this section provide rules that eligible entities must follow to be certified as QOFs, as well as rules for the de-certification of QOFs. Paragraph (b) of this section provides rules for determining whether the property held by a QOF satisfies theof section 1400Z-2(d)(1) or the property held by a qualified opportunity zone business satisfies theof section 1400Z-2(d)(3)(A)(i). Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules regarding qualified opportunity zone property that a QOF must hold to satisfy the 90-percent investment standard. Paragraph (d) of this section provides rules that an eligible entity must satisfy to be a qualified opportunity zone business that is owned, in whole or in part, by one or more QOFs. Paragraph (e) of this section provides applicability dates for this section. See ยง 1.1400Z2(d)-2 for rules that must be satisfied for tangible property of an eligible entity to be treated as qualified opportunity zone business property.
