
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Rules Relating to Individuals' Title 11 Cases
###### ยง 1.1400Z2(d)-1 Qualified opportunity funds and qualified opportunity zone businesses.
####### 2,Example.,90-percent investment standard

()Entity JH is a corporation that has issued only one class of stock and that conducts a trade or business. Taxpayer X holds 94% of the JH stock, and Taxpayer Y holds the remaining 6% of that stock. (Thus, both X and Y are five percent zone taxpayers within the meaning of paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(B) of this section.) JH does not have an applicable financial statement, and, for that reason, a determination of whether JH is conducting a qualified opportunity zone business may employ the compliance methodology of X or Y. X and Y use different compliance methodologies permitted under paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section for purposes of satisfying theof section 1400Z-2(d)(1). Under X's compliance methodology (which is based on X's applicable financial statement), 65% of the tangible property owned or leased by JH's trade or business is qualified opportunity zone business property. Under Y's compliance methodology (which is based on Y's cost), 73% of the tangible property owned or leased by JH's trade or business is qualified opportunity zone business property. Because Y's compliance methodology would produce the higher percentage of qualified opportunity zone business property for JH (73%), both X and Y may use Y's compliance methodology to value JH's owned or leased tangible property. If JH's trade or business satisfies all additional requirements in section 1400Z-2(d)(3), the trade or business is a qualified opportunity zone business. Thus, if all of the additional requirements in section 1400Z-2(d)(2)(B) are satisfied, stock in JH is qualified opportunity zone stock in the hands of a taxpayer that has self-certified as a QOF.
