
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Rules Relating to Individuals' Title 11 Cases
###### ยง 1.1400Z2(d)-1 Qualified opportunity funds and qualified opportunity zone businesses.
####### Example 4. Multiple applications of working capital safe harbor to tangible property,1,Facts.

(D)-()QOF A forms a domestic C corporation B to develop a large mixed-use real estate development that will consist of commercial and residential real property, owning almost all of the equity of B in exchange for cash. To raise additional working capital for the mixed-use real estate development, B also will borrow cash under a new revolving credit agreement with an unrelated lender. B has a master written plan for the completion of the commercial and residential real property over a 55-month period. The plan provides that the commercial real property will be completed over a 30 month schedule and subsequently, the residential real property will be completed over a 25 month schedule. The plan further provides that a portion of the commercial real property is unable to be used in a trade or business after the completion of the commercial real property since that portion of the commercial real property will be unusable during the residential construction phase. Pursuant to B's original master plan for the completion of the real estate development, QOF A acquires additional equity in B for cash after the completion of the commercial development phase, and B commences use of those working capital assets for residential development phase.
