
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Rules Relating to Individuals' Title 11 Cases
###### ยง 1.1400Z2(d)-2 Qualified opportunity zone business property.
####### ii,Analysis.,90-percent investment standard.

()In order for the hotel to be considered qualified opportunity zone business property, QOF A must substantially improve the hotel as the hotel had previously been placed in service in the qualified opportunity zone. (QOF A was not required to substantially improve the land on which the hotel was located pursuant to paragraph (b)(4)(iv) of this section.) Because the amount of basis allocated to the hotel was $4 million, QOF A must expend $4 million to improve the hotel within the 30-month substantial improvement period provided in section 1400Z-2(d)(2)(D)(ii). The new linens, mattresses and furniture, new exercise equipment, and new restaurant equipment all qualify as original use assets under section 1400Z-2(d)(2)(D)(i)(II). QOF A also substantially improved the hotel, which was the asset that needed to be improved under section 1400Z-2(d)(2)(D)(i)(II). QOF A chose, at the start of the 30-month period, to include the costs of the newly purchased assets that improve the functionality of the hotel to the basis of the hotel. Thus, the cost of these items is eligible to be added to the hotel's basis pursuant to paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section. Therefore, QOF A has met the substantial improvement requirement under section 1400Z-2(d)(2)(D)(i)(II) by doubling its basis in the hotel and its fixtures within the 30-month substantial improvement period. The amounts spent replacing linens, mattresses, furniture, exercise equipment, and new restaurant equipment that were counted toward the substantial improvement requirement for the hotel are not considered original use assets for purposes of the
