
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Rules Relating to Individuals' Title 11 Cases
###### ยง 1.1400Z2(f)-1 Administrative rules- penalties, anti-abuse, etc.
####### Example 5,Facts.

(v)-(A)The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section, except that Partnership D, in year 1, acquired a tract of land located in a qualified opportunity zone that was previously used for hog and pig farming. On its Form 1065T the previous owner, also a partnership, properly described those activities with the principal business activity code 112210. During the several-year period ending on the date of the acquisition of the land, the value of the land had significantly increased and D projected the land to continue to increase in value by ten-fold during the following 10-year period. At the time of the acquisition, Partnership D intended to conduct sheep and goat farming activities on the land and, accordingly, planned to use principal business activity code 112400 on its Form 1065. According to its plan, Partnership D conducted sheep and goat farming activities on the land during the 10-year period beginning on the date of acquisition of the land. During the 10-year period, Partnership D made significant capital improvements to the land, including improvements to existing farm structures, construction of new farm structures, and installation of a new irrigation system. As expected, the value of the land substantially increased during the following decade. The owners' entire interest in Partnership D was a qualifying investment, and, after having held it for at least 10 years the owners sold the entire interest at a large gain. As planned the owners made an election under section 1400Z-2(c) in order to avoid tax on the gain from the sale.
