
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Rules Relating to Individuals' Title 11 Cases
###### ยง 1.1400Z2(f)-1 Administrative rules- penalties, anti-abuse, etc.
####### Example 4,Facts.

(iv)-(A)Entity D is a QOF that meets the requirements of section 1400Z-2(d)(1). Entity D owns a majority qualified opportunity zone partnership interest in a domestic partnership, Partnership D described in section 1400Z-2(d)(2)(C). Entity D organized Partnership D for the purpose of being a qualified opportunity zone business. Partnership D acquires a tract of land located in a qualified opportunity zone. At the time of the acquisition of that land, there was no plan or intent to develop or otherwise utilize the land in a trade or business that would increase substantially the economic productivity of the land. Instead, there was a plan to pave the land for use as a parking lot. Partnership D planned to install a gate to the paved parking area, a small structure that would serve as an office for a parking attendant, and two self-pay stations for use by customers. The parking lot was not reasonably expected to expand significantly, and the initial small number of employees was not reasonably expected significantly to increase. A significant purpose for the acquisition of the land was to sell the land at a profit and to exclude any gain from appreciation by making an election under section 1400Z-2(c).
