
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Rules Relating to Individuals' Title 11 Cases
###### ยง 1.1400Z2(f)-1 Administrative rules- penalties, anti-abuse, etc.
####### Example 1,Facts.

(i)-(A)Two nonresident alien individuals (collectively, the individuals) plan to sell stock at a gain of $50, to invest the amount of the resulting capital gain in a QOF, and to make a deferral election under section 1400Z-2(a). They make this election with the intent of holding the QOF investment for 10 years and then making an election to increase the qualifying basis to fair market value under section 1400Z-2(c). A gain on a sale of the stock by the individuals, however, would not be subject to Federal income tax, and so the gain would not support their making a deferral election as a result of the requirement in ยง 1.1400Z2(a)-1(b)(11)(i)(B). Instead of selling the stock themselves, the individuals form a domestic partnership with a significant purpose of using that partnership to make a deferral election with respect to the stock under the exception in ยง 1.1400Z2(a)-1(b)(11)(ix)(B). The individuals contribute their stock to the partnership in exchange for partnership interests, after which the partnership sells the stock and invests the $50 gain in a QOF. Had the partnership not made a deferral election, the individuals would not be subject to tax on their allocated portion of the partnership's recognized gain on the sale of the stock.
