
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Rules Relating to Individuals' Title 11 Cases
###### ยง 1.1400Z2(f)-1 Administrative rules- penalties, anti-abuse, etc.
####### Example 7,Facts.

(vii)-(A)Entity E treats itself as a QOF that meets the requirements of section 1400Z-2(d)(1). Entity E owns all of the stock in a domestic corporation, Corporation E, and Entity E treats this stock as qualified opportunity zone stock. Corporation E uses the majority of the cash invested by Entity E to purchase gold bars from unrelated parties within the meaning of section 1400Z-2(e)(2). The aggregate value of the gold bars is $1000. Corporation E rents a safe deposit box in a qualified opportunity zone and hires one employee to manage the purchase and sale of the gold bars. Each year Corporation E purchases a small number of additional gold bars and sells to customers a portion of the gold bars on hand. The aggregate value of both the purchases and sales approximates half the value of the bars held at the beginning of the year. Corporation E seeks to treat the gold bars as qualified opportunity zone business property within the meaning of section 1400Z-2(d)(3). At the time that Corporation E began the gold bar business, it did not reasonably expect the business to expand significantly, nor was the number of employees reasonably expected to increase. Gold, however, was reasonably expected to appreciate. Ten years after the formation of Entity E, the investors in Entity E sell all of their interests in the entity and seek to make an election under section 1400Z-2(c) to exclude any gain from appreciation.
