
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Tax on Corporations
###### § 1.11-1 Tax on corporations.

(a) Every corporation, foreign or domestic, is liable to the tax imposed under section 11 except (1) corporations specifically excepted under such section from such tax; (2) corporations expressly exempt from all taxation under subtitle A of the Code (see section 501); and (3) corporations subject to tax under section 511(a). For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1966, foreign corporations engaged in trade or business in the United States shall be taxable under section 11 only on their taxable income which is effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States (see section 882(a)(1)). For definition of the terms "corporations," "domestic," and "foreign," see section 7701(a) (3), (4), and (5), respectively. It is immaterial that a domestic corporation, and for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1966, a foreign corporation engaged in trade or business in the United States, which is subject to the tax imposed by section 11 may derive no income from sources within the United States. The tax imposed by section 11 is payable upon the basis of the returns rendered by the corporations liable thereto, except that in some cases a tax is to be paid at the source of the income. See subchapter A (sections 6001 and following), chapter 61 of the Code, and section 1442.

(b) The tax imposed by section 11 consists of a normal tax and a surtax. The normal tax and the surtax are both computed upon the taxable income of the corporation for the taxable year, that is, upon the gross income of the corporation minus the deductions allowed by chapter 1 of the Code. However, the deduction provided in section 242 for partially tax-exempt interest is not allowed in computing the taxable income subject to the surtax.

(c) The normal tax is at the rate of 22 percent and is applied to the taxable income for the taxable year. However, in the case of a taxable year ending after December 31, 1974, and before January 1, 1976, the normal tax is at the rate of 20 percent of so much of the taxable income as does not exceed $25,000 and at the rate of 22 percent of so much of the taxable income as does exceed $25,000 and is applied to the taxable income for the taxable year.

(d) The surtax is at the rate of 26 percent and is upon the taxable income (computed without regard to the deduction, if any, provided in section 242 for partially tax-exempt interest) in excess of $25,000. However, in the case of a taxable year ending after December 31, 1974, and before January 1, 1976, the surtax is upon the taxable income (computed as provided in the preceding sentence) in excess of $50,000. In certain circumstances the exemption from surtax may be disallowed in whole or in part. See sections 269, 1551, 1561, and 1564 and the regulations thereunder. For purposes of sections 244, 247, 804, 907, 922 and §§ 1.51-1 and 1.815-4, when the phrase "the sum of the normal tax rate and the surtax rate for the taxable year" is used in any such section, the normal tax rate for all taxable years beginning after December 31, 1963, and ending before January 1, 1976, shall be considered to be 22 percent.

(e) The computation of the tax on corporations imposed under section 11 may be illustrated by the following example:

(f) For special rules applicable to foreign corporations engaged in trade or business within the United States, see section 882 and the regulations thereunder. For additional tax on personal holding companies, see part II (section 541 and following), subchapter G, chapter 1 of the Code, and the regulations thereunder. For additional tax on corporations improperly accumulating surplus, see part I (section 531 and following), subchapter G, chapter 1 of the Code, and the regulations thereunder. For treatment of China Trade Act corporations, see sections 941 and 942 and the regulations thereunder. For treatment of Western Hemisphere trade corporations, see sections 921 and 922 and the regulations thereunder. For treatment of capital gains and losses, see subchapter P (section 1201 and following), chapter 1 of the Code. For computation of the tax for a taxable year during which a change in the tax rates occurs, see section 21 and the regulations thereunder.
