
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Net Investment Income Tax
###### ยง 1.1411-4 Definition of net investment income.
####### Example.

(iv)The following example illustrates the provisions of this paragraph (f)(7). For purposes of these examples, assume the taxpayer is a United States citizen, uses a calendar taxable year, and Year 1 and all subsequent years are taxable years in which section 1411 is in effect:

(A) A, an unmarried individual, has adjusted gross income in Year 1 as follows:

In addition, A has the following items of expense qualifying as itemized deductions:

A's investment expenses and job-related expenses are miscellaneous itemized deductions. In addition, A's investment interest expense and investment expenses are properly allocable to net investment income (within the meaning of this section). A's job-related expenses are not properly allocable to net investment income. Of the state income tax expense, A applied a reasonable method pursuant to paragraph (g)(1) of this section to properly allocate $20,000 to net investment income.

(B) A's 2-percent floor under section 67 is $40,000 (2% of $2,000,000). For Year 1, assume the section 68 limitation starts at adjusted gross income of $200,000. The section 68 overall limitation disallows $54,000 of A's itemized deductions that are subject to section 68 (3% of the excess of the $2,000,000 adjusted gross income over the $200,000 limitation threshold).

(C)(1) A's total miscellaneous itemized deductions allowable before the application of section 67 is $100,000 ($70,000 in investment expenses plus $30,000 in job-related expenses), and the total miscellaneous deductions allowed after the application of section 67 is $60,000 ($100,000 minus $40,000).

(2) The amount of the miscellaneous itemized deductions properly allocable to net investment income after the application of section 67 is $60,000 (the lesser of $70,000 in investment expenses that are deductible as a miscellaneous itemized deduction and properly allocable to net investment income or $60,000 of miscellaneous itemized deductions allocable to net investment income allowed after the application of section 67).

(D)(1) The amount of itemized deductions allocable to net investment income after applying section 67 to deductions that are also miscellaneous itemized deductions but before applying section 68 is $155,000. This amount is the sum of $60,000 of miscellaneous itemized deductions determined in (C)(2), plus $20,000 in state income tax properly allocable to net investment income, plus $75,000 of investment interest expense. However, under section 68(c)(2), the $75,000 deduction for investment interest expenses is not subject to the section 68 limitation on itemized deductions and is excluded from the computation under ยง 1.1411-4(f)(7). Thus, the amount of itemized deductions allocable to net investment income and subject to section 68, after applying section 67 but before applying section 68, is $80,000.

(2) A's total itemized deductions allowed subject to the limitation under section 68 and after application of section 67, but before the application of section 68, are the following:

(3) Of A's itemized deductions that are subject to the limitation under section 68, the amount allowed after the application of section 68 is $126,000 ($180,000 minus the $54,000 disallowed in (B)).

(E) Under paragraph (f)(7)(ii) of this section, the amount of itemized deductions allowed in determining net investment income after applying sections 67 and 68 is the lesser of $80,000 (the sum of $60,000 determined under paragraph (C)(2) and $20,000 state income tax allocable to net investment income) or $126,000 (determined under (D)(3)). Therefore, A's itemized deductions that are properly allocable to net investment income are $155,000 ($80,000 of properly allocable itemized deductions subject to section 67 or 68 plus $75,000 of investment interest expense (which is not subject to either section 67 or section 68 limitations)).
