
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Withholding of Tax on Nonresident Aliens and Foreign Corporations and Tax-Free Covenant Bonds
###### ยง 1.1441-1 Requirement for the deduction and withholding of tax on payments to foreign persons.
####### Consequences to the U.S. branch.

(C)A U.S. branch that is treated as a U.S. person under paragraph (b)(2)(iv)(A) of this section shall be treated as a separate person for purposes of section 1441(a) and all other provisions of chapters 3 and 4 of the Code and the regulations thereunder (other than for purposes of reporting the payment to the U.S. branch under ยง 1.1461-1(c) and ยง 1.1474-1(d)(1)(i) for a chapter 4 reportable amount by a withholding agent) or for purposes of the documentation such a branch must furnish under paragraph (e)(3)(v) of this section) for any payment that it receives as such. Thus, the U.S. branch shall be responsible for withholding on a payment as a U.S. person in accordance with the provisions under chapters 3 and 4 of the Code and the regulations thereunder and other applicable withholding provisions of the Code. For this purpose, it shall obtain and retain documentation from payees or beneficial owners of the payments that it receives as an intermediary as a U.S. person in the same manner as if it were a separate entity. For example, if a U.S. branch receives a payment as an intermediary on behalf of customers of its home office and the home office is a qualified intermediary, the U.S. branch must obtain a qualified intermediary withholding certificate described in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section from its home office. Similarly, if a U.S. branch of an FFI treated as a U.S. person receives a payment on behalf of another branch of the FFI that is treated as a nonparticipating FFI, the U.S. branch must withhold on the payment made to the other branch as if it were a separate person to the extent required under chapter 4. In addition, a U.S. branch that has not provided documentation to the withholding agent for a payment that is, in fact, not effectively connected income is a withholding agent with respect to that payment. See paragraph (b)(6) of this section and ยง 1.1441-4(a)(2)(ii).
