
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Withholding of Tax on Nonresident Aliens and Foreign Corporations and Tax-Free Covenant Bonds
###### § 1.1441-6 Claim of reduced withholding under an income tax treaty.
####### In general.

(a)The rate of withholding on a payment of income subject to withholding may be reduced to the extent provided under an income tax treaty in effect between the United States and a foreign country. Most benefits under income tax treaties are to foreign persons who reside in the treaty country. In some cases, benefits are available under an income tax treaty to U.S. citizens or U.S. residents or to residents of a third country. See paragraph (b)(5) of this section for claims of benefits by U.S. persons. If the requirements of this section are met, the amount withheld from the payment may be reduced at source to account for the treaty benefit. See, however, § 1.1471-2(a) and § 1.1472-1(b) for when withholding at source on a withholdable payment may not be reduced to account for a treaty benefit such that the beneficial owner of the payment may need to file a claim for refund to obtain a refund for the overwithheld amount of tax. See also § 1.1441-4(b)(2) for rules regarding claims of a reduced rate of withholding under an income tax treaty in the case of compensation from personal services and § 1.1441-4(c)(1) for rules regarding claims of a reduced rate of withholding under an income tax treaty in the case of scholarship and fellowship income.
