
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Withholding of Tax on Nonresident Aliens and Foreign Corporations and Tax-Free Covenant Bonds
###### § 1.1441-7 General provisions relating to withholding agents.
####### Financial institutions-limits on reason to know,In general.

(3)-(i)For purposes of this paragraph (b)(3) and paragraphs (b)(4) through (10) of this section, the terms withholding certificate, documentary evidence, and documentation are defined in § 1.1441-1(c)(16), (17), and (18). Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (b)(4) through (9) of this section, a withholding agent that is a financial institution under § 1.1471-5(e), an insurance company (without regard to whether such company is a specified insurance company), or a broker or dealer in securities that maintains or opens an account for a beneficial owner (a direct account holder) has reason to know that documentation provided by the direct account holder is unreliable or incorrect only if one or more of the circumstances described in paragraphs (b)(4) through (9) of this section exist. If a direct account holder has provided documentation that is unreliable or incorrect under the rules of paragraph (b)(4) through (9) of this section, the withholding agent may require new documentation. Alternatively, the withholding agent may rely on the documentation originally provided if the rules of paragraphs (b)(4) through (9) of this section permit such reliance based on additional statements and documentation obtained by the withholding agent from the beneficial owner. Paragraph (b)(10) of this section provides rules regarding reason to know for withholding agents that receive beneficial owner documentation from persons (indirect account holders) that have an account relationship with, or an ownership interest in, a direct account holder of the withholding agent. Paragraph (b)(11) of this section provides limitations on a withholding agent's reason to know for multiple obligations held by the same person. Paragraph (b)(12) of this section defines a reasonable explanation provided by an individual with respect to the individual's claim of foreign status. For rules regarding reliance on Form W-9, see § 31.3406(h)-3(e)(2) of this chapter. For payments that are withholdable payments, see § 1.1471-3(e)(3) and (4) for additional rules regarding a withholding agent's reason to know with respect to a payee's claim of chapter 4 status and § 1.1471-3(f) for presumption rules that apply when the claim of chapter 4 status is unreliable or incorrect.
