
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Withholding of Tax on Nonresident Aliens and Foreign Corporations and Tax-Free Covenant Bonds
###### § 1.1445-2 Situations in which withholding is not required under section 1445(a).
####### 2

() Sets forth the transferor's name, identifying number and home address (in the case of an individual) or office address (in the case of an entity).

(B) For purposes of paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section, a foreign person is a nonresident alien individual, foreign corporation, foreign partnership, foreign trust, or foreign estate, except that a withholding qualified holder (as defined in § 1.1445-1(g)(11)) is not a foreign person. Additionally, a foreign corporation that has made a valid election under section 897(i) is generally not treated as a foreign person for purposes of section 1445. In this regard, see § 1.1445-7. Pursuant to § 1.897-1(p), an individual's identifying number is the individual's Social Security number and any other person's identifying number is its U.S. employer identification number (EIN), or, if the transferor is a withholding qualified holder (as defined in § 1.1445-1(g)(11)) that does not have a U.S. taxpayer identification number, a foreign tax identification number issued by its jurisdiction of residence. A certification pursuant to this paragraph (b) must be verified as true and signed under penalties of perjury by a responsible officer in the case of a corporation, by a general partner in the case of a partnership, and by a trustee, executor, or equivalent fiduciary in the case of a trust or estate. No particular form is needed for a certification pursuant to this paragraph (b), nor is any particular language required, so long as the document meets the requirements of this paragraph (b)(2)(i), except that, with respect to a certification submitted by a withholding qualified holder (as defined in § 1.1445-1(g)(11)), the transferor must state on the certification that it is treated as a non-foreign person because it is a withholding qualified holder and must further specify whether it qualifies as a withholding qualified holder because it is a qualified holder under § 1.897(l)-1(d) or a foreign partnership that satisfies the requirements of § 1.1445-1(g)(11). Samples of acceptable certifications are provided in paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section.
