
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Withholding of Tax on Nonresident Aliens and Foreign Corporations and Tax-Free Covenant Bonds
###### ยง 1.1445-2 Situations in which withholding is not required under section 1445(a).
####### Belated notice of false certification.

(iv)If after the date of the transfer a transferee receives a notice that a certification is false, then that transferee is entitled to rely upon the certification only with respect to consideration that was paid prior to receipt for the notice. Such a transferee is required to withhold a full 15 percent of the amount realized from the consideration that remains to be paid to the transferor if possible. Thus, if 15 percent or more of the amount realized remains to be paid to the transferor then the transferee is required to withhold and pay over the full 15 percent. The transferee must do so by withholding and paying over the entire amount of each successive payment of consideration to the transferor until the full 15 percent of the amount realized has been withheld and paid over. Amounts so withheld must be reported and paid over by the 20th day following the date on which each such payment of consideration is made. A transferee that is subject to the rules of this paragraph (b)(4)(iv) may not obtain a withholding certificate pursuant to ยง 1.1445-3, but must instead withhold and pay over the amounts required by this paragraph. For dispositions described in ยง 1.1445-1(b)(2), this paragraph shall be applied by replacing "15 percent" with "10 percent" each time it appears.
