
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Withholding of Tax on Nonresident Aliens and Foreign Corporations and Tax-Free Covenant Bonds
###### ยง 1.1446-3 Time and manner of calculating and paying over the 1446 tax.
####### Examples 1,2,i.e.

(B) For purposes of section 6655 and ยง 1.1446-3, PRS is subject to an underpayment addition to the tax that accrues on the same amount as in paragraphs (e)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section (and), respectively because PRS is not deemed to have paid 1446 tax under paragraph (e)(2) of this section until June 15, Year 2. The addition to the tax will stop accruing on the date prescribed in paragraph (b)(2)(v)(C) of this section (, March 15, Year 2, the due date, without extensions, for filing Form 8804).

(C) For purposes of section 6601, as of the last date prescribed for paying 1446 tax without extensions (March 15, Year 2), PRS has not paid or been deemed to have paid any 1446 tax. Accordingly, the interest charge under section 6601 shall begin to accrue on March 15, Year 2, and shall accrue until the 1446 liability is paid or deemed to have been paid. In this case, the interest charge will accrue until June 15, Year 2, the date that PRS is deemed to have paid its 1446 tax under paragraph (e)(2) of this section.

(D) For purposes of section 6651(a)(1), as of March 15, Year 2, PRS's amount required to be shown as tax on its Form 8804 is $37. This amount cannot be reduced under section 6651(b)(1) because PRS is not deemed to have paid 1446 tax under paragraph (e)(2) of this section until June 15, Year 2, a date falling after the last date for PRS to pay its 1446 tax, March 15, Year 2. Accordingly, the failure to file penalty will begin to accrue on March 15, Year 2 (filing due date for Form 8804), and shall stop accruing on the earlier of the date that PRS files Form 8804 or the maximum accrual of the penalty (25 percent of the amount required to be shown as tax on the return) is reached.

(E) PRS may be liable for other penalties and additions to the tax for its failure to withhold or to furnish statements to its foreign partner B. See ยง 1.1461-3 for a list of the penalties that may apply.
