
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Application of Withholding Provisions
###### ยง 1.1461-1 Payment and returns of tax withheld.
####### Information returns,Filing requirement,In general.

(c)-(1)-(i)A withholding agent (other than an individual who is not acting in the course of a trade or business with respect to a payment) must make an information return on Form 1042-S, "Foreign Person's U.S. Source Income Subject to Withholding," (or such other form as the IRS may prescribe) to report the amounts subject to reporting, as defined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, that were paid during the preceding calendar year. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, any person that withholds or is required to withhold an amount under section 1441, 1442, or 1443 or ยง 1.1446-4(a) (applicable to publicly traded partnerships required to pay tax under section 1446(a) on distributions) or ยง 1.1446(f)-4(a) (applicable to brokers required to withhold on transfers of publicly traded partnership interests) must file a Form 1042-S for the payment withheld upon whether or not that person is engaged in a trade or business and whether or not the payment is an amount subject to reporting. A Form 1042-S shall be prepared for each recipient of an amount subject to reporting and for each single type of income payment. The Form 1042-S shall be prepared in such manner as the form and accompanying instructions prescribe. One copy of the Form 1042-S shall be filed with the IRS on or before March 15th of the calendar year following the year in which the amount subject to reporting was paid. It shall be filed with a transmittal form as provided in the instructions to the Form 1042-S and to the transmittal form. Withholding certificates, documentary evidence, or other statements or documentation provided to a withholding agent are not required to be attached to the form. Another copy of the Form 1042-S must be furnished to the recipient for whom the form is prepared (or any other person, as required under this paragraph (c) or the instructions to the form) on or before March 15 of the calendar year following the year in which the amount subject to reporting was paid. The withholding agent must retain a copy of each Form 1042-S for the statute of limitations on assessment and collection applicable to the Form 1042 to which the Form 1042-S relates. A withholding agent required by this section to furnish a recipient copy of Form 1042-S may furnish such copy electronically by complying with the requirements provided in ยง 1.6050W-2(a)(2) through (5) applicable to statements required under section 6050W (substituting the phrase "Form 1042-S" for the phrases "statement required under section 6050W" or "statements required by section 6050W(f)" each place they appear). A withholding agent that meets the requirements of that section for providing electronic copies to recipients may apply these rules to payments made in calendar year 2016.
