
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information Reporting by Foreign Financial Institutions
###### ยง 1.1471-2 Requirement to deduct and withhold tax on withholdable payments to certain FFIs.
####### Example.

(B)A, an individual, owns stock in DC, a domestic corporation, through a custodian, Bank 1, that is a participating FFI. A also has a money market account at Bank 2, which is also a participating FFI. DC pays a dividend of $1,000 that is deposited in A's custodial account at Bank 1. A then directs Bank 1 to transfer $1,000 to A's money market account at Bank 2. With respect to the payment of the dividend into A's custodial account with Bank 1, both DC and Bank 1 are withholding agents making a withholdable payment for which they have custody, control, and knowledge. See ยง 1.1473-1(a)(2)(vii)(B) and (d). Therefore, both DC and Bank 1 have an obligation to withhold on the payment unless they can reliably associate the payment with documentation sufficient to treat the respective payees as not subject to withholding under chapter 4. With respect to the wire transfer of $1,000 from A's account at Bank 1 to A's account at Bank 2, neither Bank 1 nor Bank 2 is required to withhold with respect to the transfer because neither bank has knowledge of the facts that gave rise to the payment. Even though Bank 1 is a custodian with respect to A's interest in DC and has knowledge regarding the $1,000 dividend paid to A, once Bank 1 credits the $1,000 dividend to A's account, the $1,000 becomes A's property. When A transfers the $1,000 to its account at Bank 2, this constitutes a separate payment about which Bank 1 has no knowledge regarding the type of payment made. Further, Bank 2 only has knowledge that it receives $1,000 to be credited to A's account but has no knowledge regarding the type of payment made. Accordingly, Bank 1 and Bank 2 have no withholding obligation with respect to the transfer from A's custodial account at Bank 1 to A's money market account at Bank 2.
