
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information Reporting by Foreign Financial Institutions
###### ยง 1.1471-2 Requirement to deduct and withhold tax on withholdable payments to certain FFIs.
####### Exception to withholding if the withholding agent lacks control, custody, or knowledge,In general.

(i)-(A)A withholding agent that is not related to the payee or beneficial owner has an obligation to withhold under chapter 4 only to the extent that, at any time between the date that the obligation to withhold would arise (but for the provisions of this paragraph (a)(4)(i)) and the due date for filing the return on Form 1042 (including extensions) for the year in which the payment occurs, it has control over or custody of money or property owned by the payee or beneficial owner from which to withhold an amount and has knowledge of the facts that give rise to the payment. The exemption from the obligation to withhold under this paragraph (a)(4)(i) does not apply, however, to payments with respect to stock or other securities or if the lack of control or custody of money or property from which to withhold is part of a pre-arranged plan known to the withholding agent to avoid withholding under section 1471 or 1472. A withholding agent does not lack control over money or property for purposes of this paragraph (a)(4)(i) if the withholding agent directs another party to make the payment. Thus, for example, a principal does not cease to have control over a payment when it contracts with a paying agent to make the payments to its account holders in lieu of paying the account holders directly. Further, a withholding agent does not lack knowledge of the facts that give rise to a payment merely because the withholding agent does not know the character or source of the payment for U.S. tax purposes. See paragraph (a)(5) of this section for rules addressing a withholding agent's obligations when the withholding agent has knowledge of the facts that give rise to the payment, but the character or source of the payment is not known. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(4)(i), a withholding agent is related to the payee or beneficial owner if it is related within the meaning of section 482. Any exemption from withholding pursuant to this paragraph (a)(4)(i) applies without a requirement that documentation be furnished to the withholding agent. The special rules set forth in ยง 1.1441-2(d)(2) through (4), regarding the obligation of a withholding agent with respect to cancellation of debt, the satisfaction of a tax liability following underwithholding by a withholding agent, and amounts described in ยง 1.860G-3(b)(1) (regarding certain partnership allocations of REMIC net income with respect to a REMIC residual interest) also apply for purposes of chapter 4.
