
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information Reporting by Foreign Financial Institutions
###### § 1.1471-2 Requirement to deduct and withhold tax on withholdable payments to certain FFIs.
####### Withholding obligation of a foreign branch of a U.S. financial institution.

(v)A foreign branch of a U.S. financial institution is a U.S. withholding agent and a payee that is a U.S. person, and is generally not an FFI. However, a foreign branch of a U.S. financial institution that is also a reporting Model 1 FFI is both a withholding agent and a registered deemed-compliant FFI. Additionally, a QI branch of a U.S. financial institution is both a withholding agent and either a participating FFI or a registered deemed-compliant FFI. Therefore, a foreign branch of a U.S. financial institution is not subject to withholding under chapter 4 but has an obligation to withhold under this section and § 1.1472-1 and may be liable for the tax if it fails to do so. See § 1.1471-2(a) (requirement to withhold on payments to FFIs) and § 1.1471-3(a)(3)(iii) (U.S. intermediary or agent of a foreign person). A foreign branch that is a reporting Model 1 FFI or a reporting Model 2 FFI may apply the procedures under Annex I of an applicable IGA to document the chapter 4 status of a payee of a withholdable payment that is a holder of an account maintained by the branch in the Model 1 or Model 2 IGA jurisdiction. A QI branch of a U.S. financial institution must withhold in accordance with this chapter as provided in the QI agreement in addition to meeting its obligations under either § 1.1471-4(b) and its FFI agreement or § 1.1471-5(f).
