
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information Reporting by Foreign Financial Institutions
###### ยง 1.1471-3 Identification of payee.
####### Determining whether a payment is received by an intermediary.

(1)A withholding agent must treat the person who receives a payment as an intermediary if it can reliably associate the payment with a valid intermediary withholding certificate on which the person who receives the payment claims to be a QI or NQI. A U.S. person's foreign branch that is acting in its capacity as a QI is treated as a foreign intermediary. A withholding agent that makes a payment with respect to an offshore obligation must also treat the person who receives the payment as an intermediary if the person has provided written notification, whether or not such notification is signed, that it accepts the payment on behalf of another person or persons. A withholding agent may rely on the type of certificate furnished as determinative of whether the person who receives the payment is an intermediary, unless the withholding agent knows or has reason to know that the certificate is incorrect. For example, a withholding agent that receives a beneficial owner withholding certificate from an FFI may treat the FFI as the beneficial owner unless it has information in its records that would indicate otherwise or the certificate contains information that is not consistent with beneficial owner status (for example, sub-account numbers that do not correspond to accounts maintained by the withholding agent for such person or names of one or more persons other than the person submitting the withholding certificate). If the FFI receives a payment in part as a beneficial owner and in part as an intermediary, the withholding agent may request that the FFI furnish two certificates, that is, a beneficial owner certificate for the amounts it receives as a beneficial owner, and an intermediary withholding certificate for the amounts it receives as an intermediary. A withholding agent that cannot reliably associate a payment with documentation sufficient to treat the person who receives the payment as an intermediary or as other than an intermediary pursuant to this paragraph (b)(1) must follow the presumption rules set forth in paragraph (f)(5) of this section to determine whether it must treat the person who receives the payment as an intermediary. A determination that a payment is made to an intermediary under this paragraph (b)(1) is not a determination that the payment can be reliably associated with documentation. See paragraph (c)(2) of this section for rules on reliably associating a payment with documentation if such payment is made through an intermediary.
