
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information Reporting by Foreign Financial Institutions
###### ยง 1.1471-3 Identification of payee.
####### Rules for reliably associating a payment with a withholding certificate or other appropriate documentation,In general.

(c)-(1)A withholding agent can reliably associate a withholdable payment with valid documentation if, before the payment, it has obtained (either directly from the payee or through its agent) valid documentation appropriate to the payee's chapter 4 status as described in paragraph (d) of this section, it can reliably determine how much of the payment relates to the valid documentation, and it does not know or have reason to know that any of the information, certifications, or statements in, or associated with, the documentation are unreliable or incorrect. Thus, a withholding agent cannot reliably associate a withholdable payment with valid documentation provided by a payee to the extent such documentation appears unreliable or incorrect with respect to the claims made, or to the extent that information required to allocate all or a portion of the payment to each payee is unreliable or incorrect. A withholding agent may rely on information and certifications contained in withholding certificates or other documentation without having to inquire into the truthfulness of the information or certifications, unless it knows or has reason to know that the information or certifications are untrue. A withholding agent may rely upon the same documentation for purposes of both chapters 3 and 4 provided the documentation is sufficient to meet the requirements of each chapter. Alternatively, a withholding agent may elect to rely upon the presumption rules of paragraph (f) of this section in lieu of obtaining documentation from the payee. A withholding certificate will be considered provided by a payee if a withholding agent obtains the certificate from a third party repository (rather than directly from the payee or through its agent) and the requirements in ยง 1.1441-1(e)(4)(iv)(E) are satisfied. A withholding certificate obtained from a third party repository must still be reviewed by the withholding agent in the same manner as any other documentation to determine whether it may be relied upon for chapter 4 purposes. A withholding agent may rely on an electronic signature on a withholding certificate if the requirements in ยง 1.1441-1(e)(4)(i)(B) are satisfied.
