
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information Reporting by Foreign Financial Institutions
###### § 1.1471-3 Identification of payee.
####### U.S. branch treated as a U.S. person.

(vi)A withholdable payment to a U.S. branch is a payment to a U.S. person if the U.S. branch is treated as a U.S. person (as defined in § 1.1471-1(b)(135)). In such case, the U.S. branch is treated as the payee. A U.S. branch treated as a U.S. person, however, is not treated as a U.S. person for purposes of the withholding certificate it may provide to a withholding agent for purposes of chapter 4. Accordingly, a U.S. branch treated as a U.S. person must furnish a withholding certificate on a Form W-8 to certify its chapter 4 status (and not a Form W-9, "Request for Taxpayer Identification Number and Certification"). See also paragraph (f)(6) of this section for the rules under which a withholding agent can presume a payment to a U.S. branch constitutes income that is effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business. A U.S. branch treated as a U.S. person may not make an election to be withheld upon, as described in section 1471(b)(3) and § 1.1471-2(a)(2)(iii), for purposes of chapter 4. See § 1.1471-4(c)(2)(v) for the rule requiring a U.S. branch treated as a U.S. person to apply the due diligence rules applicable to a U.S. withholding agent. See also § 1.1474-1(i)(1) and (2) for the requirement of a U.S. branch to report information regarding certain U.S. owners of owner documented FFIs and passive NFFEs. See § 1.1471-4(d) for rules for when a U.S. branch reports as a U.S. person.
