
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information Reporting by Foreign Financial Institutions
###### ยง 1.1471-3 Identification of payee.
####### Determination of payee's status.

(b)Except as otherwise provided in this section, a withholding agent must base its determination of the chapter 4 status of a payee on documentation that the withholding agent can reliably associate with such payment. If a withholding agent makes a payment to a person that is not the payee, the withholding agent will be required to determine the chapter 4 status of each intermediary or flow-through entity in the payment chain until the withholding agent is able to identify the payee. Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules for when a withholding agent can reliably associate a payment with appropriate documentation. Paragraph (d) of this section provides documentation requirements applicable to each class of payees, including exceptions for payments made with respect to offshore obligations or preexisting obligations. Paragraph (e) provides standards for determining when a withholding agent will be considered to have reason to know that a claim of exemption from withholding is unreliable or incorrect. Paragraph (f) of this section provides presumptions that apply for purposes of determining a payee's chapter 4 status in the absence of documentation or if the documentation provided is unreliable or incorrect.
