
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information Reporting by Foreign Financial Institutions
###### ยง 1.1471-3 Identification of payee.
####### Period of validity,General rule.

(ii)-(A)Except as provided otherwise in paragraphs (c)(6)(ii)(B) and (C) of this section, a withholding certificate or written statement will remain valid until the last day of the third calendar year following the year in which the withholding certificate or written statement is signed. Documentary evidence is generally valid until the last day of the third calendar year following the year in which the documentary evidence is provided to the withholding agent. Nevertheless, documentary evidence that contains an expiration date may be treated as valid until that expiration date if doing so would provide a longer period of validity than the three-year period. Notwithstanding the validity periods permitted by paragraphs (c)(6)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section, a withholding certificate, written statement, and documentary evidence will cease to be valid if the withholding agent has knowledge of a change in circumstances that makes the information on the documentation incorrect. Therefore, a withholding agent is required to institute procedures to ensure that any change to the customer master files that constitutes a change in circumstances described in paragraph (c)(6)(ii)(E) of this section is identified by the withholding agent. In addition, a withholding agent is required to notify any person providing documentation of the person's obligation to notify the withholding agent of a change in circumstances.
