
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information Reporting by Foreign Financial Institutions
###### ยง 1.1471-3 Identification of payee.
####### Curing inconsequential errors on a withholding certificate.

(i)A withholding agent may treat a withholding certificate as valid, notwithstanding that the withholding certificate contains an inconsequential error, if the withholding agent has sufficient documentation on file to supplement the information missing from the withholding certificate due to the error. In such case, the documentation relied upon to cure the inconsequential error must be conclusive. For example, a withholding certificate in which the individual submitting the form abbreviated the country of residence in an ambiguous way may be treated as valid, notwithstanding the abbreviation, if the withholding agent has government issued identification for the person from a country that reasonably matches the abbreviation. On the other hand, an ambiguous abbreviation for the country of residence that does not reasonably match the country of residence shown on the person's passport is not an inconsequential error. A failure to select an entity type on a withholding certificate is not an inconsequential error, even if the withholding agent has an organization document for the entity that provides sufficient information to determine the person's entity type, if the person was eligible to make an election under ยง 301.7701-3(c)(1)(i) of this chapter (that is, a check-the-box election). A failure to check a box to make a required certification on the withholding certificate or to provide a country of residence or a country under which treaty benefits are sought is not an inconsequential error. In addition, information on a withholding certificate that contradicts other information contained on the withholding certificate or in the customer master file is not an inconsequential error.
