
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information Reporting by Foreign Financial Institutions
###### ยง 1.1471-3 Identification of payee.
####### Documentation received after the time of payment.

(ii)Proof that withholding was not required under the provisions of chapter 4 and the regulations thereunder also may be established after the date of payment by the withholding agent on the basis of a valid withholding certificate and/or other appropriate documentation that was furnished after the date of payment but that was effective as of the date of payment. A withholding certificate furnished after the date of payment will be considered effective as of the date of the payment if the certificate contains a signed affidavit (either at the bottom of the form or on an attached page) that states that the information and representations contained on the certificate were accurate as of the time of the payment. A certificate obtained within 30 days after the date of the payment will not be considered to be unreliable solely because it does not contain an affidavit. However, in the case of a withholding certificate of an individual received more than a year after the date of payment, the withholding agent will be required to obtain, in addition to the withholding certificate and affidavit, documentary evidence described in paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section that supports the individual's claim of foreign status. In the case of a withholding certificate of an entity received more than a year after the date of payment, the withholding agent will be required to obtain, in addition to the withholding certificate and affidavit, documentary evidence specified in paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section that supports the chapter 4 status claimed. If documentation other than a withholding certificate is submitted from a payee more than a year after the date of payment, the withholding agent will be required to also obtain from the payee a withholding certificate and affidavit supporting the chapter 4 status claimed as of the date of the payment. See, however, ยง 1.1441-1(b)(7)(ii) for special rules that apply when a withholding certificate is received after the date of the payment to claim that income is effectively connected with the conduct of a U.S. trade or business (as applied for purposes of this paragraph (c)(7)(ii) to a claim to establish that the payment is not a withholdable payment under ยง 1.1473-1(a)(4)(ii) rather than to claim an exemption described in ยง 1.1441-4(a)(1)).
