
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information Reporting by Foreign Financial Institutions
###### § 1.1471-3 Identification of payee.
####### Reliance on documentation and certifications provided between principals and agents,In general.

(iv)-(A)Subject to the conditions under § 1.1474-1(a)(3), a withholding agent is permitted to use an agent to fulfill its chapter 4 obligations and such agent's actions are imputed to the principal. However, an agent that makes a payment pursuant to an agency arrangement (paying agent) is also a withholding agent with respect to the payment unless an exception under § 1.1473-1(d) applies. Therefore, the paying agent will have its own obligation to determine the chapter 4 status of the payee and withhold upon the payment if required. Although a paying agent is generally a withholding agent for purposes of chapter 4, the financial accounts to which it makes payments are not necessarily financial accounts of the paying agent. See the rules under § 1.1471-5(b)(5) to determine when a financial institution maintains a financial account. In addition, the status of a payment as made with respect to an offshore obligation or as a preexisting obligation will be determined based on such obligation's status in relation to the principal. Further, the due diligence required with respect to the payment will be determined by the status of the principal and not the paying agent. Consequently, a payment that is made, for example, by a paying agent that is a foreign entity on behalf of a principal that is a U.S. withholding agent will be subject to the due diligence applicable to the principal. See § 1.1474-1(a)(3) for rules regarding the reporting obligations of a principal and agent in the case of a payment made by an agent of behalf of a principal.
