
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information Reporting by Foreign Financial Institutions
###### ยง 1.1471-3 Identification of payee.
####### Third-party data providers.

(ii)A withholding agent may rely upon documentation collected by a third-party data provider with respect to an entity, subject to the conditions described in this paragraph (c)(9)(ii).

(A) The third-party data provider must have collected documentation that is sufficient to determine the chapter 4 status of the entity under paragraph (d) of this section.

(B) The third-party data provider must be in the business of providing credit reports or business reports to customers unrelated to it and must have reviewed all information it has for the entity and verified that such additional information does not conflict with the chapter 4 status claimed by the entity. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(9)(ii)(B), a customer is related to a third-party data provider if they have a relationship with each other that is described in section 267(b).

(C) The third-party data provider must notify the entity submitting the documentation that such entity must notify the third-party data provider in the event of a change in circumstances within 30 days of the change in circumstances, and the third-party data provider must be obligated under its contract with the withholding agent to notify the withholding agent if a change in circumstances occurs.

(D) The withholding agent may not rely upon a chapter 4 status provided by a third-party data provider if the withholding agent knows or has reason to know that the chapter 4 status is unreliable or incorrect based on information in the withholding agent's account records, or if the documentation or information provided by the third-party data provider does not support the chapter 4 status claimed.

(E) The withholding agent must be able to submit copies of the documentation received from the third-party data provider upon request to the IRS and will remain liable for any underwithholding that occurs as a result of its reliance on information provided by the third-party data provider if the documentation is invalid or unreliable.

(F) This paragraph (c)(9)(ii) does not apply to a withholding statement or a withholding certificate that contains an election to accept withholding or reporting responsibility (such as one made by a QI, territory financial institution, or U.S. branch) provided by a third-party data provider.
