
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information Reporting by Foreign Financial Institutions
###### ยง 1.1471-3 Identification of payee.
####### Documentation requirements to establish payee's chapter 4 status.

(d)Unless the withholding agent knows or has reason to know otherwise, a withholding agent may rely on the provisions of this paragraph (d) to determine the chapter 4 status of a payee (or other person that receives a payment). Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (d), a withholding agent is required to obtain a valid withholding certificate or a Form W-9 from a payee in order to treat the payee as having a particular chapter 4 status. Paragraphs (d)(1) through (12) of this section indicate when it is appropriate for a withholding agent to rely upon a written statement, documentary evidence, or other information in lieu of a Form W-8 or W-9. Paragraphs (d)(1) through (12) of this section also prescribe additional documentation requirements that must be met in certain cases in order to treat a payee as having a specific chapter 4 status and specific standards of knowledge that apply to a particular payee, in addition to the general standards of knowledge set forth in paragraph (e) of this section. This paragraph (d) also provides the circumstances in which special documentation rules are permitted with respect to preexisting obligations. A withholding agent may not rely on documentation described in this paragraph (d) if the documentation is not valid or cannot reliably be associated with the payment pursuant to the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section, or the withholding agent knows or has reason to know that such documentation is incorrect or unreliable as described in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section. If the chapter 4 status of a payee cannot be determined under this paragraph (d) based on documentation received, a withholding agent must apply the presumption rules in paragraph (f) to determine the chapter 4 status of the payee.
