
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information Reporting by Foreign Financial Institutions
###### § 1.1471-3 Identification of payee.
####### Reason to know.,chapter 4 status,foreign status.

(4)A withholding agent has reason to know that a claim of chapter 4 status is unreliable or incorrect if its knowledge of relevant facts or statements contained in the withholding certificate or other documentation is such that a reasonably prudent person in the position of the withholding agent would question the claim being made. For an obligation other than a preexisting obligation, a withholding agent has reason to know that a person's claim of chapter 4 status is unreliable or incorrect if any information contained in its account opening files or other customer account files, including documentation collected for AML due diligence purposes, conflicts with the chapter 4 status being claimed. A withholding agent will not, however, have reason to know that a person's claim of chapter 4 status is unreliable or incorrect based on documentation collected for AML due diligence purposes until the date that is 30 days after the obligation is created. In addition to the specific standards of knowledge set forth in this paragraph (e) regarding a person's claim of chapter 4 status, a withholding agent is also required to apply any specific standards of knowledge applicable to the chapter 4 status claimed as set forth in paragraph (d) of this section. A withholding agent that has obtained documentation to reliably associate a payment to a foreign person under paragraph (c) of this section has reason to know that the person's claim of foreign status is unreliable or incorrect only to the extent provided in this paragraph (e)(4). See also § 1.1441-1(e)(4)(ii)(D) for requirements that apply when a change in circumstances occurs for purposes of chapter 3 and the related grace period allowed under § 1.1441-1(b)(3)(iv). The limits on reason to know for multiple obligations held by the same person set forth in § 1.1441-7(b)(11) shall apply by substituting the termfor the termSee § 1.1471-3(e)(4)(vii) for the limits on reason to know with respect to a preexisting obligation.
