
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information Reporting by Foreign Financial Institutions
###### ยง 1.1471-3 Identification of payee.
####### Presumptions regarding chapter 4 status of the person receiving the payment in the absence of documentation,In general.

(f)-(1)A withholding agent that cannot, prior to the payment, reliably associate (within the meaning of paragraph (c) of this section) the payment with valid documentation may rely on the presumptions of this paragraph (f) to determine the status of the payee (or other person receiving the payment) as a U.S. or foreign person and such person's other relevant characteristics (for example, as a nonparticipating FFI). Paragraph (f)(2) of this section provides the presumption rules with respect to classification as an individual or entity. Paragraph (f)(3) of this section provides the presumption rules to determine a payee's U.S. or foreign status. Paragraph (f)(4) of this section provides the presumption rules with respect to an entity's chapter 4 status. Paragraph (f)(5) of this section provides the presumption rules with respect to an intermediary or flow-through entity. Paragraph (f)(6) of this section provides the presumption rules with respect to effectively connected income paid to a U.S. branch of a payee. Paragraph (f)(7) of this section provides the presumption rules that apply to a payment made to joint payees. Paragraph (f)(8) of this section provides rules for how a payee may rebut the presumptions described in this paragraph (f). Paragraph (f)(9) of this section provides the consequences to a withholding agent that fails to withhold in accordance with the presumptions set forth in this paragraph (f) or that has actual knowledge or reason to know facts that are contrary to the presumptions set forth in this paragraph (f).
