
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information Reporting by Foreign Financial Institutions
###### § 1.1471-4 FFI agreement.
####### Withholding determination.

(2)Except as otherwise provided under § 1.1471-2 and, with respect to certain preexisting accounts, under paragraph (c) of this section, a participating FFI is required to determine whether withholding applies at the time a payment is made by reliably associating the payment with valid documentation described in paragraph (c) of this section for the payee of the payment. For a payment made to an account, if the account is held by one or more individuals, the payee is each individual account holder. For a payment made to an account held by an entity, except as otherwise provided in § 1.1471-3(a)(3), the payee is the account holder. If the participating FFI makes a withholdable payment to a payee that is an entity and the payment is made with respect to an obligation that is not an account, except as otherwise provided in § 1.1471-3(a)(3), the payee is the person to whom the payment is made. See § 1.1473-1(a) to determine when a payment is made in the case of a withholdable payment. If a participating FFI cannot reliably associate a payment (or any portion of a payment) with valid documentation, the rules described in paragraph (c) of this section shall apply to determine the chapter 4 status of the account holder (and payee if other than the account holder). Notwithstanding the foregoing, a participating FFI may establish after the date of payment that withholding was not required to the extent permitted under § 1.1471-3(c)(7) or may apply the procedures provided in § 1.1474-2 when overwithholding occurs.
