
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information Reporting by Foreign Financial Institutions
###### ยง 1.1471-4 FFI agreement.
####### Withholding requirements,In general.,withholdable payment,foreign passthru payment

(b)-(1)Except as otherwise provided in a Model 2 IGA, a participating FFI is required to deduct and withhold a tax equal to 30 percent of any withholdable payment made by such participating FFI to an account held by a recalcitrant account holder or to a nonparticipating FFI after June 30, 2014, to the extent required under paragraph (b)(3) of this section. See paragraph (b)(2) of this section for rules for a participating FFI to identify the payee of a payment in order to determine whether withholding is required under this paragraph (b). See paragraph (b)(4) of this section for the extent of a participating FFI's requirement to deduct and withhold tax on a foreign passthru payment made by such participating FFI to an account held by a recalcitrant account holder or to a nonparticipating FFI. See paragraph (b)(5) of this section for the rules for withholding on payments to limited branches and limited FFIs. See paragraph (b)(6) for the special allowance to set aside in escrow amounts withheld with respect to dormant accounts. See paragraph (b)(7) of this section for the withholding requirements of certain U.S. branches of FFIs. See ยง 1.1471-2 for the exceptions to and special rules for withholding and the exclusion from the definitions of the termsandthat applies to any payment made under a grandfathered obligation or the gross proceeds from the disposition of such an obligation. See ยง 1.1474-1(d)(4)(iii) for the requirement of participating FFIs to report payments that are chapter 4 reportable amounts. See ยง 1.1474-6 for the coordination of withholding on payments under this paragraph (b) with the other withholding provisions under the Code.
