
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information Reporting by Foreign Financial Institutions
###### ยง 1.1471-4 FFI agreement.
####### Scope of paragraph.

(c) Due diligence for the identification and documentation of account holders and payees-(1)Except to the extent that a participating FFI relies on the due diligence procedures set forth in an applicable Model 2 IGA, a participating FFI must follow this paragraph (c) to identify and document the chapter 4 status of each holder of an account maintained by the participating FFI to determine if the account is a U.S. account, non-U.S. account, or an account held by a recalcitrant account holder or nonparticipating FFI. Paragraph (c)(2) of this section provides the general rules for identification and documentation of account holders and payees, and paragraph (c)(2)(v) provides documentation requirements for certain U.S. branches of FFIs. Paragraph (c)(3) of this section provides the rules for documenting entity accounts and payees. Paragraph (c)(4) of this section provides the general rules for documenting individual accounts other than preexisting accounts. Paragraph (c)(5) of this section provides the identification and documentation procedure for preexisting individual accounts. Paragraph (c)(6) of this section provides examples illustrating the application of the documentation exceptions for entity accounts and individual accounts. Paragraph (c)(7) of this section outlines the certification requirement relating to the due diligence procedures of this paragraph (c) with respect to preexisting accounts within the specified periods of time.
