
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information Reporting by Foreign Financial Institutions
###### ยง 1.1471-4 FFI agreement.
####### Record retention.

(iv)A participating FFI must retain a record of the documentation collected (or otherwise maintained) to establish the chapter 4 status of an account holder or payee pursuant to the requirements of this paragraph (c)(2)(iv). A participating FFI will be treated as having retained a record of a withholding certificate, written statement, or documentary evidence if the participating FFI retains either an original, certified copy, or photocopy (including a microfiche, scan, or similar means of record retention) of the withholding certificate, written statement, or documentary evidence collected to determine the chapter 4 status of the account holder for six calendar years following the year in which the due diligence procedures of this paragraph (c) were performed for the account. With respect to documentary evidence for an offshore obligation, however, a participating FFI that is not required to retain copies of documentation reviewed pursuant to its AML due diligence will be treated as having retained a record of such documentation if the participating FFI retains a record in its files noting the date the documentation was reviewed, each type of document, the document's identification number (if any) (for example, passport number), and whether any U.S. indicia were identified. The previous sentence applies with respect to an offshore obligation that is also a preexisting obligation, except, in such case, the requirement to record whether the documentation contained U.S. indicia does not apply. A participating FFI must also retain a record of any searches, including search results provided by third-party credit agencies as described in paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section, results from electronic searches, and requests made and responses to relationship manager inquiries for six calendar years following the year in which the due diligence procedures of this paragraph (c) were performed for the account. A participating FFI may be required to extend the six year retention period if the IRS requests such extension prior to the end of the six year retention period. Notwithstanding the preceding sentences, a participating FFI must retain a record of the chapter 4 status of an account holder or payee for as long as the FFI maintains the account or obligation. See ยง 1.1471-3(c)(6)(iii)(A) for the record retention period applicable to a participating FFI that is a withholding agent with respect to documentation collected (or otherwise maintained) for a payee.
