
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information Reporting by Foreign Financial Institutions
###### § 1.1471-4 FFI agreement.
####### Identification and documentation procedure for individual accounts other than preexisting accounts,In general.

(4)-(i)With respect to an individual account that is not a preexisting account or an account described under paragraph (c)(4)(iii)(B) of this section or § 1.1471-5(a)(4)(i) (providing an exception to U.S. account status for certain depository accounts with an aggregate balance or value of $50,000 or less), a participating FFI must determine if the account is a U.S. account or non-U.S. account by retaining a record of certain documentation to establish the chapter 4 status of each account holder. Specifically, a participating FFI must retain a record of documentary evidence that meets the requirements of § 1.1471-3(c)(5) (as applicable to individuals), the information described in paragraph (c)(4)(ii) or (c)(4)(iii)(A) of this section, or a withholding certificate to establish an account holder's status as a foreign person. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c)(4)(iii)(A) of this section, the participating FFI must also review all information collected in connection with the opening or maintenance of each account, including documentation collected as part of the participating FFI's account opening procedures and documentation collected for other regulatory purposes, and apply the standards of knowledge in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section to determine if an account holder's claim of foreign status is unreliable or incorrect. If the participating FFI is not able to establish an account holder's status as a foreign person, the participating FFI must retain a record of either a Form W-9 or U.S. TIN (in any manner) and a valid and effective waiver described in section 1471(b)(1)(F)(i), if necessary, to establish an account holder's status as a U.S. person and to confirm that the account is a U.S. account. A participating FFI must complete the requisite identification and documentation procedures with respect to each account within the time period provided by § 1.1471-5(g)(3)(ii), or, if unable to do so, it must treat such account as held by a recalcitrant account holder. The presumption rules of § 1.1471-3(f) do not apply to individual account holders of a participating FFI.
