
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information Reporting by Foreign Financial Institutions
###### ยง 1.1471-4 FFI agreement.
####### Account reporting,Scope of paragraph.

(d)-(1)This paragraph (d) provides rules addressing the information reporting requirements applicable to participating FFIs with respect to U.S. accounts, accounts held by owner-documented FFIs, and recalcitrant account holders. Paragraph (d)(2) of this section describes the accounts subject to reporting under this paragraph (d), and specifies the participating FFI that is responsible for reporting an account or account holder. Paragraph (d)(3) of this section describes the information required to be reported and the manner of reporting by a participating FFI under section 1471(c)(1) with respect to a U.S. account or an account held by an owner-documented FFI. Paragraph (d)(4) of this section provides definitions of terms applicable to paragraph (d)(3). Paragraph (d)(5) of this section describes the conditions for a participating FFI to elect to report its U.S. accounts and accounts held by owner-documented FFIs under section 1471(c)(2) and the information required to be reported under such election. Paragraph (d)(6) of this section provides rules for a participating FFI to report its recalcitrant account holders. Paragraph (d)(7) of this section provides special transitional reporting rules applicable to reports due in 2015 and 2016. Paragraph (d)(8) of this section provides the reporting requirements of a participating FFI that is a QI, WP, or WT with respect to U.S. accounts. See chapter 61 for reporting requirements that may apply to a payor that is a participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI with respect to payees. See ยง 301.1474-1(a) of this chapter for the requirement for a financial institution to file the information required under this paragraph (d) on magnetic media.
