
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information Reporting by Foreign Financial Institutions
###### ยง 1.1471-4 FFI agreement.
####### Reporting by participating FFIs (including QIs, WPs, WTs, and certain U.S. branches not treated as U.S. persons) for accounts of nonparticipating FFIs (transitional).,3

(F)Except as otherwise provided in the instructions to Form 8966, "FATCA Report" or in this paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(F), if a participating FFI (including a QI, WP, WT, or U.S. branch of a participating FFI that is not treated as a U.S. person) maintains an account for a nonparticipating FFI (including a limited branch and limited FFI treated as a nonparticipating FFI), the participating FFI must report on Form 8966 the name and address of the nonparticipating FFI, and the aggregate amount of foreign source payments, as described in paragraph (d)(4)(iv) of this section, paid to or with respect to each such account (foreign reportable amount) for each of the calendar years 2015 and 2016. If, however, the participating FFI is prohibited under domestic law from reporting on a specific payee basis without consent from the nonparticipating FFI account holder and the participating FFI has not been able to obtain such consent, the participating FFI may instead report the aggregate number of accounts held by such non-consenting nonparticipating FFIs and the aggregate amount of foreign reportable amounts paid with respect to such accounts, as described in paragraph (d)(4)(iv) of this section, during the calendar year. A participating FFI may, in lieu of reporting only foreign reportable amounts, report all income, gross proceeds, and redemptions (irrespective of the source) paid to the nonparticipating FFI's account by the participating FFI during the calendar year. With respect to calendar year 2015, however, a participating FFI is not required to report gross proceeds described in paragraph (d)(4)(iv)(B)() of this section paid to an account held by a nonparticipating FFI. In addition, the participating FFI must retain the account statements related to such nonparticipating FFI accounts. See paragraphs (d)(6)(iv), through (vii) of this section for rules relating to reporting on recalcitrant account holders. Form 8966 shall be filed electronically with the IRS on or before March 31 of the year following the end of the calendar year to which the form relates.
