
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information Reporting by Foreign Financial Institutions
###### ยง 1.1471-4 FFI agreement.
####### Amount and character of payments subject to reporting.

(E)For purposes of reporting under paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the amount and character of payments made with respect to an account may be determined under the same principles that the participating FFI uses to report information on its resident account holders to the tax administration of the jurisdiction in which the FFI (or branch thereof) is located. Thus, the amount and character of items of income described in paragraphs (d)(4)(iv)(A), (B), and (C) need not be determined in accordance with U.S. federal income tax principles. If any of the types of payments described in paragraph (d)(4)(iv) of this section are not reported to the tax administration of the jurisdiction in which the participating FFI (or branch thereof) is located, such amounts may be determined in the same manner as is used by the participating FFI for purposes of reporting to the account holder. If any of the types of payments described in this paragraph (d)(4)(iv) is neither reported to the tax administration of the jurisdiction in which the FFI (or branch thereof) is located nor reported to the account holder for the year for which reporting is required under paragraph (d) of this section, such item must be determined and reported either in accordance with U.S. federal tax principles or in accordance with any reasonable method of reporting that is consistent with the accounting principles generally applied by the participating FFI. Once a participating FFI (or branch thereof) has applied a method to determine such amounts, it must apply such method consistently for all account holders and for all subsequent years unless the Commissioner consents to a change in such method. Consent will be automatically granted for a change to rely on U.S. federal income tax principles to determine such amounts.
