
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information Reporting by Foreign Financial Institutions
###### ยง 1.1471-4 FFI agreement.
####### Election to perform chapter 61 reporting,In general,Election under section 1471(c)(2).

(5)-(i)-(A)Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (d)(5), a participating FFI may elect under section 1471(c)(2) and this paragraph (d)(5) to report under sections 6041, 6042, 6045, and 6049, as appropriate, with respect to any account required to be reported under this paragraph (d). Such reporting must be done as if such participating FFI were a U.S. payor and each holder of an account that is a specified U.S. person, passive NFFE that is a U.S. owned foreign entity, or owner-documented FFI were a payee who is an individual and citizen of the United States. If a participating FFI makes such an election, the FFI is required to report the information required under this paragraph (d)(5) with respect to each such U.S. account or account held by an owner-documented FFI, regardless of whether the account holder of such account qualifies as a recipient exempt from reporting by a payor or middleman under sections 6041, 6042, 6045, or 6049, including the reporting of payments made to such account of amounts that are subject to reporting under any of these sections. A participating FFI that elects to report an account under the election described in this paragraph (d)(5) is required to report the information described in paragraph (d)(5)(ii) or (iii) of this section for a calendar year regardless of whether a reportable payment was made to the U.S. account during the calendar year. A participating FFI that reports an account under the election described in this paragraph (d)(5) is not required to report the information described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section with respect to the account. The election under section 1471(c)(2) described in this paragraph (d)(5)(i)(A) does not apply to cash value insurance contracts or annuity contracts that are financial accounts described in ยง 1.1471-5(b)(1)(iv). See paragraph (d)(5)(i)(B) of this section for an election to report cash value insurance contracts or annuity contracts that are U.S. accounts held by specified U.S. persons in a manner similar to section 6047(d).
