
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information Reporting by Foreign Financial Institutions
###### ยง 1.1471-4 FFI agreement.
####### Reporting on recalcitrant account holders,In general.

(6)-(i)Except as otherwise provided in a Model 2 IGA, a participating FFI, as part of its reporting responsibilities under this paragraph (d), shall report to the IRS for each calendar year the information described for each of the classes of account holders described in paragraphs (d)(6)(i)(A) through (E) of this section. See ยง 1.1474-1(d)(4)(ii) for a participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI's requirement to report chapter 4 reportable amounts paid to such account holders and tax withheld.

(A) The aggregate number and aggregate balance or value of accounts held by recalcitrant account holders at the end of the calendar year that are described in ยง 1.1471-5(g)(2)(iv) (referencing passive NFFEs that are recalcitrant account holders).

(B) The aggregate number and aggregate balance or value of accounts held by recalcitrant account holders at the end of the calendar year that are described in ยง 1.1471-5(g)(2)(ii) and (iii) (referencing U.S. persons that are recalcitrant account holders).

(C) The aggregate number and aggregate balance or value of accounts held by recalcitrant account holders at the end of the calendar year, other than accounts described in paragraph (d)(6)(i)(A), (B), or (E) of this section, that have U.S. indicia.

(D) The aggregate number and aggregate balance or value of accounts held by recalcitrant account holders at the end of the calendar year, other than accounts described in paragraph (d)(6)(i)(A) or (E) of this section, that do not have U.S. indicia.

(E) The aggregate number and aggregate balance or value of accounts held by recalcitrant account holders at the end of the calendar year that are dormant accounts.
