
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information Reporting by Foreign Financial Institutions
###### ยง 1.1471-4 FFI agreement.
####### Notice of event of default.,2

(2)Following an event of default known by or disclosed to the IRS, the IRS will deliver to the participating FFI a notice of default specifying the event of default. The IRS will request that the participating FFI remediate the event of default within 45 days (unless additional time is requested and agreed to by the IRS). The participating FFI must respond to the notice of default and provide information responsive to an IRS request for information or state the reasons why the participating FFI does not agree that an event of default has occurred. Taking into account the terms of any applicable Model 2 IGA, if the participating FFI does not provide a response within the specified time period, the IRS may, at its sole discretion, deliver a notice of termination that terminates the FFI's participating FFI status. If the FFI's participating FFI status is terminated, in addition to the requirements in ยง 1.1471-3(c)(6)(ii)(E)(), the FFI must, within 30 days of the termination, send notice of the termination to each withholding agent from which it receives payments and each financial institution with which it holds an account for which a withholding certificate or other documentation was provided. An FFI that has had its participating FFI status terminated may not reregister on the FATCA registration website as a participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI unless it receives written approval from the IRS to register. A participating FFI may request, within 90 days of a notice of default or notice of termination, reconsideration of a notice of default or notice of termination by written request to the IRS.
