
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information Reporting by Foreign Financial Institutions
###### ยง 1.1471-5 Definitions applicable to section 1471.
####### Account holder,In general.

(3)-(i)Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (a)(3), the account holder is the person listed or identified as the holder or owner of the account with the FFI that maintains the account, regardless of whether such person is a flow-through entity. Thus, for example, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section, if a trust (including a simple or grantor trust) or an estate is listed as the holder or owner of a financial account, the trust or estate is the account holder, rather than its owners or beneficiaries. Similarly, except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (a)(3), if a partnership is listed as the holder or owner of a financial account, the partnership is the account holder, rather than the partners in the partnership. In the case of an account held by an entity that is disregarded for U.S. federal tax purposes under ยง 301.7701-2(c)(2)(i) of this chapter, the account shall be treated as held by the person owning such entity. With respect to an account held by an exempt beneficial owner, such account is treated as held by an exempt beneficial owner only when all payments made to such account would be treated as made to an exempt beneficial owner. See ยง 1.1471-6(h) for when a payment derived from certain commercial activities is not treated as made to an exempt beneficial owner.
