
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information Reporting by Foreign Financial Institutions
###### ยง 1.1471-5 Definitions applicable to section 1471.
####### In general.

(i)Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section with respect to immediate annuities, the balance or value of a financial account is the balance or value calculated by the financial institution for purposes of reporting to the account holder. In the case of an account described in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, the balance or value of an equity interest is the value calculated by the financial institution for the purpose that requires the most frequent determination of value, and the balance or value of a debt interest is its principal amount. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(vii) of this section, the balance or value of an insurance or annuity contract is the balance or value as of either the calendar year end or the most recent contract anniversary date. The balance or value of the account is not to be reduced by any liabilities or obligations incurred by an account holder with respect to the account or any of the assets held in the account and is not to be reduced by any fees, penalties, or other charges for which the account holder may be liable upon terminating, transferring, surrendering, liquidating, or withdrawing cash from the account. Each holder of a jointly held account is attributed the entire balance or value of the joint account. See ยง 1.1473-1(b)(3) for rules regarding the valuation of trust interests that also apply under this paragraph (b)(4)(i) to determine the value of trust interests that are financial accounts.
