
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information Reporting by Foreign Financial Institutions
###### ยง 1.1471-5 Definitions applicable to section 1471.
####### Inquiries regarding substantial non-compliance.

(B)With respect to a registered deemed-compliant FFI described in paragraph (f)(1)(i)(A) through (E) of this section, the IRS may determine in its discretion that the FFI may not have substantially complied with the requirements of the deemed-compliant status claimed by the FFI. This determination is based on the information reporting forms described in ยง 1.1471-4(d)(3)(v), (d)(5)(vii), or (d)(6)(iv) filed with the IRS for each calendar year (if applicable), the certifications made by the responsible officer described in paragraph (f)(1)(ii)(B) of this section (or the absence of such certifications), or any other information related to the FFI's compliance with the requirements of the deemed-compliant status claimed by the FFI. In such a case, the IRS may request from the responsible officer (or designee) information necessary to verify the FFI's compliance with the requirements for the deemed-compliant status claimed by the FFI. For example, in the case of a local FFI under paragraph (f)(1)(i)(A) of this section, the IRS may request a description or copy of the FFI's policies and procedures for identifying accounts held by specified U.S. persons not resident in the jurisdiction in which the FFI is incorporated or organized, identifying entities controlled or beneficially owned by such persons, and identifying nonparticipating FFIs. The IRS may also request the performance of specified review procedures by a person (including an external auditor or third-party consultant) that the IRS identifies as competent to perform such procedures given the facts and circumstances surrounding the FFI's potential failure to comply with the requirements of the deemed-compliant category claimed by the FFI. If the IRS determines that the FFI has not complied with the requirements of the deemed-compliant status claimed by the FFI, the IRS may terminate the FFI's deemed-compliant status. If the FFI's deemed-compliant status is terminated, the FFI must send notice of the termination to each withholding agent from which it receives payments and each financial institution with which it holds an account for which a withholding certificate or other documentation was provided within 30 days after the termination. An FFI that has had its deemed-compliant status terminated may not reregister on the FATCA registration website as a registered deemed-compliant FFI or register on the FATCA registration website as a participating FFI unless it receives written approval from the IRS. A registered deemed-compliant FFI may request, within 90 days of a notice of termination, reconsideration of the notice of termination by written request to the IRS.
