
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information Reporting by Foreign Financial Institutions
###### ยง 1.1471-5 Definitions applicable to section 1471.
####### Procedural requirements for registered deemed-compliant FFIs.

(ii)A registered deemed-compliant FFI described in paragraph (f)(1)(i)(A) through (E) of this section may use one or more agents to perform the necessary due diligence to identify its account holders and to take any required action associated with obtaining and maintaining its deemed-compliant status. The FFI, however, remains responsible for ensuring that the requirements for its deemed-compliant status are met. Unless otherwise provided in this section, a registered deemed-compliant FFI described in paragraph (f)(1)(i)(A) through (E) of this section is required to-

(A) Register with the IRS pursuant to procedures prescribed by the IRS and agree to comply with the terms of its registered deemed-compliant status.

(B) Have its responsible officer certify, on or before July 1 of the calendar year following the end of each certification period, that all of the requirements for the deemed-compliant status claimed by the FFI have been satisfied during the certification period. The responsible officer may certify collectively for the FFI's expanded affiliated group that all of the requirements for the deemed-compliant status claimed by each member of the expanded affiliated group that is a registered deemed-compliant FFI (other than a member that is a reporting Model 1 FFI or deemed-compliant FFI under an applicable Model 1 IGA) have been satisfied. The certification must be made on the form and in the manner prescribed by the IRS. The first certification period begins on the later of the date the FFI registers as a deemed-compliant FFI and is issued a GIIN, or June 30, 2014, and ends at the close of the third full calendar year following that date. Each subsequent certification period is the three calendar year period following the previous certification period.

(C) Maintain in its records the confirmation from the IRS of the FFI's registration as a deemed-compliant FFI and GIIN or such other information as the IRS specifies in forms or other guidance; and

(D) Agree to notify the IRS if there is a change in circumstances that would make the FFI ineligible for the deemed-compliant status for which it has registered, and to do so within six months of the change in circumstances unless the FFI is able to resume its eligibility for its registered-deemed compliant status within the six month notification period.
