
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information Reporting by Foreign Financial Institutions
###### ยง 1.1471-5 Definitions applicable to section 1471.
####### 2

() A credit union or similar cooperative credit organization that is operated without profit.

(B) The FFI's business consists primarily of receiving deposits from and making loans to, with respect to a bank, retail customers that are unrelated to such bank and, with respect to a credit union or similar cooperative credit organization, members, provided that no such member has a greater than 5 percent interest in such credit union or cooperative credit organization. For purposes of this paragraph (f)(2)(i)(B), a customer is related to a bank if the customer and the bank have a relationship described in section 267(b). For purposes of determining whether a member has a greater than 5 percent interest in a credit union or cooperative credit organization, the member must aggregate the ownership or beneficial interests in the credit union or cooperative credit organization that are owned or held by a related member. A member of a credit union or cooperative credit organization is related to another member if the relationship of such members is described in section 267(b).

(C) The FFI does not have a fixed place of business outside its country of incorporation or organization. For this purpose, a fixed place of business does not include a location that is not advertised to the public and from which the FFI performs solely administrative support functions.

(D) The FFI does not solicit customers or account holders outside its country of incorporation or organization. For this purpose, an FFI will not be considered to have solicited customers or account holders outside its country of incorporation or organization merely because it operates a Web site, provided that the Web site does not permit account opening, does not indicate that the FFI maintains accounts for or provides services to nonresidents, and does not otherwise target or solicit U.S. customers or account holders. An FFI will also not be considered to have solicited customers or account holders outside its country of incorporation or organization merely because it advertises in print media or on a radio or television station that is distributed or aired primarily within its country of incorporation or organization but is also incidentally distributed or aired in other countries, provided that the advertisement does not indicate that the FFI maintains accounts for or provides services to nonresidents and does not otherwise target or solicit U.S. customers or account holders.

(E) The FFI does not have more than $175 million in assets on its balance sheet and, if the FFI is a member of an expanded affiliated group, the group does not have more than $500 million in total assets on its consolidated or combined balance sheets.

(F) With respect to an FFI that is part of an expanded affiliated group, each member of the expanded affiliated group is incorporated or organized in the same country and does not have a fixed place of business outside of that country. For this purpose, a fixed place of business does not include a location that is not advertised to the public and from which the FFI performs solely administrative support functions. Further, each FFI in the group, other than an FFI described in paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section or ยง 1.1471-6(f), meets the requirements set forth in this paragraph (f)(2)(i). For this purpose, a fixed place of business does not include a location that is not advertised to the public and from which the FFI performs solely administrative support functions.
