
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information Reporting by Foreign Financial Institutions
###### § 1.1472-1 Withholding on NFFEs.
####### In general.

(a)This section provides rules that a withholding agent must apply to determine its obligations to withhold under section 1472 on withholdable payments made to a payee that is a NFFE. A participating FFI that complies with its withholding obligations under § 1.1471-4(b) will be deemed to satisfy its obligations under section 1472 with respect to withholdable payments made to NFFEs that are account holders. The rules of this section will apply, however, in the case of a participating FFI acting as a withholding agent with respect to a payment made to a NFFE that is not an account holder (for example, a payment with respect to a contract that does not constitute a financial account). See § 1.1473-1(a)(4)(vi), however, for rules excepting from the definition of withholdable payment certain payments of U.S. source FDAP income made prior to January 1, 2017, with respect to an offshore obligation and § 1.1471-2(b) for rules excepting from the definition of withholdable payment a grandfathered obligation. See also § 1.1471-2(a)(2)(ii), (iv), (v), and (vi) for special rules of withholding that apply for purposes of this section and § 1.1471-2(a)(5) for withholding requirements if the source or character of a payment is unknown. The following entities are deemed to satisfy their withholding obligations under section 1472: Exempt beneficial owners; section 501(c) entities described in § 1.1471-5(e)(5)(v); and nonprofit organizations described in § 1.1471-5(e)(5)(vi). See § 1.1471-5(f) for when a deemed-compliant FFI is deemed to satisfy its withholding obligations with respect to payments made to NFFEs that are account holders under section 1472.
