
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information Reporting by Foreign Financial Institutions
###### ยง 1.1473-1 Section 1473 definitions.
####### Payment of U.S. source FDAP income,Amount of payment of U.S. source FDAP income.

(vii)-(A)The amount of U.S. source FDAP income is the gross amount of the payment of such income, unreduced by any deductions or offsets. The rules of ยง 1.1441-3(b)(1) shall apply to determine the amount of an interest payment on an interest-bearing obligation. In the case of a corporate distribution, the distributing corporation or intermediary shall determine the portion of the distribution that is treated as U.S. source FDAP income under this paragraph (a)(2) in the same manner as the distributing corporation or intermediary determines the portion of the distribution subject to withholding under ยง 1.1441-3(c). Any portion of a payment on a debt instrument or a corporate distribution that does not constitute U.S. source FDAP income under this paragraph (a)(2) solely because of a provision other than the source rules of sections 861 through 865 shall be taken into account as gross proceeds under paragraph (a)(3) of this section. For rules regarding the determination of the amount of a payment of U.S. source FDAP income under paragraph (a)(2) of this section made in a medium other than U.S. dollars, see ยง 1.1441-3(e). For determining the amount of a payment of a dividend equivalent, see section 871(m) and the regulations thereunder.
