
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information Reporting by Foreign Financial Institutions
###### ยง 1.1474-1 Liability for withheld tax and withholding agent reporting.
####### Information returns for payment reporting,Filing requirement,In general.

(d)-(1)-(i)Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (d)(4) of this section or in the instructions to Form 1042-S, every withholding agent must file an information return on Form 1042-S, "Foreign Person's U.S. Source Income Subject to Withholding," (or such other form as the IRS may prescribe) to report to the IRS chapter 4 reportable amounts as described in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section that were paid to a recipient during the preceding calendar year. Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (d)(4)(ii)(B) (certain unknown recipients) and (d)(4)(i)(B) and (d)(4)(iii)(A) of this section (describing payees includable in reporting pools of a participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI), a separate Form 1042-S must be filed with the IRS for each recipient of an amount subject to reporting under paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section and for each separate type of payment made to a single recipient in accordance with paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section. The Form 1042-S shall be prepared in such manner as the form and its accompanying instructions prescribe. One copy of the Form 1042-S shall be filed with the IRS on or before March 15 of the calendar year following the year in which the amount subject to reporting was paid, with a transmittal form as provided in the instructions to the form. Withholding certificates, certifications, documentary evidence, or other statements or documentation provided to a withholding agent are not required to be attached to the form. A copy of the Form 1042-S must be furnished to the recipient for whom the form is prepared (or any other person, as required under this paragraph or the instructions to the form) and to any intermediary or flow-through entity described in paragraph (d)(3)(vii) of this section on or before March 15 of the calendar year following the year in which the amount subject to reporting was paid. A person required by this paragraph (d)(1)(i) to furnish a copy of Form 1042-S to the recipient for whom it is prepared may furnish the copy of Form 1042-S in an electronic format in lieu of a paper format provided it meets the requirements of ยง 1.1461-1(c)(1)(i)(A). The withholding agent must retain a copy of each Form 1042-S for the period of limitations on assessment and collection applicable to the tax reportable on the Form 1042 to which the Form 1042-S relates (determined as set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section). See paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section for the additional reporting requirements of participating FFIs and deemed-compliant FFIs.
