
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information Reporting by Foreign Financial Institutions
###### ยง 1.1474-1 Liability for withheld tax and withholding agent reporting.
####### Income tax return,In general.

(c)-(1)Every withholding agent shall file an income tax return on Form 1042, "Annual Withholding Tax Return for U.S. Source Income of Foreign Persons," (or such other form as the IRS may prescribe) to report chapter 4 reportable amounts (as defined in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section). This income tax return shall be filed on the same income tax return used to report amounts subject to reporting for chapter 3 purposes as described in ยง 1.1461-1(b). The return must show the aggregate amount of payments that are chapter 4 reportable amounts and must report the tax withheld for the preceding calendar year by the withholding agent, in addition to any information required by the form and its accompanying instructions. Withholding certificates and other statements or information provided to a withholding agent are not required to be attached to the return. A Form 1042 must be filed under this paragraph (c)(1) even if no tax was required to be withheld for chapter 4 purposes during the preceding calendar year. The withholding agent must retain a copy of Form 1042 for the applicable period of limitations on assessment and collection with respect to the amounts required to be reported on the Form 1042. See section 6501 and the regulations thereunder for the applicable period of limitations. Adjustments to the total amount of tax withheld described in ยง 1.1474-2 shall be stated on the return as prescribed by the form and its accompanying instructions.
