
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information Reporting by Foreign Financial Institutions
###### ยง 1.1474-6 Coordination of chapter 4 with other withholding provisions.
####### Example. Chapter 4 withholding satisfies chapter 3 withholding obligation.

(e)WA, a U.S. withholding agent, makes a payment consisting of a dividend from sources within the United States to NPFFI. NPFFI is a nonparticipating FFI that is a resident of Country X, a country that has an income tax treaty in force with the United States that would allow WA to reduce the rate of withholding for section 1442 purposes on a payment of U.S. source dividends paid to NPFFI to 15%. Because the payment is a withholdable payment and NPFFI is a nonparticipating FFI, WA withholds on the payment at the rate of 30% under chapter 4. WA does not make any adjustment for overwithholding that is otherwise permitted with respect to this payment. Although the payment is also an amount subject to withholding under section 1442, WA is not required to withhold any tax on this payment under section 1442. WA may credit its withholding applied under chapter 4 against the amount of tax otherwise required to be withheld on this payment under section 1442. See ยง 1.1474-5(a)(2) for the credit and refund procedures for nonparticipating FFIs that are entitled to a reduced rate of tax with respect to an amount subject to withholding under chapter 4 by reason of any treaty obligation of the United States.
