
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Computation of Separate Taxable Income
###### ยง 1.1502-13 Intercompany transactions.
####### Divisions of a single corporation.

(3)As divisions of a single corporation, S and B are treated as engaging in their actual transaction and owning any actual property involved in the transaction (rather than treating the transaction as not occurring). For example, S's sale of land held for investment to B for cash is not disregarded, but is treated as an exchange of land for cash between divisions (and B therefore succeeds to S's basis in the property). Similarly, S's issuance of its own stock to B in exchange for property is not disregarded, B is treated as owning the stock it receives in the exchange, and section 1032 does not apply to B on its subsequent sale of the S stock. Although treated as divisions, S and B nevertheless are treated as:

(i) Operating separate trades or businesses. See, e.g., ยง 1.446-1(d) (accounting methods for a taxpayer engaged in more than one business).

(ii) Having any special status that they have under the Internal Revenue Code or regulations. For example, a bank defined in section 581, a domestic building and loan association defined in section 7701(a)(19), and an insurance company to which section 801 or 831 applies are treated as divisions having separate special status. On the other hand, the fact that a member holds property for sale to customers in the ordinary course of its trade or business is not a special status.
