
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Computation of Separate Taxable Income
###### ยง 1.1502-13 Intercompany transactions.
####### 7,Intercompany gain followed by distribution to a nonmember at a loss.,Example 1,1

()The facts are the same as inin paragraph (c)(7)(ii)(A)() of this section, except that B distributes the land to X, a minority shareholder of B, and at the time of the distribution the land has a fair market value of $90. The attributes and timing of S's intercompany gain and B's corresponding loss are determined under the matching rule. Under section 311(a), B does not recognize its $10 loss on the distribution to X. If S and B were divisions of a single corporation and the intercompany sale were a transfer between divisions, B would succeed to S's $70 basis in the land and would have a $20 gain from the distribution to X instead of an unrecognized $10 loss. Under paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, B's loss that is not recognized under section 311(a) is a corresponding item. Thus, S takes its $30 gain into account under the matching rule in Year 3 to reflect the difference between B's $10 corresponding unrecognized loss and the $20 recomputed gain. B's $10 corresponding loss offsets $10 of S's intercompany gain and, under paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section, the attributes of B's corresponding item control the attributes of S's intercompany item. Paragraph (c)(6) of this section does not prevent the redetermination of S's intercompany item as excluded from gross income. (See paragraph (c)(6)(ii)(B) of this section). Thus, $10 of S's $30 gain is redetermined to be excluded from gross income.
