
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Computation of Separate Taxable Income
###### ยง 1.1502-13 Intercompany transactions.
####### 3,Timing and attributes.

()S's $20 of intercompany income is taken into account under the matching rule to reflect the $20 difference between B's corresponding items taken into account (based on its $100 cost basis in the well) and the recomputed corresponding items (based on the $80 basis that B would have if S and B were divisions of a single corporation and B's basis were determined by reference to S's $80 of expenses). In Year 1, S takes into account $80 of its income and the $80 of expenses. In each of Years 2 through 11, S takes $2 of its $20 intercompany income into account to reflect the annual $2 difference between B's $10 of cost recovery deductions taken into account and the $8 of recomputed cost recovery deductions. S's $100 income and $80 expenses, and B's cost recovery deductions, are ordinary items (because S's and B's items would be ordinary on a separate entity basis, the attributes are not redetermined under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section). If S's offsetting $80 of income and expense would not be taken into account in the same year under its separate entity method of accounting, they nevertheless must be taken into account under this section in a manner that clearly reflects consolidated taxable income. See paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section.
