
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Computation of Separate Taxable Income
###### ยง 1.1502-13 Intercompany transactions.
####### 4,Nondealer to dealer.,Example 11,1

()The facts are the same as inin paragraph (c)(7)(ii)(K)() of this section, except that S is not a dealer and holds the security for investment with a $70 basis, B is a dealer to which section 475 applies and, immediately after acquiring the security from S for $100, B holds the security for sale to customers in the ordinary course of its trade or business. Because S is not a dealer and held the security for investment, the security is treated as properly identified as held for investment under section 475(b)(1) until it is sold to B. Under section 475(b)(3), the security thereafter ceases to be described in section 475(b)(1) because B holds the security for sale to customers. The mark-to-market requirement applies only to changes in the value of the security after B's acquisition. B's mark-to-market gain taken into account and the recomputed mark-to-market gain are both determined based on changes from the $100 value of the security at the time of B's acquisition. There is no difference between B's $0 mark-to-market gain taken into account in Year 1 and the $0 recomputed mark-to-market gain. Therefore, none of S's gain is taken into account in Year 1 as a result of B's marking the security to market in Year 1. In Year 2, B has a $10 gain when it disposes of the security by selling it to X, but would have had a $40 gain if S and B were divisions of a single corporation. Thus, S takes its $30 gain into account in Year 2 under the matching rule. Under section 475(d)(3), S's gain is capital gain even though B's subsequent gain or loss from marking to market or disposing of the security is ordinary gain or loss. If B disposes of the security at a $10 loss in Year 2, S's gain taken into account in Year 2 is still capital because on a single entity basis section 475(d)(3) would provide for $30 of capital gain and $10 of ordinary loss. Because the attributes are not redetermined under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section does not apply. Furthermore, if B held the security for investment, and so identified the security under section 475(b)(1), the security would continue to be excepted from marking to market.
