
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Computation of Separate Taxable Income
###### ยง 1.1502-13 Intercompany transactions.
####### 2,Analysis.

()Under paragraphs (b)(1) and (f)(2) of this section, S's distribution in Year 1 of the T stock to P is an intercompany transaction, S is the selling member, and P is the buying member. In Year 9 when T liquidates, P has no gain or loss under section 332. Under paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, P's $0 gain or loss with respect to the T stock under section 332 is a corresponding item. P takes $45 (75/100 x $60) of its intercompany gain into account under the matching rule in Year 9 to reflect the difference between P's $0 of unrecognized gain and P's $45 of recomputed unrecognized gain. (If P and S were divisions of a single corporation, P would have had a $40 basis in the T stock, and, after the Year 7 distribution of the T1 stock, would have held the T stock with a $30 basis.) However, paragraph (c)(6) of this section does not prevent the redetermination of P's intercompany gain as excluded from gross income provided P succeeds to S's intercompany item; P and S are a single entity; P's basis in the T stock that reflects the $45 intercompany gain taken into account is eliminated without the recognition of gain or loss (and this eliminated basis is not further reflected in the basis of any successor asset); the group has not derived and no taxpayer will derive any Federal income tax benefit from the basis in the T stock and will not derive any Federal income tax benefit from a redetermination of this portion of the gain; and the effects of the intercompany transaction have not previously been reflected, directly or indirectly, on the P group's consolidated return. (See paragraph (c)(6)(ii)(C) of this section.) Accordingly, under paragraph (c)(6)(ii)(C) of this section, the $45 intercompany gain that P takes into account is redetermined to be excluded from gross income. P's basis in its T1 stock continues to reflect $15 of intercompany gain.
