
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Computation of Separate Taxable Income
###### ยง 1.1502-13 Intercompany transactions.
####### ii,Analysis.

()Under the matching rule, both S's $75x intercompany item and B's $25x corresponding item are taken into account in Year 1. In determining the source of S and B's income from the inventory property sales, the attributes of S's intercompany item and B's corresponding item are redetermined to the extent necessary to produce the same effect on consolidated taxable income (and consolidated tax liability) as if S and B were divisions of a single corporation. See paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section. On a single entity basis, S and B would have $10x that would be treated as foreign source income and $90x that would be treated as U.S. source income, but without application of this section (that is, on a separate entity basis), S would have $75x of U.S. source income and B would have $25x of foreign source income. Under paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section, a redetermined attribute must be allocated between S and B using a reasonable method. On a separate entity basis B would have only foreign source income and S would have only U.S. source income. Accordingly, under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, $15x of B's $25x sales income that would be treated as foreign source income on a separate entity basis is redetermined to be U.S. source income.
