
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Computation of Separate Taxable Income
###### ยง 1.1502-13 Intercompany transactions.
####### Example 16. Intercompany stock distribution followed by section 332 liquidation,1,Facts.

(P)-()P owns all of the stock of S, S owns all the stock of T, a member of the P group, and T owns all of the stock of T1, also a member of the P group. On January 1 of Year 1, S distributes all of the T stock to P in a distribution to which section 301 applies. At the time of this distribution, the value of the T stock is $100 and S has a $40 basis in the T stock. Under section 311(b), the distribution creates $60 of intercompany gain to S. Under section 301(d), P's basis in the T stock is $100. S will take its $60 intercompany gain into account under the matching rule. On January 1 of Year 4, in an independent transaction, S distributes all of its assets to P in a complete liquidation to which section 332 applies, and, under paragraph (j)(2) of this section, P succeeds to S's $60 gain. On January 1 of Year 7, T distributes all of its T1 stock to P in a transaction to which section 355 applies. At the time of this distribution, P has a basis in the T stock of $100, the value of the T stock (without regard to T1) is $75, and the value of the T1 stock is $25. Under section 358, P allocates $25 of its $100 basis in the T stock to the T1 stock, and, under paragraph (j)(1) of this section, the T1 stock becomes a successor asset to the T stock. On January 1 of Year 9, in an independent transaction, T distributes all of its assets to P in a complete liquidation to which section 332 applies.
