
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Computation of Separate Taxable Income
###### ยง 1.1502-13 Intercompany transactions.
####### 3,Attributes.

()Under the matching rule, the attributes of S's intercompany gain and B's corresponding gain are redetermined to have the same effect on consolidated taxable income (and consolidated tax liability) as if S and B were divisions of a single corporation. On a single entity basis, there is $60 of gain and the portion which is characterized as a dividend under section 1248 is determined on the basis of FT's $30 of earnings and profits at the time of the sale of FT to X (the sum of FT's $40 of earnings and profits while held by S and FT's $10 deficit in earnings and profits while held by B). Therefore, $30 of the $60 gain is treated as a dividend under section 1248. The remaining $30 is treated as capital gain. On a separate entity basis, all of S's $40 gain would be treated as a dividend under section 1248 and all of B's $20 gain would be treated as capital gain. Thus, as a result of the single entity determination, $10 that would be treated as a dividend under section 1248 on a separate entity basis is redetermined to be capital gain. Under paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section, this redetermined attribute must be allocated between S's intercompany item and B's corresponding item by using a reasonable method. On a separate entity basis, only S would have any amount treated as a dividend under section 1248 available for redetermination. Accordingly, $10 of S's income is redetermined to be not subject to section 1248, with the result that $30 of S's intercompany gain is treated as a dividend and the remaining $10 is treated as capital gain. All of B's corresponding gain is treated as capital gain, as it would be on a separate entity basis.
