
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Computation of Separate Taxable Income
###### ยง 1.1502-13 Intercompany transactions.
####### 4,B has loss.,Example 15,1

()The facts are the same as inin paragraph (c)(7)(ii)(O)() of this section, except that FT has no earnings and profits or deficit in earnings and profits while B owns FT, and B sells the FT stock to X for $40. On a single entity basis, there is $30 of gain, and section 1248 is applied on the basis of FT's $40 earnings and profits at the time of the sale of FT to X. Under section 1248, the amount treated as a dividend is limited to $30 (the amount of the gain). On a separate entity basis, S's entire $40 gain would be treated as a dividend under section 1248, and B's $10 loss would be a capital loss. B's $10 corresponding loss offsets $10 of S's intercompany gain and, under paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section, the attributes of B's corresponding item control. Accordingly, $10 of S's gain must be redetermined to be capital gain. B's $10 loss remains a capital loss. (If, however, S sold FT to B at a loss and B sold FT to X at a gain, it may be unreasonable for the attributes of B's corresponding gain to control S's offsetting intercompany loss. If B's attributes were to control, for example, the group could possibly claim a larger foreign tax credit than would be available if S and B were divisions of a single corporation.)
