
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Computation of Separate Taxable Income
###### ยง 1.1502-13 Intercompany transactions.
####### 2,Timing and attributes.

()S's $75 of intercompany income is taken into account in Year 2 under the matching rule to reflect the $75 difference between B's $25 corresponding item taken into account (based on B's $100 cost basis in Asset) and the recomputed corresponding item (based on the $25 basis that B would have if S and B were divisions of a single corporation and B's basis were determined by reference to S's basis). In determining whether S's gross income included in gross DEI from the sale of Asset is included in gross FDDEI, S and B are treated as divisions of a single corporation. See paragraph (a)(6) of this section. In determining the amount of income included in gross DEI that is included in gross FDDEI, the attributes of S's intercompany item and B's corresponding item may be redetermined to the extent necessary to produce the same effect on consolidated taxable income (and consolidated tax liability) as if S and B were divisions of a single corporation. See paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section. Applying section 250 and ยง 1.1502-50 on a single entity basis, all $100 of income included in gross DEI would be gross FDDEI. On a separate entity basis, S would have $75 of gross income included in gross DEI that is included in gross RDEI (as defined in ยง 1.250(b)-1(c)(14)) and B would have $25 of gross income included in gross DEI that is included in gross FDDEI. Thus, on a separate entity basis, S and B would have, in the aggregate, $100 of gross income included in gross DEI, of which only $25 is included gross FDDEI. Accordingly, under single entity treatment, $75 that would be treated as gross income included in gross DEI that is included in gross RDEI on a separate entity basis is redetermined to be included in gross FDDEI.
