
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Computation of Separate Taxable Income
###### ยง 1.1502-13 Intercompany transactions.
####### 2,Analysis.,Example 2

()On the distribution of the T stock in Year 9, P has $0 of unrecognized gain under section 355(c). Under paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, P's $0 of unrecognized gain or loss with respect to the T stock under section 355(c) is a corresponding item. P takes its $60 intercompany gain into account under the matching rule in Year 9 to reflect the difference between P's $0 of unrecognized gain and P's $60 of recomputed gain ($50 unrecognized gain and $10 recognized gain). (If P and S were divisions of a single corporation, P would have had a $40 basis in the T stock, and, after the Year 7 distribution, would have held the T stock with a $10 excess loss account.) Seein paragraph (f)(7) of this section. Paragraph (c)(6) of this section does not prevent the redetermination of P's intercompany gain as excluded from gross income provided P succeeds to S's intercompany item; P and S are a single entity; P's basis in the T stock that reflects the $60 intercompany gain taken into account is eliminated without the recognition of gain or loss (and this eliminated basis is not further reflected in any successor asset); the group has not derived any Federal income tax benefit from the basis in the T stock and will not derive any Federal income tax benefit from a redetermination of this portion of the gain; and the effects of the intercompany transaction have not previously been reflected, directly or indirectly, on the P group's consolidated return. (See paragraph (c)(6)(ii)(C) of this section.) The intercompany transaction with respect to the T stock resulted in an increase in the basis of the T stock, and this increase in the basis of the T stock prevented P from holding the T stock with a $10 excess loss account (as a result of the Year 7 distribution) at the time of the section 355 distribution. Accordingly, the group derived a Federal income tax benefit from the intercompany transaction to the extent of $10 and, under paragraph (c)(6)(ii)(C) of this section, only $50 of the $60 intercompany gain that P takes into account is redetermined to be excluded from gross income.
