
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Computation of Separate Taxable Income
###### ยง 1.1502-13 Intercompany transactions.
####### Effective/applicability dates,In general.,2

(l)-(1)This section applies with respect to transactions occurring in years beginning on or after July 12, 1995. If both this section and prior law apply to a transaction, or neither applies, with the result that items may be duplicated, omitted, or eliminated in determining taxable income (or tax liability), or items may be treated inconsistently, prior law (and not this section) applies to the transaction. For example, S's and B's items from S's sale of property to B which occurs in a consolidated return year beginning before July 12, 1995, are taken into account under prior law, even though B may dispose of the property in a consolidated return year beginning on or after July 12, 1995. Similarly, an intercompany distribution to which a shareholder becomes entitled in a consolidated return year beginning before July 12, 1995, but which is distributed in a consolidated return year beginning on or after that date is taken into account under prior law (generally when distributed), because this section generally takes dividends into account when the shareholder becomes entitled to them but this section does not apply at that time. If application of prior law to S's deferred gain or loss from a deferred intercompany transaction (as defined under prior law) occurring in a consolidated return year beginning prior to July 12, 1995, would be affected by an intercompany transaction (as defined under this section) occurring in a consolidated return year beginning on or after July 12, 1995, S's deferred gain or loss continues to be taken into account as provided under prior law, and the items from the subsequent intercompany transaction are taken into account under this section. Appropriate adjustments must be made to prevent items from being duplicated,omitted, or eliminated in determining taxable income as a result of the application of both this section and prior law to the successive transactions, and to ensure the proper application of prior law. Paragraphs (a)(4), (f)(6)(ii), (f)(6)(iv)(A), (g)(3)(ii)(B)(), and (j)(5)(i)(A) of this section apply with respect to transactions occurring on or after September 17, 2008. However, taxpayers may apply paragraph (j)(5)(i)(A) of this section to transactions that occurred prior to September 17, 2008.
