
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Computation of Separate Taxable Income
###### § 1.1502-14Z Application of opportunity zone rules to members of a consolidated group.
####### Scope and definitions,Scope.

(a)-(1)This section provides rules regarding the Federal income tax treatment of QOFs owned by members of a consolidated group (as defined in § 1.1502-1(b) and (h), respectively). Rules in the section 1400Z-2 regulations (as defined in § 1.1400Z2(a)-1(b)(41)) apply to consolidated groups except as modified in this section. Paragraph (b) of this section generally provides rules regarding the effects of an election under § 1.1504-3(b)(2) to treat a subsidiary QOF C corporation as a member of a consolidated group. Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules regarding qualifying investments made by members of a consolidated group (including an election to treat the investment by one member as a qualifying investment by another member) and the application of § 1.1502-13 to intercompany transfers of a qualifying investment. Paragraph (d) of this section provides coordinating rules for basis adjustments within a consolidated group. Paragraph (e) of this section provides coordinating rules for § 1.1502-36(d). Paragraph (f) of this section provides elective transition relief to taxpayers that consolidated a subsidiary QOF C corporation prior to May 1, 2019. Paragraph (g) of this section provides rules regarding the consequences of a deconsolidation of a QOF C corporation. Paragraph (h) of this section provides instructions for making the elections provided by paragraphs (c) and (f) of this section. Paragraph (i) of this section is reserved. Paragraph (j) of this section provides examples. Paragraph (k) of this section provides the applicability dates.
