
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Computation of Separate Taxable Income
###### § 1.1502-14Z Application of opportunity zone rules to members of a consolidated group.
####### 3,Intercompany transfer in a section 351 transaction.

()In 2024, B's contribution of its Q stock to B2, a member of the P group, is an inclusion event under section 1400Z-2(b)(1) and § 1.1400Z2(b)-1(c). The amount includible pursuant to § 1.1400Z2(b)-1(e) is $90x (the remaining deferred gain as determined in paragraph (j)(6)(i)(B) of this section). Because B's contribution of its Q stock to B2 is not a fully taxable transaction, the general rule in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section applies to prevent the contribution from being treated as an intercompany transaction for purposes of section 1400Z-2. As a result, for purposes of section 1400Z-2, § 1.1502-13 does not apply to treat B and B2 as a single entity, and the application of § 1.1502-13(j) is adjusted accordingly. As a result of the section 351 transfer, S takes its $90x of remaining deferred gain into account. B's basis in its B2 stock is $250x, and B's basis in its Q stock is $250x. However, because S's $150x of capital gain from the intercompany sale of its Q stock to B in 2021 is not an item related to section 1400Z-2, it continues to be deferred under § 1.1502-13 because B2 is a member of the P group. See § 1.1502-13(j)(4) regarding successive intercompany transactions.
