
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Computation of Separate Taxable Income
###### § 1.1502-14Z Application of opportunity zone rules to members of a consolidated group.
####### Attribute reduction under § 1.1502-36(d).

(ii)Under § 1.1502-36(d), S's attributes are reduced by S's attribute reduction amount. Section 1.1502-36(d)(3) provides that S's attribute reduction amount is the lesser of the net stock loss and S's aggregate inside loss. The net stock loss is the excess of the $300x aggregate basis of the transferred S shares over the $100x aggregate value of those shares, or $200x. S's aggregate inside loss, which includes the basis of the stock of Q as provided by paragraph (e) of this section, is the excess of S's net inside attribute amount over the value of the S share. S's net inside attribute amount is $550x, computed as the sum of S's $50x loss carryover and its $500x basis in Q. S's aggregate inside loss is therefore $450x ($550x net inside attribute amount over the $100x value of the S share). Accordingly, S's attribute reduction amount is the lesser of the $200x net stock loss and the $450x aggregate inside loss, or $200x. Under § 1.1502-36(d)(4), S's $200x attribute reduction is first allocated and applied to reduce S's $50x loss carryover to $0. Under § 1.1502-36(d)(4)(i)(D), S generally would be able to reduce the basis of its category D assets (including stock in other corporations) by the remaining attribute reduction amount ($150x). However, paragraph (e) of this section provides that S's basis in the stock of Q is not included in S's Category D attributes that are available for reduction under § 1.1502-36(d)(4), and the remaining $150x of attribute reduction amount cannot be used to reduce the basis of Q shares under § 1.1502-36(d). Rather, under paragraph (e) of this section, P is treated as making the election under § 1.1502-36(d)(6) to reduce M's basis in the transferred loss S shares by $150x. As a result, P's basis in its M stock is also reduced by $150x.
