
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Computation of Consolidated Items
###### ยง 1.1502-21 Net operating losses.
####### Application of section 172 for computing net operating loss deductions,Overview.

(2)-(i)For purposes of ยง 1.1502-11(a)(2) (regarding a CNOL deduction), the rules of section 172 regarding the use of net operating losses are taken into account as provided by this paragraph (a)(2) in calculating the consolidated taxable income of a group for a particular consolidated return year. More specifically, in computing taxable income for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2020, section 172(a) generally limits the deductibility of net operating losses arising in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 (post-2017 NOLs). However, these limitations do not apply to net operating losses arising in taxable years beginning before January 1, 2018 (pre-2018 NOLs). Therefore, in any particular consolidated return year beginning after December 31, 2020, the group's CNOL deduction includes CNOLs arising in taxable years beginning before January 1, 2018 (pre-2018 CNOLs), without limitation under section 172(a). Following the deduction of pre-2018 CNOLs, this paragraph (a)(2) applies to compute the maximum amount of CNOLs from taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 (post-2017 CNOLs), that can be deducted against taxable income in a consolidated return year beginning after December 31, 2020 (post-2017 CNOL deduction limit). See section 172(a)(2)(A) and (B).
