
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Computation of Consolidated Items
###### ยง 1.1502-21 Net operating losses.
####### Carryovers and carrybacks generally.

(1)The net operating loss carryovers and carrybacks to a taxable year are determined under the principles of, and are subject to any limitations under, section 172 and this section. Thus, losses permitted to be absorbed in a consolidated return year generally are absorbed in the order of the taxable years in which they arose, and losses carried from taxable years ending on the same date, and which are available to offset consolidated taxable income for the year, generally are absorbed on a pro rata basis. In addition, except as otherwise provided in this section, the amount of any CNOL absorbed by the group in any year is apportioned among members based on the percentage of the CNOL eligible for carryback or carryover that is attributable to each member as of the beginning of the year. The percentage of the CNOL attributable to a member is determined pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(iv)(B) of this section. Additional rules provided under the Internal Revenue Code or regulations also apply. See, for example, section 382(l)(2)(B) (if losses are carried from the same taxable year, losses subject to limitation under section 382 are absorbed before losses that are not subject to limitation under section 382). See paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(B) of this section, (Example 2), for an illustration of pro rata absorption of losses subject to a SRLY limitation.
