
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Computation of Consolidated Items
###### ยง 1.1502-21 Net operating losses.
####### 3,2,4,3,4

() Under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, the amount of the Year 2 CNOL that may be used by the P group in Year 1 is determined by taking into account the status (nonlife insurance company or other type of corporation) of the member that has separate taxable income composing in whole or in part the P group's consolidated taxable income. Because the P group includes both a nonlife insurance company member and a member that is not a nonlife insurance company, paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(C) of this section applies to determine the computation of the post-2017 CNOL deduction limit for the group for Year 1. Therefore, the 80-percent limitation is applied to the residual income pool, which consists of the taxable income of P, a type of corporation other than a nonlife insurance company. Under the 80-percent limitation, the maximum amount of P's Year 1 income that may be offset by the P group's post-2017 CNOLs is $16, which equals 80 percent of the excess of P's taxable income for Year 1 ($20) over the aggregate amount of pre-2018 NOLs allocable to P ($0) (80 percent x ($20-$0)). See paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(C)() and (a)(2)(iii)(C)() of this section. PC1 is a nonlife insurance company to which section 172(f), rather than the 80-percent limitation in section 172(a)(2)(B)(ii), applies. Therefore, the maximum amount of PC1's Year 1 income that may be offset by the P group's post-2017 CNOLs is $25, which equals the excess of PC1's taxable income for Year 1 ($25) over the aggregate amount of pre-2018 NOLs allocable to PC1 ($0). See paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(C)() and () of this section.
