
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Computation of Consolidated Items
###### ยง 1.1502-21 Net operating losses.
####### 2

() For carrybacks, any years ending after the year in which the loss arose;

(D) The treatment under ยง 1.1502-15 of a built-in loss as a hypothetical net operating loss carryover in the year recognized is solely for purposes of determining the limitation under this paragraph (c) with respect to the loss in that year and not for any other purpose. Thus, for purposes of determining consolidated taxable income for any other losses, a built-in loss allowed under this section in the year it arises is taken into account; and

(E) If a limitation on the amount of taxable income that may be offset under section 172(a) (see paragraph (a)(2) of this section) applies in a taxable year to a member whose carryovers or carrybacks are subject to a SRLY limitation (SRLY member), the amount of net operating loss subject to a SRLY limitation that is available for use by the group in that year is limited to the percentage of the balance in the cumulative register that would be available for offset under section 172(a) if the SRLY member filed a separate return and reported as taxable income in that year the amount contained in the cumulative register. For example, assume that a consolidated group has a SRLY member that is a corporation other than a nonlife insurance company, and that the SRLY member has a SRLY NOL that arose in a taxable year beginning after December 31, 2017 (post-2017 NOL). The group's consolidated taxable income for a consolidated return year beginning after December 31, 2020 is $200, but the cumulative register has a positive balance of only $120 (and no other net operating loss carryovers or carrybacks are available for the year). Because the SRLY limitation would be $96 ($120 x 80 percent), only $96 of SRLY loss may be used, rather than $160 ($200 x 80 percent). In addition, to the extent that this paragraph (c)(1)(i)(E) applies, the cumulative register is decreased by the full amount of income required under section 172(a) to support the amount of SRLY NOL absorption. See, for example, paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section for examples illustrating the application of this rule.
