
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Computation of Consolidated Items
###### ยง 1.1502-21 Net operating losses.
####### 2

() Under ยง 1.1502-15(a), T's $100 of ordinary loss in Year 3 constitutes a built-in loss that is subject to the SRLY limitation under paragraph (c) of this section. The amount of the limitation is determined by treating the deduction as a net operating loss carryover from a SRLY. The built-in loss is therefore subject to both a SRLY limitation and the 80-percent limitation for Year 3. The built-in loss is treated as a net operating loss carryover solely for purposes of determining the extent to which the loss is not allowed by reason of the SRLY limitation, and for all other purposes the loss remains a loss arising in Year 3. See ยง 1.1502-21(c)(1)(i)(D). Consequently, under paragraph (b) of this section, the built-in loss is absorbed by the P group before the net operating loss carryover from Year 1 is absorbed. The positive balance of the cumulative register of T for Year 3 equals the P group's consolidated taxable income determined by reference to only T's items, or $60. Under paragraph (c)(1)(i)(E) of this section, after taking into account the 80-percent limitation, the SRLY limitation for Year 3 is $48 ($60 x 80 percent). Therefore, $48 of the built-in loss is absorbed by the P group. None of T's $100 SRLY net operating loss carryover from Year 1 is allowed.
