
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Computation of Consolidated Items
###### § 1.1502-21 Net operating losses.
####### Example 7: No overlap-Different subgroups.

(vii)(A) Individual A owns all of the stock of T and all of the stock of S, the common parent of a consolidated group. B, an individual unrelated to Individual A, owns all of the stock of P, the common parent of another consolidated group. In Year 1, T has a net operating loss of $100 that is carried forward. At the end of Year 2, S acquires all of the stock of T from Individual A. In Year 3, the S group sustains a $200 consolidated net operating loss that is carried forward. In Year 8, the P group acquires all of the stock of S from Individual A.

(B) S's acquisition of T in Year 1 results in T becoming a member of the S group. The acquisition, however, did not result in an ownership change under section 382(g). As a result, T's Year 1 net operating loss is subject to SRLY within the S group. At the end of Year 7, § 1.1502-96(a) treats T's Year 1 net operating loss as not having arisen in a SRLY with respect to the S group. Section 1.1502-96(a), however, applies only for purposes of §§ 1.1502-91 through 1.1502-96 and § 1.1502-98 but not for purposes of this section. See § 1.1502-96(a)(5).

(C) P's acquisition of S in Year 8 results in S and T becoming members of the P group (the SRLY event). With respect to the Year 1 net operating loss, S and T do not compose a SRLY subgroup under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(D) S and T compose a loss subgroup under § 1.1502-91(d)(1) with respect to the Year 1 net operating loss carryover. P's acquisition of S results in an ownership change of the loss subgroup, within the meaning of section 382(g), that gives rise to a subgroup limitation under section 382(a) (the section 382 event) with respect to that carryover.

(E) The SRLY event and the change date of the section 382 event occur on the same date. However, under paragraph (g)(4) of this section, because the SRLY subgroup and the loss subgroup are not coextensive, T's Year 1 net operating loss carryover is subject to a SRLY limitation.

(F) With respect to the Year 3 net operating loss carryover, S and T compose both a SRLY subgroup and a loss subgroup under § 1.1502-91(d)(1). Thus, paragraph (g)(1) of this section applies, and the S group's Year 3 net operating loss carryover is not subject to a SRLY limitation.
