
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Computation of Consolidated Items
###### ยง 1.1502-21 Net operating losses.
####### Example 5: Overlap-Coextensive subgroups.

(v)(A) Individual A owns all of the stock of S, which in turn owns all of the stock of T. S and T file a consolidated return beginning in Year 1. B, an individual unrelated to Individual A, owns all of the stock of P, the common parent of a consolidated group. In Year 2, the S group has a $200 consolidated net operating loss which is carried forward, of which $100 is attributable to S, and $100 is attributable to T. At the beginning of Year 3, the P group acquires all of the stock of S from Individual A.

(B) P's acquisition of S results in S and T becoming members of the P group (the SRLY event). With respect to the Year 2 net operating loss carryover, S and T compose a SRLY subgroup under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(C) S and T also compose a loss subgroup under ยง 1.1502-91(d)(1) with respect to the Year 2 net operating loss carryover. P's acquisition also results in an ownership change of S, the subgroup parent, within the meaning of section 382(g), that gives rise to a limitation under section 382(a) (the section 382 event) with respect to the Year 2 carryover.

(D) Because the SRLY event and the change date of the section 382 event occur on the same date, there is an overlap of the application of the SRLY rules and the application of section 382 within the meaning of paragraph (g) of this section. Because the SRLY subgroup and the loss subgroup are coextensive, under paragraph (g) of this section, the SRLY limitation does not apply to the Year 2 $200 net operating loss.
