
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Computation of Consolidated Items
###### ยง 1.1502-21 Net operating losses.
####### Example 8: SRLY after overlap.

(viii)(A) Individual A owns all of the stock of R and M, each the common parent of a consolidated group. B, an individual unrelated to Individual A, owns all of the stock of D. In Year 1, D incurs a $100 net operating loss that is carried forward. At the beginning of Year 3, R acquires all of the stock of D. In Year 5, M acquires all of the stock of R in a transaction that did not result in an ownership change of R.

(B) R's Year 3 acquisition of D results in D becoming a member of the R group (the SRLY event) and also results in an ownership change of D, that gives rise to a limitation under section 382(a) (the section 382 event) with respect to D's net operating loss carryover.

(C) Because the SRLY event and the change date of the section 382 event occur on the same date, there is an overlap of the application of paragraph (c) of this section and section 382 with respect to D's net operating loss. Consequently, under this paragraph (g), D's Year 1 $100 net operating loss is not subject to a SRLY limitation in the R group.

(D) M's Year 5 acquisition of R results in R and D becoming members of the M group (the SRLY event), but does not result in an ownership change of R or D that gives rise to a limitation under section 382(a). Because there is no section 382 event, the application of the SRLY rules and section 382 do not overlap. Consequently, D's Year 1 $100 net operating loss is subject to a SRLY limitation in the M group.

(E) Because D's Year 1 net operating loss carryover was subject to the overlap rule of paragraph (g) of this section when it joined the R group, under ยง 1.1502-21(c)(2), the SRLY subgroup with respect to that carryover includes all of the members of the R group that joined the M group at the same time as D.
