
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Computation of Consolidated Items
###### ยง 1.1502-21 Net operating losses.
####### Example 6: No overlap-Different subgroups.

(vi)(A) Individual B owns all of the stock of P, the common parent of a consolidated group. P owns all of the stock of S and all of the stock of T. Individual A owns all of the stock of X, the common parent of another consolidated group. In Year 1, the P group has a $200 consolidated net operating loss, of which $100 is attributable to S and $100 is attributable to T. At the beginning of Year 3, the X group acquires all of the stock of S and T from P and does not make an election under ยง 1.1502-91(d)(4) (concerning an election to treat the loss subgroup parent requirement as having been satisfied).

(B) X's acquisition of S and T results in S and T becoming members of the X group (the SRLY event). With respect to the Year 1 net operating loss, S and T compose a SRLY subgroup under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(C) S and T do not bear (and are not treated as bearing) a section 1504(a)(1) relationship. Therefore S and T do not qualify as a loss subgroup under ยง 1.1502-91(d)(1). X's acquisition of S and T results in separate ownership changes of S and T, that give rise to separate limitations under section 382(a) (the section 382 events) with respect to each of S and T's Year 1 net operating loss carryovers. See ยง 1.1502-94.

(D) The SRLY event and the change dates of the section 382 events occur on the same date. However, paragraph (g)(1) of this section does not apply because the SRLY subgroup (composed of S and T) is not coextensive with a loss subgroup with respect to the Year 1 carryovers. Consequently, the Year 1 net operating loss is subject to both a SRLY subgroup limitation and also separate section 382 limitations for each of S and T.
