
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Computation of Consolidated Items
###### ยง 1.1502-21 Net operating losses.
####### Example 9: Overlap-Interim losses.

(ix)(A) Individual A owns all of the stock of P and S, each the common parent of a consolidated group. S owns all of the stock of T, its only subsidiary. B, an individual unrelated to Individual A, owns all of the stock of M, the common parent of a consolidated group. In Year 1, the S group has a $100 consolidated net operating loss. On January 1 of Year 2, P acquires all of the stock of S from Individual A. On December 31 of Year 2, M acquires 51% of the stock of P from Individual A. On May 31 of Year 3, M acquires the remaining 49% of the stock of P from Individual A. The P group, for the Year 3 period prior to June 1, had a $50 consolidated net operating loss, and under paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section, the loss is attributable entirely to S. Other than the losses described above, the P group does not have any other consolidated net operating losses.

(B) In the P group, S's $100 loss carryover is treated as arising in a SRLY and is subject to the limitation under paragraph (c) of this section. A SRLY subgroup with respect to that loss is composed of S and T, the members which were members of the S group as to which the loss was not a SRLY.

(C) M's December 31 purchase of 51% of P is a section 382 event because it results in an ownership change of the S loss subgroup that gives rise to a section 382(a) limitation (the section 382 event) with respect to the Year 1 net operating loss carryover. The purchase, however, does not result in an ownership change of P because it is not a loss corporation under section 382(k)(1). M's May 31 purchase of 49% of P results in P, S, and T becoming members of the M group and is therefore a SRLY event.

(D) With respect to the Year 1 net operating loss, S and T compose a SRLY subgroup under paragraph (c)(2) of this section and a loss subgroup under ยง 1.1502-91(d)(1). The loss subgroup does not include P because the only loss at the time of the section 382 event was subject to SRLY with respect to the P group. See ยง 1.1502-91(d)(1).

(E) Because the SRLY event occurred within six months of the change date of the section 382 event and the SRLY subgroup and loss subgroup are coextensive with respect to the Year 1 net operating loss carryover, there is an overlap of the application of the SRLY rules and the application of section 382 within the meaning of paragraph (g) of this section. Thus, the SRLY limitation does not apply to that carryover.

(F) The Year 3 net operating loss, which arose between the section 382 event and the SRLY event, is a net operating loss described in paragraph (g)(2)(ii)(B) of this section because it is the net operating loss of a corporation whose SRLY event occurs within the six month period beginning on the date of a section 382 event.

(G) With respect to the Year 3 net operating loss, P, S, and T compose a SRLY subgroup under paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Because P, a member of the SRLY subgroup for the Year 3 carryover, is not also a member of a SRLY subgroup that has net operating loss carryovers described in paragraph (g)(2)(ii)(A) of this section (the Year 1 net operating loss), the Year 3 carryover is subject to a SRLY limitation in the M group. See paragraph (g)(4)(ii) of this section.
