
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Basis, Stock Ownership, and Earnings and Profits Rules
###### § 1.1502-31 Stock basis after a group structure change.
####### In general,Overview.

(a)-(1)If one corporation (P) succeeds another corporation (T) under the principles of § 1.1502-75(d) (2) or (3) as the common parent of a consolidated group in a group structure change, the basis of members in the stock of the former common parent (or the stock of a successor) is adjusted or determined under this section. See § 1.1502-33(f)(1) for the definition of group structure change. For example, if P owns all of the stock of another corporation (S), and T merges into S in a group structure change that is a reorganization described in section 368(a)(2)(D) in which P becomes the common parent of the T group, P's basis in S's stock must be adjusted to reflect the change in S's assets and liabilities. The rules of this section coordinate with the earnings and profits adjustments required under § 1.1502-33(f)(1), generally conforming the results of transactions in which the T group continues under § 1.1502-75 with P as the common parent. By preserving in P the relationship between T's earnings and profits and asset basis, these adjustments limit possible distortions under section 1502 (e.g., in the deconsolidation rules for earnings and profits under § 1.1502-33(e), and the continued filing requirements under § 1.1502-75(a)). This section applies whether or not T continues to exist after the group structure change.
