
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Basis, Stock Ownership, and Earnings and Profits Rules
###### ยง 1.1502-32 Investment adjustments.
####### Net asset basis limitation.

(iii)Basis reduced under this paragraph (b)(4) is restored before S becomes a member (and before the basis of S's stock is taken into account in determining basis under the Code) to the extent necessary to conform a share's basis to its allocable portion of net asset basis. In the case of higher-tier corporations under paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(C) of this section, the restoration does not tier up but is instead applied separately to each higher-tier corporation. For purposes of determining each corporation's net asset basis (including the basis of stock in lower-tier corporations), the restoration is applied in the order of tiers, from the lowest to the highest. For purposes of the restoration:

(A) A member's net asset basis is the positive or negative difference between the adjusted basis of its assets (and the amount of any of its loss carryovers that are not deemed to expire) and its liabilities. Appropriate adjustments must be made, for example, to disregard liabilities that subsequently will give rise to deductions (e.g., liabilities to which section 461(h) applies).

(B) Within a class of stock, each share has the same allocable portion of net asset basis. If there is more than one class of common stock, the net asset basis is allocated to each class by taking into account the terms of each class and all other facts and circumstances relating to the overall economic arrangement.
