
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Basis, Stock Ownership, and Earnings and Profits Rules
###### ยง 1.1502-32 Investment adjustments.
####### Cumulative redetermination,General rule.

(4)-(i)A member's basis in each share of S preferred and common stock must be redetermined whenever necessary to determine the tax liability of any person. See paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The redetermination is made by reallocating S's adjustments described in paragraphs (c)(1)(ii)(B) (specially allocated adjustments for tier-up of reallocated investment adjustments subject to prior use limitation) and (c)(1)(iii) (remaining adjustments) of this section for each consolidated return year (or other applicable period) of the group by taking into account all of the facts and circumstances affecting allocations under this paragraph (c) as of the redetermination date with respect to all of the S shares. For this purpose:

(A) Amounts may be reallocated from one class of S's stock to another class, but not from one share of a class to another share of the same class.

(B) If there is a change in the equity structure of S (e.g., as the result of S's issuance, redemption, or recapitalization of shares), a cumulative redetermination is made for the period before the change. If a reallocation is required by another redetermination after a change, amounts arising after the change are reallocated before amounts arising before the change.

(C) If S becomes a nonmember as a result of a change in its equity structure, any reallocation is made only among the shares of S's stock immediately before the change. For example, if S issues stock to a nonmember creditor in exchange for its debt, and the exchange results in S becoming a nonmember, any reallocation is only among the shares of S's stock immediately before the exchange.

(D) Any reallocation is treated for all purposes after it is made (including subsequent redeterminations) as the original allocation of an amount under this paragraph (c), but the reallocation does not affect any prior period.
