
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Taxes and Taxpayers
###### ยง 1.1502-42 Mutual savings banks, etc.
####### Special Rule.

(3)(i) If a carryback to a thrift's separate taxable income diminishes the reduction to a thrift's separate taxable income for a prior consolidated return year otherwise required by paragraph (f)(1) (iii) or (iv) of this section, then any increases to a thrift's separate taxable income under paragraph (f)(2) of this section for an intervening consolidated return year must be recomputed to take into account the effect of such carryback. Thus, if a net operating loss attributable to a thrift is carried back and completely offsets the thrift's separate taxable income (before the reductions under paragraph (f)(1) (iii) or (iv) or this section), any increase to the thrift's separate taxable income under paragraph (f)(2) of this section (attributable to a reduction in the year to which the loss is carried) for an intervening consolidated return year will be eliminated. The recomputation required by this subparagraph (3) must be reflected on an amended return for the intervening consolidated return year for which the increase was previously reported. See example (2) in paragraph (j) of this section.

(ii) If a deficiency for an intervening consolidated return year results from the application of paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section with respect to an item to which section 6501(h) applies, the deficiency may be assessed at any time within the period described in section 6501(h).

(iii) For purposes of chapter 67 of the Code (relating to interest), the last date prescribed for payment of any tax owed as a result of the application of paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section is deemed to be the last day of the taxable year for which the item carried back arose.
