
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Taxes and Taxpayers
###### ยง 1.1502-42 Mutual savings banks, etc.
####### Increases.

(2)(i) A thrift's separate taxable income (as adjusted under paragraphs (e)(3) and (f)(1) of this section) is increased in a subsequent consolidated return year to restore reductions made in a prior consolidated return year to a thrift's separate taxable income by reason of losses of a nonthrift. This increase is the amount of the thrift's allocable share (as determined under paragraph (h)(6) of this section) of the income attributable to functionally related activities of a nonthrift in a consolidated return year and is made only in that year. This increase is made only if both the thrift and the nonthrift were members of the group in the consolidated return years in which both the reduction and increase are made.

(ii) This subdivision (ii) limits the increases to a thrift's separate taxable income to assure that income of a particular nonthrift is used to restore reductions of a thrift only to the extent that such nonthrift's losses reduced the thrift's income. Therefore, as of the end of a consolidated return year, the cumulative increases to a thrift's tentative taxable income (by reason of income attributable to functionally related activities of a nonthrift) may not exceed the cumulative reductions to the thrift's separate taxable income made (by reason of the nonthrift's functionally related activities) under paragraph (f)(1) (iii) and (iv) of this section in the current and all prior consolidated return years during which both the thrift institution and the nonthrift institution were members of the group.

(iii) For a netting rule, see paragraph (f)(4)(iv) of this section.
