
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Taxes and Taxpayers
###### § 1.1502-42 Mutual savings banks, etc.
####### Operating rules.

(4)For purposes of paragraphs (d) through (j) of this section:

(i) The portion of a consolidated net operating loss deduction attributable to a member is determined as follows:

(A) First, determine under §§ 1.1502-21(b) (or § 1.1502-79A(a)(3), as appropriate) the portion of each consolidated net operating loss attributable to the member for the particular year in which the loss arose.

(B) Second, apply the anti-double-counting rule in paragraph (h)(3)(iii) of this section so as not to take the same loss into account twice.

(C) Finally, apply the loss absorption limit in paragraph (f)(4)(iii) of this section to the total amount of the consolidated net operating loss deduction from a particular loss year.

(ii) Capital loss carryovers and carrybacks shall be taken into account in a manner consistent with the principles of paragraphs (d) through (j) of this section.

(iii) This subdivision (iii) prescribes a loss absorption limit. The total amount of the consolidated net operating loss deduction from a given year (loss year) taken into account as reductions under paragraph (f)(1) of this section for another year (absorption year) shall not exceed the amount of the consolidated net operating loss deduction attributable to the loss year absorbed in computing consolidated taxable income for the absorption year. For this purpose, consolidated taxable income for the absorption year shall include a deduction under section 593(b) (other than paragraph (2) thereof) for each thrift member.

(iv) This subdivision (iv) prescribes a rule for netting in certain cases income attributable to functionally related activities of a nonthrift in a consolidated return year ("income year") against losses attributable to functionally related activities of that nonthrift which arise in a consolidated return year ("loss year"). That nonthrift's income is netted against the portion of that nonthrift's loss which would otherwise be applied in a consolidated return year ("reduction year") under paragraph (f)(1) (iii) or (iv) of this section to reduce a thrift's tentative taxable income, but:

(A) Only if the income year is not later than the loss year and the reduction year, and

(B) Only to the extent the income had not previously been taken into account under paragraph (f)(2) of this section or this subdivision (iv) as of the close of the later of the loss year and the reduction year.
