
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Taxes and Taxpayers
###### ยง 1.1502-42 Mutual savings banks, etc.
####### Adjustments for thrifts,Reductions.

(f)-(1)A thrift's separate taxable income (as adjusted under paragraph (e)(3) of this section) is reduced (but not below zero) by losses of thrifts and to the extent attributable to functionally related activities, losses of a nonthrift. Certain operating rules for determining the amount of the reductions are provided in paragraph (f)(4) of this section. The reductions are made in the following amounts in the following order:

(i) The thrift's allocable share (as determined under paragraph (h)(2) of this section) of another thrift's tentative taxable loss. That tentative taxable loss is determined by including a deduction under section 593(b) (other than paragraph (2) thereof) for the year in which the loss arises.

(ii) The thrift's allocable share (as determined under paragraph (h)(3) of this section) of the portion of the consolidated net operating loss deduction attributable to it or another thrift. That consolidated net operating loss deduction is determined by including a deduction under section 593(b) (other than paragraph (2) thereof) for the year in which the loss arose. The portion of a consolidated net operating loss deduction attributable to another thrift is computed by excluding losses arising in taxable years for which the due date (without extensions) for filing returns is before March 15, 1983.

(iii) The thrift's allocable share (as determined under paragraph (h)(4) of this section) of the loss attributable to functionally related activities of a nonthrift (as determined under paragraph (g) of this section). For a rule netting that share against certain income attributable to functionally related activities of that nonthrift, see paragraph (f)(4)(iv) of this section.

(iv) The thrift's allocable share (as determined under paragraph (h)(3) of this section) of the portion of the consolidated net operating loss deduction attributable to functionally related activities of a nonthrift (as determined under paragraph (h)(5) of this section). That consolidated net operating loss deduction is determined by excluding losses arising in taxable years for which the due date (without extensions) for filing returns is before March 15, 1983. For a rule netting that share against certain income attributable to functionally related activities of that nonthrift, see paragraph (f)(4)(iv) of this section.
