
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Taxes and Taxpayers
###### ยง 1.1502-42 Mutual savings banks, etc.
####### Allocation of portions of a consolidated net operating loss deduction.

(3)(i) For purposes of paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section, a first thrift's allocable share of the portion of the consolidated net operating loss deduction attributable to another thrift is determined under paragraph (h)(2) of this section as if that portion were a tentative taxable loss of that other thrift and by computing tentative taxable income under such paragraph (h)(2) by taking into account paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section. A thrift's allocable share of the portion of the consolidated net operating loss deduction attributable to that thrift is equal to that entire portion.

(ii) For purposes of paragraph (f)(1)(iv) of this section, a thrift's allocable share of the portion of a consolidated net operating loss deduction attributable to functionally related activities of a nonthrift (determined under paragraph (h)(5) of this section) is determined under paragraph (h)(4) of this section as if that portion were a loss attributable to functionally related activities of the nonthrift and by computing tentative taxable income under such paragraph (h)(4) by taking into account paragraph (f)(1) (i), (ii), and (iii) of this section.

(iii) This subdivision (iii) prevents the "double-counting" of losses. The reduction to the tentative taxable income of a thrift is diminished to the extent the loss that gave rise to the reduction has previously been taken into account in reducing a thrift's tentative taxable income. Thus, any loss taken into account as a reduction to a thrift's separate taxable income under any subdivision of paragraph (f)(1) of this section shall be reduced (but not below zero) to the extent taken into account:

(A) In a prior consolidated return year under any subdivision of such paragraph (f)(1) or

(B) In the current consolidated return year under a previous subdivision of such paragraph (f)(1).
