
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Taxes and Taxpayers
###### § 1.1502-43 Consolidated accumulated earnings tax.
####### Adjustments to consolidated taxable income.

(2)For purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, consolidated taxable income is adjusted as follows:

(i) Under section 535(b)(1), the deduction for taxes is the excess of-

(A) The consolidated liability for tax determined without § 1.1502-2(a)(2) through (4), and without the foreign tax credit provided by section 27, over

(B) The consolidated foreign tax credit determined pursuant to § 1.1502-4. Foreign taxes deductible under § 1.535-2(a)(2) are also allowed as a deduction under section 535(b)(1).

(ii) The consolidated charitable contributions deduction under § 1.1502-24 does not apply. Under section 535(b)(2), there shall be allowed the aggregate charitable contributions of the members allowable under section 170, determined without section 170 (b)(2) and (d)(2).

(iii) Under section 535(b)(3), the deductions provided in §§ 1.1502-26 and 1.1502-27 are not allowed.

(iv) Under section 535(b)(4), the consolidated net operating loss deduction described in §§ 1.1502-21(a) or 1.1502-21A(a), as appropriate is not allowed.

(v) Under section 535(b)(5), there is allowed as a deduction the consolidated net capital loss, determined under §§ 1.1502-22(a) or 1.1502-22A(a), as appropriate .

(vi) Under section 535(b)(6), there is allowed as a deduction an amount equal to (A) the excess of the consolidated net long-term capital gain (determined under §§ 1.1502-22(a) or 1.1502-41A, as appropriate over the consolidated net short-term capital loss (determined under §§ 1.1502-22T(a) or 1.1502-41A, as appropriate), minus (B) the taxes attributable to this excess. This consolidated net short-term capital loss is determined without the consolidated net capital loss carryovers or carrybacks to the taxable year.

(vii) Under section 535(b)(7), the consolidated net capital loss carryovers and carrybacks are not allowed. See §§ 1.1502-22(b) or 1.1502-22A(b), as appropriate.

(viii) Sections 1.1502-15A (Limitations on built-in deductions not subject to § 1.1502-15) and 1.1502-15 do not apply.
