
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Taxes and Taxpayers
###### ยง 1.1502-47 Consolidated returns by life-nonlife groups.
####### Disproportionate asset acquisition.

(viii)To be eligible, a corporation must not undergo during the base period disproportionate asset acquisitions which are attributable to an acquisition (or a series of acquisitions) of assets from outside the group in transactions not conducted in the ordinary course of its trade or business (special acquisition). Whether special acquisitions are disproportionate is determined at the end of each base period. Whether an acquisition results in a disproportionate asset acquisition depends on all of the facts and circumstances including the following factors and rules:

(A) One factor is the portion of the insurance reserves (that is, total reserves in section 816(c), as modified by section 816(h)) of the acquiring company at the end of the base period which is attributable to special acquisitions.

(B) A second factor is the portion of the fair market value of the assets (without reduction for liabilities) of the acquiring company at the end of the base period that is attributable to special acquisitions.

(C) A third factor is the portion of the premiums generated during the last taxable year of the base period which are attributable to special acquisitions.

(D) A corporation will not experience a disproportionate asset acquisition unless 75 percent of one factor (whether or not listed in this paragraph (b)(12)(viii)) is attributable to special acquisitions.

(E) Money or other property contributed to a corporation by a shareholder that is not a member of the group (without section 1504(b)(2)) is not a special acquisition.

(F) If a new corporation relies on the tacking rules in paragraph (b)(12)(v) of this section, this paragraph (b)(12)(viii) applies to that corporation during a consolidated return year. Thus, if at any time during a consolidated return year, a new corporation undergoes a disproportionate asset acquisition, the corporation becomes ineligible at that time.
