
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Taxes and Taxpayers
###### § 1.1502-47 Consolidated returns by life-nonlife groups.
####### Example.

(vii)P, a holding company that is not an insurance company, owns all of the stock of S, a nonlife insurance company, and L1, a life insurance company. L1 owns all of the stock of L2, a life insurance company. Both L1 and L2 satisfy the eligibility requirements of § 1.1502-47(b)(12). Each corporation uses the calendar year as its taxable year, and no corporation has incurred farming losses (within the meaning of section 172(b)(1)(B)(ii)). For 2021, the group first files a consolidated return for which the election under section 1504(c)(2) is effective. P and S filed consolidated returns for 2019 and 2020. In 2021, the P-S group sustains a nonlife consolidated net operating loss that is attributable entirely to S (see § 1.1502-21(b)). The election in 2021 under section 1504(c)(2) does not result under paragraph (d)(1) of this section in the creation of a new group or the termination of the P-S group. The loss is carried back to the consolidated return years 2019 and 2020 of P and S. Pursuant to § 1.1502-21(b), the loss may be used to offset S's income in 2019 and 2020 without limitation, and the loss may be used to offset P's income in those years, subject to the limitation in section 172(a) (see § 1.1502-21(b)). The portion of the loss not absorbed in 2019 and 2020 may serve as a nonlife subgroup loss in 2021 that may set off the consolidated LICTI of L1 and L2 under paragraphs (e)(2) and (h) of this section.
