
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Taxes and Taxpayers
###### ยง 1.1502-47 Consolidated returns by life-nonlife groups.
####### Example 1.

(i)P, S, L1 and L2 constitute a group that elects under section 1504(c)(2) to file a consolidated return for 2021. In 2021, the nonlife subgroup consolidated taxable income is $100 and there is $20 of nonlife consolidated net capital loss that cannot be carried back under paragraph (f) of this section to taxable years (whether consolidated or separate) preceding 2021. The nonlife subgroup has no carryover from years prior to 2021. The life consolidated net operating loss is $150, which under paragraph (g) of this section includes life consolidated capital gain net income of $25. Since life consolidated capital gain net income is zero for 2021 (see paragraph (h)(3)(iii) of this section), the nonlife capital loss offset is zero (see paragraph (h)(3)(ii) of this section). However, $100 of life consolidated net operating loss sets off the $100 nonlife consolidated taxable income in 2021. The life subgroup carries under paragraph (g)(2) of this section to 2022 $50 of the life consolidated net operating loss ($150 minus $100). The $50 carryover will be used in 2022 (subject to the limitation in section 172(a)) against life subgroup income before it may be used in 2022 to setoff nonlife consolidated taxable income.
