
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Taxes and Taxpayers
###### ยง 1.1502-47 Consolidated returns by life-nonlife groups.
####### Example 2.

(ii)(A) The facts are the same as in paragraph (f)(4)(i) of this section, except that, for 2021, S's separate net operating loss is $200. Assume further that L's consolidated LICTI is $200. Under paragraph (f)(3)(vi) of this section, the offsettable nonlife consolidated net operating loss is $100 (the nonlife consolidated net operating loss computed under paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section ($200), reduced by the separate net operating loss of I ($100)). The offsettable nonlife consolidated net operating loss that may be set off against consolidated LICTI in 2021 is $35 (35 percent of the lesser of the offsettable $100 or consolidated LICTI of $200). See section 1503(c)(1) and paragraph (f)(3)(x) of this section. S carries over a loss of $65, and I carries over a loss of $100, to 2022 under paragraph (f)(2) of this section to be used against nonlife consolidated taxable income (consolidated net operating loss ($200) less amount used in 2021 ($35)). Under paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section, the offsettable nonlife consolidated net operating loss that may be carried to 2022 is $65 ($100 minus $35). The facts and results are summarized in the following table.

(B) Accordingly, under paragraph (e) of this section, consolidated taxable income is $165 (line 5(a) minus line 6(c)).
