
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Taxes and Taxpayers
###### ยง 1.1502-47 Consolidated returns by life-nonlife groups.
####### Example 5.

(v)P owns all of the stock of S1 and of L1. On January 1, 2017, L1 purchases all of the stock of L2. For 2021, the group elects under section 1504(c)(2) to file a consolidated return. For 2021, L1 is an eligible corporation under paragraph (b)(12) of this section but L2 is ineligible. Thus, L1 but not L2 is a member for 2021. For 2021, L2 sustains a net operating loss, which cannot be carried back (see section 172(b)). For 2021, L2 is treated under paragraph (d)(6) of this section as a member of a controlled group of corporations under section 1563 with P, S, and L1. For 2022, L2 is eligible and is included on the group's consolidated return. L2's net operating loss for 2021 that may be carried to 2022 is not treated under paragraph (b)(11) of this section as having been sustained in a separate return limitation year for purposes of computing consolidated LICTI of the L1-L2 life subgroup for 2022. Furthermore, the portion of L2's net operating loss not used under paragraph (g)(2) of this section against life subgroup income in 2022 may be included in offsettable life consolidated net operating loss under paragraph (j)(2) and (h)(3)(i) of this section that reduces in 2022 nonlife consolidated taxable income (subject to the limitation in section 172(a)) because L2's loss in 2021 was not sustained in a separate return limitation year under paragraph (j)(2) and (h)(3)(ix)(A) of this section or in a separate return year (2021) when an election was in effect under neither section 1504(c)(2) nor section 243(b)(3).
