
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Taxes and Taxpayers
###### ยง 1.1502-68 Additional first year depreciation deduction for property acquired and placed in service after September 27, 2017.
####### In general,Overview.,1

(a)-(1)This section provides rules governing the availability of the additional first year depreciation deduction allowable under section 168(k) for qualified property that is acquired and placed in service after September 27, 2017, by a member of a consolidated group. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the rules in ยง 1.168(k)-2 apply to members of a consolidated group in addition to the rules in this section. Paragraph (a)(2) of this section provides definitions of terms used in this section. Paragraph (b) of this section provides rules addressing the application of ยง 1.168(k)-2(b)(3)(iii)(A)() (requiring that a taxpayer claiming the additional first year depreciation deduction for used property not previously have used the property) to members of a consolidated group. Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules addressing certain transfers of eligible property (as defined in paragraph (a)(2)(vii) of this section) between members of a consolidated group if the transferee member (as defined in paragraph (a)(2)(xii) of this section) leaves the group pursuant to the same series of related transactions. Paragraph (d) of this section provides examples illustrating the application of the rules of this section. Paragraph (e) of this section provides the applicability dates.
