
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Special Taxes and Taxpayers
###### ยง 1.1502-68 Additional first year depreciation deduction for property acquired and placed in service after September 27, 2017.
####### Example 7: Section 355 transaction following a section 338(h)(10) transaction pursuant to the same series of related transactions,Facts.

(7)-(i)T has a depreciable interest in Equipment #7. On January 1, 2019, Parent contributes all of the stock of T to B in exchange for common and non-voting preferred stock of B and sells the non-voting preferred stock of B to U pursuant to a binding commitment entered into prior to the contribution (T Exchange). The non-voting preferred stock is not treated as "stock" for purposes of section 1504(a). See section 1504(a)(4). Parent and B jointly make an election under section 338(h)(10) with respect to the T Exchange. On June 1, 2019, as part of the same series of related transactions that includes the T Exchange, Parent contributes the stock of B and assets comprising an active trade or business (within the meaning of section 355(b)) to Controlled in exchange for Controlled common stock and then distributes the Controlled common stock to Parent's shareholders in a distribution qualifying under section 355(a) (Controlled Distribution). In the Controlled Distribution, T and B cease to be Related to Parent. Equipment #7 remains eligible property on June 1, 2019.
