
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Administrative Provisions and Other Rules
###### § 1.1502-80 Applicability of other provisions of law.
####### Non-applicability of section 357(c),In general.

(d)-(1)Section 357(c) does not apply to any transaction to which § 1.1502-13, § 1.1502-13T, § 1.1502-14, or § 1.1502-14T applies, if it occurs in a consolidated return year beginning on or after January 1, 1995. For example, P, S, and T are members of a consolidated group, P owns all of the stock of S and T with bases of $30 and $20, respectively, S has a $30 basis in its assets and $40 of liabilities, and S merges into T in a transaction described in section 368(a)(1)(A) (and in section 368(a)(1)(D)); section 357(c) does not apply to the merger, P's basis in T's stock increases to $50 ($30 plus $20), and T succeeds to S's $30 basis in the assets transferred subject to the $40 liability. Similarly, if S instead transferred its assets and liabilities to a newly formed subsidiary in a transaction to which section 351 applies, section 357(c) does not apply and S's basis in the subsidiary's stock is a $10 excess loss account. This paragraph (d) does not apply to a transaction if the transferor or transferee becomes a nonmember as part of the same plan or arrangement. The transferor (or transferee) is treated as becoming a nonmember once it is no longer a member of a consolidated group that includes the transferee (or transferor). For purposes of this paragraph (d), any reference to a transferor or transferee includes, as the context may require, a reference to a successor or predecessor.
