
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Administrative Provisions and Other Rules
###### ยง 1.1502-95 Rules on ceasing to be a member of a consolidated group (or loss subgroup).
####### Example 1: Treatment of departing member as a separate corporation throughout the testing period.

(i)(A) A owns all the L stock. L owns all the stock of L1 and L2. The L group has a consolidated net operating loss arising in Year 1 that is carried over to Year 3. On January 12, Year 2, A sells 30 percent of the L stock to B. On February 7, Year 3, L sells 40 percent of the L2 stock to C, and L2 ceases to be a member of the group. A portion of the Year 1 consolidated net operating loss is apportioned to L2 under ยง 1.1502-21(b) and is carried to L2's first separate return year, which ends December 31, Year 3. The following is a graphic illustration of these facts:

(B) Under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, L2 is a loss corporation on February 7, Year 3. Under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, February 7, Year 3, is a testing date. Under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, the testing period for L2 with respect to this testing date commences on January 1, Year 1, the first day of the taxable year in which the portion of the consolidated net operating loss apportioned to L2 arose. Therefore, in determining whether L2 has an ownership change on February 7, Year 3, B's purchase of 30 percent of the L stock and C's purchase of 40 percent of the L2 stock are each owner shifts. L2 has an ownership change under section 382(g) and ยง 1.382-2T because B and C have increased their ownership interests in L2 by 18 and 40 percentage points, respectively, during the testing period.
