
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Administrative Provisions and Other Rules
###### § 1.1502-95 Rules on ceasing to be a member of a consolidated group (or loss subgroup).
####### Example 2: Effect of prior ownership change of loss group.

(ii)(A) L owns all the L1 stock and L1 owns all the L2 stock. The L loss group had an ownership change under § 1.1502-92 in Year 2 with respect to a consolidated net operating loss arising in Year 1 and carried over to Year 2 and Year 3. The consolidated section 382 limitation computed solely on the basis of the value of the stock of L is $100. On December 31, Year 2, L1 sells 25 percent of the stock of L2 to B. L2 is apportioned a portion of the Year 1 consolidated net operating loss which it carries over to its first separate return year ending after December 31, Year 2. L2's separate section 382 limitation with respect to this loss is zero unless L elects to apportion all or a part of the consolidated section 382 limitation to L2. (See paragraph (c) of this section for rules regarding the apportionment of a consolidated section 382 limitation.) L apportions $50 of the consolidated section 382 limitation to L2, and the remaining $50 of the consolidated section 382 limitation stays with the loss group composed of L and L1.

(B) On December 31, Year 3, L1 sells its remaining 75 percent stock interest in L2 to C, resulting in an ownership change of L2. L2's section 382 limitation computed on the change date with respect to the value of its stock is $30. Accordingly, L2's section 382 limitation for post-change years ending after December 31, Year 3, with respect to its pre-change losses, including the consolidated net operating losses apportioned to it from the L group, is $30, adjusted for a short taxable year, carryforward of unused limitation, or any other adjustment required under section 382. The analysis would be similar if the L loss group had an ownership change under § 1.1502-92 in Year 2 with respect to disallowed business interest expense paid or accrued by L2 in Year 1 and carried forward under section 163(j)(2) to Year 2 and Year 3. See § 1.1502-98(b) (providing that §§ 1.1502-91 through 1.1502-96 apply section 382 to business interest expense, with appropriate adjustments).
