
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Administrative Provisions and Other Rules
###### ยง 1.1503(d)-7 Examples.
####### Result.

(ii)The payment made by DE1to FBin connection with the performance of services is taken into account as a deduction in computing DE1's taxable income for Country X tax purposes, but does not give rise to an item of income or gain for U.S. tax purposes. In addition, such payment has the effect of making an item of deduction or loss composing the dual consolidated loss attributable to FBavailable for a foreign use. This is the case because it may reduce or offset items of deduction or loss composing the dual consolidated loss of FBfor foreign tax purposes, and creates another deduction that reduces or offsets income of FSfor foreign tax purposes (because DE1and FSelect to file a consolidated return) that, under U.S. tax principles, is income of a foreign corporation. However, the transaction between DE1and FBwas entered into in the ordinary course of FB's trade or business. As a result, if P can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that the transaction was not entered into with a principal purpose of avoiding the provisions of section 1503(d), FB's year 1 dual consolidated loss will not be treated as having been made available for an indirect foreign use. In such a case, P would be entitled to make a domestic use election with respect to such loss.
