
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Administrative Provisions and Other Rules
###### ยง 1.1503(d)-7 Examples.
####### Alternative facts.

(iii)(A) The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section, except as follows. Instead of owning DE1, P owns DE3which, in turn, owns DE1. In addition, DE3, rather than DE1, is the obligor on the third-party loan and therefore incurs the interest expense on such loan. Finally, DE3on-lends the loan proceeds from the third-party loan to DE1, and DE1pays interest to DE3on such loan that is generally disregarded for U.S. tax purposes.

(B) Pursuant to ยง 1.1503(d)-5(c)(1)(ii), for purposes of calculating income or a dual consolidated loss, DE3and DE1do not take into account interest income or interest expense, respectively, with respect to amounts paid on the disregarded loan from DE3to DE1. As a result, such items neither create a dual consolidated loss with respect to the interest in DE1, nor do they reduce (or eliminate) the dual consolidated loss attributable to the interest in DE3. Thus, in year 1, there is a dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE3, but not to P's indirect interest in DE1.

(C) In year 1, interest expense paid by DE1to DE3on the disregarded loan is taken into account as a deduction in computing DE1's taxable income for Country X tax purposes, but does not give rise to a corresponding item of income or gain for U.S. tax purposes (because it is generally disregarded). In addition, such interest has the effect of making an item of deduction or loss composing the dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE3available for a foreign use. This is the case because it may reduce or offset items of deduction or loss composing the dual consolidated loss for foreign tax purposes, and creates another deduction or loss that may reduce or offset income of DE1for foreign tax purposes that, under U.S. tax principles, is treated as income of FRH, a foreign corporation. Moreover, because the disregarded item is incurred or taken into account as interest for foreign tax purposes, it is deemed to have been incurred or taken into account with a principal purpose of avoiding the provisions of section 1503(d). Accordingly, there is an indirect foreign use of the year 1 dual consolidated loss attributable to P's interest in DE3, and P cannot make a domestic use election with respect to such loss as provided under ยง 1.1503(d)-6(d)(2). Thus, the loss will be subject to the domestic use limitation rule of ยง 1.1503(d)-4(b).
