
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Administrative Provisions and Other Rules
###### ยง 1.1503(d)-7 Examples.
####### Result.

(ii)(A) Under the ordering rules of ยง 1.1503(d)-3(d)(3), a pro rata amount of DRC's year 1 net operating loss ($30x) and capital loss ($30x) is considered to be used to offset FS's year 1 $60x capital gain. As a result, P cannot make a domestic use election with respect to DRC's year 1 $80x dual consolidated loss because a portion of such loss is put to a foreign use.

(B) DRC's $10x year 4 net operating loss is also a dual consolidated loss. Under the ordering rules of ยง 1.1503(d)-3(d)(1), such loss is considered to be used to offset $10x of FS's year 4 $125x of income. Consequently, P cannot make a domestic use election with respect to such loss. Under the ordering rules of ยง 1.1503(d)-3(d)(2), $50x of capital loss carryover and $50x of ordinary loss from year 1 will be considered to offset $100x of FS's year 4 income because the income is first deemed to have been offset by losses the use of which would not constitute a triggering event that would result in the recapture of a dual consolidated loss. The remaining $15x of FS's year 4 income is considered to be offset by losses from year 3 because it is the most recent taxable year from which a loss may be carried forward. Thus, a portion of the year 3 dual consolidated loss has been put to a foreign use and the entire year 3 dual consolidated loss is recaptured. However, none of DRC's $100x year 2 net operating loss will be deemed to offset FS's year 4 income. As a result, DRC's year 2 dual consolidated loss will not be recaptured.
