
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Administrative Provisions and Other Rules
###### ยง 1.1503(d)-7 Examples.
####### Example 12. No foreign use-absence of foreign loss usage ordering rules,Facts.

(12)-(i)(A) P owns DRC, a member of the P consolidated group. DRCowns FS. Under the Country X consolidation regime, a consolidated group may elect in any given year to use all or a portion of the losses of one consolidated group member to offset income of other consolidated group members. If no such election is made in a year in which losses are generated by a consolidated member, such losses carry forward and are available, at the election of the consolidated group, to offset income of consolidated group members in subsequent taxable years. Country X law does not provide ordering rules for determining when a loss from a particular taxable year is used because, under Country X law, losses never expire. In addition, Country X law does not provide ordering rules for determining when a particular type of loss (for example, capital or ordinary) is used.

(B) In year 1, DRCincurs a capital loss of $80x which, under ยง 1.1503(d)-5(b)(2), is not a dual consolidated loss. DRCalso incurs a net operating loss of $80x in year 1 which is a dual consolidated loss. FSgenerates $60x of capital gain in year 1 which, for Country X purposes, can be offset by capital losses and net operating losses. Under the laws of Country X, DRCelects to use $60x of its total year 1 loss of $160x to offset the $60x of capital gain generated by FSin year 1; the remaining $100x of year 1 loss carries forward. In both year 2 and year 3, DRCincurs a net operating loss of $100x, while FSincurs no income or loss in years 2 and 3. DRC's $100x losses incurred in year 2 and year 3 are dual consolidated losses. Because DRCdoes not elect under the laws of Country X to use all or a portion of its year 2 or year 3 net operating losses of $100x to offset the income of other members of the Country X consolidated group, P is permitted to make (and in fact does make) a domestic use election with respect to both the year 2 and year 3 dual consolidated losses of DRC. In year 4, DRChas a net operating loss of $10x and FSgenerates $125x of income. Country X law permits, upon an election, FS's $125x of income generated in year 4 to be offset by losses (including carryover losses from prior years) of other group members. Accordingly, in year 4, DRCelects to use $125x of its accumulated losses to offset the $125x of year 4 income generated by FS.
