
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Administrative Provisions and Other Rules
###### ยง 1.1503(d)-7 Examples.
####### Example 14. Exception to foreign use through partnership interest-combination rule,Facts.

(14)-(i)(A) P and FSform PRS. P and FSeach own 50 percent of PRSthroughout years 1 and 2. PRSis treated as a partnership for both U.S. and Country X tax purposes. PRSowns DE. DEis a Country Y entity subject to Country Y tax on its worldwide income and disregarded as an entity separate from its owner for U.S. tax purposes. DEconducts business operations in Country Y that, if carried on by a U.S. person, would constitute a foreign branch as defined in ยง 1.367(a)-6T(g)(1). P's interest in the Country Y operations conducted by DEis an individual foreign branch separate unit. P's interest in DE, owned indirectly through PRS, is a hybrid entity individual separate unit. P also owns FB, a Country Y foreign branch individual separate unit. Under ยง 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii), FBand P's indirect interests in DEand DE's Country Y business operations are treated as a combined separate unit (Country Y separate unit).

(B) In year 1, there is a $100x loss attributable to the Country Y business operations conducted by DE. Thus, there is a $50x loss attributable to P's interest in DE's Country Y business operations in year 1. Also in year 1, there is a $200x loss attributable to FB. No income or loss is attributable to P's interest in DEin year 1. Under ยง 1.1503(d)-5(c)(4)(ii), the dual consolidated loss attributable to P's combined Country Y separate unit is $250x ($50x loss attributable to P's indirect interest in DE's Country Y operations, plus $200x loss attributable to FB). In year 2, neither DEnor DE's Country Y operations generates income or loss. Under Country Y law, the $100x of year 1 loss incurred by DEis carried forward and is available to offset income of DEin year 2.
