
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Administrative Provisions and Other Rules
###### ยง 1.1503(d)-7 Examples.
####### Example 13. Exception to foreign use through partnership interest,Facts.

(13)-(i)(A) P owns 80 percent of HPS, a Country X entity subject to Country X tax on its worldwide income. FS, an unrelated foreign corporation, owns the remaining 20 percent of HPS. HPSis classified as a partnership for Federal tax purposes and carries on operations in Country X that, if carried on by a U.S. person, would constitute a foreign branch within the meaning of ยง 1.367(a)-6T(g)(1). P's interest in HPSand P's indirect interest in the Country X branch are individual separate units that are combined into a single separate unit (Country X separate unit) pursuant to ยง 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii).

(B) In year 1, HPSincurs a loss of $100x, $80x of which is attributable to P's Country X separate unit. The $80x of loss attributable to P's Country X separate unit constitutes a dual consolidated loss and P makes a domestic use election with respect to such loss. In year 2, HPSgenerates $50x of income, $40x of which is attributable to P's interest in the Country X separate unit. Under Country X income tax laws, the $100x of year 1 loss incurred by HPSis carried forward and offsets the $50x of income generated by HPSin year 2; the remaining $50x of loss is carried forward and is available to offset income generated by HPSin subsequent years. P and FSmaintain their ownership interests in HPSthroughout years 1 and 2.
