
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Administrative Provisions and Other Rules
###### ยง 1.1503(d)-7 Examples.
####### Example 22. Tainted income,Facts.

(22)-(i)P owns 100 percent of DRC, a domestic corporation that is included as a member of the P consolidated group. DRCconducts a business in the United States. During year 1, DRCwas managed and controlled in Country Z and therefore was subject to tax as a resident of Country Z and was a dual resident corporation. In year 1, DRCincurred a dual consolidated loss of $200x, and P did not make a domestic use election with respect to such loss. As a result, such loss is subject to the domestic use limitation rule of ยง 1.1503(d)-4(b). At the end of year 1, DRCmoved its management and control to the United States and, as a result, ceased being a dual resident corporation. At the beginning of year 2, P transferred asset A, a non-depreciable asset, to DRCin exchange for common stock in a transaction that qualified for nonrecognition under section 351. At the time of the transfer, P's tax basis in asset A equaled $50x and the fair market value of asset A equaled $100x. The tax basis of asset A in the hands of DRCimmediately after the transfer equaled $50x pursuant to section 362. Asset A did not constitute replacement property acquired in the ordinary course of business. DRCdid not generate income or gain during years 2, 3, or 4. On June 30, year 5, DRCsold asset A to a third party for $100x, its fair market value at the time of the sale, and recognized $50x of income on such sale. In addition to the $50x income generated on the sale of asset A, DRCgenerated $100x of operating income in year 5. At the end of year 5, the fair market value of all the assets of DRCwas $400x.
