
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Administrative Provisions and Other Rules
###### ยง 1.1503(d)-7 Examples.
####### Example 28. Gain on sale of tiered separate units,Facts.

(28)-(i)P owns 75 percent of HPS, a Country X entity subject to Country X tax on its worldwide income. FSowns the remaining 25 percent of HPS. HPSis classified as a partnership for Federal tax purposes. HPScarries on operations in Country Y that, if carried on by a U.S. person, would constitute a foreign branch within the meaning of ยง 1.367(a)-6T(g)(1). HPSalso owns assets that do not constitute a part of its Country Y operations and would not themselves constitute a foreign branch within the meaning of ยง 1.367(a)-6T(g)(1) if owned by a U.S. person. Neither HPSnor the Country Y operations has liabilities. P's indirect interest in the Country Y operations carried on by HPS, and P's interest in HPS, are each separate units. P sells its interest in HPSand recognizes a gain of $150x on such sale. Immediately prior to P's sale of its interest in HPS, P's portion of the assets of the Country Y operations (that is, assets the income, gain, deduction and loss from which would be attributable to P's Country Y foreign branch separate unit) had a built-in gain of $200x, and P's portion of HPS's other assets (that is, assets the income, gain, deduction and loss from which would be attributable to P's interest in HPS) had a built-in gain of $100x.
