
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Administrative Provisions and Other Rules
###### § 1.1503(d)-7 Examples.
####### Result.

(ii)(A) Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(4)(ii), P's interest in DE1, and P's indirect ownership of a portion of the Country X operations carried on by PRS, are combined and treated as a single separate unit (Country X separate unit). Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(4)(ii)(A), for purposes of determining P's items of income, gain, deduction, and loss attributable to the Country X separate unit, the items of P are first attributed to each separate unit that composes the Country X separate unit.

(B) Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(2)(i), the principles of section 864(c)(2), (c)(4), and (c)(5) (as set forth in § 1.864-4(c) and §§ 1.864-5 through 1.864-7), apply for purposes of determining P's items of income, gain, deduction (other than interest expense), and loss that are attributable to P's indirect interest in the Country X operations carried on by PRS. For purposes of determining P's interest expense that is attributable to P's indirect interest in the Country X operations carried on by PRS, the principles of § 1.882-5, as modified under § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(2)(ii), shall apply. For purposes of applying these rules, P is treated as a foreign corporation, the Country X operations carried on by PRSare treated as a trade or business within the United States, and the assets of P (including its share of the PRSassets, other than those of the Country X operations) are treated as assets that are not U.S. assets. In addition, because P carries on its share of the Country X operations through DE1, a hybrid entity, § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(4)(i)(A) provides that only the items attributable to P's interest in DE1, and only the assets, liabilities, and activities of P's interest in DE1, are taken into account for purposes of this determination.

(C) TEis a transparent entity as defined in § 1.1503(d)-1(b)(16) because it is not taxable as an association for Federal tax purposes, is not subject to income tax in a foreign country as a corporation (or otherwise at the entity level) either on its worldwide income or on a residence basis, and is not treated as a pass-through entity under the laws of Country X (the applicable foreign country). TEis not a pass-through entity under the laws of Country X because a Country X holder of an interest in TEdoes not take into account on a current basis the interest holder's share of items of income, gain, deduction, and loss of TE. For purposes of determining P's items of income, gain, deduction, and loss that are attributable to P's interest in TE, only those items of P that are reflected on the books and records of TE, as adjusted to conform to U.S. tax principles, are taken into account. § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(3)(i). Because the interest in TEis not a separate unit, a loss attributable to such interest is not a dual consolidated loss and is not subject to section 1503(d) and these regulations. Items must nevertheless be attributed to the interests in TE. For example, such attribution is required for purposes of calculating the income or dual consolidated loss attributable to the Country X separate unit, and for purposes of applying the domestic use limitation under § 1.1503(d)-4(b) to a dual consolidated loss attributable to the Country X separate unit.

(D) For purposes of determining P's items of income, gain, deduction, and loss that are attributable to P's interest in DE1, only those items of P that are reflected on the books and records of DE1, as adjusted to conform to U.S. tax principles, are taken into account. § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(3)(i). For this purpose, DE1's distributive share of the items of income, gain, deduction, and loss that are reflected on the books and records of PRS, as adjusted to conform to U.S. tax principles, are treated as being reflected on the books and records of DE1, except to the extent such items are taken into account by the Country X operations of PRS. See § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(3)(ii) and (4)(i)(B). Because TEis a transparent entity, the items reflected on its books and records are not treated as being reflected on the books and records of DE1.

(E) Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-5(c)(4)(ii)(B), the combined Country X separate unit of P calculates its income or dual consolidated loss by taking into account all the items of income, gain, deduction, and loss that were separately attributable to P's interest in DE1and the Country X operations of PRSowned indirectly by P.
