
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Administrative Provisions and Other Rules
###### § 1.1503(d)-7 Examples.
####### Example 38. Character and source of recapture income,Facts.

(38)-(i)(A) P owns FB. In year 1, the items of income, gain, deduction, and loss that are attributable to FBfor purposes of determining whether it has a dual consolidated loss are as follows:

(B) P makes a domestic use election with respect to the year 1 dual consolidated loss attributable to FBand, thus, the $25x dual consolidated loss is used to offset the P group's consolidated taxable income.

(C) Pursuant to § 1.861-8, the $75x of salary expense incurred by FBis allocated and apportioned entirely to foreign source general limitation income. Pursuant to § 1.861-9T, $25x of the $50x interest expense attributable to FBis allocated and apportioned to domestic source income, $15x of such interest expense is allocated and apportioned to foreign source general limitation income, and the remaining $10x of such interest expense is allocated and apportioned to foreign source passive income.

(D) During year 2, $5x of income is attributable to FBunder the rules of § 1.1503(d)-5, and the P consolidated group has $100x of consolidated taxable income. At the end of year 2, FBundergoes a triggering event described in § 1.1503(d)-6(e)(1), and P continues to own FBfollowing the triggering event. Pursuant to § 1.1503(d)-6(h)(2)(i), P is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that the $25x dual consolidated loss attributable to FBin year 1 would have offset the $5x of income attributable to FBin year 2, if no domestic use election were made with respect to the year 1 loss such that it was subject to the limitations of § 1.1503(d)-4(b) and (c).
