
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Administrative Provisions and Other Rules
###### § 1.1503(d)-8 Effective dates.
####### Multiple-party event exception to triggering events.,1,i,iii,1,3,i,1,1,ii,1,1,1,i,iii,1,i,iii

(4)This paragraph (b)(4) applies to events described in § 1.1503-2(g)(2)(iv)(B)()() through () that occur after April 18, 2007 and that are with respect to dual consolidated losses that were incurred in taxable years beginning on or after October 1, 1992, and before the application date. The events described in the previous sentence are not eligible for the exception described in § 1.1503-2(g)(2)(iv)(B)(), but instead are eligible for the multiple-party event exception described in § 1.1503(d)-6(f)(2)(i), as modified by this paragraph (b)(4). Thus, such events are not eligible for a closing agreement described in § 1.1503-2(g)(2)(iv)(B)()() and Rev. Proc. 2000-42. For purposes of applying § 1.1503(d)-6(f)(2)(i) to transactions covered by this paragraph, agreements described in § 1.1503-2(g)(2)(i) (rather than domestic use agreements) shall be filed, and subsequent triggering events and exceptions thereto have the meaning provided in § 1.1503-2(g)(2)(iii)(A) and (iv) (other than the exception provided under § 1.1503-2(g)(2)(iv)(B)()). For example, if a calendar year taxpayer that has a January 1, 2007, application date filed an election under § 1.1503-2(g)(2)(i) with respect to a dual consolidated loss that was incurred in 2004, and a triggering event described in § 1.1503-2(g)(2)(iv)(B)()() occurs with respect to such dual consolidated loss after April 18, 2007, then the event is eligible for the multiple-party event exception under § 1.1503(d)-6(f)(2)(i) (and not the exception under § 1.1503-2(g)(2)(iv)(B)()). However, in order to comply with § 1.1503(d)-6(f)(2)(iii)(A), the subsequent elector must file a new agreement described in § 1.1503-2(g)(2)(i) (rather than a new domestic use agreement). In addition, for purposes of determining whether there is a subsequent triggering event, and exceptions thereto, pursuant to such new agreement, § 1.1503-2(g)(2)(iii)(A) and (iv) (other than the exception provided under § 1.1503-2(g)(2)(iv)(B)()) shall apply. Notwithstanding the general application of this paragraph (b)(4) to events described in § 1.1503-2(g)(2)(iv)(B)()() through () that occur after April 18, 2007, a taxpayer may choose to apply this paragraph (b)(4) to events described in § 1.1503-2(g)(2)(iv)(B)()() through () that occur after March 19, 2007 and on or before April 18, 2007.
