
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Administrative Provisions and Other Rules
###### ยง 1.1504-3 Treatment of stock in a QOF C corporation for purposes of consolidation.
####### Election to consolidate a subsidiary QOF C corporation,In general.

(2)-(i)Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a consolidated group may elect to consolidate a subsidiary QOF C corporation that was formed, or section 1504 control of which was acquired, by the consolidated group after May 1, 2019, and that otherwise meets the affiliation requirements under section 1504. If a pre-existing corporation was a member of the consolidated group prior to becoming a QOF C corporation, a consolidated group may elect to continue to consolidate such pre-existing corporation if it self-certified to be a QOF after May 1, 2019. The consolidated group must make the election under this paragraph (b)(2) with regard to the first taxable year during which the subsidiary QOF C corporation otherwise meets the section 1504 affiliation requirements (without regard to paragraph (b)(1) of this section). See ยง 1.1502-14Z(f)(3) for an election available with regard to a subsidiary QOF C corporation that met the section 1504 affiliation requirements as of May 1, 2019. The election under this paragraph (b)(2) is effective on the later of May 1, 2019, or the first date on which the QOF C corporation otherwise meets the requirements of section 1504. If a consolidated group makes the election under this paragraph (b)(2), then the conditions in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section apply to the consolidated group and to the QOF member. See paragraph (c) of this section for the form and manner of making this election.
