
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Regulations Applicable for Tax Years for Which a Return Is Due on or Before August 11, 1999
###### ยง 1.1502-9A Application of overall foreign loss recapture rules to corporations filing consolidated returns due on or before August 11, 1999.
####### Special effective date for SRLY limitation.

(v)Except as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(vi) of this section, paragraphs (b)(1)(iii) and (iv) of this section apply only to consolidated return years for which the due date of the income tax return (without extensions) is on or before March 13, 1998. For consolidated return years for which the due date of the income tax return (without extensions) is after March 13, 1998, the rules of paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section shall apply to overall foreign losses from separate return years that are separate return limitation years. For purposes of applying paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section in such years, the group treats a member with a balance in an overall foreign loss account from a separate return limitation year on the first day of the first consolidated return year for which the due date of the income tax return (without extensions) is after March 13, 1998, as a corporation joining the group on such first day. An overall foreign loss that is part of a net operating loss or net capital loss carryover from a separate return limitation year of a member that is absorbed in a consolidated return year for which the due date of the income tax return (without extensions) is after March 13, 1998, shall be added to the appropriate consolidated overall foreign loss account in the year that it is absorbed. For consolidated return years for which the due date of the income tax return (without extensions) is after March 13, 1998, similar principles apply to overall foreign losses when there has been a consolidated return change of ownership (regardless of when the change of ownership occurred). See also ยง 1.1502-3(d)(4) for an optional effective date rule (generally making this paragraph (b)(1)(v) applicable to a consolidated return year beginning after December 31, 1996, if the due date of the income tax return (without extensions) for such year is on or before March 13, 1998).
