
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Regulations Applying Section 382 With Respect to Testing Dates (and Corporations Joining or Leaving Consolidated Groups) Before June 25, 1999
###### § 1.1502-91A Application of section 382 with respect to a consolidated group generally applicable for testing dates before June 25, 1999.
####### Net unrealized built-in gain and loss,In general.

(g)-(1)The determination whether a consolidated group (or loss subgroup) has a net unrealized built-in gain or loss under section 382(h)(3) is based on the aggregate amount of the separately computed net unrealized built-in gains or losses of each member that is included in the group (or loss subgroup) under paragraph (g)(2) of this section, including items of built-in income and deduction described in section 382(h)(6). Thus, for example, amounts deferred under section 267, or under § 1.1502-13 (other than amounts deferred with respect to the stock of a member (or an intercompany obligation) included in the group (or loss subgroup) under paragraph (g)(2) of this section) are built-in items. The threshold requirement under section 382(h)(3)(B) applies on an aggregate basis and not on a member-by-member basis. The separately computed amount of a member included in a group or loss subgroup does not include any unrealized built-in gain or loss on stock (including stock described in section 1504(a)(4) and § 1.382-2T(f)(18)(ii) and (iii)) of another member included in the group or loss subgroup (or on an intercompany obligation). However, a member of a group or loss subgroup includes in its separately computed amount the unrealized built-in gain or loss on stock of another member (or on an intercompany obligation) not included in the group or loss subgroup. If a member is not included in a group (or loss subgroup) under paragraph (g)(2) of this section, the determination of whether the member has a net unrealized built-in gain or loss under section 382(h)(3) is made on a separate entity basis. See § 1.1502-94A(c) (relating to built-in gain or loss of a new loss member) and § 1.1502-96A(a) (relating to the end of separate tracking of certain losses).
