
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Regulations Applying Section 382 With Respect to Testing Dates (and Corporations Joining or Leaving Consolidated Groups) Before June 25, 1999
###### ยง 1.1502-92A Ownership change of a loss group or a loss subgroup generally applicable for testing dates before June 25, 1999.
####### Abbreviated statement with respect to loss subgroups.

(2)The common parent of a consolidated group that has a loss subgroup during a consolidated return year must file the information statement required by ยง 1.382-2T(a)(2)(ii) because of any owner shift, equity structure shift, or issuance or transfer of an option with respect to the loss subgroup parent and with respect to any subsidiary stock subject to paragraph (c) of this section. Instead of filing a separate statement for each loss subgroup parent, the common parent (which is treated as a loss corporation) may file the single statement described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. In addition to the information concerning stock ownership of the common parent, the single statement must identify each loss subgroup parent and state which loss subgroups, if any, have had ownership changes during the consolidated return year. The loss subgroup parent is, however, still required to maintain the records necessary to determine if the loss subgroup has an ownership change. This paragraph (e)(2) applies with respect to the attributes of a loss subgroup until, under ยง 1.1502-96A(a), the attributes are no longer treated as described in ยง 1.1502-91A(d) (relating to the definition of loss subgroup). After that time, the information statement described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section must be filed with respect to those attributes.
