
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Regulations Applying Section 382 With Respect to Testing Dates (and Corporations Joining or Leaving Consolidated Groups) Before June 25, 1999
###### § 1.1502-94A Coordination with section 382 and the regulations thereunder when a corporation becomes a member of a consolidated group) generally applicable for corporations becoming members of a group before June 25, 1999.
####### Information statements.

(d)The common parent of a consolidated group that has a new loss member subject to paragraph (b)(1) of this section during a consolidated return year must file the information statement required by § 1.382-2T(a)(2)(ii) because of any owner shift, equity structure shift, or issuance or transfer of an option with respect to the new loss member. Instead of filing a separate statement for each new loss member the common parent may file a single statement described in § 1.382-2T(a)(2)(ii) with respect to the stock ownership of the common parent (which is treated as a loss corporation). In addition to the information concerning stock ownership of the common parent, the single statement must identify each new loss member and state which new loss members, if any, have had ownership changes during the consolidated return year. The new loss member is, however, required to maintain the records necessary to determine if it has an ownership change. This paragraph (d) applies with respect to the attributes of a new loss member until an event occurs which ends separate tracking under § 1.1502-96A(a). After that time, the information statement described in § 1.1502-92A(e)(1) must be filed with respect to these attributes.
