
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information and Returns
###### § 1.5000C-4 Requirement for the foreign contracting party to file a return and pay tax, and procedures for the contracting party to seek a refund.
####### Return of tax by the foreign contracting party.

(c)If the tax liability under § 1.5000C-1 relating to a payment is not fully satisfied by withholding in accordance with §§ 1.5000C-2 and 1.5000C-3 (including as a result of the use of an estimated nonexempt amount or estimated total contract price in computing the contract ratio), a foreign contracting party subject to tax under § 1.5000C-1 during a calendar year must make a return of tax on, for example, Form 1120-F, "U.S. Income Tax Return of a Foreign Corporation," or such other form as the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) may prescribe to report the amount of tax due under section 5000C (required return). A foreign contracting party with no other U.S. tax filing obligation other than with respect to its liability for the tax imposed under section 5000C must file its required return on or before the fifteenth day of the sixth month following the close of its taxable year. The required return must include the information required by the form and accompanying instructions. The required return must be filed at the place and time (including any extension of time to file) provided by the form and accompanying instructions. Penalties for failure to file contained in Subtitle F can apply to foreign contracting parties who fail to file the required return. A foreign contracting party must attach copies of all Forms 1042-S, "Foreign Person's U.S. Source Income Subject to Withholding," received from acquiring agencies (if any) to the required return.
