
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information and Returns
###### ยง 1.5000C-3 Payment and returns of tax withheld by the acquiring agency.
####### Return requirements,In general.

(c)-(1)Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, an acquiring agency that withholds an amount pursuant to section 5000C generally must file Form 1042-S, "Foreign Person's U.S. Source Income Subject to Withholding," and Form 1042, "Annual Withholding Tax Return for U.S. Source Income of Foreign Persons," each year, or other such forms as the IRS may prescribe, to report information related to amounts withheld under section 5000C. The acquiring agency must prepare a Form 1042-S for each contracting party reporting the amount withheld under section 5000C for the preceding calendar year. The Form 1042 must show the aggregate amounts withheld under section 5000C that were required to be reported on Forms 1042-S (including those amounts withheld under section 5000C for which a Form 1042-S is not required to be filed pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section). The Form 1042 must also include the information required by the form and accompanying instructions. Further, any forms required under this paragraph (c) are due at the same time, at the same place, and eligible for the same extended due dates and may be amended in the same manner as Form 1042 and Form 1042-S (or such other forms as the IRS may prescribe related to chapter 3). The acquiring agency must furnish a copy of the Form 1042-S (or such other form as the IRS may prescribe for the same purpose) to the contracting party for whom the form is prepared on or before March 15 of the calendar year following the year in which the amount subject to reporting under section 5000C was paid. It must be filed with a transmittal form as provided in the instructions for Form 1042-S and to the transmittal form. Section 5000C Certificates or other statements or information as prescribed by ยง 1.5000C-2 that are provided to the acquiring agency are not required to be attached to the Form 1042 filed with the IRS. However, an acquiring agency that is required to file Form 1042 must retain a copy of Form 1042, Form 1042-S, the Section 5000C Certificates, or other statements or information prescribed by ยง 1.5000C-2 for at least three years from the original due date of Form 1042 or the date it was filed, whichever is later. An acquiring agency that is not required to file Form 1042 must retain any Section 5000C Certificates or other statements or information as prescribed by ยง 1.5000C-2 for at least three years from the date the Form 1042 would have been due had the acquiring agency had an obligation to file.
