
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Information and Returns
###### § 1.5000C-4 Requirement for the foreign contracting party to file a return and pay tax, and procedures for the contracting party to seek a refund.
####### Refund requests when amount withheld exceeds tax liability.

(e)After taking into account any offsets pursuant to § 1.5000C-2(e)(3), if the acquiring agency has overwithheld amounts under section 5000C and has made a deposit of the amounts under § 1.5000C-3(b), the contracting party may claim a refund of the amount overwithheld pursuant to the procedures described in chapter 65. The contracting party's claim for refund must meet the requirements of section 6402 and the regulations thereunder, as applicable, and must be filed before the expiration of the period of limitations on refund in section 6511 and the regulations thereunder. In general, the contracting party making a refund claim must file the required return to claim a refund, stating the grounds upon which the claim is based. A Section 5000C Certificate and a copy of the Form 1042-S received from the acquiring agency must be attached to the required return. For purposes of this section, an amount is overwithheld if the amount withheld from the payment pursuant to section 5000C and §§ 1.5000C-1 through 1.5000C-7 exceeds the contracting party's tax liability under § 1.5000C-1, regardless of whether the overwithholding was in error or appeared correct when it occurred. A U.S. person may seek a refund under this paragraph (e) even if it was treated as a foreign person under the rules in § 1.5000C-2 (for example, because it neither had a taxpayer identification number on file in the System for Award Management nor submitted Form W-9, "Request for Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) and Certification," to the acquiring agency).
