
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### tax returns or statements
###### ยง 1.6012-1 Individuals required to make returns of income.
####### b,b

(iv) For purposes of section 6012(a)(1)(A)(ii) and subdivisions (ii)() and (iii)() of this subparagraph, an individual and his spouse are considered to have the same household as their home at the close of a taxable year if the same household constituted the principal place of abode of both the individual and his spouse at the close of such taxable year (or on the date of death, if the individual or his spouse died within the taxable year). The individual and his spouse will be considered to have the same household as their home at the close of the taxable year notwithstanding a temporary absence from the household due to special circumstances, as, for example, in the case of a nonpermanent failure on the part of the individual and his spouse to have a common abode by reason of illness, education, business, vacation, or military service. For example, A, a calendar-year individual under 65 years of age, is married to B, also under 65 years of age, and is a member of the Armed Forces of the United States. During 1970 A is transferred to an overseas base. A and B give up their home, which they had jointly occupied until that time; B moves to the home of her parents for the duration of A's absence. They fully intend to set up a new joint household upon A's return. Neither A nor B must file a return for 1970 if their combined gross income for the year is less than $2,300 and if no other taxpayer is entitled to a dependency exemption for A or B under section 151(e).

(v) In the case of a short taxable year referred to in section 443(a)(1), an individual described in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph shall file an income tax return if his gross income received during such short taxable year equals or exceeds his own personal exemption allowed by section 151(b) (prorated as provided in section 443(c)) and, when applicable, his additional exemption for age 65 or more allowed by section 151(c)(1) (prorated as provided in section 443(c)).

(vi) For rules relating to returns required to be made by every individual who is liable for one or more qualified State individual income taxes, as defined in section 6362, for a taxable year, see paragraph (b) of ยง 301.6361-1 of this chapter (Regulations on Procedure and Administration).

(vii) For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1978, an individual who receives payments during the calendar year in which the taxable year begins under section 3507 (relating to advance payment of earned income credit) must file an income tax return.

(viii) For rules relating to returns required of taxpayers who receive advance payments of the premium tax credit under section 36B, see ยง 1.6011-8(a).
