
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### tax returns or statements
###### ยง 1.6013-6 Election to treat nonresident alien individual as resident of the United States.
####### Termination of election,Revocation.

(b)-(1)(i) An election under this section shall terminate if either spouse revokes the election. An election that is revoked terminates as of the first taxable year for which the last day prescribed by section 6072(a) and 6081(a) for filing the return of tax has not yet occurred.

(ii) Revocation of the election is made by filing a statement of revocation in the following manner. If the spouse revoking the election is required to file a return under section 6012, the statement is filed by attaching it to the return for the first taxable year to which the revocation applies. If the spouse revoking the election is not required to file a return under section 6012, but files a claim for refund under section 6511, the statement is filed by attaching it to the claim for refund. If the spouse revoking the election is not required to file a return and does not file a claim for refund, the statement is filed by submitting it to the service center director with whom was filed the most recent joint return of the spouses. The revocation may, if the revoking spouse dies after the close of the first taxable year to which the revocation applies but before the return, claim for refund, or statement of revocation is filed, be made by the executor, administrator or other person charged with the property of the deceased spouse.

(iii) A revocation of the election is effective as of a particular taxable year if it is filed on or before the last day prescribed by section 6072(a) and 6081(a) for filing the return of tax for that taxable year. However, the revocation is not final until that last day.

(iv) The statement of revocation must contain a declaration that the election under this section is being revoked. The statement must also contain the name, address, and taxpayer identifying number of each spouse. If the revocation is being made on behalf of a deceased spouse, the statement must contain the name and address of the executor, administrator, or other person revoking the election on behalf of the deceased spouse. The statement must also include a list of the States, foreign countries, and possessions of the United States which have community property laws and in which:

(A) Each spouse is domiciled, or

(B) real property is located from which either of the spouses receives income.
