
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### tax returns or statements
###### ยง 1.6013-6 Election to treat nonresident alien individual as resident of the United States.
####### Suspension of election.

(3)(i) An election made under this section is suspended and is not in effect for a taxable year subsequent to the first taxable year for which made if neither spouse is a U.S. spouse during that subsequent taxable year. Thus, for example, the election is in suspense if both spouses are nonresident aliens for the entire taxable year.

(ii) If either spouse dies during any taxable year for which the election under this section is in effect, other than the first taxable year for which the election is to be in effect, the taxable year shall include, solely for purposes of this paragraph (a)(3), only those days during the taxable year on which both spouses are alive. Thus, for example, if the U.S. spouse dies during the taxable year, the election is not suspended for that year even if the surviving nonresident alien spouse never acquires U.S. citizenship or residency. Similarly, if the nonresident alien spouse dies during the taxable year, the election is not suspended for that year even if the surviving U.S. spouse subsequently abandons U.S. citizenship or residency. However, if neither spouse was a U.S. spouse at any time during the period of the taxable year when both spouses were alive, the election is suspended for that year even if the surviving spouse subsequently acquires U.S. citizenship or residency.
