
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### tax returns or statements
###### ยง 1.6014-2 Tax not computed by taxpayer for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1969.
####### Effects of election.

(c)(1) A taxpayer who, in accordance with the provisions of this section, elects not to show the tax on his income tax return is not required to pay the unpaid balance of such tax at the time he files the return. In such case, the tax will be computed for the taxpayer by the Internal Revenue Service, and a notice will be mailed to the taxpayer stating the amount of tax due. Where it is determined that a refund of tax is due, the Internal Revenue Service will send such refund to the taxpayer. See paragraph (c) of ยง 301.6402-3 of this chapter (Regulations on Procedure and Administration). The computation of tax by the Internal Revenue Service shall be treated for purposes of this chapter as if made by the taxpayer, and such computation or the issuance of a notice or refund pursuant thereto shall not relieve the taxpayer of liability for any deficiency (although the deficiency is based upon an amount of tax different from that computed for the taxpayer by the Internal Revenue Service) or affect the rights of the Internal Revenue Service with respect to any subsequent audit or other review of the taxpayer's return.

(2) Where the election provided for in this section is made by a taxpayer who takes the standard deduction and who has adjusted gross income of less than $10,000, such election constitutes an election to pay the tax imposed by section 3.

(3) A taxpayer who makes an election under section 6014 shall not be precluded from claiming:

(i) Status as a head of household or a surviving spouse;

(ii) The credit under section 31 (relating to tax withheld on wages);

(iii) The credit under section 37 (relating to retirement income);

(iv) The credit under section 38 (relating to investment in certain depreciable property);

(v) The credit under section 39 (relating to certain uses of gasoline and lubricating oil);

(vi) The credit under section 41 (relating to contributions to candidates for public office);

(vii) The credit under section 42 (relating to personal exemptions);

(viii) The credit under section 43 (relating to earned income);

(ix) The credit under section 44 (relating to purchase of new principal residence); or

(x) The credit under section 45 (relating to overpayments of tax).
