
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### information returns
###### ยง 1.6033-1 Returns by exempt organizations; taxable years beginning before January 1, 1970.
####### c

() Its disbursements out of income (including prior years' accumulations) made within the year for the purposes for which it is exempt. Information shall be included as to the class of activity with a separate total for each activity as well as the name, address, and amount received by each individual or organization receiving cash, other property, or services within the taxable year. If the donee is related by blood, marriage, adoption, or employment (including children of employees) to any person or corporation having an interest in the exempt organization, such as a creator, donor, director, trustee, or officer, the relationship of the donee shall be stated. Activities shall be classified according to purpose in greater detail than merely charitable, educational, religious, or scientific. For example, payments for nursing service, for laboratory construction, for fellowships, or for assistance to indigent families shall be so identified. Where the fair market value of the property at the time of disbursement is used as the measure of the disbursement, the book value of such property (and a statement of how book value was determined) shall also be furnished, and any difference between the fair market value at the time of disbursement and the book value should be reflected in the books of account. The expenses allocable to making the disbursements shall be set forth in such detail as is prescribed by the form or instructions.
