
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### information returns
###### ยง 1.6033-1 Returns by exempt organizations; taxable years beginning before January 1, 1970.
####### Group returns.

(d)(1) A central, parent, or like organization (referred to in this paragraph as "central organization"), exempt under section 501(a) and described in section 501(c), although required to file a separate annual return for itself under section 6033 and paragraph (a) of this section, may file annually, in addition to such separate annual return, a group return on Form 990 or 990-A, 990 (SF), or 990-A (SF), as may be appropriate. Form 990 (SF) or 990-A (SF) may be used where each local organization qualifies under paragraph (a) of this section. Such group return may be filed for two or more of the local organizations, chapters, or the like (referred to in this paragraph as "local organizations") which are (i) affiliated with such central organization at the close of its annual accounting period, (ii) subject to the general supervision or control of the central organization, and (iii) exempt from taxation under the same paragraph of section 501(c) of the Code, although the local organizations are not necessarily exempt under the paragraph under which the central organization is exempt.

(2)(i) The filing of the group return shall be in lieu of the filing of a separate return by each of the local organizations included in the group return. The group return shall include only those local organizations which in writing have authorized the central organization to include them in the group return, and which have made and filed, with the central organization, their statements, specifically stating their items of gross income, receipts, and disbursements, and such other information relating to them as is required to be stated in the group return. Such an authorization by a local organization shall be made annually, under the penalties of perjury, and shall be signed by a duly authorized officer of the local organization in his official capacity and shall contain the following statement, or a statement of like import: "I hereby declare under the penalties of perjury that this authorization (including any accompanying schedules and statements) has been examined by me and to the best of my knowledge and belief is true, correct and complete and made in good faith for the taxable year stated." Such authorizations and statements shall be permanently retained by the central organization.

(ii) There shall be attached to the group return and made a part thereof a schedule showing the name and address of each of the local organizations and the total number thereof included in such return, and a schedule showing the name and address of each of the local organizations and the total number thereof not included in the group return.

(3) The group return shall be on the basis of the established annual accounting period of the central organization. Where such central organization has no established annual accounting period, such return shall be on the basis of the calendar year. The same income, receipts, and disbursements of a local organization shall not be included in more than one group return.

(4) The group return shall be filed in accordance with these regulations and the instructions issued with respect to Form 990, 990-A, 990 (SF), or 990-A (SF), whichever is appropriate, and shall be considered the return of each local organization included therein. The tax-exempt status of a local organization must be established under a group exemption letter issued to the central organization before a group return including the local organization will be considered as the return of the local organization. See ยง 1.501(a)-1 for requirements for establishing a tax-exempt status.
