
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### information returns
###### ยง 1.6033-1 Returns by exempt organizations; taxable years beginning before January 1, 1970.
####### i,a,h

() In addition to the information required in () through () of this subdivision, the organization shall furnish such specific information and answer such specific questions as are required by the form or instructions.

(ii) Form 990-A (SF) is a short form consisting of a single part which contains such information as may be prescribed in the return and instructions which is required to be furnished by section 6033(a) or which is necessary to show whether or not such organization is exempt from tax under section 501(a). In addition, Form 990-A (SF) shall contain the information required by section 6033(b) which must be furnished in the manner prescribed in the instructions issued with respect to the return. Form 990-A (SF) shall be open to public inspection pursuant to section 6104 and other applicable sections and the regulations thereunder.

(5)(i) Every religious or apostolic association or corporation described in section 501 (d) which is exempt from taxation under section 501(a) shall file a return on Form 1065 for each taxable year, stating specifically the items of gross income and deductions, and its taxable income. There shall be attached to the return as a part thereof a statement showing the name and address of each member of the association or corporation and the amount of his distributive share of the taxable income of the association or corporation for such year.

(ii) If the taxable year of any member is different from the taxable year of the association or corporation, the distributive share of the taxable income of the association or corporation to be included in the gross income of the member for his taxable year shall be based upon the taxable income of the association or corporation for its taxable year ending with or within the taxable year of the member.
