
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### information returns
###### ยง 1.6033-2 Returns by exempt organizations and returns by certain nonexempt organizations.
####### In general.

(a)(1) Except as provided in section 6033(a)(3) and paragraph (g) of this section, every organization exempt from taxation under section 501(a) shall file an annual information return specifically setting forth its items of gross income, gross receipts and disbursements, and such other information as may be prescribed in the instructions, issued with respect to the return. Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, such return shall be filed annually regardless of whether such organization is chartered by, or affiliated or associated with, any central, parent, or other organization.

(2)(i) Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph and paragraph (g) of this section, every organization exempt from taxation under section 501(a), and required to file a return under section 6033 and this section (including, for taxable years ending before December 31, 1972, private foundations, as defined in section 509(a)), other than an organization described in section 401(a) or 501(d), shall file its annual return on Form 990. For taxable years ending on or after December 31, 1972, every private foundation shall file Form 990-PF as its annual information return. For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1977, every section 501(c)(21) black lung trust shall file an annual information return on Form 990-BL or any other form prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service for that purpose.

(ii) Subject to paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the information generally required to be furnished by an organization exempt under section 501(a) is:

(A) Its gross income for the year. For this purpose, gross income includes tax-exempt income, but does not include contributions, gifts, grants, and similar amounts received. Whether an item constitutes a contribution, gift, grant, or similar amount depends upon all the surrounding facts and circumstances. The computation of gross income shall be made by subtracting the cost of goods sold from all receipts other than gross contributions, gifts, grants, and similar amounts received and nonincludible dues and assessments from members and affiliates.

(B) To the extent not included in gross income, its dues and assessments from members and affiliates for the year.

(C) Its expenses incurred within the year attributable to gross income.

(D) Its disbursements (including prior years' accumulations) made within the year for the purposes for which it is exempt.

(E) A balance sheet showing its assets, liabilities, and net worth as of the beginning and end of such year. Detailed information relating to the assets, liabilities, and net worth shall be furnished on the schedule provided for this purpose on the return required by this section. Such schedule shall be supplemented by attachments where appropriate.

(F) The total of the contributions, gifts, grants, and similar amounts received by it during the taxable year, and, in the case of an organization described in section 501(c)(3), the names and addresses of all persons that contributed, bequeathed, or devised $5,000 or more (in money or other property) during the taxable year. In the case of a private foundation (as defined in section 509(a)), the names and addresses of all persons who became substantial contributors (as defined in section 507(d)(2)) during the taxable year shall be furnished. In addition, for its first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1969, each private foundation shall furnish the names and addresses of all persons who became substantial contributors before such taxable year. For special rules with respect to contributors and donors, see paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section.

(G) The names and addresses of all officers, directors, or trustees (or any person having responsibilities or powers similar to those of officers, directors or trustees) of the organization, and, in the case of a private foundation, all persons who are foundation managers, within the meaning of section 4946(b)(1). Organizations must also attach a schedule showing the names and addresses and/or total numbers of key employees, highly compensated employees, and independent contractors as prescribed by publication, form, or instructions.

(H) A schedule showing the compensation and other payments made to each person whose name is required to be listed pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(G) of this section during the calendar year ending within the organization's annual accounting period, or during such other period as prescribed by publication, form, or instructions.

(I) For any taxable year ending on or after December 31, 1971, such information as is required by Forms 4848 and 4849 and, only with respect to any such taxable year ending before December 31, 1972, such information as is required by Form 2950. Such forms are required by this section to be filed by an organization exempt from tax under section 501(a) which is an employer who maintains a funded pension or annuity plan for its employees. See paragraph (g) of this section for exceptions from filing. Form 4849 need not be filed by the organization if the fiduciary for the plan has given written notification to the organization that such form will be filed as an attachment to Form 990-P filed by the fiduciary. Form 4848 (and Form 4849 if required to be filed by the organization) shall be filed as a separate return on or before the due date for Form 990. For rules relating to the extension of time for filing, see section 6081 and the regulations thereunder and the instructions for Form 4848. A central organization which files Form 990 as a group return under paragraph (d) of this section may also file Form 4848 as a group return. The rules provided by paragraph (d) of this section with respect to a group return filed on Form 990 shall apply to a group return filed on Form 4848. Unless otherwise expressly provided therein, an authorization to include a local organization in a group for purposes of filing Form 990 as a group return shall be treated as an authorization to include such local organization in a group for purposes of filing Form 4848 as a group return. A group return on Form 4848 shall be filed in accordance with this section and the instructions to Form 4848 and shall be considered the return of each local organization included therein. In addition to the information required to be furnished by Forms 4848 and 4849, the district director may require any further information that he considers necessary to determine qualification of the plan under section 401 or the taxability under section 403(b) of a beneficiary under an annuity purchased by a section 501(c)(3) organization.

(J) In the case of a private foundation liable for tax imposed under chapter 42, such information as is required by Form 4720.

(K) In the case of an organization described in section 501(c)(3), the respective amounts (if any) of the taxes imposed on the organization, or any organization manager of the organization, during the taxable year under any of the following provisions (and the respective amounts (if any) of reimbursements paid by the organization during the taxable year with respect to taxes imposed on any such organization manager under any of such provisions):
