
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### information returns
###### § 1.6033-2 Returns by exempt organizations and returns by certain nonexempt organizations.
####### Listing of States.

(iv)A private foundation is required to attach to its return required by this section a list of all States:

(A) To which the organization reports in any fashion concerning its organization, assets, or activities, or

(B) With which the organization has registered (or which it has otherwise notified in any manner) that it intends to be, or is, a charitable organization or a holder of property devoted to a charitable purpose.

(3)(i) For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1969, and ending before December 31, 1971, every employee's trust described in section 401(a) which is exempt from taxation under section 501(a) shall file an annual return on Form 990-P. The return shall include the information required by paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of § 1.401-1. For such years, in addition, the trust must file the information required to be filed by the employer pursuant to the provisions of § 1.404(a)-2, unless the employer has notified the trustee in writing that he has filed or will timely file such information. If the trustee has received such notification from the employer, then such notification, or a copy thereof, shall be retained by the trust as a part of its records.

(ii) For taxable years ending on or after December 31, 1971, and before December 31, 1975, every employee's trust described in section 401(a) which is exempt from taxation under section 501(a) shall file an annual return on Form 990-P. The trust shall furnish such information as is required by such form and the instructions issued with respect thereto.

(4) For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1980, trusts described in section 4947(a)(1) and nonexempt private foundations shall comply with the requirements of section 6033 and this section in the same manner as organizations described in section 501(c)(3) which are exempt from tax under section 501(a). This section shall be applied for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1980 as if trusts described in section 4947(a)(1) and nonexempt private foundations were described in section 501(c)(3). Therefore, for purposes of this section, all references to exempt organizations shall include section 4947(a)(1) trusts and nonexempt private foundations and all references to private foundations shall include section 4947(a)(1) trusts that would be private foundations if they were described in section 501(c)(3) and all nonexempt private foundations. Similarly, for purposes of paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(d), the purposes for which a section 4947(a)(1) trust or a nonexempt private foundation is organized shall be treated as the purposes for which it is exempt. Similarly, for purposes of paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(D) of this section, the purposes for which a section 4947(a)(1) trust or a nonexempt private foundation is organized shall be treated as the purposes for which it is exempt. See section 509(b) and § 1.509(b)-1. See also section 642(c)(6) and § 1.642(c)-4.

(5) Political organizations, as defined by section 527(e)(1), that have gross receipts of $25,000 or more for the taxable year (or in the case of a qualified State or local political organization, as defined in section 527(e)(5), that has gross receipts of $100,000 or more for the taxable year) generally must comply with the requirements of section 6033 and this section in the same manner as organizations exempt from tax under section 501(a), except to the extent that the Commissioner may modify such requirements through forms, instructions to forms, or guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin as appropriate for carrying out the purposes of section 527. For the purposes of this section, all references to organizations exempt from tax under section 501(a) shall include political organizations referred to in section 6033(g), other than those referred to in section 6033(g)(3) and except to the extent the Commissioner exercises discretion under section 6033(g)(4). This discretion may be exercised through forms, instructions to forms, or guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin. In addition to the reporting requirements applicable to organizations exempt under section 501(a), such political organizations generally must report the names and addresses of all persons that contributed, bequeathed, or devised $5,000 or more (in money or other property) during the taxable year.

(6) Each controlling organization (within the meaning of section 512(b)(13)) that is subject to the requirements of section 6033(a) shall include on its annual return such information required by that return regarding-

(i) Any interest, annuities, royalties, or rents received from each controlled entity (within the meaning of section 512(b)(13));

(ii) Any loans made to each such controlled entity; and

(iii) Any transfers of funds between such controlling organization and each such controlled entity.

(7) Every organization described in section 4966(d)(1) shall, on its annual return for the taxable year-

(i) List the total number of donor advised funds (as defined in section 4966(d)(2)) it owns at the end of such taxable year;

(ii) Report the aggregate value of assets held in such funds at the end of such taxable year; and

(iii) Report the aggregate contributions to and grants made from such funds during such taxable year.

(8) Every organization described in section 509(a)(3) shall, on its annual return-

(i) List the supported organizations (as defined in section 509(f)(3)) with respect to which such organization provides support;

(ii) Specify whether the organization meets the requirements of clause (i), (ii), or (iii) of section 509(a)(3)(B); and

(iii) Certify that the organization meets the requirements of section 509(a)(3)(C).
