
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### information returns
###### ยง 1.6033-2 Returns by exempt organizations and returns by certain nonexempt organizations.
####### Group returns.

(d)(1) A central, parent, or like organization (referred to in this paragraph as "central organization"), exempt under section 501(a) and described in section 501(c) (other than a private foundation), although required to file a separate annual return for itself under section 6033 and paragraph (a) of this section, may file annually, in addition to such separate annual return, a group return on Form 990. Such group return may be filed for two or more of the local organizations, chapters, or the like (referred to in this paragraph as "local organizations") which are (i) affiliated with such central organization at the close of its annual accounting period, (ii) subject to the general supervision or control of the central organization, and (iii) exempt from taxation under the same paragraph of section 501(c) of the Code, although the local organizations are not necessarily exempt under the paragraph under which the central organization is exempt. Such group return may not be filed for a local organization which is a private foundation.

(2)(i) The filing of the group return shall be in lieu of the filing of a separate return by each of the local organizations included in the group return. The group return shall include only those local organizations which in writing have authorized the central organization to include them in the group return, and which have made and filed, with the central organization, their statements, specifically stating their items of gross income, receipts, and disbursements, and such other information relating to them as is required to be stated in the group return. Such an authorization and statement by a local organization shall be made under the penalties of perjury, shall be signed by a duly authorized officer of the local organization in his official capacity, and shall contain the following statement, or a statement of like import: "I hereby declare under the penalties of perjury that this authorization (including any accompanying schedules and statements) has been examined by me and to the best of my knowledge and belief is true, correct and complete and made in good faith." Such authorization and statement with respect to a local organization shall be retained by the central organization until the expiration of 6 years after the last taxable year for which a group return filed by such central organization includes such local organization.

(ii) There shall be attached to the group return and made a part thereof a schedule showing the name, address, and employer identification number of each of the local organizations and the total number thereof included in such return, and a schedule showing the name, address, and employer identification number of each of the local organizations and the total number thereof not included in the group return.

(3) The group return shall be on the basis of the established annual accounting period of the central organization. Where such central organization has no established annual accounting period, such return shall be on the basis of the calendar year. The same income, receipts, and disbursements of a local organization shall not be included in more than one group return.

(4) The group return shall be filed in accordance with these regulations and the instructions issued with respect to Form 990, and shall be considered the return of each local organization included therein. The tax exempt status of a local organization must be established under a group exemption letter issued to the central organization before a group return including the local organization will be considered as the return of the local organization. See ยง 1.501(a)-1 for requirements for establishing a tax-exempt status.

(5) In providing the information required by paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(F), (G), and (H) of this section, such information may be provided:

(i) With respect to the central or parent organization on its Form 990, and with respect to the local organizations on separate schedules attached to the group return for the year, or

(ii) On a consolidated basis for all the local organizations and the central or parent organization on the group return.
