
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### information returns
###### ยง 1.6033-6 Notification requirement for entities not required to file an annual information return under section 6033(a)(1) (taxable years beginning after December 31, 2006).
####### Additional notification requirements,In general.

(c)-(1)Any organization described in paragraph (a) of this section shall submit an annual electronic notification described in section 6033(i)(1). The annual electronic notification shall-

(i) Be in electronic form; and

(ii) Set forth-

(A) The legal name of the organization;

(B) Any name under which the organization operates or does business;

(C) The organization's mailing address and Internet Web site address (if any);

(D) The organization's taxpayer identification number;

(E) The name and address of a principal officer;

(F) Evidence of the continuing basis for the organization's exemption from the filing requirements under section 6033(a)(1); and

(G) Additional information necessary to process the notification.

(2) The mailing address required by section 6033(i)(1)(C) and submitted in the annual electronic notification shall be the organization's last known address as provided by ยง 301.6212-2(a) of this chapter. This last known address may be updated as provided under ยง 301.6212-2 of this chapter, or by clear and concise notification. The Internal Revenue Service will use this last known address as the organization's address of record and will direct all mailings to this address.

(3) By submitting the annual electronic notification described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, an organization acknowledges that it is not required to file a return under section 6033(a) because its annual gross receipts are not normally in excess of $25,000. In order to make this determination, the organization must keep records that enable it to calculate its gross receipts. All organizations are required to maintain records under section 6001. These records will provide evidence of the continuing basis for the organization's exemption from the filing requirements under section 6033(a)(1).

(4) If an organization that is required to submit an annual electronic notification files a complete Form 990 or Form 990-EZ, the annual electronic notification requirement shall be deemed satisfied. The annual electronic notification requirement is not satisfied if the Form 990 or Form 990-EZ contains only those items of information that would have been required by submitting the notification in electronic form. Also, the filing of a complete Form 990 or Form 990-EZ, rather than the submission of an annual electronic notification, is the filing of a return that starts the period of limitations for assessment under section 6501(g)(2).
