
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### information returns
###### § 1.6033-6 Notification requirement for entities not required to file an annual information return under section 6033(a)(1) (taxable years beginning after December 31, 2006).
####### Organizations not required to submit annual electronic notification.

(b)(1) An organization exempt from taxation under section 501(a) that is required to file or files an annual information return under section 6033(a)(1) shall not submit an annual electronic notification under section 6033(i). This includes the following types of organizations:

(i) Any organization included in a group return for that year under § 1.6033-2(d).

(ii) All private foundations required to file under § 1.6033-2(a)(2)(i) Form 990-PF, "Return of Private Foundation or Section 4947(a)(1) Nonexempt Charitable Trust Treated as a Private Foundation."

(iii) Section 509(a)(3) supporting organizations required to file under § 1.6033-2(a)(2)(i) Form 990, "Return of Organization Exempt From Income Tax," or Form 990-EZ, "Short Form Return of Organization Exempt From Income Tax."

(iv) A section 501(c)(21) black lung trust required to file under § 1.6033-2(a)(2)(i) Form 990-BL, "Information and Initial Excise Tax Return for Black Lung Benefit Trusts and Certain Related Persons."

(v) Any organization that is required to file or files an annual information return under section 6033(a)(1) on any other form prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service for that purpose.

(2) An organization exempt from taxation under section 501(a) that is not required to file a return under section 6033(a)(1) is also not required to submit an annual electronic notification under section 6033(i). This includes the following types of organizations:

(i) A church, an interchurch organization of local units of a church, a convention or association of churches, or an integrated auxiliary of a church (as defined in § 1.6033-2(h)).

(ii) An exclusively religious activity of any religious order.

(iii) A mission society sponsored by or affiliated with one or more churches or church denominations, more than one-half of the activities of which society are conducted in, or directed at persons in, foreign countries.

(iv) An educational organization (below college level) described in section 170(b)(1)(A)(ii), that has a program of a general academic nature, and that is affiliated (within the meaning of § 1.6033-2(h)(2)) with a church or operated by a religious order.

(v) A State institution, the income of which is excluded from gross income under section 115(a).

(vi) An organization described in section 501(c)(1).

(vii) An organization that is a governmental unit or an affiliate of a governmental unit exempt from Federal income tax under section 501(a).

(3) If an organization exempt from taxation under section 501(a) is not described in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section, the organization must submit an annual electronic notification. Thus, a black lung trust that normally has gross receipts of $25,000 or less is not required to file Form 990-BL but is required to submit an annual electronic notification. A section 509(a)(3) supporting organization of a religious organization that normally has gross receipts of $5,000 or less is not required to file Form 990 or Form 990-EZ but is required to submit an annual electronic notification.
