
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### information returns
###### § 1.6038B-1 Reporting of certain transfers to foreign corporations.
####### Time and manner of reporting,In general,Reporting procedure.

(b)-(1)-(i)Except for stock or securities qualifying under the special reporting rule of § 1.6038B-1(b)(2), and certain exchanges described in section 354 or 356 (listed below), any U.S. person that makes a transfer described in section 6038B(a)(1)(A), 367(d) or (e), is required to report pursuant to section 6038B and the rules of § 1.6038B-1 and must attach the required information to Form 926, "Return by a U.S. Transferor of Property to a Foreign Corporation." In addition, if the U.S. person files a statement under § 1.367(a)-3(d)(2)(vi)(C), a gain recognition agreement under § 1.367(a)-8, or a liquidation document under § 1.367(e)-2(b), such person must comply in all material respects with the requirements of such section pursuant to the terms of the statement, gain recognition agreement, or liquidation document, as applicable, in order to satisfy a reporting obligation under section 6038B. For special rules regarding cash transfers made in tax years beginning after February 5, 1999, see paragraphs (b)(3) and (g) of this section. For purposes of determining a U.S. transferor that is subject to section 6038B, the rules of §§ 1.367(a)-1(c) and 1.367(a)-3(d) shall apply with respect to a transfer described in section 367(a), and the rules of § 1.367(a)-1(c) shall apply with respect to a transfer described in section 367(d). Additionally, if in an exchange described in section 354 or 356, a U.S. person exchanges stock or securities of a foreign corporation in a reorganization described in section 368(a)(1)(E), or a U.S. person exchanges stock or securities of a domestic or foreign corporation pursuant to an asset reorganization described in section 368(a)(1) (involving a transfer of assets under section 361) that is not treated as an indirect stock transfer under § 1.367(a)-3(d), then the U.S. person exchanging stock or securities is not required to report under section 6038B. Notwithstanding any statement to the contrary on Form 926, the form and attachments must be attached to, and filed by the due date (including extensions) of the transferor's income tax return for the taxable year that includes the date of the transfer (as defined in § 1.6038B-1T(b)(4)). For taxable years beginning before January 1, 2003, any attachment to Form 926 required under the rules of this section is filed subject to the transferor's declaration under penalties of perjury on Form 926 that the information submitted is true, correct and complete to the best of the transferor's knowledge and belief. For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2002, Form 926 and any attachments shall be verified by signing the income tax return with which the form and attachments are filed.
