
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### information returns
###### § 1.6038B-1 Reporting of certain transfers to foreign corporations.
####### Election.

(ii)The U.S. transferor elects to apply the provisions of § 1.367(a)-7(c) by including a statement entitled, "ELECTION TO APPLY EXCEPTION UNDER § 1.367(a)-7(c)," with its timely filed return (within the meaning of § 1.367(a)-7(f)(12)) for the taxable year during which the reorganization occurs and that includes the information described in paragraphs (c)(6)(ii)(A), (c)(6)(ii)(B), (c)(6)(ii)(C), (c)(6)(ii)(D), (c)(6)(ii)(E), (c)(6)(ii)(F), (c)(6)(ii)(G), and (c)(6)(ii)(H) of this section. See § 1.367(a)-7(c)(5)(ii) for the statement required to be filed by a control group member (as defined in § 1.367(a)-7(f)(1)) or final distributee (as defined in § 1.367(a)-7(d)).

(A) The name and taxpayer identification number (if any) of each control group member and final distributee (if any), the foreign acquiring corporation, and in the case of a triangular reorganization (within the meaning of § 1.358-6(b)(2)) the corporation that controls the foreign acquiring corporation, and the ownership interest percentage (as defined in § 1.367(a)-7(f)(7)) in the U.S. transferor of each control group member.

(B) A calculation of the gain recognized (if any) by the U.S. transferor under § 1.367(a)-7(c)(2)(i) and (c)(2)(ii), and the basis adjustments (if any) required to be made by each control group member under § 1.367(a)-7(c)(3).

(C) The date on which the U.S. transferor and each control group member or final distributee entered into the written agreement described in § 1.367(a)-7(c)(5)(iv).

(D) The amount of any deductible liability (as defined by § 1.367(a)-7(f)(2)).

(E) The fair market value (as defined by § 1.367(a)-7(f)(3)) of property transferred to the foreign acquiring corporation in the section 361 exchange.

(F) The inside basis (as defined by § 1.367(a)-7(f)(4)).

(G) The inside gain (as defined by § 1.367(a)-7(f)(5)).

(H) The section 367(a) percentage (as defined by § 1.367(a)-7(f)(9)).
