
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### information returns
###### § 1.6038B-1 Reporting of certain transfers to foreign corporations.
####### Effective/applicability dates.

(g)(1) This section applies to transfers occurring on or after July 20, 1998, except as provided in paragraphs (g)(2) through (g)(7) of this section, and except for transfers of cash made in tax years beginning on or before February 5, 1999 (which are not required to be reported under section 6038B), and transfers described in paragraph (e) of this section (which applies to transfers that are subject to §§ 1.367(e)-1(f) and 1.367(e)-2(e)). See § 1.6038B-1T for transfers occurring prior to July 20, 1998. See also § 1.6038B-1T(e) in effect prior to August 9, 1999 (as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised April 1, 1999), for transfers described in section 367(e) that are not subject to §§ 1.367(e)-1(f) and 1.367(e)-2(e).

(2) The rules of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section as they apply to section 368(a)(1)(A) reorganizations (including reorganizations described in section 368(a)(2)(D) or (E)) apply to transfers occurring on or after January 23, 2006.

(3) The rules of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section that provide an exception from reporting under section 6038B for transfers of stock or securities in a section 354 or 356 exchange, pursuant to a section 368(a)(1)(G) reorganization that is not treated as an indirect stock transfer under § 1.367(a)-3(d), apply to transfers occurring on or after January 23, 2006.

(4) The rules of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section that provide an exception from reporting under section 6038B for transfers of stock in a section 354 or 356 exchange, pursuant to a section 368(a)(1)(E) reorganization or an asset reorganization under section 368(a)(1) that is not treated as an indirect stock transfer under § 1.367(a)-3(d), apply to transfers occurring on or after January 23, 2006. The rules of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section that provide an exception from reporting under section 6038B for transfers of securities in a section 354 or 356 exchange, pursuant to a section 368(a)(1)(E) reorganization or an asset reorganization under section 368(a)(1) that is not treated as an indirect stock transfer under § 1.367(a)-3(d), apply only to transfers occurring after January 5, 2005 (although taxpayers may apply such provision to transfers of securities occurring on or after July 20, 1998 and on or before January 5, 2005 if done consistently to all transactions). See § 1.6038-1T(b)(i), as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2005, for transfers occurring prior to the effective dates described in paragraphs (g)(2) through (4) of this section.

(5) Paragraphs (c)(6) and (f)(3) of this section apply to transfers occurring on or after April 18, 2013. For guidance with respect to paragraphs (c)(6) and (f)(3) of this section before April 18, 2013, see 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2012.
