
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### information returns
###### § 1.6041-1 Return of information as to payments of $600 or more.
####### Information returns required under other provisions of the Internal Revenue Code.

(ii)The payments described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i)(A) and (B) of this section shall not include any payments of amounts with respect to which an information return is required by, or may be required under authority of, section 6042(a) (relating to dividends), section 6043(a)(2) (relating to distributions in liquidation), section 6044(a) (relating to patronage dividends), section 6045 (relating to brokers' transactions with customers and certain other transactions), sections 6049(a)(1) and (2) (relating to interest), section 6050N(a) (relating to royalties), or section 6050P(a) or (b) (relating to cancellation of indebtedness). For information returns required under section 6045(f) (relating to payments to attorneys), see special rules in §§ 1.6041-1(a)(1)(iii) and 1.6045-5(c)(4). For payment card transactions (as described in § 1.6050W-1(b)) and third party network transactions (as defined in § 1.6050W-1(c)) required to be reported on information returns required under section 6050W (relating to payment card and third party network transactions), see special rules in § 1.6041-1(a)(1)(iv).

(iii) Information returns required under section 6045(f) on or after January 1, 2007. For payments made on or after January 1, 2007 to which section 6045(f) (relating to payments to attorneys) applies, the following rules apply. Not withstanding the provisions of paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, payments to an attorney that are described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section but which otherwise would be reportable under section 6045(f) are reported under section 6041 and this section and not section 6045(f). This exception applies only if the payments are reportable with respect to the same payee under both sections. Thus, a person who, in the course of a trade or business, pays $600 of taxable damages to a claimant by paying that amount to the claimant's attorney is required to file an information return under section 6041 with respect to the claimant, as well as another information return under section 6045(f) with respect to the claimant's attorney. For provisions relating to information reporting for payments to attorneys, see § 1.6045-5.
