
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### information returns
###### § 1.6041-3 Payments for which no return of information is required under section 6041.
####### Transition rule.

(2)Payments made under reimbursement or other expense allowance arrangements that are received by an employee on or after January 1, 1989, but prior to July 1, 1990, to the extent that the employee is required to account (within the meaning of the term "account" as set forth in § 1.162-17(b)(4) or 1.274-5T(f)(4), whichever is applicable) and does so account to the payor for such expenses, provided the payor has made a reasonable, good faith effort to comply with the requirements of section 62(c). In general, compliance with the provisions of this section, as in effect for payments made under reimbursement or other expense allowance arrangements that were received by an employee before January 1, 1989, with respect to expenses paid or incurred before January 1, 1989, will constitute such reasonable good faith compliance. In no event, however, will reasonable good faith compliance exist if a payor fails to report payments made under an arrangement (other than a per diem or mileage allowance type arrangement) under which an employee is not required to substantiate expenses paid or incurred or is not required to return amounts in excess of the substantiated expenses.

(i) Payments of interest on obligations of the United States, or a State, Territory, or political subdivision thereof, or the District of Columbia, or any agency or instrumentality of any one or more of the foregoing (but for requirements for reporting certain such payments by the United States or any agency or instrumentality thereof, see §§ 1.1461-1 to 1.1461-3, inclusive).

(j) Payments of interest on corporate bonds (but for reporting requirements as to payments on certain corporate bonds, see § 1.6049-5.

(k) Amounts paid as an allowance or reimbursement for traveling or other bona fide ordinary and necessary expenses, including an allowance for meals and lodging or a per diem allowance in lieu of subsistence, to persons in the service of an international organization (without regard to whether there is a requirement to account for such amounts) if-

(1) The organization is designated as an international organization by the President of the United States in Executive Orders issued pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 288, and

(2) The organization has immunity with respect to the invoilability of its archives pursuant to an international agreement having full force and effect in the United States.

(l) A payment to an informer as an award, fee, or reward for information relating to criminal activity, but only if such payment is made by the United States, a State, Territory, or political subdivision thereof, or the District of Columbia, or any agency or instrumentality of any one or more of the foregoing, or, with respect to payments made after December 31, 1987, by an organization that is described in section 501(c)(3) and that makes such payments in furtherance of a charitable purpose to lessen the burdens of government within the meaning of § 1.501(c)(3)-1(d)(2).

(m) On and after September 9, 1968, payments by a person carrying on the banking business of interest on a deposit evidenced by a negotiable time certificate of deposit (but for reporting requirements as to payments made after December 31, 1962, of interest on certain deposits, see sec. 6049 and the regulations thereunder in this part).

(n) Payments to individuals as scholarships or fellowship grants within the meaning of section 117(b)(1), whether or not "qualified scholarships" as described in section 117(b). This exception does not apply to any amount of a scholarship or fellowship grant that represents payment for services within the meaning of section 117(c). Instead, these amounts are required to be reported as wages on Form W-2. See § 1.1461-1(c) for applicable reporting requirements for amounts paid to foreign persons.

(o) Per diem of certain alien trainees described under section 1441(c)(6).

(p) Payments made to the following persons:

(1) A corporation described in § 1.6049-4(c)(1)(ii)(A), except with respect to payments made to a corporation after December 31, 1997 for attorneys' fees, and except a corporation engaged in providing medical and health care services or engaged in the billing and collecting of payments in respect to the providing of medical and health care services. However, no reporting is required where payment is made to a hospital or extended care facility described in section 501(c)(3) which is exempt from taxation under section 501(a) or to a hospital or extended care facility owned and operated by the United States, a State, the District of Columbia, a possession of the United States, or a political subdivision, agency or instrumentality of any of the foregoing. For reporting requirements as to payments by cooperatives, and to certain other payments, see sections 6042, 6044, and 6049 and the regulations thereunder in this part.
