
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### information returns
###### § 1.6041-3 Payments for which no return of information is required under section 6041.

Returns of information are not required under section 6041 and §§ 1.6041-1 and 1.6041-2 for payments described in paragraphs (a) through (q) of this section. See § 1.6041-4 for reporting exemptions regarding payments to foreign persons.

(a) Payments of income required to be reported on Forms 1120-S, 941, W-2, and W-3 (however, see § 1.6041-2(a) with respect to Forms W-2 and W-3).

(b) Payments by a broker to his customer (but for reporting requirements as to certain of such payments, see sections 6042, 6045, and 6049 and the regulations thereunder in this part).

(c) Payments of bills for merchandise, telegrams, telephone, freight, storage, and similar charges.

(d) Payments of rent made to rental agents (but the agent is required to report payments of rent to the landlord in accordance with § 1.6041-1(a)(1)(i)(B) and (2)).

(e) Payments representing earned income for services rendered without the United States made to a citizen of the United States, if it is reasonable to believe that such amounts will be excluded from gross income under the provisions of section 911 and the regulations thereunder.

(f) Compensation and profits paid or distributed by a partnership to the individual partners (but for reporting requirements, see § 1.6031-1).

(g) Payments of commissions to general agents by fire insurance companies or other companies insuring property, except when specifically directed by the Commissioner to be filed.
