
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### information returns
###### ยง 1.6041-10 Return of information as to payments of winnings from bingo, keno, and slot machine play.
####### Definitions,Reportable gambling winnings.

(b)-(1)(i) For purposes of this section, the term reportable gambling winnings is defined as follows:

(A) For bingo, the term "reportable gambling winnings" means winnings of $1,200 or more from one bingo game, without reduction for the amount wagered. All winnings received from all wagers made during one bingo game are combined (for example, all winnings from all cards played during one bingo game are combined).

(B) For keno, the term "reportable gambling winnings" means winnings of $1,500 or more from one keno game reduced by the amount wagered on the same keno game. All winnings received from all wagers made during one keno game are combined (for example, all winnings from all "ways" on a multi-way keno ticket are combined).

(C) For slot machine play, the term "reportable gambling winnings" means winnings of $1,200 or more from one slot machine play, without reduction for the amount wagered.

(ii) Winnings and wagers from different types of games are not combined to determine if the reporting threshold is satisfied. Bingo, keno, and slot machine play are different types of games.

(iii) Winnings include the fair market value of a payment in any medium other than cash.

(iv) The amount wagered in the case of a free play is zero.
