
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### information returns
###### § 1.6041A-1 Returns regarding payments of remuneration for services and certain direct sales.
####### payor,withholding agent.

(A) Returns of information are not required for payments that a payor can, prior to payment, associate with documentation upon which it may rely to treat as made to a foreign beneficial owner in accordance with § 1.1441-1(e)(1)(ii) or as made to a foreign payee in accordance with § 1.6049-5(d)(1) or presumed to be made to a foreign payee under § 1.6049-5(d)(2), (3), (4), or (5). However, such payments may be reportable under § 1.1461-1(b) and (c). For purposes of this paragraph (d)(3)(i)(A), the provisions in § 1.6049-5(c) (regarding rules applicable to documentation of foreign status and definition of U.S. payor and non-U.S. payor) shall apply. The provisions of § 1.1441-1 shall apply by substituting the termfor the term

(B) Returns of information are not required for payments of remuneration for services from sources outside the United States (determined under the provisions of part I, subchapter N, chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations under those provisions) if payments are made outside the United States by a non-U.S. payor or non U.S. middleman. For a definition of non U.S. payor or non-U.S. middleman, see § 1.6049-5(c)(5). For circumstances in which a payment is considered to be made outside the United States, see § 1.6049-5(e).

(C) Returns of information are not required under sections 6041 or 6041A for amounts paid outside of the United States (within the meaning of § 1.6049-5(e)) as remuneration for services as a direct seller (within the meaning of section 3508) performed outside of the United States or for sales described in section 6041A(b) made outside of the United States of consumer products for resale outside of the United States.
