
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### information returns
###### ยง 1.6042-1 Return of information as to dividends paid in calendar years before 1963.
####### Information as to actual owner,In general.

(c)-(1)When the person receiving a payment with respect to which an information return is required under authority of the Code is not the actual owner of the income received, the name and address of the actual owner or payee shall be furnished upon demand of the person paying the income, and in default of a compliance with such demand the payee becomes liable for the penalties provided. See section 7203. Dividends on stock are prima facie the income of the record owner of the stock. If a record owner of stock who is not the actual owner thereof receives dividends on such stock in any calendar year before 1963, he shall file a Form 1087 disclosing the name and address of the actual owner or payee, the name of the issuing corporation, the number of shares of such stock, and the amount of dividends received with respect to such stock during the calendar year. (For the reporting by a nominee of dividends received by him on behalf of another person in any calendar year after 1962, see ยง 1.6042-2.) Unless such a disclosure is made the record owner will be held liable for any tax based upon such dividends. A separate Form 1087 shall be filed by the record owner for each of the stockholdings of each actual owner for whom he acts as nominee. However, where the record owner is a banking institution, trust company, or brokerage firm, it may, provided it maintains such records as will permit a prompt substantiation of each payment of dividends made to the actual owner, file one Form 1087 for each actual owner for whom it acts as nominee and report thereon the total amount of the dividends paid to such actual owner (without itemization as to the issuing company, class of stock, etc.).
