
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### information returns
###### § 1.6043-4 Information returns relating to certain acquisitions of control and changes in capital structure.
####### 1

(B) A tax-exempt organization, as described in § 1.6049-4(c)(1)(ii)(B)().

(C) An individual retirement plan, as described in § 1.6049-4(c)(1)(ii)(C).

(D) The United States, as described in § 1.6049-4(c)(1)(ii)(D).

(E) A state, as described in § 1.6049-4(c)(1)(ii)(E).

(F) A foreign government, as described in § 1.6049-4(c)(1)(ii)(F).

(G) An international organization, as described in § 1.6049-4(c)(1)(ii)(G).

(H) A foreign central bank of issue, as described in § 1.6049-4(c)(1)(ii)(H).

(I) A securities or commodities dealer, as described in § 1.6049-4(c)(1)(ii)(I).

(J) A real estate investment trust, as described in § 1.6049-4(c)(1)(ii)(J).

(K) An entity registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1), as described in § 1.6049-4(c)(1)(ii)(K).

(L) A common trust fund, as described in § 1.6049-4(c)(1)(ii)(L).

(M) A financial institution such as a bank, mutual savings bank, savings and loan association, building and loan association, cooperative bank, homestead association, credit union, industrial loan association or bank, or other similar organization.

(iv) Any shareholder that the corporation, prior to the transaction, associates with documentation upon which the corporation may rely in order to treat payments to the shareholder as made to a foreign beneficial owner in accordance with § 1.1441-1(e)(1)(ii) or as made to a foreign payee in accordance with § 1.6049-5(d)(1) or presumed to be made to a foreign payee under § 1.6049-5(d)(2) or (3). For purposes of this paragraph (b)(5)(iv), the provisions in § 1.6049-5(c) (regarding rules applicable to documentation of foreign status and definition of U.S. payor and non-U.S. payor) shall apply. The provisions of § 1.1441-1 shall apply by using the terms "corporation" and "shareholder" in place of the terms "withholding agent" and "payee" and without regard to the fact that the provisions apply only to amounts subject to withholding under chapter 3 of the Internal Revenue Code. The provisions of § 1.6049-5(d) shall apply by using the terms "corporation" and "shareholder" in place of the terms "payor" and "payee". Nothing in this paragraph (b)(5)(iv) shall be construed to relieve a corporation of its withholding obligations under section 1441.

(v) Any shareholder if, on January 31 of the year following the calendar year in which the shareholder receives cash, stock, or other property, the corporation did not know and did not have reason to know that the shareholder received such cash, stock, or other property in a transaction or series of related transactions that would result in an acquisition of control or a substantial change in capital structure within the meaning of this section.
