
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### information returns
###### ยง 1.6045-4 Information reporting on real estate transactions with dates of closing on or after January 1, 1991.
####### Special rules for multiple transferors,General rules.

(5)-(i)In the case of multiple transferors (within the meaning of paragraph (f) of this section) each of which transfers an interest in the same reportable real estate, the reporting person must request the transferors to provide an allocation of the gross proceeds among the transferors. The request must be made at or before the time of closing. Neither the request nor the response is required to be in writing. The reporting person must make a reasonable effort to contact all transferors of whom the reporting person has actual knowledge. The reporting person may, however, rely on the unchallenged response of any transferor and need not make additional efforts to contact other transferors after at least one complete allocation (whether or not contained in a single response) is received. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (i)(5), the reporting person shall report the gross proceeds in accordance with any allocation received at or before the time of closing. The reporting person may (but is not required to) report the gross proceeds in accordance with any allocation received after the time of closing and before the date (determined without regard to extensions) the Forms 1099 are required to be filed. The reporting person may not report the gross proceeds in accordance with any allocation received on or after the date (determined without regard to extensions) the Forms 1099 are required to be filed. If no gross proceeds are allocated to a transferor because no allocation or an incomplete allocation is received by the reporting person, the reporting person shall report the entire unallocated gross proceeds (if any) on the return of information made with respect to such transferor. If the reporting person receives conflicting allocations from the transferors, the reporting person shall report the entire gross proceeds on each return of information made with respect to the transaction.
