
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### information returns
###### ยง 1.6045-4 Information reporting on real estate transactions with dates of closing on or after January 1, 1991.
####### Furnishing statements to transferors,Requirement of furnishing statements.

(m)-(1)(i)A reporting person who is required to make a return of information under paragraph (a) of this section shall furnish to the transferor whose TIN is required to be shown on the return a written statement of the information required to be shown on such return. The written statement must bear either the legend shown on the recipient copy of Form 1099 or the following: "This is important tax information and is being furnished to the Internal Revenue Service. If you are required to file a return, a negligence penalty or other sanction may be imposed on you if this item is required to be reported and the IRS determines that it has not been reported."

(ii) This requirement may be satisfied by furnishing to the transferor a copy of a completed Form 1099 (or substitute Form 1099 that complies with current revenue procedures). An IRS truncated taxpayer identifying number (TTIN) may be used as the identifying number of the transferor in lieu of the identifying number appearing on the information return filed with the Internal Revenue Service. For provisions relating to the use of TTINs, see ยง 301.6109-4 of this chapter (Procedure and Administration Regulations).

(iii) In the case of a real estate transaction for which a Uniform Settlement Statement is used, this requirement also may be satisfied by furnishing to the transferor a copy of a completed statement that is modified to comply with the requirements of this paragraph (m), and by designating on the Uniform Settlement Statement the items of information (such as gross proceeds or allocated gross proceeds) required to be set forth on the Form 1099. For purposes of this paragraph (m), a statement shall be considered furnished to a transferor if it is given to the transferor in person, either at the closing or thereafter, or is mailed to the transferor at the transferor's last known address.
