
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### information returns
###### ยง 1.6047-1 Information to be furnished with regard to employee retirement plan covering an owner-employee.
####### Trustees and insurance companies,Requirement of return.

(a)-(1)(i) Every trustee of a trust described in section 401(a) and exempt from tax under section 501(a) which makes payments of amounts described in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph aggregating $10 or more during any calendar year to an individual (or his beneficiary) who was covered, within the meaning of paragraph (a)(2) of ยง 1.401-10, as an owner-employee under the plan of which such trust is a part shall make a return on Forms 1096 and 1099 for such year showing the name and address of the person to whom paid, the aggregate amount of such payments, specifically identified as an amount to which this paragraph applies, and such other information as is required by the forms. A separate Form 1099 shall be filed with respect to each payee. The term "owner-employee" means an owner-employee as defined in section 401(c)(3) and paragraph (d) of ยง 1.401-10. Any custodial account which satisfies the requirements of section 401(f) shall be treated as a qualified trust and the custodian of such a custodial account must comply with the requirements of this section as if he were the trustee.

(ii) Every issuer of a contract which is treated as an annuity contract under sections 401 through 404 purchased by a trust described in section 401(a) and exempt from tax under section 501(a) or under a plan described in section 403(a) which makes payments of amounts described in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph aggregating $10 or more during any calendar year to an individual (or his beneficiary) who was covered, within the meaning of paragraph (a)(2) of ยง 1.401-10, as an owner-employee under the plan of which such trust is a part or under which such contract was purchased shall make a return on Forms 1096 and 1099 for such year showing the name and address of the person to whom paid, the aggregate amount of such payments, specifically identified as an amount to which this paragraph applies, and such other information as is required by the form. A separate Form 1099 shall be filed with respect to each payee.
