
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### information returns
###### ยง 1.6049-1 Returns of information as to interest paid in calendar years before 1983 and original issue discount includible in gross income for calendar years before 1983.
####### Definitions.

(2)(i) The term "person" when used in this section does not include the United States, a State, the District of Columbia, a foreign government, a political subdivision of a State or of a foreign government, or an international organization. Therefore, interest paid by or to one of these entities need not be reported. Similarly, original issue discount in respect of an obligation issued by or to one of these entities need not be reported.

(ii) For purposes of this section, a person who receives interest shall be considered to have received it as a nominee if he is not the actual owner of such interest and if he was required under ยง 1.6109-1 to furnish his identifying number to the payer of the interest (or would have been so required if the total of such interest for the year had been $10 or more), and such number was (or would have been) required to be included on an information return filed by the payer with respect to the interest. However, a person shall not be considered to be a nominee as to any portion of an interest payment which is actually owned by another person whose name is also shown on the information return filed by the payer or nominee with respect to such interest payment. Thus, in the case of a savings account jointly owned by a husband and wife, the husband will not be considered as receiving any portion of the interest on that account as a nominee for his wife if his wife's name is included on the information return filed by the payer with respect to the interest.

(iii) For purposes of this section, in the case of a person who receives a Form 1099-OID, the determination of who is considered a nominee shall be made in a manner consistent with the principles of subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph.

(iv) For purposes of this section and ยง 1.6049-3, the term "Form 1099-OID" means the appropriate Form 1099 for original issue discount prescribed for the calendar year.
