
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### information returns
###### § 1.6049-2 Interest and original issue discount subject to reporting in calendar years before 1983.
####### Interest in general.

(a)Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the term "interest" when used in this section and §§ 1.6049-1 and 1.6049-3 means:

(1) Interest on evidences of indebtedness issued by a corporation in "registered form" (as defined in paragraph (d) of this section). The phrase "evidences of indebtedness" includes bond, debentures, notes, certificates and other similar instruments regardless of how denominated.

(2) Interest on deposits (except deposits evidenced by negotiable time certificates of deposit issued in an amount of $100,000 or more) paid (or credited) by persons carrying on the banking business. In the case of a certificate of deposit issued in bearer form, the term "interest", as used in the preceding sentence and in paragraph (a)(1)(vi) of § 1.6049-1, has the same meaning as in § 1.61-7 (regardless of whether taxable to the payee in the year the information return is made).

(3) Amounts, whether or not designated as interest, paid (or credited) by mutual savings banks, savings and loan associations, building and loan associations, cooperative banks, homestead associations, credit unions, or similar organizations in respect of deposits, face amount certificates, investment certificates, or withdrawable or repurchasable shares. Thus, even though amounts paid or credited by such organizations with respect to deposits are designated as "dividends", such amounts are included in the definition of interest for purposes of section 6049.

(4) Interest on amounts held by insurance companies under agreements to pay interest thereon. This includes interest paid by insurance companies with respect to policy "dividend" accumulations (see sections 61 and 451 and the regulations thereunder for rules as to when such interest is considered paid), and interest paid with respect to the proceeds of insurance policies left with the insurer. The so-called "interest element" in the case of annuity or installment payments under life insurance or endowment contracts does not constitute interest for purposes of this section.

(5) Interest on deposits with stockbrokers, bondbrokers, and other persons engaged in the business of dealing in securities.
