
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### information returns
###### ยง 1.6049-4 Return of information as to interest paid and original issue discount includible in gross income after December 31, 1982.
####### Returns made by middleman,In general.

(3)-(i)Except as provided in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, every person acting as a middleman (as defined in paragraph (f)(4) of this section) shall make an information return for the calendar year. In the case of interest payments (other than original issue discount and other than interest described in ยง 1.6049-8), the information return shall be made on Form 1099 and shall show the aggregate amount of the interest, the name, address, and taxpayer identification number of the person on whose behalf received, the amount of tax withheld under section 3406, if any, and such other information as required by the forms. In the case of original issue discount, the information return shall show the information required to be shown for the person on whose behalf received, as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. See ยง 1.6049-5(f) to determine whether a middleman is required to make an information return with respect to original issue discount. A middleman shall make an information return regardless of whether the middleman receives a Form 1099. A middleman shall not be required to make an information return if the payment of interest aggregates less than $10 or if the payment is made to an exempt recipient described in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, unless the payor backup withholds under section 3406 on such payment (because, for example, the payee has failed to furnish a Form W-9 on request), in which case the payor must make a return under this section, unless the payor refunds the amount withheld pursuant to ยง 31.6413(a)-3 of this chapter (Employment Tax Regulations).
