
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### information returns
###### ยง 1.6049-4 Return of information as to interest paid and original issue discount includible in gross income after December 31, 1982.
####### Middleman,In general.,middleman

(4)-(i)The termmeans any person. including a financial institution as described in paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(M) of this section, a broker as defined in section 6045(c), or a nominee, who makes payment of interest for, or collects interest on behalf of, another person, or otherwise acts in a capacity as intermediary between a payor and a payee. For example, a person (other than an issuer of an obligation) who makes payment on an interest coupon of the obligation to another person is a middleman, irrespective of whether such person purchases the coupon for his own account, accepts the coupon as agent for the payee, or otherwise deals with the coupon. The term "middleman" also includes a trustee, including a corporate trustee of a trust where the trust is the payee. See ยง 1.6049-4(c)(2) providing that the trustee does not have to make an information return on Form 1099 to a beneficiary if the trustee is required to file Form 1041 and furnishes Form K-1 to the beneficiary showing the information required to be shown on the form, including amounts withheld under section 3406. A person shall be considered to be a middleman as to any portion of an interest payment made to such person which portion is actually owned by another person, whether or not the other person's name is also shown on the information return filed with respect to such interest payment, except that a husband or wife will not be considered as acting in the capacity of a middleman with respect to his or her spouse. A person who, from within the United States, forwards an interest coupon or discount obligation on behalf of a payee for presentation, collection or payment outside the United States is also a middleman for purposes of this section (but the transfer, although subject to information reporting under this section, does not make the payment subject to backup withholding under section 3406).
