
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### information returns
###### § 1.6049-5 Interest and original issue discount subject to reporting after December 31, 1982.
####### Interest subject to reporting requirement.

(a)For purposes of §§ 1.6049-4, 1.6049-6 and this section, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the term "interest" means:

(1) Interest on an obligation:

(i) In registered form (as defined in § 5f.103-1(c)), or

(ii) Of a type offered to the public. Principles consistent with § 5f.163-1 shall be applied to determine whether an obligation is of a type offered to the public.

(2) Interest on deposits with persons carrying on the banking business. Such term shall include deposits evidenced by time certificates of deposit issued in any amount whether negotiable or non-negotiable. The term "interest" includes payments to a mortgage escrow account and amounts paid with respect to repurchase agreements and banker's acceptances. Property which the payee receives from the payor as interest (or in lieu of a cash payment of interest) shall be interest for purposes of section 6049. The amount subject to reporting is the fair market value of such property.

(3) Amounts, whether or not designated as interest, paid or credited by mutual savings banks, savings and loan associations, building and loan associations, cooperative banks, homestead associations, credit unions, industrial loan associations or banks, or similar organizations, in respect of deposits, face amount certificates, investment certificates, or withdrawable or repurchasable shares. Thus, even though amounts paid or credited by such organizations with respect to deposits are designated as "dividends", such amounts are included in the definition of interest for purposes of section 6049. The term "interest" includes payments to a mortgage escrow account and amounts paid with respect to repurchase agreements. Property which the payee receives from the payor as interest (or in lieu of a cash payment of interest) is "interest" for purposes of section 6049. The fair market value of such property is the amount subject ot reporting.

(4) Interest on amounts held by insurance companies under an agreement to pay interest thereon. Any increment in value of "advance premiums", "prepaid premiums", or "premium deposit funds" which is applied to the payment of premiums due on insurance policies, or made available for withdrawal by the policyholder, shall be considered interest subject to reporting. Interest that an insurance company pays pursuant to an agreement with the policyholder to a beneficiary because he payment due has been delayed is interest subject to reporting. Interest subject to reporting also includes interest paid by insurance companies with respect to policy "dividend" accumulations (see sections 61 and 451 and the regulations thereunder for rules as to when such interest is considered paid), and interest paid with respect to the proceeds of insurance policies left with the insurer. The so-called "interest element" in the case of annuity or installment payments under life insurance or endowment contracts does not constitute interest for purposes of section 6049.

(5) Interest on deposits with brokers as defined in section 6045(c) and the regulations thereunder. Any payment made in lieu of interest to a person whose obligation has been borrowed in connection with a short sale or other similar transaction is subject to reporting under section 6049. See § 1.6045-2T for reporting requirements with respect to payments in lieu of tax-exempt interest. See § 1.6045-2 for reporting requirements with respect to payments in lieu of tax-exempt interest.

(6) Interest paid on amounts held by investment companies as defined in section 3 of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. section 80-a) and on amounts paid on pooled funds or trusts. The interest to be reported with respect to a widely held fixed investment trust, as defined in § 1.671-5(b)(22), shall be the interest earned on the assets held by the trust. See § 1.671-5 for the reporting rules for widely held fixed investment trusts (as defined under that section).
