
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### information returns
###### ยง 1.6049-8 Interest and original issue discount paid to certain nonresident aliens.
####### Interest excluded from reporting requirement.,interest

(b)The termdoes not include an amount that is paid by the issuer or its agent outside the United States with respect to an obligation that is described in paragraph (b) (1) or (2) of this section.

(1)(i) The obligation is not in registered form (within the meaning of section 163(f) and the regulations thereunder); is part of a larger single public offering of securities; and is described in section 163(f)(2)(B).

(ii) Unless it has actual knowledge to the contrary, a middleman may treat an obligation as if it is described in section 163(f)(2)(B) if the obligation or coupon therefrom, whichever is presented for payment, contains the statement described in section 163(f)(2)(B)(ii)(II) and the regulations thereunder.

(2)(i) The obligation has a face or principal amount of not less than $500,000, and satisfies the requirements described in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) (A), (B), and (C) of this section.

(A) The obligation satisfies the requirements of sections 163(f)(2)(B) (i) and (ii)(I) and the regulations thereunder (as if it were a registration-required obligation within the meaning of section 163(f)(2)(A)) and is issued in accordance with the procedures of ยง 1.163-5(c)(2)(i)(D)).

(B) If the obligation is in registered form, it is registered in the name of an exempt recipient described in ยง 1.6049-4(c)(1)(ii).

(C) The obligation has on its face and on any detachable coupons the following statement (or a similar statement having the same effect): "By accepting this obligation or coupon, the holder represents and warrants that it is not a United States person (other than an exempt recipient described in the regulations under section 6049(b)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder) and that it is not acting for or on behalf of a United States person (other than an exempt recipient described in the regulations under section 6049(b)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder)."

(ii) Unless the middleman has actual knowledge to the contrary, it may treat an obligation as satisfying the requirements of sections 163(f)(2)(B) (i) and (ii)(I) and the regulations thereunder if the obligation or a coupon therefrom, whichever is presented for payment, contains the statement in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C) of this section.
