
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### information returns
###### § 1.6049-9 Premium subject to reporting for a debt instrument acquired on or after January 1, 2014.
####### Reporting of acquisition premium amortization.

(c)A broker must report the amount of any acquisition premium amortization that reduces the amount of original issue discount includible in income by the customer during a calendar year. For a debt instrument acquired on or after January 1, 2015, a broker must use the rules in § 1.1272-2(b)(4) to determine the amount of acquisition premium amortization. However, for a debt instrument acquired on or after January 1, 2014, and before January 1, 2015, if a customer timely notifies the broker in accordance with § 1.6045-1(n)(5), a broker may use the rules in § 1.1272-3 to determine the amount of acquisition premium amortization. Instead of reporting a gross amount for both original issue discount and acquisition premium amortization, a broker may report a net amount of original issue discount that reflects the offset of the original issue discount includible in income by the customer for the calendar year by the amount of acquisition premium allocable to the original issue discount. In this case, the broker must not report the acquisition premium amortization as a separate item. See § 1.6049-10 for the reporting of acquisition premium on a tax-exempt obligation.
