
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### information returns
###### ยง 1.6050H-2 Time, form, and manner of reporting interest received on qualified mortgage.
####### Reimbursements of interest on a qualified mortgage.

(3)For purposes of paragraph (a)(2)(iv) of this section, a reimbursement of interest on a qualified mortgage is a reimbursement of an amount received in a prior year that was required to be reported for that prior year under paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section by any interest recipient. Only the interest recipient that makes the reimbursement is required to report the reimbursement under this section. Form 1098 and the statement furnished to the payor of record under paragraph (b) of this section must not include any amount that constitutes interest on the reimbursement paid to the payor of record. Rules relating to the requirement to report interest on a reimbursement are, in the case of a person carrying on the banking business (or a middleman, as defined in ยง 1.6049-4(f)(4), of a person carrying on the banking business), provided in section 6049 and the regulations thereunder, and, for other persons, provided in section 6041 and the regulations thereunder. Reimbursements of interest on a qualified mortgage (as described in this section) made in 1993 and subsequent calendar years must be reported on Form 1098 and statements furnished to payors of record. Reimbursements made prior to 1993 are not required to be reported.
