
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### information returns
###### ยง 1.6050K-1 Returns relating to sales or exchanges of certain partnership interests.
####### Single or composite documents.

(3)The Commissioner may authorize the use, at the option of the partnership, of a single document which includes all of the partnership's returns for a calendar year in the case of partnerships required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section to make 25 or more returns on Form 8308 for any calendar year. In addition, the Commissioner may authorize the use for this purpose, also at the option of such a partnership, of a composite document. These authorizations shall be subject to such conditions, limitations, and special rules governing the preparation, execution, filing, and correction thereof as the Commissioner may deem appropriate. Such composite document shall consist of a form prescribed by the Commissioner and an attachment or attachments of magnetic tape or other approved media. To the extent that the use of a single or composite document has been authorized by the Commissioner, references in this section to Form 8303 shall be deemed to refer also to returns included in a single or composite document under this paragraph (a)(3). Any single or composite document so authorized shall include the information required to be provided on Form 8308 under paragraph (b) of this section with respect to each section 751(a) exchange.
