
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### information returns
###### § 1.6050N-1 Statements to recipients of royalties paid after December 31, 1986.
####### payor,withholding agent

For purposes of this paragraph (c)(1)(i), the provisions in § 1.6049-5(c) (regarding rules applicable to documentation of foreign status and definition of U.S. payor and non-U.S. payor) shall apply. See § 1.1441-1(b)(3)(iii)(B) and (C) for special payee rules regarding scholarships, grants, pensions, annuities, etc. The provisions of § 1.1441-1 shall apply by substituting the termfor the termand without regard to the fact that the provisions apply only to amounts subject to withholding under chapter 3 of the Internal Revenue Code.

(ii) Returns of information are not required for payments of royalties from sources outside the United States paid by a non-U.S. payor or non-U.S. middleman and that are paid and received outside the United States. For a definition of non-U.S. payor or non-U.S. middleman, see § 1.6049-5(c)(5). For circumstances in which a payment is considered to be paid and received outside the United States, see § 1.6049-4(f)(16).

(iii) Returns of information are not required for payments made by a foreign intermediary described in § 1.1441-1(e)(3)(i) that it has received in its capacity as an intermediary and that are associated with a valid withholding certificate described in § 1.1441-1(e)(3)(ii) or (iii) and payments made by a U.S. branch of a foreign bank or of a foreign insurance company described in § 1.1441-1(b)(2)(iv) that are associated with a valid withholding certificate described in § 1.1441-1(e)(3)(v), which certificate the intermediary or branch has furnished to the payor or middleman from whom it has received the payment, unless, and to the extent, the intermediary or branch knows that the payments are required to be reported and were not so reported.
