
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### information returns
###### ยง 1.6050S-1 Information reporting for qualified tuition and related expenses.
####### Requirement to file return,In general.

(b)-(1)Institutions may elect to report either the information described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, or the information described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. Once an institution elects to report under either paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section, the institution must use the same reporting method for all calendar years in which it is required to file returns, unless permission is granted to change reporting methods. Paragraph (b)(2) of this section requires institutions to report, among other information, the amount of payments received during the calendar year for qualified tuition and related expenses. Institutions must report separately adjustments made during the calendar year that relate to payments received for qualified tuition and related expenses that were reported for a prior calendar year. For purposes of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, an adjustment made to payments received means a reimbursement or refund. Paragraph (b)(3) requires institutions to report, among other information, the amounts billed during the calendar year for qualified tuition and related expenses. Institutions must report separately adjustments made during the calendar year that relate to amounts billed for qualified tuition and related expenses that were reported for a prior calendar year. For purposes of paragraph (b)(3) of this section, an adjustment made to amounts billed means a reduction in charges. Insurers must report the information described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
