
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### information returns
###### § 1.6050W-1 Information reporting for payments made in settlement of payment card and third party network transactions.
####### Foreign payees,In general.

(ii)-(A)For payments pursuant to contractual obligations entered into after December 31, 2010, a payment settlement entity that is a person described as a U.S. payor or U.S. middleman in § 1.6049-5(c)(5) is not required to make a return of information for payments to a participating payee with a foreign address as long as, prior to payment, the payment settlement entity has in its files documentation upon which the payment settlement entity may rely to treat the payment as made to a foreign person in accordance with § 1.1441-1(e)(1)(ii). For purposes of this paragraph (a)(5)(ii), the provisions of § 1.1441-1 shall apply by substituting the term payor for the term withholding agent and without regard to the limitation to amounts subject to withholding under chapter 3 of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations under that chapter. Such a payment settlement entity need not make a return of information for payments made outside the United States (within the meaning of § 1.6049-5(e)) to an offshore account (as defined in § 1.6049-5(c)(1)) to a participating payee with only a foreign address if the name of the participating payee indicates that it is an entity listed as a per se corporation under § 301.7701-2(b)(8)(i) and the payment settlement entity does not know or have reason to know that the participating payee is a United States person. A payment settlement entity may apply the grace period rules of § 1.6049-5(d)(2)(ii) of the regulations for payments to a participating payee with only a foreign address, without regard to whether the amounts paid are described in § 1.1441-6(c)(2) or are reportable under section 6042, 6045, 6049, or 6050N. For payments pursuant to contractual obligations entered into before January 1, 2011, a payment settlement entity that is a person described as a U.S. payor or U.S. middleman in § 1.6049-5(c)(5) is not required to make a return of information for payments to a participating payee with a foreign address as long as the payment settlement entity neither knows nor has reason to know that the participating payee is a United States person. For this purpose, a renewal of such a contractual obligation will not result in a new contractual obligation unless there is a material modification to the contractual obligation.
