
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### information returns
###### ยง 1.6050Y-3 Information reporting by 6050Y(b) issuers for reportable policy sales and transfers of life insurance contracts to foreign persons.
####### Exceptions to requirement to file.

(f)A 6050Y(b) issuer is not required to file an information return under paragraph (a) of this section if paragraph (f)(1), (2), or (3) of this section applies.

(1) Except as provided in this paragraph (f)(1), the 6050Y(b) issuer obtains documentation upon which it may rely to treat a seller of a life insurance contract or interest therein as a foreign beneficial owner in accordance with ยง 1.1441-1(e)(1)(ii), applying in such case the provisions of ยง 1.1441-1 by substituting the term "6050Y(b) issuer" for the term "withholding agent" and without regard to the fact that that these provisions apply only to amounts subject to withholding under chapter 3 of subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code. A 6050Y(b) issuer may also obtain from a seller that is a partnership or trust, in addition to documentation establishing the entity's foreign status, a written certification from the entity that no beneficial owner of any portion of the proceeds of the sale is a United States person. In such a case, the issuer may rely upon the written certification to treat the partnership or trust as a foreign beneficial owner for purposes of this paragraph (f)(1) provided that the seller does not have actual knowledge that a United States person is the beneficial owner of all or a portion of the proceeds of the sale. See ยง 1.1441-1(c)(6)(ii) for the definition of beneficial owner that applies for purposes of this paragraph (f)(1). Additionally, for certifying its status as a foreign beneficial owner (as applicable) for purposes of this paragraph (f)(1), a seller that is required to report any of the income from the sale as effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States under section 864(b) is required to provide to the 6050Y(b) issuer a Form W-8ECI, Certificate of Foreign Person's Claim that Income is Effectively Connected with the Conduct of a Trade or Business in the United States. If a 6050Y(b) issuer obtains a Form W-8ECI from a seller with respect to the sale or has reason to know that income from the sale is effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States under section 864(b), the exception to reporting described in this paragraph (f)(1) does not apply.

(2) The 6050Y(b) issuer receives notice of a transfer to a foreign person, but does not receive an RPSS with respect to the transfer, provided that, at the time the notice is received-

(i) The 6050Y(b) issuer is not a United States person;

(ii) The life insurance contract (or interest therein) transferred is not on the life of a United States person; and

(iii) The 6050Y(b) issuer has not classified the seller as a United States person in its books and records.

(3) The RPSS received by the 6050Y(b) issuer is with respect to the 6050Y(b) issuer's issuance of a life insurance contract to a policyholder in an exchange pursuant to section 1035.
