
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### information returns
###### § 1.6050Y-4 Information reporting by payors for reportable death benefits.
####### Exceptions to requirement to file.

(e)A payor is not required to file an information return under paragraph (a) of this section with respect to a payment of reportable death benefits if paragraph (e)(1), (2), or (3) of this section applies.

(1) Except as provided in this paragraph (e)(1), the payor obtains documentation in accordance with § 1.1441-1(e)(1)(ii) upon which it may rely to treat the reportable death benefits payment recipient as a foreign beneficial owner of the reportable death benefits, applying in such case the provisions of § 1.1441-1 by substituting the term "payor" for the term "withholding agent" and without regard to the fact that the provisions apply only to amounts subject to withholding under chapter 3 of subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code. A payor may also obtain from a partnership or trust that is a reportable death benefits recipient, in addition to documentation establishing the entity's foreign status, a written certification from the entity that no beneficial owner of any portion of the reportable death benefits payment is a United States person. In such a case, a payor may rely upon the written certification to treat the partnership or trust as a foreign beneficial owner for purposes of this paragraph (e)(1) provided that the payor does not have actual knowledge that a United States person is the beneficial owner of all or a portion of the reportable death benefits payment. See § 1.1441-1(c)(6)(ii) for the definition of beneficial owner that applies for purposes of this paragraph (e)(1). Other due diligence or reporting requirements may, however, apply to a payor that relies on the exception set forth in this paragraph (e)(1). See § 1.1441-5(c) and (e) (determination of payees of foreign partnerships and certain foreign trusts for amounts subject to withholding under § 1.1441-2(a)) and § 1.1461-1(b) and (c) (amounts subject to reporting for chapter 3 purposes).

(2) The buyer obtained the life insurance contract (or interest therein) under which reportable death benefits are paid in a reportable policy sale to which the exception to reporting described in § 1.6050Y-3(f)(2) applies.

(3) The payor never received, and has no knowledge of any issuer having received, an RPSS with respect to the interest in a life insurance contract with respect to which the reportable death benefits are paid.
