
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Place for Filing Returns or Other Documents
###### § 1.6091-3 Filing certain international income tax returns.

The following income tax returns shall be filed as directed in the applicable forms and instructions:

(a) Income tax returns on which all, or a portion, of the tax is to be paid in foreign currency. See §§ 301.6316-1 to 301.6316-6 inclusive, and §§ 301.6316-8 and 301.6316-9 of this chapter (Regulations on Procedure and Administration).

(b) Income tax returns on an individual citizen of the United States whose principal place of abode for the period with respect to which the return is filed is outside the United States. A taxpayer's principal place of abode will be considered to be outside the United States if his legal residence is outside the United States or if his return bears a foreign address.

(c) Income tax returns of an individual citizen of a possession of the United States (whether or not a citizen of the United States) who has no legal residence or principal place of business in any internal revenue district in the United States.

(d) Except in the case of any departing alien return under section 6851 and § 1.6851-2, the income tax return of any nonresident alien (other than one treated as a resident under section 6013 (g) or (h)).

(e) The income tax return of an estate or trust the fiduciary of which is outside the United States and has no legal residence or principal place of business in any internal revenue district in the United States.

(f) Income tax returns of foreign corporations.

(g) The return by a withholding agent of the income tax required to be withheld at source under chapter 3 of the Code on nonresident aliens and foreign corporations and tax-free covenant bonds, as provided in § 1.1461-2.

(h) Income tax returns of persons who claim the benefits of section 911 (relating to earned income from sources without the United States).

(i) Income tax returns of corporations which claim the benefits of section 922 (relating to special deduction for Western Hemisphere trade corporations) except in the case of consolidated returns filed pursuant to the regulations under section 1502.

(j) Income tax returns of persons who claim the benefits of section 931 (relating to income from sources within possessions of the United States).

(k) Income tax returns of persons who claim the benefits of section 933 (relating to income from sources within Puerto Rico).

(l) Income tax returns of corporations which claim the benefits of section 941 (relating to the special deduction for China Trade Act corporations).
