
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Extensions of Time for Payment
###### ยง 1.6164-6 Revised statements.
####### Requirements and effect.

(a)A corporation may file more than one statement under section 6164 with respect to any one taxable year. Each statement is to be considered a new statement and not an amendment of any prior statement. Each such new statement is to be in lieu of the last statement previously filed with respect to the taxable year. The new statement may extend the time for payment of a greater or lesser amount of tax than was extended under the prior statement or may change the kind of tax the time for payment of which is to be extended. The extension may not relate to any amount of tax which was paid or required to be paid prior to the date of filing the new statement. Any amount of tax the time for payment of which was extended under a prior statement, however, may continue to be extended under the new statement. If the amount the time for payment of which is extended under the new statement is less than the amount so extended under the last statement previously filed, the extension of time shall be terminated on the date the new statement is filed as to the difference between the two amounts. See ยง 1.6164-8 for the dates on which such difference must be paid. If a corporation pays any amount of tax, the time for payment of which was extended, prior to the date the extension would otherwise terminate, the extension with respect to such amount shall be deemed terminated, without regard to whether a new statement is filed, on the date such amount is paid. The corporation shall indicate on each new statement filed that it has already filed one or more prior statements with respect to the taxable year. The corporation shall likewise indicate the date each prior statement was filed and the amount of each tax the time for payment of which was extended under each prior statement.
