
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### ABATEMENTS, CREDITS, AND REFUNDS
###### ยง 1.6411-1 Tentative carryback adjustments.
####### Time and place for filing application.

(c)Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph the application for a tentative carryback adjustment shall be filed on or after the date of the filing of the return for the taxable year of the net operating loss, net capital loss, unused investment credit, or unused WIN credit and shall be filed within a period of twelve months from the end of such taxable year. With respect to any portion of an investment credit carryback or a WIN credit carryback from a taxable year attributable to a net operating loss carryback or a capital loss carryback from a subsequent taxable year, the twelve-month period shall be measured from the end of such subsequent taxable year. In the case of an application for a tentative carryback adjustment attributable to the carryback of an unused investment credit, the twelve-month period for filing shall not expire before the close of December 31, 1966. Any application filed prior to the date on which the return for the taxable year of the loss or unused credit is filed shall be considered to have been filed on the date such return is filed. In the case of an application filed before April 15, 1968, the application shall be filed with the internal revenue officer to whom the tax was paid or by whom the assessment was made. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of ยง 301.6091-1 (relating to hand-carried documents), in the case of an application filed after April 14, 1968, if the tax was paid to the Director of International Operations, the application shall be filed with him; otherwise the application shall be filed with the internal revenue office with which the return was filed.
