
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### ABATEMENTS, CREDITS, AND REFUNDS
###### § 1.6411-1 Tentative carryback adjustments.
####### In general.

(a)Any taypayer who has a net operating loss under section 172, a net capital loss under section 1211(a) which is a carryback under section 1212, an unused investment credit under section 46, or an unused work incentive program (WIN) credit under section 50A, may file an application under section 6411 for a tentative carryback adjustment of the taxes for taxable years prior to the taxable year of the net operating or capital loss or the unused credit, whichever is applicable, which are affected by the net operating loss carryback, the capital loss carryback, the unused investment credit carryback, or the unused WIN credit carryback, resulting from such loss or unused credit. The regulations under section 6411 shall apply with respect to investment credit carrybacks for taxable years ending after December 31, 1961, but only with respect to applications for tentative carryback adjustments for investment credit carrybacks filed after November 2, 1966. The regulations under section 6411 shall apply with respect to WIN credit carrybacks for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1971. The right to file an application for a tentative carryback adjustment is not limited to corporations, but is available to any taxpayer otherwise entitled to carryback a loss or unused credit. A corporation may file an application for a tentative carryback adjustment even though it has not extended the time for payment of tax under section 6164. In determining any decrease in tax under §§ 1.6411-1 through 1.6411-4, the decrease in tax is determined net of any increase in the tax imposed by section 56 (relating to the minimum tax for tax preferences).
