
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### ABATEMENTS, CREDITS, AND REFUNDS
###### ยง 1.6411-1 Tentative carryback adjustments.
####### Contents of application.

(b)(1) The application for a tentative carryback adjustment shall be filed, in the case of a corporation, on Form 1139, and in the case of taxpayers other than corporations, on Form 1045. The application shall be filled out in accordance with the instructions accompanying the form, and all information required by the form and the instructions must be furnished by the taxpayer.

(2) An application for a tentative carryback adjustment does not constitute a claim for credit or refund. If such application is disallowed by the district director or director of a service center in whole or in part, no suit may be maintained in any court for the recovery of any tax based on such application. The filing of an application for a tentative carryback adjustment will not constitute the filing of a claim for credit or refund within the meaning of section 6511 for purposes of determining whether a claim for credit or refund was filed prior to the expiration of the applicable period of limitation. The taxpayer, however, may file a claim for credit or refund under section 6402 at any time prior to the expiration of the applicable period of limitation, and may maintain a suit based on such claim if it is disallowed or if the district director or director of a service center does not act on the claim within 6 months from the date it is filed. Such claim may be filed before, simultaneously with, or after the filing of the application for a tentative carryback adjustment. A claim for credit or refund under section 6402 filed after the filing of an application for a tentative carryback adjustment is not to be considered an amendment of such application. Such claim, however, in proper cases may constitute an amendment to a prior claim filed under section 6402.
