
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### ABATEMENTS, CREDITS, AND REFUNDS
###### ยง 1.6411-3 Allowance of adjustments.
####### Examination.

(b)Within the 90-day period described in paragraph (a) of this section, the Commissioner shall make, to the extent deemed practicable within this period, an examination of the application to discover omissions and errors of computation. The Commissioner shall determine within this period the decrease in tax previously determined, affected by the carryback or any related adjustments, upon the basis of the application and examination. The decrease shall be determined in the same manner as that provided in section 1314(a) for the determination by the taxpayer of the decrease in taxes previously determined, which must be set forth in the application for a tentative carryback adjustment. The Commissioner may correct any errors of computation or omissions discovered upon examination of the application. In determining the decrease in tax previously determined which is affected by the carryback or any related adjustment, the Commissioner may correct any mathematical error appearing on the application and may correct any modification required by the law and incorrectly made by the taxpayer in computing the net operating loss, net capital loss, or unused investment credit, the resulting carrybacks, or the net operating loss deduction, capital loss deduction, or investment credit allowable. If the required modification has not been made by the taxpayer and the Commissioner has the necessary information to make the modification within the 90-day period, the Commissioner may, in the Commissioner's discretion, make the modification. In determining the decrease, the Commissioner will not, for example, change the amount claimed on the return as a deduction for depreciation because the Commissioner believes that the taxpayer has claimed an excessive amount; and the Commissioner will not include in gross income any amount not so included by the taxpayer, even though the Commissioner believes that the amount is subject to tax and properly should be included in gross income.
