
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### ABATEMENTS, CREDITS, AND REFUNDS
###### ยง 1.6411-3 Allowance of adjustments.
####### Application of decrease.

(d)(1) Each decrease determined by the Commissioner in any previously determined tax that is affected by the carryback or any related adjustments shall first be applied against any unpaid amount of the tax with respect to which such decrease was determined. The unpaid amount of tax may include one or more of the following:

(i) An amount with respect to which the taxpayer is delinquent;

(ii) An amount the time for payment of which has been extended under section 6164 and which is due and payable on or after the date of the allowance of the decrease.

(iii) An amount (not including an amount the time for payment of which has been extended under section 6164) which is due and payable on or after the date of the allowance of the decrease, including any assessed liabilities, unassessed liabilities determined in a statutory notice of deficiency, unassessed liabilities identified in a proof of claim filed in a bankruptcy proceeding, and other unassessed liabilities in rare and unusual circumstances.

(2) If the unpaid amount of tax includes more than one unpaid amount, the Commissioner may determine against which amount or amounts, and in what proportion, the decrease is to be applied. In general, however, the decrease will be applied against any amounts described in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section in the order named. If there are several amounts of the type described in paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section, any amount of the decrease that is to be applied against the amount will be applied by assuming that the tax previously determined minus the amount of the decrease to be so applied is "the tax" and that the taxpayer had elected to pay the tax in installments. The unpaid amount of tax against which a decrease may be applied under paragraph (d)(1) of this section may not include any amount of tax for any taxable year other than the year of the decrease. After making the application, the Commissioner will credit any remainder of the decrease against any unsatisfied amount of any tax for the taxable year immediately preceding the taxable year of the net operating loss, capital loss, or unused investment credit, the time for payment of which has been extended under section 6164.

(3) Any remainder of the decrease after the application and credits may, within the 90-day period, in the discretion of the Commissioner, be credited against any tax liability or installment thereof then due from the taxpayer (including assessed liabilities, unassessed liabilities determined in a statutory notice of deficiency, unassessed liabilities identified in a proof of claim filed in a bankruptcy proceeding, and other unassessed liabilities in rare and unusual circumstances), and, if not so credited, shall be refunded to the taxpayer within the 90-day period.
