
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### ADDITIONS TO THE TAX, ADDITIONAL AMOUNTS, AND ASSESSABLE PENALTIES
###### ยง 1.6654-2 Exceptions to imposition of the addition to the tax in the case of individuals.
####### Determination of taxable income for installment periods,In general.

(d)-(1)(i) In determining the applicability of the exceptions described in paragraph (a) (2) and (3) of this section, there must be an accurate determination of the amount of income and deductions for the calendar months in the taxable year preceding the installment date as of which the determination is made, that is, for the period terminating with the last day of the third, fifth, or eighth month of the taxable year. For example, a taxpayer distributes year-end bonuses to his employees but does not determine the amount of the bonuses until the last month of the taxable year. He may not deduct any portion of such year-end bonuses in determining his taxable income for any installment period other than the final installment period for the taxable year, since deductions are not allowable until paid or accrued, depending on the taxpayer's method of accounting.

(ii) If a taxpayer on an accrual method of accounting wishes to use either of the exceptions described in paragraphs (a) (2) and (3) of this section, he must establish the amount of income and deductions for each applicable period. If his income is derived from a business in which the production, purchase, or sale of merchandise is an income-producing factor requiring the use of inventories, he will be unable to determine accurately the amount of his taxable income for the applicable period unless he can establish, with reasonable accuracy, his cost of goods sold for the applicable installment period. The cost of goods sold for such period shall be considered, unless a more exact determination is available, as such part of the cost of goods sold during the entire taxable year as the gross receipts from sales for such installment period is of gross receipts from sales for the entire taxable year.
