
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### ADDITIONS TO THE TAX, ADDITIONAL AMOUNTS, AND ASSESSABLE PENALTIES
###### ยง 1.6655-5 Short taxable year.
####### Example 3.

(3)Initial short year with three required installments.

Corporation C began business on February 12, 2009, and adopted a calendar year as its taxable year. C computes its required installments based on 100 percent of the tax shown on the return for the taxable year in accordance with section 6655(d)(1)(B)(i). Pursuant to ยง 1.6655-1(f)(2)(i), the due dates of C's required installments for C's initial taxable year from February 12, 2009, through December 31, 2009, are April 15, 2009, June 15, 2009, September 15, 2009, and December 15, 2009. However, in accordance with paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, C's first required installment is due June 15, 2009, because April 15, 2009, is earlier than the fifteenth day of the fourth month of C's taxable year. As a result, C's second required installment is due September 15, 2009, and C's third (and last) installment is due December 15, 2009. Pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the amount due with each required installment is 33.33% of the required annual payment for C's first required installment, 66.67% of the required annual payment for C's second required installment, and 100% of the required annual payment for C's third (and last) required installment.
