
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### ADDITIONS TO THE TAX, ADDITIONAL AMOUNTS, AND ASSESSABLE PENALTIES
###### ยง 1.6655-5 Short taxable year.
####### Example 7.

(7)Short termination year with three required installments.

Corporation E is a calendar year taxpayer that computes its required installments based on 100 percent of the tax shown on the return for the taxable year in accordance with section 6655(d)(1)(B)(i). E computes its 2009 required installments based on a projected 2009 total tax liability of $600,000. On July 31, 2009, E is acquired by corporation F, a member of a consolidated group (as defined in ยง 1.1502-1(h)), resulting in E having a short taxable year from January 1, 2009, through July 31, 2009. E determines that its total tax liability for the short period is $350,000. The due dates for E's first and second required installments are April 15, 2009, and June 15, 2009, respectively. Pursuant to section 6655(d)(1)(A), E paid $150,000 with each required installment. Pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, E's third (and last) required installment of estimated tax is due on September 15, 2009, and the percentage of the required annual payment due with such installment is 100% pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section. Accordingly, E is required to pay $50,000 with its final required installment on September 15, 2009 ($350,000 total tax liability for the short taxable year less prior installment payments of $300,000).
