
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### ADDITIONS TO THE TAX, ADDITIONAL AMOUNTS, AND ASSESSABLE PENALTIES
###### ยง 1.6655-5 Short taxable year.
####### Example 10.

(10)Short termination year ending within 30 days of the regular final installment due date.

Corporation F is a calendar year taxpayer that computes its required installments based on 100 percent of the tax shown on the return for the taxable year in accordance with section 6655(d)(1)(B)(i). F computes its 2009 estimated tax payments based on a projected 2009 total tax liability of $900,000. On December 3, 2009, F is acquired by corporation G, a member of a consolidated group (as defined in ยง 1.1502-1(h)), resulting in F having a short taxable year from January 1, 2009, through December 3, 2009. F determined its total tax liability for the short period to be $800,000. The due dates for F's first, second, and third required installments are April 15, 2009, June 15, 2009, and September 15, 2009, respectively. Pursuant to section 6655(d)(1)(A), F paid $225,000 with each required installment. Pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, F's fourth (and last) required installment of estimated tax is due on February 15, 2010, and the percentage of the required annual payment due with such installment is 100% pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section. However, because the due date for the fourth required installment falls on a legal holiday, F's required installment payment will be timely if paid on or before the first business day following the actual due date of the fourth required installment, that is, February 16, 2010. Accordingly, F is required to pay $125,000 with its final required installment on February 16, 2010 ($800,000 total tax liability for the short taxable year less prior installment payments of $675,000).
