
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### ADDITIONS TO THE TAX, ADDITIONAL AMOUNTS, AND ASSESSABLE PENALTIES
###### § 1.6655-7 Addition to tax on account of excessive adjustment under section 6425.

(a) Section 6655(h) imposes an addition to the tax under chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code in the case of any excessive amount (as defined in paragraph (c) of this section) of an adjustment under section 6425 that is made before the 15th day of the third month following the close of a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1967. This addition to tax is imposed whether or not there was reasonable cause for an excessive adjustment.

(b) If the amount of an adjustment under section 6425 is excessive, there shall be added to the tax under chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code for the taxable year an amount determined at the annual rate referred to in the regulations under section 6621 upon the excessive amount from the date on which the credit is allowed or refund paid to the 15th day of the third month following the close of the taxable year. A refund is paid on the date it is allowed under section 6407.

(c) The excessive amount is equal to the lesser of the amount of the adjustment or the amount by which-

(1) The income tax liability (as defined in section 6425(c)) for the taxable year, as shown on the return for the taxable year; exceeds

(2) The estimated income tax paid during the taxable year, reduced by the amount of the adjustment.

(d) The computation of the addition to the tax imposed by section 6425 is made independent of, and does not affect the computation of, any addition to the tax that a corporation may otherwise owe for an underpayment of an installment of estimated tax.

(e) The following example illustrates the rules of this section:

(f) An adjustment is generally to be treated as a reduction of estimated income tax paid as of the date of the adjustment. However, for purposes of §§ 1.6655-1 through 1.6655-6, the adjustment is to be treated as if not made in determining whether there has been any underpayment of estimated income tax and, if there is an underpayment, the period during which the underpayment existed.
