
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### ADDITIONS TO THE TAX, ADDITIONAL AMOUNTS, AND ASSESSABLE PENALTIES
###### ยง 1.6851-1 Termination assessments of income tax.
####### Notice of deficiency.

(b)Where notice and demand for payment (following a termination assessment) takes place after February 28, 1977, the district director shall, within 60 days after the later of:

(1) The date the taxpayer files a return for the full taxable year; or

(2) The due date of such return (determined with regard to extensions); send the taxpayer a notice of deficiency under section 6212(a). The amount of the deficiency shall be computed in accordance with section 6211 and the regulations thereunder. In applying section 6211, the tax imposed and the amount shown upon the return shall be determined on the basis of the taxpayer's full taxable year. Thus, for example assume that on November 1, 1979, a termination assessment against A, a calendar year taxpayer, is made in the amount of $18,000. The termination assessment is for the period from January 1, 1979 through November 1, 1979. Further assume that on or before April 15, 1980, A files a form 1040 showing an income tax liability for the full year 1979 of $10,000. If the district director determines A's liability for tax for 1979 is $16,000, a notice of deficiency for $6,000 shall be sent to A on or before June 14, 1980. Assuming that the district director had collected the $18,000 assessed, $2,000 shall be refunded.
