
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### ADDITIONS TO THE TAX, ADDITIONAL AMOUNTS, AND ASSESSABLE PENALTIES
###### ยง 1.6851-1 Termination assessments of income tax.
####### Authority for making,In general.

(a)-(1)This section applies to assessments authorized by a district director under section 6851(a) (hereinafter referred to as termination assessments). The district director shall immediately authorize a termination assessment of the income tax for the current or preceding taxable year if the district director finds that a taxpayer designs to do an act which would tend to prejudice proceedings to collect the income tax for such year or years unless such proceedings are brought without delay. In addition, the district director shall immediately authorize such a termination assessment if the district director determines that the taxpayer designs to do any act which would tend to render such proceedings wholly or partially ineffective unless brought without delay. A termination assessment will be made if collection is determined to be in jeopardy because at least one of the following conditions exists.

(i) The taxpayer is or appears to be designing quickly to depart from the United States or to conceal himself or herself.

(ii) The taxpayer is or appears to be designing quickly to place his, her, or its property beyond the reach of the Government either by removing it from the United States, by concealing it, by dissipating it, or by transferring it to other persons.

(iii) The taxpayer's financial solvency is or appears to be imperiled.
