
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### general actuarial valuations
###### ยง 1.7704-2 Transition provisions.
####### Closely related.

(3)All of the facts and circumstances will determine whether a new business activity is closely related to a pre-existing business of the partnership. The following factors, among others, will help to establish that a new business activity is closely related to a pre-existing business of the partnership and therefore is not a new line of business:

(i) The activity provides products or services very similar to the products or services provided by the pre-existing business.

(ii) The activity markets products and services to the same class of customers as that of the pre-existing business.

(iii) The activity is of a type that is normally conducted in the same business location as the pre-existing business.

(iv) The activity requires the use of similar operating assets as those used in the pre-existing business.

(v) The activity's economic success depends on the success of the pre-existing business.

(vi) The activity is of a type that would normally be treated as a unit with the pre-existing business in the business' accounting records.

(vii) If the activity and the pre-existing business are regulated or licensed, they are regulated or licensed by the same or similar governmental authority.

(viii) The United States Bureau of the Census assigns the activity the same four-digit Industry Number Standard Identification Code (Industry SIC Code) as the pre-existing business. Such codes are set forth in the Executive Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget, Standard Industrial Classification Manual, prepared, and from time to time revised, by the Statistical Policy Division of the United States Office of Management and Budget. For example, if a partnership's pre-existing business is manufacturing steam turbines and then the partnership begins an activity manufacturing hydraulic turbines, both activities would be assigned the same Industry SIC Code, 3511-Steam, Gas, and Hydraulic Turbines, and Turbine Generator Set Units. In the case of a pre-existing business or activity that is listed under the Industry SIC Code, 9999-Nonclassifiable Establishments-or under a miscellaneous category (e.g., most Industry SIC Codes ending in a "9" are miscellaneous categories), the similarity of the SIC Codes is ignored as a factor in determining whether the activity is closely related to the pre-existing business. The dissimilarity of the SIC Codes is considered in determining whether the business activity is closely related to the pre-existing line of business.
