
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### general actuarial valuations
###### ยง 1.9000-3 Requirement of statement showing increase in tax liability.
####### Other situations requiring statements.

(d)(1) A person who made an election under section 452 or 462 but whose tax liability was not increased by reason of the enactment of the Act of June 15, 1955, is nevertheless required to file a statement on Form 2175 if his gross income is increased or his deductions are decreased as the result of the repeal of sections 452 and 462. A partnership which makes an election under such sections must file such a statement. In addition, a partner, stockholder, distributee, etc. (whether or not such person made an election under section 452 or 462), shall file a statement showing any increase in his tax liability resulting from the effects of the repeal on the gross income or deductions of any person mentioned in the previous sentences of this subparagraph.

(2) A statement shall also be filed for a taxable year, other than a year to which an election under section 452 or 462 is applicable, if the repeal of such sections increases the tax liability of such year. Thus, a statement must be filed for any taxable year to which a net operating loss is carried from a year to which an election under section 452 or 462 is applicable, provided that the repeal of such sections affects the amount of the tax liability for the year to which such loss is carried. A separate statement must also be filed for a year in which there is a net operating loss which is changed by reason of the repeal of sections 452 and 462. Where there is a short taxable year involved, a taxpayer may have two taxable years to which elections under sections 452 and 462 are applicable and, in such a case, a statement, on Form 2175, must be filed for each such year.
