
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### general actuarial valuations
###### ยง 1.9001-1 Change from retirement to straight-line method of computing depreciation.
####### Making of election.

(b)(1) Subsection (b) of the Act provides that any taxpayer who held retirement-straight line property on its 1956 adjustment date may elect to have the provisions of the Act apply. The election shall be irrevocable and shall apply to all retirement-straight line property, including such property for periods when held by predecessors of the taxpayer.

(2) An election may be made in accordance with the provisions of this section even though the taxpayer has, at the time of election, litigated some or all of the issues covered by the provisions of the Act and has received from the courts a determination which is less favorable to the taxpayer than the treatment provided by the Act. Once an election has been made in accordance with the provisions of this section, the taxpayer may not receive the benefit of more favorable treatment, as a result of litigation, than that provided by the Act on the issues involved.

(3) The election to have the provisions of the Act apply shall be made by filing a statement to that effect, on or before January 11, 1960, with the district director for the internal revenue district in which the taxpayer's income tax return for its first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1955, was filed. A copy of this statement shall be filed with any amended return, or claim for refund, made under the Act.
