
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### general actuarial valuations
###### ยง 1.9001-2 Basis adjustments for taxable years beginning on or after 1956 adjustment date.
####### In general.

(a)Subsection (d) of the Act provides the basis adjustments required to be made by the taxpayer as of the 1956 adjustment date in respect of all periods before that date in order to determine the adjusted basis of all retirement-straight line property held by the taxpayer on that date. This adjusted basis on the 1956 adjustment date shall be used by the taxpayer for all purposes of the Code for any taxable year beginning after December 31, 1955. In order to arrive at the adjusted basis on the 1956 adjustment date, the taxpayer shall start with the unadjusted basis of all retirement-straight line property held on the changeover date by the taxpayer or a predecessor and shall, with respect to both the asset and reserve accounts, (1) make the adjustments prescribed by this section and subsection (d) of the Act and (2) also make those adjustments required, in accordance with the method of accounting regularly used, for those additions, retirements, and other dispositions of property which occurred on or after the changeover date and before the taxpayer's 1956 adjustment date. For an illustration of adjustments required in accordance with the method of accounting regularly used, see paragraph (e)(3) of this section. The adjustments required by subsection (d) of the Act shall be made in lieu of the adjustments for depreciation otherwise required by section 1016(a) (2) and (3) of the Code. The adjustments required by subsection (d) of the Act are set forth in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section.
