
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### general actuarial valuations
###### ยง 1.9002-4 Election to pay net increase in tax in installments.
####### Redetermination of tax subsequent to exercise of installment election.

(e)Section 4(d) of the Act provides that where a taxpayer has elected to pay the net increase in tax in installments and thereafter it becomes necessary to redetermine the taxpayer's tax for any taxable year to which the election provided by section 4(a) of the Act applies, then the net increase in tax shall be redetermined. Where the redetermination does not involve adjustments affecting the treatment of dealer reserve income, then the net increase in tax previously computed will not be disturbed. The net increase in tax is limited to the amount of tax computed under section 4(b)(2) of the Act as a result of the change in treatment accorded dealer reserve income. If the redetermination of tax for any taxable year to which the election applies results in an addition to the net increase in tax previously computed, then such addition shall be prorated to all of the installments whether paid or unpaid. The part of the addition, prorated to installments which are not yet due, shall be collected at the same time as, and as a part of, such installments. The part of the addition prorated to installments, the time for payment of which has arrived, shall be paid upon notice and demand from the district director. Under section 4(g) of the Act, failure to make such payment within 10 days after issuance of notice and demand will terminate the installment privilege. The imposition of interest on the addition to the net increase in tax as a result of the redetermination will be determined in the same manner as interest on the previously computed net increase in tax. Thus, no interest will be imposed on the amount of the addition to the net increase in tax prorated to installments not yet due unless the installment privilege is terminated under subsection (f) or (g) of section 4 of the Act. If a reduction in the net increase in tax results from a redetermination of tax for any taxable year to which the election applies, the entire amount of such reduction shall, in accordance with the provisions of section 6403 of the Code (relating to overpayment of installments), be prorated to the installments which are not yet due, resulting in a pro rata reduction in each of such installments. Where the redetermination does not involve adjustments pertaining to dealer reserve income, then any resulting deficiency pertaining to the year to which the election applies will be assessed and collected, in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Code (or corresponding provisions of prior law) without regard to any election made under the Act.
