
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### general actuarial valuations
###### ยง 1.9002-4 Election to pay net increase in tax in installments.
####### Net increase in tax.

(b)(1) The term "net increase in tax" means the amount by which the sum of the increases in tax (including interest) for all taxable years to which the election under section 4(a) of the Act applies and which is attributable to the election exceeds the sum of the decreases in tax (including interest) for all taxable years to which the election under such section applies and which is attributable to the election.

(2) In determining the net increase in tax, the tax and interest for each taxable year to which the election applies is computed by taking into account all adjustments necessary to reflect the change to the proper treatment of dealer reserve income. If the computation results in additional tax for a taxable year, then interest is computed under section 6601 of the Code (or corresponding provisions of prior law) on such additional tax for the taxable year involved from the last date prescribed for payment of the tax for such taxable year to the date the election is made. The interest so computed is then added to the additional tax determined for such taxable year. The sum of these two items (tax plus interest) represents the increase in tax for such taxable year. If the computation of the tax after taking into account the appropriate dealer reserve income adjustments results in a reduction in tax for any taxable year to which the election applies, interest under section 6611 of the Code (or corresponding provisions of prior law) is computed from the date of the overpayment of the tax for such year to the date of the election. The amount of the interest so computed is then added to the reduction in tax to determine the total decrease in tax for such year. The net increase in tax is then determined by adding together the total increases in tax for each year to which the election applies and from the resulting total subtracting the sum of the total decreases in tax for each year. If the total increases in tax for all such years do not exceed the total decreases in tax, there is no net increase in tax for purposes of section 4(b) of the Act. For purposes of determining the net increase in tax, net operating losses affecting the computation of tax for any prior taxable year not otherwise affected shall be taken into account.
