
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Tax Reform Act of 1969
###### ยง 1.9006-1 Interest and penalties in case of certain taxable years.
####### Interest on underpayment.

(a)The Internal Revenue Code of 1954 was amended in many important respects by the Tax Reform Act of 1969. Certain of these amendments affect taxable years ending prior to December 30, 1969 (the date of enactment of the Act) and thereby may cause underpayments of tax by a number of taxpayers for those years. Under section 6601(a) of the Code, interest at the rate of 6 percent per annum is imposed upon the amount of any such underpayment. The effect of section 946(a) of the Act is to prevent the assessment or collection of interest on an underpayment of tax for any taxable year ending before December 30, 1969, if such underpayment is attributable to any amendment made by such Act, for the period from the due date for payment until March 30, 1970. Thus, the taxpayer is afforded an interest-free period of 90 days from the date of enactment of such Act within which to account for the changes in the law affecting him and to remit the amount of such underpayment. If, on or after March 30, 1970, the amount of any underpayment (or portion thereof) attributable to an amendment made by the Act remains unpaid, then, as of such date, such underpayment (or portion thereof) shall be subject to interest as provided by section 6601 of the Code, to be computed from such date. However, if a corporation or farmers' cooperative elects to pay its final tax in two installments under section 6152 of the Code and if the second installment is due after March 30, 1970, then, in order to escape the imposition of interest under section 6601, such corporation or cooperative need pay only one-half of the additional tax arising from an amendment made by the Act before March 30, 1970, with the remaining one-half payable as part of the second installment on the regular due date for that installment. In the case of an underpayment of tax which is only partly attributable to an amendment made by the Act, section 946(a) of such Act shall apply only to the extent that such underpayment is so attributable.
