
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### general actuarial valuations
###### ยง 1.9005-2 Effect of election.
####### Rules for applying paragraph (a) of this section.

(b)(1) The price described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section and any price described in this paragraph shall be determined with reference to quartzite or clay in the form and condition of such products after the application of only the processes described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and before transportation from the plant in which such processes were applied.

(2) If quartzite and clay were mined and used by the taxpayer in the production of refractory products, a separate price shall be used with respect to each mineral.

(3) There shall be used for each mineral the lowest price at which it was sold or offered for sale by the taxpayer during the taxable year. Thus, only one price shall be used with respect to each mineral regardless of variations in type or grade.

(4) For purposes of this paragraph, exceptional, unusual, or nominal sales of quartzite or clay shall be disregarded. Thus, for example, if the taxpayer made an accommodation sale during the taxable year at other than the regular price, such sale is to be disregarded.

(5) If the taxpayer made no sales during the taxable year of quartzite or clay in the form and condition described in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, or if his sales were exceptional, unusual, or nominal, there shall be used the lowest recognized selling price for the taxpayer's marketing area for quartzite or clay (of the same grade and type as that used by him) which was published for the taxable year in a trade journal or other industry publication.

(6) If subparagraph (5) of this paragraph does not apply for the reason that there is no recognized selling price published in a trade journal or other industry publication for the taxpayer's marketing area, there shall be used the lowest price at which quartzite or clay comparable to that used by the taxpayer was sold or offered for sale during the taxable year in that area by other producers similarly circumstanced as the taxpayer or, if appropriate, the lowest price paid by the taxpayer for purchased quartzite or clay.

(7) If the lowest selling price otherwise applicable under the preceding provisions of this paragraph fluctuated during the taxable year, the two or more lowest selling prices shall be averaged according to the number of days during the taxable year that each such price was in effect.

(c) The provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:
