
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Tax Reform Act of 1969
###### ยง 1.9006-1 Interest and penalties in case of certain taxable years.
####### Declarations and payments of estimated tax.

(b)(1) In the case of a taxable year beginning before December 30, 1969, section 946(b) of the Tax Reform Act of 1969 provides transitional rules with respect to the payment of estimated tax and, in the case of an individual, the filing of a declaration of estimated tax. Under such section 946(b) in the case of such a year, if any taxpayer is required to make a declaration or amended declaration of estimated tax, or to pay any amount or additional amount of estimated tax, by reason of the amendments made by the Act, such amount or additional amount shall be paid ratably on or before each of the remaining installment dates for the taxable year beginning with the first installment date on or after February 15, 1970. For purposes of section 946(b) of such Act and this section, the term "installment date" means any date on which, under section 6153 or 6154 of the Code (whichever is applicable), an installment payment of estimated tax is required to be made by the taxpayer.

(2) With respect to any declaration or payment of estimated tax before February 15, 1970, sections 6015, 6153, 6154, 6654, and 6655 of the Code shall be applied without regard to the amendments made by such Act. Therefore, any underpayment which occurs solely by reason of the amendments made by such Act shall not be treated as an underpayment in the case of installment dates before February 15, 1970. Similarly, in the case of a taxpayer all of whose installment dates occur prior to February 15, 1970, no payment of estimated tax need be made to reflect the amendments made by such Act.

(3) The following example illustrates the application of the provisions of subparagraphs (1) and (2) of this paragraph:
