
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Tax Reform Act of 1969
###### ยง 1.9006-1 Interest and penalties in case of certain taxable years.
####### Cross references.

(c)(1) Taxpayers affected by the following sections, among others, of the Tax Reform Act of 1969 may be subject to the provisions of section 946 (a) or (b) (whichever is applicable) of such Act:

(i) Act section 201(a), which adds section 170(f)(2) to the Code and which applies to gifts made after July 31, 1969.

(ii) Act section 201(c), which repeals section 673(b) of the Code and which applies to transfers in trust made after April 22, 1969.

(iii) Act section 212(c), which amends section 1031 of the Code and which applies to taxable years to which the 1954 Code applies.

(iv) Act section 332, which amends section 677 of the Code and which applies to property transferred in trust after October 9, 1969.

(v) Act section 411(a), which adds section 279 to the Code and which applies to interest paid or incurred on an indebtedness incurred after October 9, 1969.

(vi) Act sections 412 (a) and (b), which adds section 453(b)(3) to the Code and which apply to sales or other dispositions occurring after May 27, 1969, which are not made pursuant to a contract entered into on or before that date.

(vii) Act section 413, which amends sections 1232(a), 1232(b)(2), and 6049 of the Code and which applies to bonds and other evidences of indebtedness issued after May 27, 1969.

(viii) Act section 414, which adds section 249 to the Code and which applies to convertible bonds or other convertible evidences of indebtedness repurchased after April 22, 1969.

(ix) Act section 421(a), which amends section 305 of the Code and which applies to distributions made after January 10, 1969.

(x) Act sections 516 (a) and (d), which add section 1001(e) to the Code and which apply to sales of life estates made after October 9, 1969.

(xi) Act section 601, which amends section 103 of the Code and which applies to obligations issued after October 9, 1969.

(xii) Act section 703 which amends sections 46(b) and 47(a) of the Code and which applies to section 38 property built or acquired after April 18, 1969.

(xiii) Act section 905, which adds section 311(d) to the Code and which applies to distributions made after November 30, 1969.

(2) In addition to the references in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, section 946(b) of the Tax Reform Act of 1969 may apply to taxpayers affected by the following sections, among others, of such Act:

(i) Act section 201(a), which adds section 170(e) to the Code and which applies to contributions paid after December 31, 1969.

(ii) Act sections 501 (a) and (b), which amend section 613 of the Code and which apply to taxable years beginning after October 9, 1969.

(iii) Act sections 516 (c) and (d) which add section 1253 to the Code and which apply to transfers after December 31, 1969.

(iv) Act section 701(a), which amends section 51 of the Code and which applies to taxable years ending after December 31, 1969, and beginning before July 1, 1970.
