
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### § 1.402(a)-1 Taxability of beneficiary under a trust which meets the requirements of section 401(a).
###### e.g.

(2) If a trust described in section 401(a) and exempt under section 501(a) purchases an annuity contract for an employee and distributes it to the employee in a year in which the trust is exempt, and the contract contains a cash surrender value which may be available to an employee by surrendering the contract, such cash surrender value will not be considered income to the employee unless and until the contract is surrendered. For the rule as to nontransferability of annuity contracts issued after 1962, see § 1.401-9(b)(1). For additional requirements regarding distributions of annuity contracts, see,, §§ 1.401(a)-20, Q&A-2, 1.401(a)(31)-1, Q&A-17, and 1.401(a)(9)-6, Q&A-4. However, the distribution of an annuity contract must be treated as a lump sum distribution for purposes of determining the amount of tax under the 10-year averaging rule of section 402(e) (as in effect prior to amendment by the Tax Reform Act of 1986, Public Law 99-514, 100 Stat. 2085). If, however, the contract distributed by such exempt trust is a life insurance contract, retirement income contract, endowment contract, or other contract providing life insurance protection, the fair market value of the contract at the time of distribution must be included in the distributee's income in accordance with the provisions of section 402(a), except to the extent that, within 60 days after the distribution of the contract, all or any portion of such value is irrevocably converted into a contract under which no part of any proceeds payable on death at any time would be excludable under section 101(a) (relating to life insurance proceeds), or the contract is treated as a rollover contribution under section 402(c). If the contract distributed by such trust is a transferable annuity contract, or a retirement income, endowment, or other life insurance contract and such contract is not treated as a rollover contribution under section 402(c), then, notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the fair market value of the contract is includible in the distributee's gross income unless, within such 60 days, such contract is made nontransferable.

(3) For the rules applicable to premiums paid by a trust described in section 401(a) and exempt under section 501(a) for the purchase of retirement income, endowment, or other contracts providing life insurance protection payable upon the death of the employee-participant, see paragraph (b) of § 1.72-16.

(4) For the rules applicable to the amounts payable by reason of the death of an employee under a contract providing life insurance protection, or an annuity contract, purchased by a trust described in section 401(a) and exempt under section 501(a), see paragraph (c) of § 1.72-16.

(5) If pension or annuity payments or other benefits are paid or made available to the beneficiary of a deceased employee or a deceased retired employee by a trust described in section 401(a) which is exempt under section 501(a), such amounts are taxable in accordance with the rules of section 402(a) and this section. In case such amounts are taxable under section 72, the "investment in the contract" shall be determined by reference to the amount contributed by the employee and by applying the applicable rules of sections 72 and 101(b)(2)(D). In case the amounts paid to, or includible in the gross income of, the beneficiaries of the deceased employee or deceased retired employee constitute a distribution to which subparagraph (6) of this paragraph is applicable, the extent to which the distribution is taxable is determined by reference to the contributions of the employee, by reference to any prior distributions which were excludable from gross income as a return of employee contributions, and by applying the applicable rules of sections 72 and 101(b).

(6)(i) If the total distributions payable with respect to any employee under a trust described in section 401(a) which in the year of distribution is exempt under section 501(a) are paid to, or includible in the gross income of, the distributee within one taxable year of the distributee on account of the employee's death or other separation from the service, or death after such separation from service, the amount of such distribution, to the extent it exceeds the net amount contributed by the employee, shall be considered a gain from the sale or exchange of a capital asset held for more than six months. The total distributions payable are includible in the gross income of the distributee within one taxable year if they are made available to such distributee and the distributee fails to make a timely election under section 72(h) to receive an annuity in lieu of such total distributions. The "net amount contributed by the employee" is the amount actually contributed by the employee plus any amounts considered to be contributed by the employee under the rules of section 72(f), 101(b), and subparagraph (3) of this paragraph, reduced by any amounts theretofore distributed to him which were excludable from gross income as a return of employee contributions. See, however, paragraph (b) of this section for rules relating to the exclusion of amounts representing net unrealized appreciation in the value of securities of the employer corporation. In addition, all or part of the amount otherwise includible in gross income under this paragraph by a non-resident alien individual in respect of a distribution by the United States under a qualified pension plan may be excludable from gross income under section 402(a)(4). For rules relating to such exclusion, see paragraph (c) of this section. For additional rules relating to the treatment of total distributions described in this subdivision in the case of a nonresident alien individual, see sections 871 and 1441 and the regulations thereunder.

(ii) The term "total distributions payable" means the balance to the credit of an employee which becomes payable to a distributee on account of the employee's death or other separation from the service or on account of his death after separation from the service. Thus, distributions made before a total distribution (for example, annuity payments received by the employee after retirement), will not defeat application of the capital gains treatment with respect to the total distributions received by a beneficiary upon the death of the employee after retirement. However, a distribution on separation from service will not receive capital gains treatment unless it constitutes the total amount in the employee's account at the time of his separation from service. If the total amount in the employee's account at the time of his death or other separation from the service or death after separation from the service is paid or includible in the gross income of the distributee within one taxable year of the distributee, such amount is entitled to the capital gains treatment notwithstanding that in a later taxable year an additional amount, attributable to the last year of service, is credited to the account of the employee and distributed.

(iii) If an employee retires and commences to receive an annuity but subsequently, in some succeeding taxable year, is paid a lump sum in settlement of all future annuity payments, the capital gains treatment does not apply to such lump sum settlement paid during the lifetime of the employee since it is not a payment on account of separation from the service, or death after separation, but is on account of the settlement of future annuity payments.

(iv) If the "total distributions payable" are paid or includible in the gross income of several distributees within one taxable year on account of the employee's death or other separation from the service or on account of his death after separation from the service, the capital gains treatment is applicable. The total distributions payable are paid within one taxable year of the distributees when, for example, a portion of such total is distributed in cash to one distributee and the balance is used to purchase an annuity contract which is distributed to the other distributee. However, if the share of any distributee is not paid or includible in his gross income within the same taxable year in which the shares of the other distributees are paid or includible in their gross income, none of the distributees is entitled to the capital gains treatment, since the total distributions payable are not paid or includible in the distributees' gross income within one taxable year. For example, if the total distributions payable are made available to each of two distributees and one elects to receive his share in cash while the other makes a timely election under section 72(h) to receive his share in installment payments from the trust, the capital gains treatment does not apply to either distributee.

(v) [Reserved]

(vi) The term "total distributions payable" does not include United States Retirement Plan Bonds held by a trust to the credit of an employee. Thus, a distribution by a qualified trust may constitute a total distributions payable with respect to an employee even though the trust retains retirement plan bonds registered in the name of such employee. Similarly, the proceeds of a retirement plan bond received as a part of the total amount to the credit of an employee will not be entitled to capital gains treatment.

(vii) For purposes of determining whether the total distributions payable to an employee have been distributed within one taxable year, the term "total distributions payable" includes amounts held by a trust to the credit of an employee which are attributable to contributions on behalf of the employee while he was a self-employed individual in the business with respect to which the plan was established. Thus, a distribution by a qualified trust is not a total distributions payable with respect to an employee if the trust retains amounts which are so attributable.

(viii) The term "total distributions payable" does not include any amount which has been placed in a separate account for the funding of medical benefits described in section 401(h) as defined in paragraph (a) of § 1.401-14. Thus, a distribution by a qualified trust may constitute a total distributions payable with respect to an employee even though the trust retains amounts attributable to the funding of medical benefits described in section 401(h).

(7) The capital gains treatment provided by section 402(a)(2) and subparagraph (6) of this paragraph is not applicable to distributions paid to a distributee to the extent such distributions are attributable to contributions made on behalf of an employee while he was a self-employed individual in the business with respect to which the plan was established. For the taxation of such amounts, see § 1.72-18. For the rules for determining the amount attributable to contributions on behalf of an employee while he was self-employed, see paragraphs (b)(4) and (c)(2) of such section.

(8) For purposes of this section, the term "employee" includes a self-employed individual who is treated as an employee under section 401(c)(1), and paragraph (b) of § 1.401-10, and the term "employer" means the person treated as the employer of such individual under section 401(c)(4).
