
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### ยง 1.404(a)-2 Information to be furnished by employer claiming deductions; taxable years ending before December 31, 1971.

(a) For the first taxable year for which a deduction from gross income is claimed under section 404(a) (1), (2), (3), or (7), the employer must file the following information (unless such information has been previously filed in accordance with the regulations under section 23(p) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939) for each plan involved to establish that it meets the requirements of section 401(a) or 404(a)(2), and that deductions claimed do not exceed the amount allowable under paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (7) of section 404(a), as the case may be:

(1) Verified copies of all the instruments constituting or evidencing the plan, including trust indentures, group annuity contracts, specimen copy of each type of individual contract, and specimen copy of formal announcement and comprehensive detailed description to employees, with all amendments to any such instruments.

(2) A statement describing the plan which identifies it and which sets forth the name or names of the employers, the effective date of the plan and of any amendments thereto, the method of distribution or of disbursing benefits (whether by trustee, insurance company, or otherwise), the dates when the instruments or amendments were executed, the date of formal announcement and the dates when comprehensive detailed description of the plan and of each amendment thereto were made available to employees generally, the dates when the plan and when the trust or the contract evidencing the plan and of any amendments thereto were put into effect so that contributions thereunder were irrevocable and a summary of the provisions and rules relating to-

(i) Employee eligibility requirements for participation in the plan,

(ii) Employee contributions,

(iii) Employer contributions,

(iv) The basis or formula for determining the amount of each type of benefit and the requirements for obtaining such benefits and the vesting conditions,

(v) The medium of funding (e. g., self-insured, unit purchase group annuity contract, individual level annual premium retirement endowment insurance contracts, etc.) and, if not wholly insured, the medium of contributions and the kind of investments, and

(vi) The discontinuance or modification of the plan and distributions or benefit payments upon liquidation or termination.

(3) A tabulation in columnar form showing the information specified below with respect to each of the 25 highest paid employees covered by the plan in the taxable year, listed in order of their nondeferred compensation (where there are several plans of deferred compensation, the information for each of the plans may be shown on a single tabulation without repetition of the information common to the several plans):

(i) Name.

(ii) Whether an officer.

(iii) Percentage of each class of stock owned directly or indirectly by the employee or members of his family.

(iv) Whether the principal duties consist in supervising the work of other employees.

(v) Year of birth.

(vi) Length of service for employer to the close of the year.

(vii) Total nondeferred compensation paid or accrued during the taxable year with a breakdown of such compensation into the following components:

(A) Basic compensation and overtime pay,

(B) Other direct payments, such as bonuses and commissions,

(C) Compensation paid other than in cash, such as goods, services, insurance not directly related to the benefits or provided from funds under the plan, etc.

(viii) Amount allocated during the year for the benefit of the employee or his beneficiary (including any insurance provided thereby or directly related thereto), less the employee's contributions during the year, under each other plan of deferred compensation.

(ix) Amount allocated during the year for the benefit of the employee or his beneficiary (including any insurance provided thereby or directly related thereto), less the employee's contributions during the year, under the plan. If a profit-sharing or stock bonus plan, also a breakdown of such amounts into the following components:

(A) Amounts originally allocated in the year, and

(B) Amounts reallocated in the year.

(x) Amounts of employee contributions during the year under the plan,

(xi) If a pension or annuity plan,

(A) The retirement age and date and the form of the retirement benefit,

(B) The annual rate or amount of the retirement benefit, and

(C) The aggregate of all of the employee's contributions under the plan,

(4) The following totals:

(i) Total nondeferred compensation paid or accrued during the taxable year for all employees covered under the plan and also for all employees of the employer.

(ii) Total amount allocated during the year for the benefit of employees, former or retired employees, or their beneficiaries (including any insurance provided thereby or directly related thereto), less employee contributions during the year under the plan and, if a profit-sharing or stock bonus plan, also a breakdown of such total into the following components:

(A) Amount originally allocated in the year, and

(B) Amount reallocated in the year.

(5) A schedule showing the total number of employees as of the close of the year for each of the following groups, based on reasonable estimates:

(i) All employees ineligible for coverage under the plan because of requirements as to employment classification, specifying the reasons applicable to the group (as, for example, temporary, seasonal, part time, hourly pay basis, etc.).

(ii) All employees ineligible for coverage under the plan because of requirements as to length of service and not included in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph.

(iii) All employees ineligible for coverage under the plan because of requirements as to minimum age and not included in subdivision (i) or (ii) of this subparagraph.

(iv) All employees ineligible for coverage under the plan solely because of requirements as to minimum rate of compensation.

(v) All employees ineligible for coverage under the plan other than those employees included in subdivision (i), (ii), (iii), or (iv) of this subparagraph, specifying the reason applicable to the group.

(vi) All employees ineligible for coverage under the plan for any reasons, which should be the sum of subdivisions (i) to (v), inclusive, of this subparagraph.

(vii) All employees eligible for coverage but not covered under the plan.

(viii) All employees covered under the plan.

(ix) All employees of the employer, which should be the sum of subdivisions (vi), (vii), and (viii) of this subparagraph.

(6) In the case of a trust, a detailed balance sheet and a detailed statement of receipts and disbursements during the year; in the case of a nontrusteed annuity plan, a detailed statement of the names of the insurers, the contributions paid by the employer and by the employees, and a statement as to the amounts and kinds of premium refunds or similar credits made available and the disposition of such credits in the year.

(7) If a pension or annuity plan, a detailed description of all the methods, factors, and assumptions used in determining costs and in adjusting the costs for actual experience under the plan (including any loadings, contingency reserves, or special factors and the basis of any insured costs or liabilities involved therein) explaining their source and application in sufficient detail to permit ready analysis and verification thereof, and, in the case of a trust, a detailed description of the basis used in valuing the investments held.

(8) A statement of the applicable limitations under section 404(a) (1), (2), (3), or (7) and an explanation of the method of determining such limitations, a summary of the data, and a statement of computations necessary to determine the allowable deductions for the taxable year. Also, in the case of a pension or annuity plan, a summary of the costs or liabilities and adjustments for the year under the plan based on the application of the methods, factors, and assumptions used under the plan, in sufficient detail to permit ready verification of the reasonableness thereof.

(9) A statement of the contributions paid under the plan for the taxable year showing the date and amount of each payment. Also, a summary of the deductions claimed for the taxable year for the plan with a breakdown of the deductions claimed into the following components:

(i) For contributions paid in the taxable year before giving effect to the provisions of paragraph (7) of section 404(a).

(ii) For contributions paid in prior taxable years beginning after December 31, 1941, in accordance with the carryover provisions of paragraphs (1) and (3) of section 404(a), before giving effect to the provisions of paragraph (7) thereof, and in accordance with the carryover provisions of section 404(d).

(iii) Any reductions or increases in the deductions in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (7) of section 404(a). However, if the information in this subdivision is filed prior to the filing of the information required by subparagraph (8) of this paragraph, then, in determining the limit of deduction under paragraph (7) of section 404(a), the applicable percentage of the compensation otherwise paid or accrued during the year may be used.

(b) For taxable years subsequent to the year for which all of the applicable information under paragraph (a) of this section (or corresponding provisions of prior regulations) has been filed, information is to be filed only to the following extent:

(1) If there is any change in the plan, instruments, methods, factors, or assumptions upon which the data and information specified in paragraph (a) (1), (2), or (7) of this section are based, a detailed statement explaining the change and its effect is to be filed only for the taxable year in which the change is put into effect. However, if there is no such change, unless otherwise requested by the district director, merely a statement that there is no such change is to be filed.

(2) The information specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section which has been filed for a taxable year, unless otherwise requested by the district director and so long as the plan and the method and basis of allocations are not changed, is to be filed for subsequent years only to the extent of showing in the tabulation such information with respect to employees who, at any time in the taxable year, own, directly or indirectly, more than 5 percent of the voting stock, considering stock so owned by an individual's spouse or minor lineal descendant as owned by the individual for this purpose.

(3) The information specified in paragraph (a) (4), (5), (6), (8), and (9) of this section.

(c) If a deduction is claimed under section 404(a)(5) for the taxable year, the taxpayer shall furnish such information as is necessary to show that the deduction is not allowable under the other paragraphs of section 404(a), that the amount paid is an ordinary and necessary expense or an expense for the production of income, and that the employees' rights to, or derived from, such employer's contribution or such compensation were nonforfeitable at the time the contribution or compensation was paid. In the case of corporate employers, the information required to be submitted by this paragraph shall, except as otherwise provided by the Commissioner, be filed on Form 2950 for taxable years ending on or after December 31, 1961. In the case of other employers, the information required to be submitted by this paragraph shall, except as otherwise provided by the Commissioner, be filed on Form 2950 for taxable years ending on or after December 31, 1962.

(d) For the purpose of the information required by this section, contributions paid in a taxable year shall include those deemed to be so paid in accordance with the provisions of section 404(a)(6) and shall exclude those deemed to be paid in the prior taxable year in accordance with such provisions. As used in this section, "taxable year" refers to the taxable year of the employer and, unless otherwise requested by the district director, a "year" which is not specified as a "taxable year" may be taken as the taxable year of the employer or as the plan, trust, valuation, or group contract year with respect to which deductions are being claimed provided the same rule is followed consistently so that there is no gap or overlap in the information furnished for each item. In any case the date or period to which each item of information furnished relates should be clearly shown. All the information required by this section should be filed with the tax return for the taxable year in which the deduction is claimed, except that, unless sooner requested by the district director, such information, other than that specified in paragraph (a)(4)(i) and (9) of this section, may be filed within 12 months after the close of the taxable year provided there is filed with the tax return a statement that the information cannot reasonably be filed therewith, setting forth the reasons therefor.

(e) In any case all the information and data required by this section must be filed in the office of the district director in which the employer files his tax returns and must be filed independently of any information and data otherwise submitted in connection with a determination of the qualification of the trust or plan under section 401(a). The district director may, in addition, require any further information that he considers necessary to determine allowable deductions under section 404 or qualification under section 401. For taxable years ending on or before December 31, 1961, the district director may waive the filing of such information required by this section which he finds unnecessary in a particular case. For taxable years ending after December 31, 1961, the Commissioner may waive the filing of such information.

(f) Records substantiating all data and information required by this section to be filed must be kept at all times available for inspection by internal revenue officers at the main office or place of business of the employer.

(g) In the case of a plan which covers employees, some or all of whom are self-employed individuals and with respect to which a deduction is claimed under section 404(a) (1), (2), (3), or (7), paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, and the provision of paragraph (d) of this section relating to the time for filing the information required by this section, shall not apply, but in lieu of the information required to be submitted by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the employer shall, with the return for the taxable year in which the deduction is claimed, submit the information required by the form provided by the Internal Revenue Service for such purpose.

(h) When a custodial account forms a part of a plan for which a deduction is claimed under section 404(a) (1), (2), (3), or (7), the information which under this section is to be submitted with respect to a qualified trust must be submitted with respect to such custodial account. Thus, for purposes of this section-

(1) The term "trust" includes custodial account,

(2) The term "trustee" includes custodian, and

(3) The term "trust indenture" includes custodial agreement.

(i) Except as provided under ยง 1.503(d)-1(a) and ยง 601.201 of this chapter (Statement of Procedural Rules) in the case of a request for the determination of qualification of a trust under section 401 and exemption under section 501, paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section shall not apply for taxable years ending on or after December 31, 1971. For information to be furnished for taxable years ending on or after December 31, 1971, and before December 31, 1975, see ยง 1.404(a)-2A of the Treasury Regulations in effect on April 1, 2017.
