
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 2 - MARITIME CONSTRUCTION RESERVE FUND
##### ยง 2.1-8 Investment of funds in securities.
###### Other securities.

(b)In cases where the taxpayer desires to deposit any securities in the fund in lieu of cash other than those of or guarantees by the United States or to purchase such other securities with cash on deposit in the fund, or to substitute such other securities for securities or commitment to finance in the fund, the taxpayer shall make written application to the Administration and shall not consummate the transaction until the written consent of the Administration shall have been received. The application shall describe the securities fully. Every approval by the Administration of such application shall be conditioned upon agreement by the taxpayer forthwith to dispose of such securities upon subsequent request by the Administration. Immediately upon the purchase of any securities for deposit in the fund, the taxpayer shall advise the Administration, giving the date of purchase, a description of the securities, and the price paid therefor (net, brokerage and other charges, and gross). Ordinarily, the Administration will not approve the deposit in the fund in lieu of cash, or the purchase with cash on deposit in the fund or the substitution for securities in the fund of securities not actively traded in on exchanges registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. ch. 2B), or securities which are not legal for investment of trust funds. Whenever the Administration approves the substitution of other securities for securities in the fund, such substitution shall be effected only upon or after the deposit of the substituted securities into the fund.
