
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 2 - MARITIME CONSTRUCTION RESERVE FUND
##### ยง 2.1-13 Deposit of proceeds of sales or indemnities.
###### Amount of deposit.

(b)With respect to any vessel sold or lost, or a share therein, the deposit must be in an amount equal to the "net proceeds" of the sale, or the "net indemnity" for the loss. By "net proceeds" and "net indemnity" is meant (1) the depositor's interest in the adjusted basis of the vessel plus (2) the amount of gain which would be recognized for tax purposes in the absence of section 511 of the Act. In determining "net proceeds", the amount necessarily paid or incurred for brokers' commissions is to be deducted from the gross amount of the sales price. In the event the taxpayer is an affiliate or associate of the buyer, the amount of the sales price shall not exceed the fair market value of the vessel or vessels sold as determined by the Administration. In such case the taxpayer shall furnish evidence sufficient, in the opinion of the Administration, to establish that the sales price is not in excess of the fair market value. In determining "net indemnity", the amount necessarily paid or incurred purely for collection, or rate of exchange discounts on the payment, of the indemnity is to be deducted from the gross amount of collectible indemnity. In case of the sale or loss of several vessels or share therein, a deposit of the "net proceeds" or "net indemnity" with respect to one or more of the vessels or shares is permissible. Where several vessels or shares are sold for a lump sum, the "net proceeds" allocated to each vessel or share shall be determined in accordance with any reasonable rule satisfactory to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. The taxpayer must deposit the full amount of each payment (including cash, notes, or other evidences of indebtedness) as a single deposit in the construction reserve fund. A payment divided between two or more depositories will be regarded as a single deposit. Amounts received by the taxpayer prior to the date of consummation of the sale of the vessel shall be considered as having been received by the taxpayer at the time the sale is consummated.
