
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 3 - CAPITAL CONSTRUCTION FUND
##### ยง 3.7 Tax treatment of nonqualified withdrawals.
###### Interest.

(e)(1) For the period on or before the last date prescribed by law, including extensions thereof, for filing the party's Federal income tax return for the taxable year during which a nonqualified withdrawal is made, no interest shall be payable under section 6601 of the Code in respect of the tax on any item which is included in gross income under paragraph (d) of this section, and no addition to such tax for such period shall be payable under section 6651 of the Code. In lieu of the interest and additions to tax under such sections, simple interest on the amount of the tax attributable to any item included in gross income under paragraph (d) of this section is to be paid at the rate of interest determined for the year of withdrawal under subparagraph (2) of this paragraph. Such interest is to be charged for the period from the last date prescribed for payment of tax for the taxable year for which such item was deposited in the fund to the last date for payment of tax for the taxable year in which the withdrawal is made. Both dates are to be determined without regard to any extensions of time for payment. Interest determined under this paragraph which is paid within the taxable year shall be allowed as a deduction for such year under section 163 of the Code. However, such interest is to be treated as part of the party's tax for the year of withdrawal for purposes of collection and in determining any interest or additions to tax for the year of withdrawal under section 6601 or 6651, respectively, of the Code.

(2) For purposes of section 607(h)(3)(C)(ii) of the Act, and for purposes of certain dispositions of vessels constructed, reconstructed, or acquired with qualified withdrawals described in ยง 3.6(e), the applicable rate of interest for any nonqualified withdrawal-

(i) Made in a taxable year beginning in 1970 and 1971 is 8 percent.
