
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 4 - TEMPORARY INCOME TAX REGULATIONS UNDER SECTION 954 OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE
##### ยง 4.954-2 Foreign personal holding company income; taxable years beginning after December 31, 1986.
###### Commodities transactions,In general.

(f)-(1)Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (f), foreign personal holding company income includes the excess of gains over losses from commodities transactions. If losses from commodities transactions exceed gains, the net loss is not within the definition of foreign personal holding company income under this paragraph (f), and may not be allocated to, or otherwise reduce, foreign personal holding company income under section 954(b)(5) and ยง 1.954-1T(a)(4). The terms "commodity" and "commodities transactions" are defined in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. Gains and losses from qualified active sales and qualified hedging transactions are excluded from the computation of foreign personal holding company income under this paragraph (f). The term "qualified active sales" is defined in paragraph (f)(3). The term "qualified hedging transaction" is defined in paragraph (f)(4) of this section. An election is provided under paragraph (g)(5) of this section to include all gains and losses from section 1256 foreign currency transactions, which would otherwise be commodities transactions, in the computation of foreign personal holding company income under paragraph (g) instead of this paragraph (f). A loss that is deferred or that otherwise may not be taken into account under any provision of the Code may not be taken into account for purposes of determining foreign personal holding company income under any provision of this paragraph (f).
