
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 4 - TEMPORARY INCOME TAX REGULATIONS UNDER SECTION 954 OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE
##### ยง 4.954-2 Foreign personal holding company income; taxable years beginning after December 31, 1986.
###### Dual character property.

(ii)Property may only in part constitute property that gives rise to certain income as described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section or property that does not give rise to any income as described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section. In such cases, the property must be treated as two separate properties for purposes of this paragraph (e). Accordingly, the sale or exchange of such dual character property will give rise to gain or loss that in part must be included in the computation of foreign personal holding company income under this paragraph (e), and in part is excluded from such computation. Gain or loss from the disposition of dual character property must be bifurcated for purposes of this paragraph (e)(1)(i) pursuant to the method that most reasonably reflects the relative uses of the property. Reasonable methods may include comparisons in terms of gross income generated or the physical division of the property. In the case of real property, the physical division of the property will in most cases be the most reasonable method available. For example, if a controlled foreign corporation owns an office building, uses 60 percent of the building in its business, and rents out the other 40 percent, then 40 percent of the gain recognized on the disposition of the property would reasonably be treated as gain which is included in the computation of foreign personal holding company income under this paragraph (e)(1). This paragraph (e)(1)(ii) addresses the contemporaneous use of property for dual purposes; for rules concerning changes in the use of property affecting its classification for purposes of this paragraph (e), see paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
