
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 5 - TEMPORARY INCOME TAX REGULATIONS UNDER THE REVENUE ACT OF 1978
##### ยง 5.6411-1 Tentative refund under claim of right adjustment.
###### Method of applying for tentative refund,In general.

(c)-(1)For a corporation, the application is made by filing Form 1139. For taxpayers other than corporations, the application is made by filing Form 1045. The application must be made by filing those forms even if the taxpayer is not applying for a tentative carryback adjustment under section 6411(a). If the taxpayer files the form to apply for the section 6411(d) tentative refund only, it may disregard those lines on the form used to compute the section 6411(a) carryback adjustment. If the taxpayer has a carryback of a net operating loss, credit, or capital loss for the taxable year (determined without the deduction described in section 1341(a)(2)) and applies for both the section 6411(a) tenative carryback adjustment and the section 6411(d) tentative refund, an ordering rule applies. The taxpayer must take into account any adjustments made in applying for the tentative carryback adjustment under section 6411(a) before determining the amount of the overpayment for which an application under section 6411(d) is being made. The taxpayer must attach to the form a separate schedule containing the information required under paragraph (d) of this section.
