
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 6a - TEMPORARY REGULATIONS UNDER TITLE II OF THE OMNIBUS RECONCILIATION ACT OF 1980
##### ยง 6a.103A-2 Qualified mortgage bond.
###### et seq.

(D) The existence of a housing assistance plan which provides a displacement program and a public improvements and services program (similar to the Housing Assistance Plan (HAP) required by the Department of Housing and Urban Development under the Community Development Block Grant program (42 U.S.C. 5301)).

(iv) A proposal by the State that an area be approved as an area of chronic economic distress shall contain the following information:

(A) A description of the proposed area by its geographical limits.

(B) Maps of the State and of areas within the State that are qualified census tracts and existing or proposed areas of chronic economic distress.

(C) Where applicable, a certification of the local Area Manager of the Department of Housing and Urban Development in which the proposed area is located that the proposed area is a Neighborhood Strategy Area (NSA) under 24 CFR 570.301(c) promulgated pursuant to the Community Development Block Grant program or an area comparable to a NSA which has been reviewed and approved by the Area Manager as meeting the standards for an NSA.

(D) Where applicable, a certification from the HUD Area Manager with jurisdiction over the proposed area that the proposed area is within a geographic area which has been declared eligible for grants under the Urban Development Action Grant Program, Pursuant to 24 CFR 570.452, by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.

(E) Statistical and descriptive information pertinent to the criteria enumerated in subdivision (iii) of this subparagraph, and a succinct statement of how the information furnished satisfies those criteria. Such statistical information shall be based upon the most recent data available.

(F) If the State so desires, a written request for a conference prior to any adverse decision on the proposed designation.

(G) A certification by the Governor or designated official that the proposed designation conforms to these regulations.

(v) The proposed designation and the information furnished with it as required by subdivision (iv) of this subparagraph shall be submitted in triplicate to the Assistant Secretary for Housing/Federal Housing Commissioner of the Department of Housing and Urban Development (Attention: Office of State Agency and Bond Financed Programs, Rm. 6138, 451 7th Street, SW., Washington, D.C. 20410).

(vi) Only those areas of chronic economic distress that have been previously designated by the State and approved in accordance with this subparagraph at least 3 months prior to the date of issuance need to be taken into account for any particular bond issue. Residences located in areas designated as areas of chronic economic distress approved in accordance with this subparagraph within such 3-month period or after the date of issue, however, may be treated as targeted area residences. However, for purposes of paragraph (h)(2), relating to the specified portion of proceeds to be placed in targeted areas, and paragraph (i)(3)(ii)(A), relating to the 1year temporary period, only areas approved as areas of chronic economic distress in accordance with this subparagraph at the time of issue may be taken into consideration.
