
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 6a - TEMPORARY REGULATIONS UNDER TITLE II OF THE OMNIBUS RECONCILIATION ACT OF 1980
##### ยง 6a.103A-3 Qualified veterans' mortgage bonds.
###### Good faith compliance efforts,Mortgage eligibility requirements.

(h)-(1)An issue of qualified veterans' mortgage bonds issued after July 18, 1984, which fails to meet the requirements of section 103A(o)(1), ยง 6a.103A-2(d) relating to residence requirements), and ยง 6a.103A-2(j) (1) and (2) (relating to new mortgage requirements) shall be treated as meeting such requirements if each of the following provisions is complied with:

(i) The issuer in good faith attempted to meet all such requirements before the mortgages were executed. Good faith requires that the trust indenture, participation agreements with loan originators, and other relevant instruments contain restrictions that permit the financing of residences only in accordance with such requirements. In addition, the issuer must establish reasonable procedures to ensure compliance with such requirements. Such procedures include reasonable investigations by the issuer to satisfy such requirements.

(ii) Ninety-five percent or more of the lendable proceeds (as defined in ยง 6a.103A-2(b)(1)) that were devoted to owner-financing were devoted to residences with respect to which, at the time the mortgages were executed, all such requirements were met. In determining whether a person is a qualified veteran the issuer may rely on copies of the mortgagor's certificate of discharge indicating that the mortgagor served on active duty at some time before January 1, 1977, and stating the date on which the mortgagor left active service provided that neither the issuer nor its agent knows or has reason to believe that such affidavit is false. Where a particular mortgage fails to meet more than one of these requirements, the amount of the mortgage will be taken into account only once in determining whether the 95-percent requirement is met. However, all of the defects in the mortgage must be corrected pursuant to subdivision (iii).

(iii) Any failure to meet such requirements is corrected within a reasonable period after such failure is discovered. For example, failures can be corrected by calling the nonqualifying mortgage or by replacing the nonqualifying mortgage with a qualifying mortgage.
