
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 7 - TEMPORARY INCOME TAX REGULATIONS UNDER THE TAX REFORM ACT OF 1976
##### ยง 7.48-2 Election of forty-percent method of determining investment credit for movie and television films placed in service in a taxable year beginning before January 1, 1975.
###### General rule.

(a)Under section 804(c)(2) of the Tax Reform Act of 1976 (90 Stat. 1595), taxpayers who placed movie or television films (here- inafter referred to as films and tapes) in service during taxable years beginning before January 1, 1975, may elect to have their investment credit on all such films and tapes determined under section 46(c) of the Code using an amount equal to 40 percent of aggregate production costs in lieu of the basis of such property. If the election is made, 100 percent is the applicable percentage used in determining qualified investment under section 46(c) of the Code regardless of actual useful life. The election can be made only with respect to qualified films and tapes that are new section 38 property and the investment credit is allowed only to the extent that a taxpayer has an ownership interest in the film or tape. No investment credit is allowed under section 804(c)(2) of the Act on any film or tape that is not section 38 property or that was produced and shown exclusively outside of the United States. Thus, no election may be made under this section with respect to a film or tape which is suspension period property to which section 48(h) applies or to a film or tape which is termination period property to which section 49(a) applies. Any investment credit taken on any film or tape subject to the election is not subject to recapture because of an early disposition or because a film or tape otherwise ceases to be section 38 property under section 47(a) of the Code. Thus, there will be no recapture because a film or tape is used outside the United States under section 48(a)(2) of the Code or section 804(c)(1)(C) of the Act, or because of any disposition under section 47(a)(7)(B) of the Code.
