
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 7 - TEMPORARY INCOME TAX REGULATIONS UNDER THE TAX REFORM ACT OF 1976
##### ยง 7.48-2 Election of forty-percent method of determining investment credit for movie and television films placed in service in a taxable year beginning before January 1, 1975.
###### Manner of making the election.

(2)An election under this section must be made by filing amended income tax returns for each taxable year beginning before January 1, 1975, in which films and tapes subject to the election were placed in service, together with a statement signed by the taxpayer containing the information described below. The amended returns and the statement must be filed with the district director having audit jurisdiction over the last return filed to which the election relates. Each amended return shall contain a schedule listing by name all films and tapes placed in service during the year to which the amended return relates and setting forth all computations necessary to determine the aggregate production costs of each such film or tape listed and the ownership interest of the taxpayer in each film or tape listed. In the case of a taxpayer which is a partner, shareholder of an electing small business corporation, or beneficiary of a trust or estate, such computations must be adequate to determine the ownership interest of the partnership, electing small business corporation, or trust or estate in each such film or tape, (a taxpayer which is a partner, shareholder, or beneficiary may satisfy the requirements of the preceding sentence by attaching to his amended return a copy of an amended return, if one is filed, of the partnership, electing small business corporation, or trust or estate which sets forth computations necessary to determine the ownership interest of the entity in each such film or tape.) No amended return need be filed for a taxable year if application of the election to films and tapes placed in service during that year would not affect tax liability for any taxable year.

The statement shall contain the following information:

(i) The taxpayer's name and taxpayer identification number (under section 6109 of the Code).

(ii) A statement that the taxpayer is making the election under section 804(c)(2) of the Act.

(iii) A statement that the taxpayer agrees that the period for assessment and collection under section 6501 of the Code will remain open until December 31, 1978, solely with respect to adjustments of tax liability attributable to investment credit allowed on films and tapes placed in service in each year covered by the election. Unless the district director notifies the taxpayer within 7 days of receipt of the statement that such extension is denied, it will be presumed that the district director consents to such extension. Of course, the period covered by this statement may be extended beyond December 31, 1978 by mutual agreement. This statement does not shorten the regular statutory period for any year or take precedence over a previous or subsequent agreement with the Internal Revenue Service extending the statutory period for any year.

(iv) A list of the addresses used by the taxpayer on each return filed during each taxable year subject to the election.

(v) A statement that the taxpayer consents to join in judicial proceedings to determine the investment credit allowable and entitlement to investment credit on any film or tape subject to the election, which meets all of the requirements set forth in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(vi) A statement as to whether an election has been made by the taxpayer under section 804(e)(2) of the Act for films and tapes which are property described in section 50(a) of the Code which were placed in service in taxable years beginning before January 1, 1975.

(vii) A list by name of all films or tapes placed in service during the years to which the election relates.

(viii) With respect to each film or tape listed in paragraph (b)(2)(vii) of this section, a list of all producers, distributors, and persons with a participation interest (with addresses where available).

(ix) In the case of an election made by a partner, shareholder of an electing small business corporation (as defined in section 1371(b) of the Code), or beneficiary, a statement indicating the name, taxpayer identification number, and address for tax return purposes of the respective partnership, electing small business corporation, or trust or estate.
