
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 12 - TEMPORARY INCOME TAX REGULATIONS UNDER THE REVENUE ACT OF 1971
##### § 12.4 Election of Class Life Asset Depreciation Range System (ADR).
###### Elections filed before February 1, 1972.

(a)No election or tax return shall be filed which does not conform to section 109 of the Revenue Act of 1971 (Pub. L. 92-178, 85 Stat. 508). If a taxpayer has before February 1, 1972 filed an election and a tax return in accordance with § 1.167(a)-11 of this chapter (relating to depreciation allowances using the Asset Depreciation Range System published in thefor June 23, 1971), such election will be treated as an election under the Class Life Asset Depreciation Range System (ADR) as contained in section 109 of the Revenue Act of 1971 and the proposed amendments to § 1.167(a)-11 of this chapter published in thefor January 27, 1972, provided that the election conforms with the provisions of the Class Life Asset Depreciation Range System (ADR) contained in section 109 of the Revenue Act of 1971 and the amendments to the regulations as finally adopted. Such an election and the determination of tax liability on the tax return are subject to the terms and conditions of section 109 of the Revenue Act of 1971 and the final regulations prescribing the Class Life Asset Depreciation Range System (ADR). (For revocation of an election, see paragraph (c) of this section.) An election and tax return filed before February 1, 1972, which does not conform with the final regulations prescribing the Class Life Asset Depreciation Range System (ADR) is an invalid election unless corrected by an amended tax return and election filed no later than the time permitted by paragraph (c) of this section. If a valid election under § 1.167(a)-11 of this chapter is not filed for a taxable year, the taxpayer is required to file or amend his tax return and determine tax liability for the taxable year without regard to § 1.167(a)-11 of this chapter.
