
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 12 - TEMPORARY INCOME TAX REGULATIONS UNDER THE REVENUE ACT OF 1971
##### ยง 12.7 Election to be treated as a DISC.
###### Who may consent.

(iii)Where stock of the corporation is owned by a husband and wife as community property (or the income from such stock is community property), or is owned by tenants in common, joint tenants, or tenants by the entirety, each person having a community interest in such stock or the income therefrom and each tenant in common, joint tenant, and tenant by the entirety must consent to the election. The consent of a minor shall be made by his legal guardian or by his natural guardian if no legal guardian has been appointed. The consent of an estate shall be made by the executor or administrator thereof. The consent of a trust shall be made by the trustee thereof. The consent of an estate or trust having more than one executor, administrator, or trustee may be made by any executor, administrator, or trustee authorized to make a return of such estate or trust pursuant to section 6012(b)(5). The consent of a corporation or partnership shall be made by an officer or partner authorized pursuant to section 6062 or 6063, as the case may be, to sign the return of such corporation or partnership. In the case of a foreign person, the consent may be signed by any individual (whether or not a U.S. person) who would be authorized under sections 6061 through 6063 to sign the return of such foreign person if he were a U.S. person.
