
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 15 - TEMPORARY INCOME TAX REGULATIONS RELATING TO EXPLORATION EXPENDITURES IN THE CASE OF MINING
##### ยง 15.1-1 Elections to deduct.
###### Election to deduct under section 615,General rule.

(2)-(i)The election to deduct exploration expenditures under section 615 shall be made in a statement filed with the district director, or director of the regional service center, with whom the taxpayer's income tax return is required to be filed. If the election is made within the time period prescribed for filing an income tax return (including extensions thereof) for the first taxable year ending after September 12, 1966, during which the taxpayer pays or incurs expenditures which are within the scope of section 615 and which are paid or incurred by him after September 12, 1966, this statement shall be attached to the taxpayer's income tax return for such taxable year. If the election is made after the time prescribed for filing such return but before the expiration of the period (described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section) for making the election under section 615(e), the statement must be signed by the taxpayer or his authorized representative. The statement shall be filed even though the taxpayer charges to capital account all such expenditures paid or incurred by him during such taxable year after such date. The statement shall clearly indicate that the taxpayer elects to have section 615 apply to all amounts deducted by him with respect to mining exploration expenditures paid or incurred after September 12, 1966. If the taxpayer desires, he may file this statement by attaching it to his return for a taxable year prior to the first taxable year ending after September 12, 1966, in which he pays or incurs mining exploration expenditures. Except as provided, in subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph, if the taxpayer does not file such a statement within the period prescribed by section 615(e) and paragraph (d)(1) of this section, any amounts deducted by him with respect to exploration expenditures paid or incurred by him after September 12, 1966, will be deemed to have been deducted pursuant to an election under section 617(a).
