
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 15 - TEMPORARY INCOME TAX REGULATIONS RELATING TO EXPLORATION EXPENDITURES IN THE CASE OF MINING
##### ยง 15.1-1 Elections to deduct.
###### Manner of making election,Election to deduct under section 617(a).

(a)-(1)The election to deduct exploration expenditures as expenses under section 617(a) may be made by deducting such expenditures in the taxpayer's income tax return for the first taxable year ending after September 12, 1966, for which the taxpayer desires to deduct exploration expenditures which are paid or incurred by him during such taxable year and after September 12, 1966. This election may be exercised by deducting such expenditures either in the taxpayer's return for such taxable year or in an amended return filed before the expiration of the period for filing a claim for credit or refund of income tax for such taxable year. Where the election is made in an amended return for a taxable year prior to the most recent year for which the taxpayer has filed a return, the taxpayer shall file amended income tax returns, reflecting any increase or decrease in tax attributable to the election, for all taxable years affected by the election. See section 617(a)(2)(C) for provisions relating to the tolling of the statute of limitations for the assessment of any deficiency for any taxable year, to the extent the deficiency is attributable to an election under section 617(a). In applying the election to the years affected there shall be taken into account the effect that any adjustments resulting from the election shall have on other items affected thereby, such as the deduction for charitable contributions, the foreign tax credit, net operating loss and other deductions or credits the amount of which is limited by the taxpayer's taxable income, and the effect that adjustments of any such items have on other taxable years. Amended returns filed for taxable years subsequent to the taxable year for which the election under section 617(a) is made by amended return shall apply the recapture provisions of subsections (b)(1)(B), (c), and (d) of section 617.
