
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 15a - TEMPORARY INCOME TAX REGULATIONS UNDER THE INSTALLMENT SALES REVISION ACT
##### ยง 15a.453-1 Installment method reporting for sales of real property and casual sales of personal property.
###### Required calculations.

(iii)The income forecast method requires application of a fraction, the numerator of which is the payment (exclusive of interest) received in the taxable year under a contingent payment agreement, and the denominator of which is the forecast or estimated total payments (exclusive of interest) to be received under the agreement. This fraction is multiplied by the taxpayer's basis in the property sold to determine the basis recovered with respect to the payment received in the taxable year. If in a subsequent year it is found that the income forecast was substantially overestimated or underestimated by reason of circumstances occurring in such subsequent year, an adjustment of the income forecast of such subsequent year shall be made. In such case, the formula for computing recovery of basis would be as follows: payment received in the taxable year (exclusive of interest) divided by the revised estimated total payments (exclusive of interest) then and thereafter to be made under the agreement (the current year's payment and total estimated future payments), multiplied by the taxpayer's unrecovered basis remaining as of the beginning of the taxable year. If the agreement contemplates internal interest (as defined in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section), in making the initial income forecast computation and in making any required subsequent recomputation the amount of internal interest (which shall not be treated as payment under the agreement) shall be calculated by assuming that each future contingent selling price payment will be made in the amount and at the time forecast. The total forecast of estimated payments to be received under the agreement shall be based on the conditions known to exist at the end of the taxable year for which the return is filed. If a subsequent upward or downward revision of this estimate is required, the revision shall be made at the end of the subsequent taxable year based on additional information which became available after the last prior estimate. No loss shall be allowed unless the taxable year is the final payment year under the agreement or unless it is otherwise determined in accordance with the rules generally applicable to the time a debt becomes worthless that the future payment obligation under the agreement has become worthless.
