
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 16A - TEMPORARY INCOME TAX REGULATIONS RELATING TO THE PARTIAL EXCLUSION FOR CERTAIN CONSERVATION COST-SHARING PAYMENTS
##### ยง 16A.126-1 Certain cost-sharing payments - in general.
###### Definitions.

(b)For purposes of this section, the term:

(1) "Cost of the improvement" means the sum of amounts paid by a government and the taxpayer, whether or not with borrowed funds, for the improvement.

(2) "Section 126 cost" means the cost of the improvement less the sum of

(i) Any government payments under a program which is not listed in section 126(a),

(ii) Any portion of a government payment under a program which is listed in section 126(a) which the Secretary of Agriculture has not certified is primarily for purposes of conservation,

(iii) Any government payment to the taxpayer which is in the nature of rent or compensation for services.

(3) "Value of the section 126 improvement" means the fair market value of the improvement multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the section 126 cost and the denominator of which is the cost of the improvement.

(4) "Affected acreage" means the acres affected by the improvement.

(5) "Excludable portion" means the present fair market value of the right to receive annual income from the affected acreage of the greater of 10 percent of the prior average annual income from the affected acreage or $2.50 times the number of affected acres.

(6) "Prior average annual income" means the average of the gross receipts from the affected acreage for the last three taxable years preceding the taxable year in which installation of the improvement is commenced.

(7) "Section 126 improvement" means the portion of the improvement equal to the percentage which government payments made to the taxpayer, which the Secretary of Agriculture has certified were made primarily for the purpose of conservation, bear to the cost of the improvement.
