
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 16A - TEMPORARY INCOME TAX REGULATIONS RELATING TO THE PARTIAL EXCLUSION FOR CERTAIN CONSERVATION COST-SHARING PAYMENTS
##### ยง 16A.1255-2 Special rules.
###### Transfers covered.

(2)The transfers referred to in paragraph (c)(1) of this section are transfers of section 126 property in which the basis of the property in the hands of the transferee is determined by reference to its basis in the hands of the transferor by reason of the application of any of the following provisions:

(i) Section 332 (relating to distributions in complete liquidation of an 80-percent-or-more controlled subsidiary corporation). For application of paragraph (c)(1) of this section to such a complete liquidation, the principles of ยง 1.1245-4(c)(3) shall apply. Thus, for example, the provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this section do not apply to a liquidating distribution of section 126 property by an 80-percent-or-more controlled subsidiary to its parent if the parent's basis for the property is determined, under section 334(b)(2), by reference to its basis for the stock of the subsidiary.

(ii) Section 351 (relating to transfer to a corporation controlled by the transferor).

(iii) Section 361 (relating to exchanges pursuant to certain corporate reorganizations).

(iv) Section 371(a) (relating to exchanges pursuant to certain receivership and bankruptcy proceedings).

(v) Section 374(a) (relating to exchanges pursuant to certain railroad reorganizations).

(vi) Section 721 (relating to transfers to a partnership in exchange for a partnership interest). See paragraph (e) of this section.

(vii) Section 731 (relating to distributions by a partnership to a partner). For special carryover of basis rule, see paragraph (e) of this section.

(viii) Section 1031 (relating to like kind exchanges).

(ix) Section 1034 (relating to rollover of gain on the sale of a principal residence).
