
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter B - Estate and Gift Taxes
#### PART 20 - ESTATE TAX; ESTATES OF DECEDENTS DYING AFTER AUGUST 16, 1954
##### Procedure and Administration
###### ยง 20.6166-1 Election of alternate extension of time for payment of estate tax where estate consists largely of interest in closely held business.
####### Protective election.

(d)A protective election may be made to defer payment of any portion of tax remaining unpaid at the time values are finally determined (or agreed to following examination of a return) and any deficiencies attributable to the closely held business interest (within the meaning of paragraph (c)(3) of this section). Extension of tax payments pursuant to this election is contingent upon final values meeting the requirements of section 6166. A protective election does not, however, extend the time for payment of any amount of tax. Rules for such extensions are contained in sections 6161, 6163, and 6166A. A protective election is made by filing a notice of election with a timely filed estate tax return stating that the election is being made. Within 60 days after values are finally determined (or agreed to following examination of a return), a final notice of election which sets forth the information required under paragraph (b) of this section must be filed with the Internal Revenue Service office where the original estate tax return was filed. That notice of final election is to be accompanied by payment of any amount of previously unpaid tax and interest, the date for payment of which has arrived as determined under paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section, plus any amount of unpaid tax and interest which is not attributable to the closely held business interest and which is not eligible for further extension (or currently extended) under another section (other than section 6166A).
