
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter B - Estate and Gift Taxes
#### PART 20 - ESTATE TAX; ESTATES OF DECEDENTS DYING AFTER AUGUST 16, 1954
##### Procedure and Administration
###### § 20.6166A-4 Special rules applicable where due date of return was before September 3, 1958.
####### In general.

(a)Section 206(f) of the Small Business Tax Revision Act of 1958 (72 Stat. 1685) provides that section 6166(i) of the Code shall apply in cases where the decedent died after August 16, 1954, but only if the date for filing the estate tax return (including extensions thereof) expired before September 3, 1958. Therefore, the privilege of paying the estate tax in installments as described in §§ 20.6166-1 through 20.6166-3 is available also in cases where the due date of the return is before September 3, 1958, but under somewhat different circumstances. These differences are explained in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section. Therefore except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section, the regulations contained in §§ 20.6166-1 through 20.6166-3 apply also in cases where the due date of the return is before September 3, 1958. See § 20-6075-1 for the due date of the return. The value of the gross estate as determined for purposes of a deficiency in tax assessed after September 2, 1958, and the value at which the interest in the closely held business, to which the election applies, is included in such value of the gross estate are used in ascertaining whether an estate coming within the purview of section 6166(i) and this section satisfies the percentage requirements as to qualification set forth in section 6166(a).
