
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter B - Estate and Gift Taxes
#### PART 20 - ESTATE TAX; ESTATES OF DECEDENTS DYING AFTER AUGUST 16, 1954
##### Procedure and Administration
###### ยง 20.6324A-1 Special lien for estate tax deferred under section 6166 or 6166A.
####### In general.

(a)If the executor of an estate of a decedent dying after December 31, 1976, makes an election under section 6166 or 6166A (as in effect prior to its repeal by the Economic Recovery Tax Act of 1981) to defer the payment of estate tax, the executor may make an election under section 6324A. An election under section 6324A will cause a lien in favor of the United States to attach to the estate's section 6166 lien property, as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. This lien is in lieu of the bonds required by sections 2204 and 6165 and in lieu of any lien under section 6324 on the same property with respect to the same estate. The value of the property which the district director may require under section 6324A as section 6166 lien property may not exceed the sum of the deferred amount (as defined in paragraph (e)(1) of this section) and the required interest amount (as defined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section). The unpaid portion of the deferred amount (plus any unpaid interest, additional amount, addition to tax, assessable penalty, and cost attributable to the deferred amount) shall be a lien in favor of the United States on the section 6166 lien property. See ยง 301.6324A-1 of this chapter (Regulations on Procedure and Administration) for provisions relating to the election of and agreement to the special lien for estate tax deferred under section 6166 or 6166A (as in effect prior to its repeal by the Economic Recovery Tax Act of 1981).
