
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter B - Estate and Gift Taxes
#### PART 25 - GIFT TAX; GIFTS MADE AFTER DECEMBER 31, 1954
##### Gift Tax
###### ยง 25.0-1 Introduction.
####### In general.

(a)(1) The regulations in this part are designated "Gift Tax Regulations." These regulations pertain to (i) the gift tax imposed by Chapter 12 of Subtitle B of the Internal Revenue Code on the transfer of property by gift by individuals in the calendar year 1955, in subsequent calendar years beginning before the calendar year 1971, in calendar quarters beginning with the first calendar quarter of calendar year 1971 through the last calendar quarter of the calendar year 1981, and in calendar years beginning with the calendar year 1982, and (ii) certain related administrative provisions of Subtitle F of the Code. It should be noted that the application of some of the provisions of these regulations may be affected by the provisions of an applicable gift tax convention with a foreign country. Unless otherwise indicated, references in these regulations to the "Internal Revenue Code" or the "Code" are references to the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, and references to a section or other provision of law are references to a section or other provision of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended. The Gift Tax Regulations are applicable to the transfer of property by gift by individuals in calendar years 1955 through 1970, in calendar quarters beginning with the first calendar quarter of calendar year 1971 through the last calendar quarter of the calendar year 1981, and in calendar years beginning with the calendar year 1982, and supersede the regulations contained in part 86, subchapter B, Chapter 1, title 26, Code of Federal Regulations (1939) (Regulations 108, Gift Tax (8 FR 10858)), as prescribed and made applicable to the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 by Treasury Decision 6091, signed August 16, 1954 (19 FR 5167, Aug. 17, 1954).

(2) Section 2501(b) makes the provisions of Chapter 12 of the Code apply in the case of gifts made after September 2, 1958, by certain citizens of the United States who were residents of a possession thereof at the time the gifts were made. Section 2501(c) makes the provisions of Chapter 12 apply in the case of gifts made after September 14, 1960, by certain other citizens of the United States who were residents of a possession thereof at the time the gifts were made. See paragraphs (c) and (d) of ยง 25.2501-1. Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of ยง 25.2501-1, the provisions of these regulations do not apply to the making of gifts by such citizens.
