
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart B - Federal Insurance Contributions Act (Chapter 21, Internal Revenue Code of 1954)
###### General Provisions
####### ยง 31.3121(b)-2 Employment; services performed before 1955.
######## General rule.

(a)(1) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section:

(i) Services performed after 1936 and before 1955 which were employment under the applicable law in effect before 1955 constitute employment under section 3121(b).

(ii) Services performed after 1936 and before 1955 which were not employment under the applicable law in effect before 1955 do not constitute employment under section 3121(b).

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, determination of whether services performed before 1955 constitute employment shall be made in accordance with the applicable provisions of law in effect before 1955 and of the regulations thereunder. The regulations applicable in determining whether service performed after 1936 and before 1955 constitute employment are as follows:

(i) Services performed after 1936 and before 1940-26 CFR (1939) Part 401 (Regulations 91).

(ii) Services performed after 1939 and before 1951-26 CFR (1939) Part 402 (Regulations 106).

(iii) Services performed after 1950 and before 1955-26 CFR (1939) Part 408 (Regulations 128).
