
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart B - Federal Insurance Contributions Act (Chapter 21, Internal Revenue Code of 1954)
###### General Provisions
####### ยง 31.3121(b)(7)-1 Services in employ of States or their political subdivisions or instrumentalities.
######## District of Columbia.

(d)The exception from employment under section 3121(b)(7) does not apply to services performed after September 30, 1965, in the employ of the District of Columbia or any instrumentality which is wholly owned thereby, if such service is not covered by a retirement system established by a law of the United States. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence the following classes of services performed either in the employ of the District of Columbia or in the employ of any instrumentality which is wholly owned thereby are excepted from employment:

(1) Services performed in a hospital or penal institution by a patient or inmate thereof.

(2) Services performed by student nurses, student dietitians, student physical therapists, or student occupational therapists assigned or attached to a hospital, clinic, or medical or dental laboratory operated by the District of Columbia or by any wholly owned instrumentality thereof, or by certain other student employees described in section 5351(2) of title 5, United States Code. This subparagraph does not apply to services performed by medical or dental interns or by medical or dental residents in training described in such section 5351(2).

(3) Services performed by an individual as an employee serving on a temporary basis in case of fire, storm, snow, earthquake, flood, or other similar emergency.

(4) Services performed by a member of a board, committee, or council of the District of Columbia, paid on a per diem, meeting, or other fee basis.
