
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart B - Federal Insurance Contributions Act (Chapter 21, Internal Revenue Code of 1954)
###### General Provisions
####### ยง 31.3121(b)(7)-2 Service by employees who are not members of a public retirement system.
######## Application in first year of participation.

(ii)If the alternative lookback rule is used, an employee who participates in the retirement system may be treated as a qualified participant on any given day during his or her first plan year of participation in a retirement system (within the meaning of paragraph (e)(1) of this section) if and only if it is reasonable on such day to believe that the employee will be a qualified participant (within the meaning of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section) on the last day of such plan year. In the case of a defined contribution retirement system, the determination of whether the employee is actually (or is expected to be) a qualified participant at the end of the plan year must take into account all compensation since the commencement of participation. See paragraph (d)(3)(iv) of this section. If this reasonable belief is correct, and the employee is a qualified participant on the last day of his or her first plan year of participation, then the exception from employment in section 3121(b)(7) will apply without regard to section 3121(b)(7)(F) to services of the employee for the balance of the calendar year in which the plan year ends. For purposes of this paragraph (d)(3)(ii), it is not reasonable to assume the establishment of a new plan until such establishment actually occurs. In addition, the rule in this paragraph (d)(3)(ii) may not be used to treat an employee as a qualified participant until the employee actually becomes a participant in the retirement system. In the case of a retirement system that does not permit a new employee to participate until the first day of the first month beginning after the employee's commencement of service, or some earlier date, a new employee who is not a part-time, seasonal or temporary employee may be treated as a qualified participant until such date. This 1-month rule of administrative convenience applies without regard to whether the employer has a reasonable belief that the employee will be a qualified participant. The rules of this paragraph (d)(3)(ii) are illustrated by the following examples:
