
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart B - Federal Insurance Contributions Act (Chapter 21, Internal Revenue Code of 1954)
###### General Provisions
####### ยง 31.3121(d)-1 Who are employees.
######## Special classes of employees.

(d)(1) In addition to individuals who are employees under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, other individuals are employees if they perform services for remuneration under certain prescribed circumstances in the following occupational groups:

(i) As an agent-driver or commission-driver engaged in distributing meat products, vegetable products, fruit products, bakery products, beverages (other than milk), or laundry or dry-cleaning services for his principal;

(ii) As a full-time life insurance salesman;

(iii) As a home worker performing work, according to specifications furnished by the person for whom the services are performed, on materials or goods furnished by such person which are required to be returned to such person or a person designated by him; or

(iv) As a traveling or city salesman, other than as an agent-driver or commission-driver, engaged upon a full-time basis in the solicitation on behalf of, and the transmission to, his principal (except for side-line sales activities on behalf of some other person) of orders from wholesalers, retailers, contractors, or operators of hotels, restaurants, or other similar establishments for merchandise for resale or supplies for use in their business operations.

(2) In order for an individual to be an employee under this paragraph, the individual must perform services in an occupation falling within one of the enumerated groups. If the individual does not perform services in one of the designated occupational groups, he is not an employee under this paragraph. An individual who is not an employee under this paragraph may nevertheless be an employee under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section. The language used to designate the respective occupational groups relates to fields of endeavor in which particular designations are not necessarily in universal use with respect to the same service. The designations are addressed to the actual services without regard to any technical or colloquial labels which may be attached to such services. Thus, a determination whether services fall within one of the designated occupational groups depends upon the facts of the particular situation.

(3) The factual situations set forth below are illustrative of some of the individuals falling within each of the above enumerated occupational groups. The illustrative factual situations are as follows:
