
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart D - Federal Unemployment Tax Act (Chapter 23, Internal Revenue Code of 1954)
###### ยง 31.3306(c)(3)-1 Services not in the course of employer's trade or business.

(a) Services not in the course of the employer's trade or business performed by an employe for an employer in a calendar quarter are excepted from employment unless-

(1) The cash remuneration paid for such services performed by the employee for the employer in the calendar quarter is $50 or more; and

(2) Such employee is regularly employed in the calendar quarter by such employer to perform such services.

(b) The term "services not in the course of the employer's trade or business" includes services that do not promote or advance the trade or business of the employer. Services performed for a corporation do not come within the exception.

(c) The test relating to cash remuneration of $50 or more is based on the remuneration earned during a calendar quarter rather than on the remuneration paid in a calendar quarter. However, for purposes of determining whether the test is met, it is also required that the remuneration be paid, although it is immaterial when the remuneration is paid. Furthermore, in determining whether $50 or more has been paid for services not in the course of the employer's trade or business, only cash remuneration for such services shall be taken into account. The term "cash remuneration" includes checks and other monetary media of exchange. Remuneration paid in any other medium, such as lodging, food, or other goods or commodities, is disregarded in determining whether the cash-remuneration test is met.

(d) For purposes of this exception, an individual is deemed to be regularly employed by an employer during a calendar quarter only if-

(1) Such individual performs services not in the course of the employer's trade or business for such employer for some portion of the day on at least 24 days (whether or not consecutive) during such calendar quarter; or

(2) Such individual was regularly employed (as determined under paragraph (d)(1) of this section) by such employer in the performance of services not in the course of the employer's trade or business during the preceding calendar quarter (including the last calendar quarter of 1954).

(e) In determining whether an employee has performed services not in the course of the employer's trade or business on at least 24 days during a calendar quarter, there shall be counted as one day-

(1) Any day or portion thereof on which the employee actually performs such services; and

(2) Any day or portion thereof on which the employee does not perform services of the prescribed character but with respect to which cash remuneration is paid or payable to the employee for such services, such as a day on which the employee is sick or on vacation.

(f) For provisions relating to the exclusion from wages of remuneration paid in any medium other than cash for services not in the course of the employer's trade or business, see ยง 31.3306(b) (7)-1.
