
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart D - Federal Unemployment Tax Act (Chapter 23, Internal Revenue Code of 1954)
###### ยง 31.3306(n)-1 Services on American vessel whose business is conducted by general agent of Secretary of Commerce.

(a) Section 3306(n) and this section of the regulations apply with respect only to services performed by an officer or member of the crew of an American vessel (1) which is owned by or bareboat chartered to the United States, and (2) whose business is conducted by a general agent of the Secretary of Commerce. Whether services performed by such an officer or member of a crew under the above conditions constitute employment is determined under section 3306(c) and (n), but without regard to section 3306(c)(6). See ยง 31.3306(c)(6)-1, relating to services performed in the employ of the United States and instrumentalities thereof. If, without regard to section 3306(c)(6), such services constitute employment, they are not excepted from employment by reason of the fact that they are performed on or in connection with an American vessel which is owned by or bareboat chartered to the United States and whose business is conducted by a general agent of the Secretary of Commerce, that is, such services are not excepted from employment by section 3306(c)(6). For provisions relating to services performed within the United States and services performed outside the United States which constitute employment, see ยง 31.3306(c)-2.

(b) The expression "officer or member of the crew" includes the master or officer in charge of the vessel, however designated, and every individual, subject to his authority, serving on board and contributing in any way to the operation and welfare of the vessel. Thus, the expression includes, for example, the master, mates, pilots, pursers, surgeons, stewards, engineers, firemen, cooks, clerks, carpenters, and deck hands.

(c) An employee of the United States who performs services as an officer or member of the crew of an American vessel which is owned by or bareboat chartered to the United States and whose business is conducted by a general agent of the Secretary of Commerce shall be deemed, under section 3306(n), to be performing services for such general agent rather than for the United States. Any such general agent of the Secretary of Commerce is considered a legal entity in his capacity as such general agent, separate and distinct from his identity as a person employing individuals on his own account. Each such general agent who in his capacity as such qualifies as an employer under section 3306(a) is with respect to each calendar year for which he so qualifies subject to the tax imposed by section 3301, and to all the requirements imposed upon an employer as defined in section 3306(a) by the regulations in this part, with respect to services which constitute employment by reason of section 3306(n) and this section of the regulations.
