
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart D - Federal Unemployment Tax Act (Chapter 23, Internal Revenue Code of 1954)
###### § 31.3306(r)(2)-1 Treatment of amounts deferred under certain nonqualified deferred compensation plans.
####### Effective dates and transition rules.

(b)Except as otherwise provided, section 3306(r)(2) applies to remuneration paid after December 31, 1984. Section 31.3121(v)(2)-2 contains effective date rules for certain remuneration paid after December 31, 1983, for purposes of section 3121(v)(2). The rules in § 31.3121(v)(2)-2 also apply to section 3306(r)(2). For purposes of applying the rules in § 31.3121(v)(2)-2 to section 3306(r)(2) and this paragraph (b), references to section 3121(v)(2) are considered references to section 3306(r)(2), and references to section 3121(a)(2), (a)(3), or (a)(13) are considered references to section 3306(b)(2), (b)(3), or (b)(10), respectively. In addition, references to § 31.3121(v)(2)-1 are considered references to paragraph (a) of this section. For purposes of applying the rules of § 31.3121(v)(2)-2 to this paragraph (b)-

(1) References to "December 31, 1983" are considered references to "December 31, 1984";

(2) References to "before 1984" are considered references to "before 1985";

(3) References to "Federal Insurance Contributions Act" are considered references to "Federal Unemployment Tax Act"; and

(4) References to "FICA" are considered references to "FUTA".
