
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart E - Collection of Income Tax at Source
###### § 31.3402(h)(1)-1 Withholding on basis of average wages.
####### Withholding on the basis of average estimated tips,In general.

(b)-(1)Subject to certain limitations and conditions, an employer may, at his discretion, withhold the tax under section 3402 in respect of tips reported by an employee to the employer on an estimated basis. An employer who elects to make withholding of the tax on an estimated basis shall:

(i) In respect of each employee, make an estimate of the amount of tips that will be reported, pursuant to section 6053, by the employee to the employer in a calendar quarter.

(ii) Determine the amount which must be deducted and withheld upon each payment of wages (exclusive of tips) which are under the control of the employer to be made during the quarter by the employer to the employee. The total amount which must be deducted and withheld shall be determined by assuming that the estimated tips for the quarter represent the amount of wages to be paid to the employee in the form of tips in the quarter and that such tips will be ratably (in terms of pay periods) paid during the quarter.

(iii) Deduct and withhold from any payment of wages (exclusive of tips) which are under the control of the employer, or from funds referred to in section 3402(k) (see §§ 31.3402(k) and 31.3402(k)-1), such amount as may be necessary to adjust the amount of tax withheld on the estimated basis to conform to the amount required to be withheld in respect of tips reported by the employee to the employer during the calendar quarter in written statements furnished to the employer pursuant to section 6053(a). If an adjustment is required, the additional tax required to be withheld may be deducted upon any payment of wages (exclusive of tips) which are under the control of the employer during the quarter and within the first 30 days following the quarter or from funds turned over by the employee to the employer for such purpose within such period. For provisions relating to the repayment to an employee, or other disposition, of amounts deducted from an employee's remuneration in excess of the correct amount of tax, see § 31.6413(a)-1.
