
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart E - Collection of Income Tax at Source
###### ยง 31.3402(o)-3 Extension of withholding to sick pay.
####### Definitions.

(h)(1) (i) The term "sick pay" means any payment made to an individual which does not constitute wages (determined without regard to section 3402(o) and this section), which is paid to an employee pursuant to a plan to which the employer is a party, and which constitutes remuneration or a payment in lieu of remuneration for any period during which the employee is temporarily absent from work on account of personal injuries or sickness. The term "personal injuries or sickness" shall have the same meaning as ascribed thereto by section 105(a) and the regulations thereunder. The term "sick pay" does not include any amounts either excludable from gross income under section 104(a) (1), (2), (4) or (5) or section 105(b) or (c) or paid under section 3402(o)(1)(B). The term "sick pay" does not include amounts paid under a plan if all amounts paid under the plan are paid to individuals who are described in the first sentence of section 105(d)(4) (relating to the definition of permanent and total disability) and the regulations thereunder. Amounts paid under any other plan shall be deemed to be paid for a period during which the employee is temporarily absent from work. For sick pay paid in 1981 only, however, the payor may opt not to follow the rules of the two preceding sentences but to follow instead the rule that an employee is temporarily absent if his absence is not described in section 105(d)(4) (relating to the definition of permanent and total disability) and the regulations thereunder. An employer is not a party to the plan if the plan is a contract between only employees and a third party payor or the employer makes no contributions to provide sick pay benefits under the plan, even if the employer withholds amounts from the employees' salaries and pays the amounts over to the third party payor.

(ii) This paragraph (h)(1) may be illustrated by the following examples:

(2) The term "payee" means an individual who is a citizen or resident of the United States and who receives a sick pay payment.

(3) (i) The term "payor" means any person making a sick pay payment who is not the employer (as defined in section 3401 and in ยง 31.3401(d)-1 (except paragraph (f) thereof)) of the payee. If however the person making the payment is acting solely as an agent for another person, the term "payor" shall mean the other person and not the person actually making the payment.

(ii) This paragraph (h)(3) may be illustrated by the following examples:
