
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart E - Collection of Income Tax at Source
###### ยง 31.3406(b)(4)-1 Exemption for certain minimal payments.
####### How to annualize,In general.

(c)-(1)To annualize a reportable interest payment, dividend payment, or royalty payment, a payor must calculate what the amount of the payment would be if it were paid for a 1-year period (instead of the period for which it actually is paid). The annualized amount is determined by dividing the amount of the payment by the number of days in the period for which it is being paid and then multiplying that result by the number of days in the year. If the annualized amount is $10 or less, the payor may elect not to withhold on that payment regardless of whether more than $10 may be or has been paid to the payee in other reportable payments during the calendar year. Conversely, if the annualized amount is more than $10, withholding applies even if $10 or less is actually paid to the payee during the calendar year. For purposes of computing the annualized amount, the payor may assume that February always consists of 28 days and that the year always consists of 360 days. For amounts that are deposited with a payor in a new account or certificate between the dates on which the payor customarily pays or credits interest, the payor may assume that the period for which the interest is paid is the payor's customary period for paying or crediting interest.
