
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart E - Collection of Income Tax at Source
###### ยง 31.3406(d)-1 Manner required for furnishing a taxpayer identification number.
####### Determination of pre-1984 account or instrument,In general.

(2)-(i)An account that is in existence before January 1, 1984, will be considered a pre-1984 account, regardless of whether additional deposits are made to the account on or after January 1, 1984. An account established as an expansion of a credit union prime account in existence prior to January 1, 1984, constitutes a pre-1984 account. If funds taken from one account in existence prior to January 1, 1984, are used to create a new account on or after that date, however, the new account does not constitute a pre-1984 account except as provided in the preceding sentence. An instrument acquired prior to January 1, 1984, is a pre-1984 account. Regardless of when an instrument was acquired, if it is negotiated in a window transaction as defined in ยง 31.3406(b)(2)-3(b), it is treated as an instrument acquired after December 31, 1983. An obligation in bearer form and subject to reporting under section 6045, whenever acquired, is not a pre-1984 account. Any instrument, whenever acquired, that is held in a brokerage account is considered a pre-1984 account if the brokerage account is not a post-1983 brokerage account (as described in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section). If shares of a corporation are held before January 1, 1984 (or considered held before that date by operation of this paragraph (b)(2)), and additional shares are acquired by the holder, irrespective of whether the shares are received by reason of a stock dividend, investing new cash, or otherwise, the new shares, in the discretion of the payor, may be considered a pre-1984 account. In the case of a qualified employee trust that distributes instruments in kind, any instrument distributed from the trust is considered a pre-1984 account with respect to employees who were participants in the trust before 1984. Similarly, when a payor offers participants in a plan the opportunity to purchase stock of the payor after a specified time, using the money that the payee invested during that period of time, the stock so purchased after December 31, 1983, is considered a pre-1984 account with respect to participants in the plan who either owned shares or invested money in the plan before January 1, 1984.
