
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart E - Collection of Income Tax at Source
###### § 31.3406(d)-1 Manner required for furnishing a taxpayer identification number.
####### Manner required for furnishing a taxpayer identification number with respect to an account or instrument that is not a pre-1984 account.

(3)A payee who receives reportable interest or dividend payments (as defined in section 3406(b)(2)) from a payor must certify under penalties of perjury that the taxpayer identification number the payee furnishes to the payor is the payee's correct taxpayer identification number. The payee must make the certification only with respect to an account or instrument that is not a pre-1984 account (as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section). See § 31.3406(h)-3 for a description of the certificate on which the certification must be made. See § 31.3406(d)-2 for the requirement that the payee must certify under penalties of perjury that the payee is not subject to withholding due to notified payee underreporting. See § 31.3406(d)-3(a) with respect to an account established directly with, or an instrument acquired directly from, the payor by electronic transmission or by mail. See § 31.3406(d)-4 for the rules applicable to readily tradable instruments acquired through a broker.
