
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart E - Collection of Income Tax at Source
###### ยง 31.3406(d)-5 Backup withholding when the Service or a broker notifies the payor to withhold because the payee's taxpayer identification number is incorrect.
####### Overview.

(a)Backup withholding under section 3406(a)(1)(B) applies to any reportable payment made with respect to an account of a payee if the Internal Revenue Service or a broker notifies a payor under paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section that the payee's name and taxpayer identification number combination (name/TIN combination) is incorrect and the payor is required under paragraph (c)(3) of this section to identify that account as having the same name/TIN combination. After receiving a notice from the Internal Revenue Service or a broker under paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section and identifying an account as having the incorrect name/TIN combination under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the payor must notify the payee in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. In addition, under paragraph (e) of this section, the payor must backup withhold on all reportable payments made to such account after the close of the 30th business day after the date that the payor receives the notice and on or before the close of the 30th calendar day after the date that the payor receives from the payee the certification required under paragraph (f) of this section. Under paragraph (g) of this section, if a payor receives 2 notices from the Internal Revenue Service or broker within 3 calendar years with respect to a payee's account, the payor must notify the payee in accordance with paragraph (g)(2) (rather than paragraph (d)) of this section. In addition, the payor must backup withhold on all reportable payments made with respect to the account after the close of the 30th business day after the date that the payor receives the second notice and on or before the 30th calendar day after the date that the payor receives notification from the Social Security Administration (or the Internal Revenue Service) validating a name/TIN combination for the account. Paragraph (h) of this section requires a payor to use a corrected name/TIN combination on subsequent information returns.
