
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart E - Collection of Income Tax at Source
###### ยง 31.3406(d)-5 Backup withholding when the Service or a broker notifies the payor to withhold because the payee's taxpayer identification number is incorrect.
####### Reasonable care where no account number or designation is provided.

(ii)A payor who satisfies the following two-part facts-and-circumstances test will be considered to have exercised reasonable care for purposes of this paragraph (c)(3).

(A) Part one of the test is satisfied if a payor searches for accounts of the payee on the computer or other recordkeeping system that the payor can reasonably associate with the information return that generated the notice under paragraph (c)(1) of this section. For example, a payor who maintains separate computer or recordkeeping systems for different product lines will have identified and used the appropriate system if the payor searches for accounts of the payee on the computer or recordkeeping system that contains the product line for the type of payments reported on the information return. A payor with the same product line on several nonintegrated computer or record systems will have identified and used the appropriate system if the payor searches for accounts of the payee on any computer or record system that the payor otherwise can reasonably associate with the information return.

(B) Part two of the test is satisfied if the payor inputs the name/TIN combination provided on the notice from the Internal Revenue Service under paragraph (c)(1) of this section into the system that is described in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(A) of this section. If the system of a payor cannot utilize the name/TIN combination, the payor must input appropriate data or criteria, as determined by the capability of the payor's computer or recordkeeping system.
