
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart E - Collection of Income Tax at Source
###### ยง 31.3406(h)-3 Certificates.
####### Forms prepared by payors or brokers-(1) Substitute forms; in general.

(c)A payor or broker may prepare and use a form that contains provisions that are substantially similar to those of the official Form W-9. A payor or broker may use any document relating to the transaction, such as the signature card for an account, so long as the certifications are clearly set forth. A payor or broker who uses a substitute form may furnish orally or in writing the instructions for the Form W-9 that relate to the account. A payor or broker may refuse to accept certifications (including the official Form W-9) that are not made on the form or forms provided by the payor or broker. A payor or broker may refuse to accept a certification provided by a payee only if the payor or broker furnishes the payee with an acceptable form immediately upon receipt of an unacceptable form or within 5 business days of receipt of an unacceptable form. An acceptable form for this purpose must contain a notice that the payor or broker has refused to accept the form submitted by the payee and that the payee must submit the acceptable form provided by the payor in order for the payee not to be subject to withholding under section 3406. If the payor or broker requires the payee to furnish a form for each account of the payee, the payor or broker is not required to furnish an acceptable form until the payee furnishes the payor or broker with the payee's account numbers. A payor or broker may use separate substitute forms to have a payee certify under penalties of perjury that-

(i) The payee's taxpayer identification number is correct; and

(ii) The payee is not subject to withholding under section 3406 due to notified payee underreporting.
