
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart F - General Provisions Relating to Employment Taxes (Chapter 25, Internal Revenue Code of 1954)
###### § 31.3501(a)-1T Question and answer relating to the time employers must collect and pay the taxes on noncash fringe benefits (Temporary).
####### A-7:

The value of the availability of an employer-provided automobile or other road vehicle must be determined under the rules provided in ;§§ 1.61-21 and 1.132-1 of this chapter. (For purposes of this section, the terms "automobile" and "road vehicle" have the meaning given those terms in § 1.61-21). For example, assume that an employee adopts the special rule provided in § 1.61-21 and that the Annual Lease Value, as defined in § 1.61-21, of an automobile or other road vehicle is $2,100. The automobile or other road vehicle is provided to employee A on January 1, 1985. As of March 31, A had driven the automobile or other road vehicle 1,000 personal miles and 3,000 miles in the course of his employer's business. For the quarter, A would have had wages of $131.25 attributable to his personal use of the automobile or other road vehicle computed by subtracting a $393.75 working condition fringe from $525 ($2,100 divided by 4). See section 132(d) and § 1.132-1T. During the second quarter of 1985, A drives the automobile or other road vehicle only 1,000 miles, all of which are personal. In order to calculate the value of the wages provided to A in the second quarter in the form of the availability of the employer-provided automobile or other road vehicle, first A's employer calculates the Annual Lease Value attributable to the first six months of 1985 which is $1,050 ($2,100 divided by 2). Second, A's employer calculates the working condition fringe exclusion which is $630 ($1,050 multiplied by a fraction the numerator of which is A's business mileage (3,000 miles) and the denominator of which is A's total mileage (5,000 miles)). The calculations result in a total inclusion of $420 ($1,050-$630). From the total inclusion of $420, the wages provided in the first quarter, $131.25, are subtracted, leaving $288.75 as the wages includible in the second quarter attributable to the availability to A of the employer-provided automobile or other road vehicle.

Q-8: May an employer treat any part of the Annual Lease Value or Daily Lease Value (as defined in 1.61-21 of this chapter ), or the fair market value if the special rule of 1.61-21 of this chapter is not or cannot be used, of an automobile or other road vehicle made available to an employee as includible in the employee's gross income without regard to whether the employee has used the automobile or other road vehicle in the employer's business?

A-8: No, except as otherwise provided in this Q/A-8, an employer may not include any amount in an employee's income with respect to an employer-provided automobile or other road vehicle unless such inclusion is based on:

(a) Records or a statement submitted by an employee that contain the business and total mileage for the period beginning on January 1, 1985, and ending on the last day of the employer's taxable year that began in 1984, or

(b) Records that satisfy the employer's "adequate contemporaneous record" requirement under section 274(d)(4) and the regulations thereunder for the employer's taxable years beginning after December 31, 1984.

Notwithstanding the preceding paragraph of this Q/A-8, an employer may include in an employee's income the value of the availability of an employer-provided road vehicle, calculated without regard to a working condition fringe exclusion based on business mileage if one of the conditions listed in § 1.274-6T(f)(1) is satisfied with respect to the relevant period.

In addition, the employer must, before including any amount in an employee's income with respect to an employer-provided road vehicle, take into account other working condition fringe exclusions, such as the security exclusion discussed in § 1.132-1T. If proper calculation of an exclusion requires information from the employee and the employee does not respond within a reasonable period of time to a request for that information or produces information which the employer knows or has reason to know is not accurate, the employer may disregard such exclusion in reporting the employee's gross income.

Q-8a: May an employer withhold amounts attributable to noncash fringe benefits on the basis of average wages as permitted under section 3402(h)(1)?

A-8a: In general, yes. In estimating wages under section 3402(h)(1)(A), however, the employer must take into account estimated business use of the benefit (such as an employer-provided road vehicle). In no event, however, may the amount reported by the employer as "wages" for any employee for any quarter be based on an estimation. However, the rules in Q/A-1 of this section regarding permissible delays in actual withholding apply.
