
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart F - General Provisions Relating to Employment Taxes (Chapter 25, Internal Revenue Code of 1954)
###### ยง 31.3507-1 Advance payments of earned income credit.
####### Election to treat excess amounts as advance tax payment.

(3)In lieu of reducing advance payments under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, an employer may elect under this paragraph (c)(3) to pay in full all advance earned income credit amounts. However, if no election is made, the employer is required to reduce advance amounts paid in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section. The election, if made, applies to all advance earned income credit amounts required to be paid for the payroll period. The employer reflects the election on the employer's Form 941, 941E, 942, or 943 as the case may be, and must specify (with supporting computations) the amount of the excess of advance amounts paid and the payroll period to which the excess relates. Separate elections may be made for separate payroll periods. The excess of advance amounts paid is treated as an advance payment by the employer of employment taxes described in paragraph (c)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section and due for the period reported on the Form 941, 941E, 942, or 943 which includes the payroll period during which the excess amounts were paid. The amount of the excess advance payment is applied to the amounts of the employer's liability-

(i) First, for income tax withholding due under section 3401 for the reporting period in which the payment is made;

(ii) Second, for employee FICA taxes due under section 3102 for the reporting period in which the payment is made; and

(iii) Third, for employer FICA taxes due under section 3111 for the reporting period in which the payment is made.
