
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart F - General Provisions Relating to Employment Taxes (Chapter 25, Internal Revenue Code of 1954)
###### ยง 31.3507-1 Advance payments of earned income credit.
####### Advance earned income credit amount.

(b)The advance earned income credit amount of an employee is determined, with respect to any payroll period, on the basis of the employee's wages from the employer for the period and in accordance with the advance amount tables prescribed by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue and then in effect for the payroll period. See, however, paragraph (c)(2) of this section. The advance amount paid is reflected on the employee's W-2 form as a separate item (and neither as a reduction of withholding nor an increase in compensation). For purposes of applying this section and ยง 31.3507-2, the term "payroll period" has the meaning set forth in section 3401(b) and the regulations thereunder. As required by section 3507(c)(2)(A), these advance amount tables must be similar in form to, and coordinated with, the tables prescribed under section 3402 (relating to income tax collected at the source). Sections 3507(c)(2)(B) and 3507(c)(2)(C) provide, respectively, separate rules for the treatment in the advance amount tables of the advance earned income credit of the following two separate classes of employees:

(1) Employees who are not married (within the meaning of section 143), or employees whose spouses do not have an earned income credit advance payment certificate in effect; and

(2) Employees whose spouses have an earned income credit advance payment certificate in effect.
