
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart F - General Provisions Relating to Employment Taxes (Chapter 25, Internal Revenue Code of 1954)
###### ยง 31.3507-2 Earned income credit advance payment certificates.
####### Invalid certificates.

(2)A Form W-5 does not meet the requirements of section 3507 or this section and is invalid if it is not completed or signed or contains an alteration or unauthorized addition (as defined in ยง 31.3402(f)(5)-1(b) (1) and (2)). Any earned income credit advance payment certificate which the employee clearly indicates to be false by oral statement or written statement to the employer must be treated by the employer as a certificate which is invalid as of the date of the employee's statement. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the term "employer" includes any individual authorized by the employer to receive earned income credit advance payment certificates or to make payroll distributions. If an employer receives from an employee an invalid certificate, the employer must consider it a nullity with respect to all payments of wages thereafter to the employee and must inform the employee of the certificate's invalidity. The employer is not required to ascertain whether any completed and signed earned income credit advance payment certificate is correct. However, the employer should inform the district director if the employer has reason to believe that the certificate contains any incorrect statement.
