
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart F - General Provisions Relating to Employment Taxes (Chapter 25, Internal Revenue Code of 1954)
###### ยง 31.3507-2 Earned income credit advance payment certificates.
####### Change of status,Revocation of certificate.

(2)-(i)If, after an employee has furnished an earned income credit advance payment certificate-

(A) The employee no longer wishes to receive advance earned income credit payments; or

(B) There has been a change of circumstances which has the effect of either making the employee ineligible for the earned income credit for the taxable year or causing a certificate to be in effect for the employee's spouse, then the employee must revoke the certificate previously furnished by furnishing the employer a new certificate (Form W-5 or identical form) in revocation of the earlier certificate. Depending upon the nature of the change of circumstances, the employer may be required, pursuant to the new certificate, to pay further advance earned income credit amounts to the employee (but in different amounts than previously paid to the employee). The Form W-5 (or identical form) must be prepared in accordance with the instructions applicable thereto and must set forth fully and clearly the data therein called for. In the case of revocation due to change of circumstances, the new certificate in revocation must be delivered to the employer within ten days after the employee first learns of the change of circumstances. The new certificate is effective under the rules provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section for later certificates. A new certificate furnished by an employee which is invalid within the meaning of paragraph (b)(2) of this section is considered a nullity with respect to all payments of wages thereafter to the employee. The prior certificate of the employee remains in effect, unless the employee clearly indicates by an oral or written statement to the employer that the prior certificate is invalid. See paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
