
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart G - Administrative Provisions of Special Application to Employment Taxes (Selected Provisions of Subtitle F, Internal Revenue Code of 1954)
###### § 31.6001-2 Additional records under Federal Insurance Contributions Act.
####### In general.

(a)(1) Every employer liable for tax under the Federal Insurance Contributions Act shall keep records of all remuneration, whether in cash or in a medium other than cash, paid to his employees after 1954 for services (other than agricultural labor which constitutes or is deemed to constitute employment, domestic service in a private home of the employer, or service not in the course of the employer's trade or business) performed for him after 1936. Such records shall show with respect to each employee receiving such remuneration-

(i) The name, address, and account number of the employee and such additional information with respect to the employee as is required by paragraph (c) of § 31.6011(b)-2 when the employee does not advise the employer what his account number and name are as shown on an account number card issued to the employee by the Social Security Administration.

(ii) The total amount and date of each payment of remuneration (including any sum withheld therefrom as tax or for any other reason) and the period of services covered by such payment.

(iii) The amount of each such remuneration payment which constitutes wages subject to tax. See §§ 31.3121(a)-1 to 31.3121(a)(12)-1, inclusive.

(iv) The amount of employee tax, or any amount equivalent to employee tax, collected with respect to such payment, and, if collected at a time other than the time such payment was made, the date collected. See paragraph (b) of § 31.3102-1 for provisions relating to collection of amounts equivalent to employee tax.

(v) If the total remuneration payment (paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section) and the amount thereof which is taxable (paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section) are not equal, the reason therefor.

(2) Every employer shall keep records of the details of each adjustment or settlement of taxes under the Federal Insurance Contributions Act made pursuant to the regulations in this part. The employer shall keep as a part of his records a copy of each statement furnished pursuant to paragraph (c) of § 31.6011(a)-1.

(3) Every employer shall keep records of all remuneration in the form of tips received by his employees after 1965 in the course of their employment and reported to him pursuant to section 6053(a). The employer shall keep as part of his records employee statements of tips furnished him pursuant to section 6053(a) (unless the information disclosed by such statements is recorded on another document retained by the employer pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section) and copies of employer statements furnished employees pursuant to section 6053(b).
