
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart G - Administrative Provisions of Special Application to Employment Taxes (Selected Provisions of Subtitle F, Internal Revenue Code of 1954)
###### ยง 31.6011(a)-2 Returns under Railroad Retirement Tax Act.
####### Pre-1976 returns of employers required by State law to pay compensation on weekly basis,In general.

(2)-(i)If any employer is required by the laws of any State to pay compensation weekly in any calendar year prior to 1976, the return of tax with respect to such compensation may, at the election of such employer, cover all payroll weeks which, or the major part of which, fall within the period for which a return of tax is required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section. This provision shall not apply, however, to any payroll week which falls in two calendar years. Any employer who elects to file a return as provided in this subparagraph shall notify the district director in writing of such election and shall include therein a statement setting forth the facts which entitle him to make the election. Such notice shall be in duplicate and shall be attached to the original and duplicate of the return for the first period to which such election applies. Any election so made shall be binding upon the employer with respect to all returns subsequently made by him until the director of the service center authorizes or directs the employer to make a return on a different basis. For the purpose of determining the time when compensation is deemed to be paid in accordance with paragraph (d) of ยง 31.3231(e)-1 and of determining the due date of a return in accordance with paragraph (b) of ยง 31.6071(a)-1, the calendar month following the period covered by the return of an employer making such election is the same calendar month which would be determinative for such purposes if the employer had not made the election.
