
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart G - Administrative Provisions of Special Application to Employment Taxes (Selected Provisions of Subtitle F, Internal Revenue Code of 1954)
###### § 31.6011(a)-6 Final returns.
####### In general,Federal Insurance Contributions Act; income tax withheld from wages and nonpayroll payments.

(a)-(1)An employer (or other person) who is required to make a return on a particular form pursuant to § 31.6011(a)-1, § 31.6011(a)-4, or § 31.6011(a)-5, and who in any return period ceases to pay wages or nonpayroll payments in respect of which he is required to make a return on that form, must make the return for the period as a final return. Each return made as a final return shall be marked "Final return" by the person filing the return. Every such person filing a final return (other than a final return on Form 942 or Form 943) must furnish information showing the date of the last payment of wages (as defined in section 3121(a) or section 3401(a)), and, if appropriate, the date of the last payment of nonpayroll payments defined in § 31.6011(a)-4(b). An employer (other than an employer making returns on Form 942) who has only temporarily ceased to pay wages, because of seasonal activities or for other reasons, shall not make a final return but shall continue to file returns. If (i) for any return period an employer makes a final return on a particular form, and (ii) after the close of such period the employer pays wages, as defined in section 3121(a) or section 3401(a), in respect of which the same or a different return form is prescribed, such employer shall make returns on the appropriate return form. For example, if an employer who has filed a final return on Form 941 pays wages only for domestic service in his private home not on a farm operated for profit, the employer is required to make returns on Form 942 in respect of such wages.
