
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart G - Administrative Provisions of Special Application to Employment Taxes (Selected Provisions of Subtitle F, Internal Revenue Code of 1954)
###### § 31.6011(a)-7 Execution of returns.
####### In general.

(a)Each return required under the regulations in this part, together with any prescribed copies or supporting data, shall be filled in and disposed of in accordance with the forms, instructions, and regulations applicable thereto. The return shall be carefully prepared so as fully and accurately to set forth the data required to be furnished therein. Returns which have not been so prepared will not be accepted as meeting the requirements of the regulations in this part. The return may be made by an agent in the name of the person required to make the return if an acceptable power of attorney is filed with the internal revenue office with which such person is required to file his returns and if such return includes all taxes required to be reported by such person on such return for the period covered by the return. Only one return on any one prescribed form for a return period shall be filed by or for a taxpayer. Any supplemental return made on such form in accordance with § 31.6205-1 shall constitute a part of the return which it supplements. Except as may be provided under procedures authorized by the Commissioner with respect ot taxes imposed by the Railroad Retirement Tax Act, consolidated returns of two or more employers are not permitted, as for example, returns of a parent and a subsidiary corporation. For provisions relating to the filing of returns of the taxes imposed by the Federal Insurance Contributions Act and of income tax withheld under section 3402 in the case of governmental employers see §§ 31.3122 and 31.3404-1.
