
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart G - Administrative Provisions of Special Application to Employment Taxes (Selected Provisions of Subtitle F, Internal Revenue Code of 1954)
###### § 31.6051-1 Statements for employees.
####### Expedited furnishing,General rule.

(ii)-(A)If an employer is required to make a final return under § 31.6011(a)-6(a)(1) (relating to the final return for Federal Insurance Contributions Act taxes and income tax withholding from wages) on Form 941, or a variation thereof, the employer must furnish the statement required by this section on or before the date required for filing the final return. See § 31.6071(a)-1(a)(1). However, if the final return under § 31.6011(a)-6(a)(1) is a monthly return, as described in § 31.6011(a)-5, the employer must furnish the statement required by this section on or before the last day of the month in which the final return is required to be filed. See § 31.6071(a)-1(a)(2). Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, in no event may an employer furnish the statement required by this section later than January 31 of the year succeeding the calendar year to which it relates. The requirements set forth in this paragraph (d)(1)(ii) do not apply to employers with respect to employees whose wages are for domestic service in the private home of the employer. See § 31.6011(a)-1(a)(3).
