
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart G - Administrative Provisions of Special Application to Employment Taxes (Selected Provisions of Subtitle F, Internal Revenue Code of 1954)
###### ยง 31.6051-1 Statements for employees.
####### Reporting of reimbursements of or payments of expenses of moving from one residence to another residence after July 23, 1971.

(e)Every employer who after July 23, 1971, makes reimbursement to, or payment to (other than direct cash reimbursement), an employee for his expenses of moving from one residence to another residence which is includable in gross income under section 82 shall furnish to the best of his ability to such employee information sufficient to assist the employee in the computation of any deduction allowable under section 217 with respect to such reimbursement or payment. The information required under this paragraph may be furnished on Form 4782 provided by the Internal Revenue Service or may be furnished on forms provided by the employer so long as the employee receives the same information he would have received had he been furnished with a completed Form 4782. The information shall include the amount of the reimbursement or payment and whether the reimbursement or payment was made directly to a third party for the benefit of an employee or furnished in kind to the employee. In addition, information shall be furnished as to whether the reimbursement or payment represents and expense described in subparagraphs (A) through (E) of section 217(b)(1), and if so, the amount and nature of the expenses described in each such subparagraph. The information described in this paragraph shall be furnished at the same time or before the written statement required by section 6051(a) is furnished in respect of the calendar year for which the information provided under this paragraph is required. The information required under this paragraph shall be provided for the taxable year in which the payment or reimbursement is received by the employee. For determining the taxable year in which a payment or reimbursement is received, see section 82 and ยง 1.82-1.
