
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart G - Administrative Provisions of Special Application to Employment Taxes (Selected Provisions of Subtitle F, Internal Revenue Code of 1954)
###### ยง 31.6051-3 Statements required in case of sick pay paid by third parties.
####### Information required to be furnished by employer.

(b)Every employer of a payee of sick pay who receives a statement under paragraph (a) from a payor of sick pay shall furnish to each payee of sick pay a written statement, which must be furnished on Form W-2. The written statement must contain the following information:

(1) All of the information required to be furnished under paragraph (a) of this section, but the employer may truncate the payee's social security number to appear in the form of a TTIN on copies of Forms W-2 that are furnished to the payee (for provisions relating to the use of TTINs, see ยง 301.6109-4 of this chapter (Procedure and Administration Regulations)).

(2) The name, the address, and the Employer Identification Number (EIN) of the employer,

(3) The words "sick pay", which shall be written in the box labelled "Employer's use", and

(4) If any portion of the sick pay is excludable from gross income under section 104(a)(3), the amount of the portion which is not so excludable and of the portion which is so excludable. Only sick pay payments includable in gross income shall be reported in the box labelled "Wages, tips, other compensation" on Form W-2. Any amount excludable from gross income under section 104(a)(3) shall be reported in the box labelled "Employer's use" on Form W-2 and any amount so reported shall be described as "Nontaxable". The information required to be furnished by this paragraph may be furnished either on the same Form W-2 that is required to be furnished under section 6051(a) or on a separate Form W-2. To the extent practicable, this statement should be furnished to the payee along with the statement (if any) required under section 6051(a) (relating to written statements for employees). The statement must be furnished to the payee on or before January 31 of the year following the calendar year in which any sick pay was paid. The employer shall file copy A of Form W-2 and Form W-3 with the Social Security Administration in accordance with section 6051(d) (relating to statements to constitute information returns) and the regulations thereunder.
