
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart G - Administrative Provisions of Special Application to Employment Taxes (Selected Provisions of Subtitle F, Internal Revenue Code of 1954)
###### ยง 31.6053-3 Reporting by certain large food or beverage establishments with respect to tips.
####### Large food or beverage establishment identification number.

(5)Each large food or beverage establishment shall have a unique identification number to be included on Form 8027 and any employer's application pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section. If an identification number is changed for any reason, for example if the establishment becomes a different "type" of establishment as described in paragraph (a)(5)(ii) of this section, or if the employer identification number changes, the employer shall notify the Service by including both the old and new identification numbers on the Form 8027 filed for the year in which the identification number was changed. An establishment identification number shall be determined as follows:

(i) The first nine digits shall be the employer's identification number (EIN).

(ii) The next digit shall identify the type of large food or beverage establishment, with the categories as follows:

(A) The number "1" signifies an establishment that serves evening meals only (with or without alcoholic beverages).

(B) The number "2" signifies an establishment that serves evening meals and other meals (with or without alcoholic beverages).

(C) The number "3" signifies an establishment that serves only meals other than evening meals (with or without alcoholic beverages).

(D) The number "4" signifies an establishment that serves food, if at all, as only an incidental part of the business of serving alcoholic beverages.
