
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart G - Administrative Provisions of Special Application to Employment Taxes (Selected Provisions of Subtitle F, Internal Revenue Code of 1954)
###### ยง 31.6053-3 Reporting by certain large food or beverage establishments with respect to tips.
####### Allocation method to be used in the absence of a good faith agreement.

(f)(1) In a case in which there is no good faith agreement in effect and the aggregate amount of tips reported pursuant to section 6053(a) with respect to a payroll period is less than 8 percent of the establishment's gross receipts for the payroll period, the employer shall allocate the difference as tips for purposes of section 6053(c) as provided in this paragraph. No allocations shall be made to indirectly tipped employees. An allocation shall be made to each directly tipped employee performing services for the establishment who has a reporting shortfall (as determined under paragraph (f)(1)(v) of this section) for the payroll period. The amount of each allocation shall be determined in the following manner:

(i) Multiply the amount of the establishment's gross receipts for the payroll period by 8 percent (0.08).

(ii) Determine the aggregate amount of tips reported for the payroll period by indirectly tipped employees.

(iii) Subtract from the amount determined under paragraph (f)(1)(i) the aggregate amount of tips reported by indirectly tipped employees as determined under paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section. The excess is the directly tipped employees' aggregate share of 8 percent of the gross receipts of the establishment for the payroll period.

(iv) For each directly tipped employee, multiply the amount determined under paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section by a fraction, the numerator of which is the amount of gross receipts of the establishment for the payroll period that is attributable to the employee and the denominator of which is the aggregate amount of gross receipts for the payroll period that is attributable to all directly tipped employees. The product is each directly tipped employee's share of 8 percent of the gross receipts of the establishment for the payroll period. The employer may determine the fraction described in the first sentence of this subparagraph by substituting for the numerator the number of hours worked by the directly tipped employee during the payroll period and by substituting for the denominator the number of hours worked by all directly tipped employees during the payroll period. For payroll periods beginning after December 31, 1986, the method of allocation described in the preceding sentence may be used only by an employer that employs less than the equivalent of 25 full-time employees (as defined in paragraph (j)(19) of this section) at the establishment during the payroll period.

(v) For each directly tipped employee, determine the excess, if any, of the amount determined under paragraph (f)(1)(iv) of this section over the amount reported as tips by the employee for the payroll period pursuant to section 6053(a). Such excess, if any, is the employee's shortfall for the payroll period.

(vi) Subtract from the amount determined under paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section the aggregate amount of tips reported pursuant to section 6053(a) by all directly and indirectly tipped employees for the payroll period. The excess is the amount to be allocated as tips among directly tipped employees who had a shortfall for the payroll period as determined under paragraph (f)(1)(v) of this section.

(vii) For each directly tipped employee who had a shortfall for the payroll period, multiply the amount determined under paragraph (f)(1)(vi) of this section by a fraction, the numerator of which is the amount of such employee's shortfall (determined under paragraph (f)(1)(v) of this section and the denominator of which is the aggregate of all shortfalls for the payroll period for all directly tipped employees. The product is the employee's allocation for the payroll period.

(2) The provisions of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:
