
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart G - Administrative Provisions of Special Application to Employment Taxes (Selected Provisions of Subtitle F, Internal Revenue Code of 1954)
###### ยง 31.6053-3 Reporting by certain large food or beverage establishments with respect to tips.
####### Employer not liable to employees for allocations.

(2)An employer who makes allocations (as tips for purposes of the requirements of section 6053(c) and this section) among such employer's employees in accordance with paragraph (d) and either paragraph (e) or (f) of this section shall not be liable to any employee if any amount is improperly allocated. However, if an employee's total tip allocations for a calendar year as reported on Form W-2 varies from the correct allocation amount by more than 5 percent of the correct allocation amount, the employer shall adjust such employee's allocation. If such an adjustment of an employee's allocation is required, the employer shall also review all tips allocations made to other employees in the same establishment to assure that the error did not distort other allocated amounts by more than 5 percent. Any adjustments made for variances of more than 5 percent shall be reflected in amended W-2's issued to the affected employees. Tip allocations made under this section shall have no effect on the withholding responsibilities of the employer under subtitle C of the Code. Withholding on tips is authorized only with respect to amounts of tips reported to employers by employees under section 6053(a).
