
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart G - Administrative Provisions of Special Application to Employment Taxes (Selected Provisions of Subtitle F, Internal Revenue Code of 1954)
###### ยง 31.6053-3 Reporting by certain large food or beverage establishments with respect to tips.
####### Employee petitions.

(iii)(A) In the case of employee-originated petitions, a majority of the employees of an establishment must consent to the petition. A majority for purposes of this paragraph is more than one-half of all the directly tipped employees (within the meaning of paragraph (j)(12) of this section) employed by the establishment at the time the petition is filed. In the case of a single petition for certain multi-establishment employers (see paragraph (h)(4) of this section), more than one-half of the aggregate directly tipped employees (at the time the petition is filed) of the establishments covered by the petition must consent. The petition filed with the district director must state the total number of directly tipped employees employed by the establishment (or establishments) and the number of the directly tipped employees consenting to the petition.

(B) The petitioning employees have the burden of supplying sufficient information to allow the district director to estimate with reasonable accuracy the actual tip rate of the establishment to the extent they possess such information. If the employer possesses relevant information, the employer must provide such information to the district director upon the request of the petitioning employees or district director. Employees who file a petition under this paragraph must promptly notify their employer of the petition. Promptly upon receipt of such notification, their employer must submit to the district director copies of the Form 8027 (if any) filed for the establishment for the 3 immediately preceding calendar years. Any information supplied by the employer during the petitioning process constitutes return information (as defined in section 6103(b)(2)) which shall not be disclosed by the Internal Revenue Service (except as provided in section 6103) to any employees of the employer or to representatives of such employees.
