
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart G - Administrative Provisions of Special Application to Employment Taxes (Selected Provisions of Subtitle F, Internal Revenue Code of 1954)
###### ยง 31.6053-3 Reporting by certain large food or beverage establishments with respect to tips.
####### More than 10 employees on a typical business day.

(9)An employer shall be considered to have normally employed more than 10 employees on a typical business day during a calendar year if one-half of the sum of the average number of employee hours worked per business day during the calendar month in which the aggregate gross receipts from food or beverage operations were the greatest plus the average number of employee hours worked per business day during the calendar month in which the aggregate gross receipts from food or beverage operations were the least, is greater than 80 hours. The average number of employee hours worked per business day during a month shall be computed by dividing the total number of hours worked during the month by all employees of the employer who are employed in a food or beverage operation by the average of the number of days during the month that each food or beverage operation at which such employees worked was open for business. If an employer operates both a food or beverage operation and a nonfood or beverage operation, and one or more of his or her employees work for both operations, the employer may make a good faith estimate of the number of hours such employees worked for each operation in a given month. Similarly, in cases where one or more of an employer's employees work for more than one of such employer's food or beverage operations, a good faith estimate may be made of the number of hours such employees worked for each operation in a given month. For purposes of this subparagraph, employees who are employed in a food or beverage operation include all employees of the operation, not just food or beverage employees. The employees of an employer shall include all employees at all food or beverage operations who, along with the employees of such employer, would be treated as employees of a single employer under section 52 (a) or (b) (as in effect on September 3, 1982) and the regulations thereunder. For example, if an employer at a food or beverage operation is a member of a controlled group of corporations, then all employees of all corporations which are members of such controlled group of corporations shall be treated as employed by each such employer for purposes of this paragraph. However, an individual who owns 50 percent or more in value of the stock of a corporation operating an establishment shall not be treated as an employee of any establishment owned by the corporation.
