
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart G - Administrative Provisions of Special Application to Employment Taxes (Selected Provisions of Subtitle F, Internal Revenue Code of 1954)
###### ยง 31.6053-3 Reporting by certain large food or beverage establishments with respect to tips.
####### Less than the equivalent of 25 full-time employees.

(19)For purposes of paragraph (f)(1)(iv) of this section, an employer shall be considered to employ less than the equivalent of 25 full-time employees at an establishment during a payroll period (as defined in section 3401(b) and the regulations thereunder) if the average number of employee hours worked per business day during a payroll period is less than 200 hours. The average number of employee hours worked per business day during a payroll period shall be computed by dividing the total number of hours worked during the period by all employees of the employer who are employed in a food or beverage operation by the average of the number of days during the period that each food or beverage operation at which such employees worked was open for business. If an employer operates both a food or beverage operation and a nonfood or beverage operation, and one or more of his employees work for both operations, the employer may make a good faith estimate of the number of hours such employees worked for each operation in a given payroll period. Similarly, in cases where one or more of an employer's employees work for more than one of such employer's food or beverage operations, a good faith estimate may be made of the number of hours such employees worked for each operation in a given payroll period. If there is more than one payroll period for the establishment, the payroll period which is used for the greatest number of employees shall be the payroll period for purposes of this paragraph (j)(19). For purposes of this paragraph (j)(19), employees who are employed in a food or beverage operation include all employees of the operation, not just food or beverage employees. The employees of an employer shall include all employees at all food or beverage operations who, along with the employees of such employer, would be treated as employees of a single employer under section 52 (a) or (b) (as in effect on September 3, 1982) and the regulations thereunder. For example, if an employer at a food or beverage operation is a member of a controlled group of corporations, then all employees of all corporations which are members of such controlled group of corporations shall be treated as employed by each such employer for purposes of this paragraph.
