
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart G - Administrative Provisions of Special Application to Employment Taxes (Selected Provisions of Subtitle F, Internal Revenue Code of 1954)
###### ยง 31.6053-4 Substantiation requirements for tipped employees.
####### Substantiation of tip income,In general.

(a)-(1)An employee shall maintain sufficient evidence to establish the amount of tip income received by the employee during a taxable year. A daily record maintained by the employee (as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section) shall constitute sufficient evidence. If the employee does not maintain a daily record, other evidence of the amount of tip income received during the year, such as documentary evidence (as described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section), shall constitute sufficient evidence, but only if such other evidence is as credible and as reliable as a daily record. The Commissioner may by revenue ruling, procedure or other guidance of general applicability provide for other methods of demonstrating evidence of tip income. However, notwithstanding any other provision of this paragraph (a) (1), a daily record or other evidence that is as credible and as reliable as a daily record may not be sufficient evidence if there are facts or circumstances which indicate that the employee received a larger amount of tip income. Moreover, oral statements of the employee, without corroboration, cannot constitute sufficient evidence.
