
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart G - Administrative Provisions of Special Application to Employment Taxes (Selected Provisions of Subtitle F, Internal Revenue Code of 1954)
###### ยง 31.6053-4 Substantiation requirements for tipped employees.
####### Daily record.,Employee's Daily Record of Tips,

(2)The daily record shall state the employee's name and address, the employer's name, and the establishment's name. The daily record shall show for each work day the amount of cash tips and charge tips received directly from customers or from other employees, and the amount of tips, if any, paid out to other employees through tip sharing, tip pooling or other arrangements and the names of such employees. The record shall also show the date that each entry is made. Form 4070A,may be used to maintain such daily record. In addition, an electronic system maintained by the employer that collects substantially similar information as Form 4070A may be used to maintain such daily record, provided the employee receives and maintains a paper copy of the daily record. The daily record of tips received by an employee shall be prepared and maintained in such manner that each entry is made on or near the date the tip income is received. A daily record made on or near the date the tip income is received has a high degree of credibility not present with respect to a record prepared subsequent thereto when generally there is a lack of accurate recall. An entry is made "near the date the tip income is received" if the required information with respect to tips received and paid out by the employee for the day is recorded at a time when the employee has full present knowledge of those receipts and payments.
