
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart G - Administrative Provisions of Special Application to Employment Taxes (Selected Provisions of Subtitle F, Internal Revenue Code of 1954)
###### ยง 31.6081(a)-1 Extensions of time for filing returns and other documents.
####### Federal Unemployment Tax Act.

(b)The Commissioner may, upon application of the employer, grant a reasonable extension of time (not to exceed 90 days) in which to file any return required in respect of the Federal Unemployment Tax Act. Any application for an extension of time for filing the return shall be in writing, properly signed by the employer or his duly authorized agent. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of ยง 301.6091-1 (relating to hand-carried documents), each application shall be addressed to the internal revenue officer with whom the employer will file the return. Each application shall contain a full recital of the reasons for requesting the extension, to aid such officer in determining the period of the extension, if any, which will be granted. Such a request in the form of a letter to such internal revenue officer will suffice as an application. The application shall be filed on or before the due date prescribed in paragraph (c) of ยง 31.6071(a)-1 for filing the return, or on or before the date prescribed for filing the return in any prior extension granted. An extension of time for filing a return does not operate to extend the time for payment of the tax or any part thereof.
