
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart G - Administrative Provisions of Special Application to Employment Taxes (Selected Provisions of Subtitle F, Internal Revenue Code of 1954)
###### ยง 31.6302-1 Deposit rules for taxes under the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) and withheld income taxes.
####### Lookback period,In general.

(4)-(i)For employers who file Form 941, "Employer's QUARTERLY Federal Tax Return," (or any related Spanish-language returns or returns for U.S. possessions) the lookback period for each calendar year is the twelve month period ended the preceding June 30. For example, the lookback period for calendar year 2006 is the period July 1, 2004, to June 30, 2005. The lookback period for employers who file Form 944, "Employer's ANNUAL Federal Tax Return," or filed Form 944 (or any related Spanish-language returns or returns for U.S. possessions) for either of the two previous calendar years, is the second calendar year preceding the current calendar year. For example, the lookback period for calendar year 2006 is calendar year 2004. In determining status as either a monthly or semi-weekly depositor, an employer should determine the aggregate amount of employment tax liabilities reported on its return(s) (Forms 941 or Form 944) for the lookback period. The amount of employment tax liabilities reported for the lookback period is the amount the employer reported on either Forms 941 or Form 944 even if the employer is required to file the other form for the current calendar year. New employers shall be treated as having employment tax liabilities of zero for any part of the lookback period before the date the employer started or acquired its business.
