
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart G - Administrative Provisions of Special Application to Employment Taxes (Selected Provisions of Subtitle F, Internal Revenue Code of 1954)
###### ยง 31.6302-1 Deposit rules for taxes under the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) and withheld income taxes.
####### Applicability of requirement,Deposits for return periods beginning before January 1, 2000.

(2)-(i)(A) Taxpayers whose aggregate deposits of the taxes imposed by Chapters 21 (Federal Insurance Contributions Act), 22 (Railroad Retirement Tax Act), and 24 (Collection of Income Tax at Source on Wages) of the Internal Revenue Code during a 12-month determination period exceed the applicable threshold amount are required to deposit all depository taxes described in paragraph (h)(3) of this section by electronic funds transfer (as defined in paragraph (h)(4) of this section) unless exempted under paragraph (h)(5) of this section. If the applicable effective date is January 1, 1995, or January 1, 1996, the requirement to deposit by electronic funds transfer applies to all deposits required to be made on or after the applicable effective date. If the applicable effective date is July 1, 1997, the requirement to deposit by electronic funds transfer applies to all deposits required to be made on or after July 1, 1997 with respect to deposit obligations incurred for return periods beginning on or after January 1, 1997. If the applicable effective date is January 1, 1998, or thereafter, the requirement to deposit by electronic funds transfer applies to all deposits required to be made with respect to deposit obligations incurred for return periods beginning on or after the applicable effective date. In general, each applicable effective date has one 12-month determination period. However, for the applicable effective date January 1, 1996, there are two determination periods. If the applicable threshold amount is exceeded in either of those determination periods, the taxpayer becomes subject to the requirement to deposit by electronic funds transfer, effective January 1, 1996. The threshold amounts, determination periods and applicable effective dates for purposes of this paragraph (h)(2)(i)(A) are as follows:

(B) Unless exempted under paragraph (h)(5) of this section, a taxpayer that does not deposit any of the taxes imposed by chapters 21, 22, and 24 during the applicable determination periods set forth in paragraph (h)(2)(i)(A) of this section, but that does make deposits of other depository taxes (as described in paragraph (h)(3) of this section), is nevertheless subject to the requirement to deposit by electronic funds transfer if the taxpayer's aggregate deposits of all depository taxes exceed the threshold amount set forth in this paragraph (h)(2)(i)(B) during an applicable 12-month determination period. This requirement to deposit by electronic funds transfer applies to all depository taxes due with respect to deposit obligations incurred for return periods beginning on or after the applicable effective date. The threshold amount, determination periods, and applicable effective dates for purposes of this paragraph (h)(2)(i)(B) are as follows:

(C) This paragraph (h)(2)(i) applies only to deposits required to be made for return periods beginning before January 1, 2000. Thus, a taxpayer, including a taxpayer that is required under this paragraph (h)(2)(i) to make deposits by electronic funds transfer beginning in 1999 or an earlier year, is not required to use electronic funds transfer to make deposits for return periods beginning after December 31, 1999, unless deposits by electronic funds transfer are required under paragraph (h)(2)(ii) of this section.
