
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart G - Administrative Provisions of Special Application to Employment Taxes (Selected Provisions of Subtitle F, Internal Revenue Code of 1954)
###### ยง 31.6413(c)-1 Special refunds.
####### Employees of certain foreign corporations.

(4)For purposes of special refunds of employee tax, the term "wages" includes such remuneration for services covered by an agreement made pursuant to section 3121(l), relating to agreements for coverage of employees of certain foreign corporations, as would be wages if such services constituted employment (see ยง 31.3121(a)-1, relating to wages); the term "employer" includes any domestic corporation which has entered into an agreement pursuant to section 3121(l); and the term "tax" or "tax imposed by section 3101" includes, in the case of services covered by an agreement entered into pursuant to section 3121(l), an amount equivalent to the employee tax which would be imposed by section 3101 if such services constituted employment. The provisions of paragraph (a)(1) of this section are applicable whether or not any amount deducted from the employee's remuneration by reason of such agreement has been paid to the district director. Thus, the special refund provisions are applicable to amounts equivalent to employee tax deducted from employees' remuneration by reason of agreements made under section 3121(l). A domestic corporation which enters into an agreement pursuant to section 3121(l) shall, for purposes of this paragraph, be considered an employer in its capacity as a party to such agreement separate and distinct from its identity as an employer employing individuals on its own account (see section 3121(l)(9)). If during any calendar year an employee receives remuneration for services covered by such an agreement and during the same calendar year receives wages for services in employment, the total amount of such remuneration and wages shall be taken into account for purposes of the special refund provisions. For provisions relating to agreements entered into under section 3121(l), see the regulations in part 36 of this chapter (Regulations on Contract Coverage of Employees of Foreign Subsidiaries).
