
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 31 - EMPLOYMENT TAXES AND COLLECTION OF INCOME TAX AT SOURCE
##### Subpart G - Administrative Provisions of Special Application to Employment Taxes (Selected Provisions of Subtitle F, Internal Revenue Code of 1954)
###### ยง 31.6413(c)-1 Special refunds.
####### Form of claim.

(2)Each claim for special refund under this section shall be made on Form 843, in accordance with the regulations in this subpart and the instructions relating to such form. In the case of a claim filed prior to April 15, 1968, the claim shall be filed with the district director for the internal revenue district in which the employee resides or, if the employee does not reside in any internal revenue district, with the District Director, Baltimore, Md. 21202. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of ยง 301.6091-1 (relating to hand-carried documents), in the case of a claim filed after April 14, 1968, the claim shall be filed with the service center serving such internal revenue district. However, in the case of an employee who does not reside in any internal revenue district and who is outside the United States, the claim shall be filed with the Director of International Operations, U.S. Internal Revenue Service, Washington, D.C. 20225, unless the employee resides in Puerto Rico or the Virgin Islands, in which case the claim shall be filed with the Director of International Operations, U.S. Internal Revenue Service, Hato Rey, P.R. 00917. The claim shall include the employee's account number and the following information with respect to each employer from whom he received wages during the calendar year: (i) The name and address of such employer, (ii) the amount of wages received during the calendar year to which the claim relates, and (iii) the amount of employee tax collected by the employer from the employee with respect to such wages. Other information may be required but should be submitted only upon request.
