
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 35a - TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT TAX REGULATIONS UNDER THE INTEREST AND DIVIDEND TAX COMPLIANCE ACT OF 1983
##### ยง 35a.3406-2 Imposition of backup withholding for notified payee underreporting of reportable interest or dividend payments.
###### Notice from payors of backup withholding due to a payee underreporting,In general.

(c)-(1)A payor is required under section 3406(c)(4) to notify the payee in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section that backup withholding has begun because of a notified payee underreporting. Payors who are notified by a broker that a payee is subject to backup withholding under section 3406(a)(1)(C) are also required to send the notice in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section. As a result, the notice requirements provided in A-39 of ยง 35a.9999-1 and in the appendix to ยง 35a.9999-2 shall not apply to those payors notified by a broker that a payee is subject to backup withholding under section 3406(a)(1)(C). The payor must send the notice required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section to the payee no later than 15 days after the date that the payor makes the first payment subject to backup withholding under section 3406(a)(1)(C). The payor must send the notice of backup withholding by first-class mail to the payee at his last known address. Rules similar to the rules in A-17, A-18, A-19, and A-20 of ยง 35a.9999-1 shall apply to the requirement to provide notice by first-class mail.
