
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 36 - CONTRACT COVERAGE OF EMPLOYEES OF FOREIGN SUBSIDIARIES
##### § 36.3121(l)(3)-1 Termination of agreement by domestic corporation or by reason of change in stock ownership.
###### Termination by reason of change in stock ownership.

(b)(1) The period for which an agreement entered into by a domestic corporation as provided in § 36.3121(l)(1)-1 is in effect with respect to a foreign corporation is automatically terminated at the end of the calendar quarter in which the foreign corporation ceases, at any time in such quarter, to be a foreign subsidiary of the domestic corporation. See § 36.3121(l)(8)-1, relating to definition of foreign subsidiary.

(2) A domestic corporation which has entered into an agreement as provided in § 36.3121(l)(1)-1 shall furnish (for calendar quarters beginning before 1969, to the district director for the internal revenue district in which is located its principal place of business in the United States; and for calendar quarters beginning after 1968, except as provided in paragraph (b) of § 301.6091-1 (relating to hand-carried documents) to the director of the service center serving such internal revenue district) written notification in the event that a foreign corporation named in the agreement, including any amendment thereof, as a foreign subsidiary of the domestic corporation ceases to be its foreign subsidiary. The written notification shall be furnished in duplicate on or before the last day of the first month following the close of the calendar quarter in which the foreign corporation ceases, at any time in such quarter, to be a foreign subsidiary of the domestic corporation. Such notification shall be signed and dated by the president or other principal officer of the domestic corporation. The written notification shall show (i) the title of the officer signing the notice, (ii) the name, address, and identification number of the domestic corporation, (iii) the internal revenue officer with whom the agreement was entered into, (iv) the date on which the agreement was entered into, (v) the name and address of the foreign corporation with respect to which the notification is furnished, and (vi) the date on which the foreign corporation ceased to be a foreign subsidiary of the domestic corporation. No particular form is prescribed for the written notification. The Internal Revenue Service will transmit one copy of the written notification to the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare.
