
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter C - Employment Taxes and Collection of Income Tax at Source
#### PART 36 - CONTRACT COVERAGE OF EMPLOYEES OF FOREIGN SUBSIDIARIES
##### ยง 36.3121(l)(7)-1 Overpayments and underpayments.
###### Adjustments,In general.

(a)-(1)Errors in the payment of amounts for which liability equivalent to the employee and employer taxes with respect to any payment of remuneration is incurred by a domestic corporation pursuant to its agreement are adjustable by the domestic corporation in certain cases without interest. However, not all corrections made under this section constitute adjustments within the meaning of the regulations in this part. The various situations in which such corrections constitute adjustments are set forth in paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section. All corrections in respect of underpayments and all adjustments or credits in respect of overpayments made under this section must be reported on a return filed by the domestic corporation under the regulations in this part and not on a return filed with respect to the employee and employer taxes imposed by sections 3101 and 3111, respectively. Every return on which such a correction (by adjustment, credit, or otherwise) is reported pursuant to this section must have securely attached as a part thereof a statement explaining the error in respect of which the correction is made, designating the calendar quarter in which the error was ascertained, and setting forth such other information as would be required if the correction were in respect of an overpayment or underpayment of taxes under the Federal Insurance Contributions Act. An error is ascertained when the domestic corporation has sufficient knowledge of the error to be able to correct it. An underpayment may not be corrected under this section after receipt from the district director or director of the service center of written notification of the amount due and demand for payment thereof, but the amount shall be paid in accordance with such notification.
