
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 41 - EXCISE TAX ON USE OF CERTAIN HIGHWAY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart B - Tax on Use of Certain Highway Motor Vehicles
###### ยง 41.4481-2 Persons liable for tax.
####### Evidence of prior use of second-hand vehicle.

(b)Every person who, at any time in the taxable period, acquires and has registered in his name a secondhand highway motor vehicle shall obtain and keep as a part of his records evidence, which he believes to be true, showing whether there was or was not a taxable use of such vehicle at any time in such taxable period prior to the time when the vehicle was registered in his name. Such person shall also obtain and keep as evidence a statement from the transferor as to whether there was in effect, at the time the vehicle was acquired, a suspension under ยง 41.4483-3(a) of the tax imposed by section 4481(a). The evidence may take the form of a written statement, signed and dated by the person from whom the vehicle was acquired, showing whether there was or was not a prior taxable use of the vehicle and whether there was a suspension of tax in the taxable period. If the vehicle is acquired from a dealer in highway motor vehicles, the statement may be obtained from such dealer or from the person from whom the dealer acquired such vehicle. If evidence is not obtained showing whether there was or was not a prior taxable use of such vehicle and whether there was a suspension of tax in the taxable period, such person shall keep as a part of his records a written statement of the reason why he was unable to obtain such evidence. For provisions relating to penalties for aiding and abetting an understatement of tax liability, see section 6701 of the Internal Revenue Code.
