
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 41 - EXCISE TAX ON USE OF CERTAIN HIGHWAY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart B - Tax on Use of Certain Highway Motor Vehicles
###### ยง 41.4483-2 Exemption for certain transit-type buses.
####### Test period.

(c)(1) In the case of any person who is engaged in the operation of a transit system at any time in the calendar quarter immediately preceding July 1 of any taxable period, the test period for such system for such taxable period shall be such calendar quarter. However, if passenger fare revenue from scheduled service described in paragraph (e) of this section was derived on less than 30 days during such calendar quarter from operation of such system, the test period for such system for such taxable period shall be the last preceding test period for such system. If such system has no preceding test period, then the test period for such system for such taxable period shall be the calendar quarter beginning with July 1 of such taxable period.

(2) Except as otherwise provided in subparagraph (3) of this paragraph, in the case of any person who commences operation of a transit system at any time on or after July 1 of any taxable period the test period for such system for that part of such taxable period beginning with the first day on which such operation was commenced shall be the calendar quarter in which falls such first day. However, if passenger fare revenue from scheduled service described in paragraph (e) of this section was derived on less than 30 days during such calendar quarter from operation of such system, the test period for such system for such taxable period shall be the following calendar quarter.

(3) In the case of any person who commences operation of a transit system at any time in the last calendar quarter to which the tax imposed by section 4481 applies, such last calendar quarter shall be the test period for such transit system regardless of the number of days in which passenger fare revenue is derived in such calendar quarter.
