
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 41 - EXCISE TAX ON USE OF CERTAIN HIGHWAY MOTOR VEHICLES
##### Subpart C - Administrative Provisions of Special Application to Tax On Use of Certain Highway Motor Vehicles
###### ยง 41.6001-1 Records.
####### Records to be kept.

(a)Every person in whose name a highway motor vehicle having a taxable gross weight of at least 55,000 pounds is registered or required to be registered at any time during the taxable period shall keep records sufficient to enable the Commissioner to determine whether such person is liable for the tax and, if so, the amount thereof. See ยง 41.4482(b)-1 for the definition of taxable gross weight. Such records shall show with respect to each such vehicle:

(1) A description of the vehicle (including serial number or manufacturer's number) in sufficient detail to permit positive identification of the vehicle.

(2) The weight of the loads carried by the vehicle in such form as is required under the laws of any State in which the vehicle is registered or required to be registered, in order to permit verification of such vehicle's taxable gross weight.

(3) The date on which such person acquired such vehicle and the name and address of the person from whom the vehicle was acquired.

(4) The first month of each taxable period in which occurred a taxable use of each such vehicle while the vehicle was registered in the name of such person; information showing whether such vehicle was operated, while registered in the name of such person, in any prior month in such taxable period; and if such vehicle was so operated, evidence establishing that such operation was not a taxable use.

(5) The date of sale or other transfer to another of any such vehicle, together with the name and address of the person to whom transferred.

(6) In the case of any such vehicle disposed of otherwise than by sale or other transfer (including disposition by theft or destruction), the date and method of disposition of the vehicle.

(7) In the case of a secondhand highway motor vehicle acquired at any time in the taxable period, evidence showing whether there was a prior taxable use in such taxable period of the highway motor vehicle (see paragraph (b) of ยง 41.4481-2) or whether there was a suspension of tax in effect (see ยง 41.4483-3).

(8) A copy of each return, schedule, statement, or other document filed, pursuant to the regulations in this part or in accordance with the instructions applicable to any form prescribed thereunder, by the person required to keep such records.
