
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 44 - TAXES ON WAGERING; EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 1955
##### Subpart C - Occupational Tax
###### ยง 44.4412-1 Registration.
####### Information to be reported on Form 11-C.

(b)(1) Every person required to make a return on Form 11-C shall report thereon his full name and place of residence. A person doing business under an alias, style, or trade name shall give his true name, followed by his alias, style, or trade name. In the case of a partnership, association, firm, or company, other than a corporation, the style or trade name shall be given, also the true name of each member and his place of residence. In the case of a corporation, the true name and title of each officer and his place of residence shall be shown.

(2) Each person engaged in the business of accepting wagers on his own account shall report on Form 11-C the name and address of each place where such business will be conducted and the name, address, and number appearing on the special (occupational) stamp of each agent or employee who may receive wagers on his behalf. Thereafter, a return shall be filed on Form 11-C, marked "Supplemental", each time an additional employee or agent is engaged to receive wagers. Such supplemental return shall be filed not later than 10 days after the date such additional employee or agent is engaged to receive wagers and shall show the name, address, and number appearing on the special (occupational) stamp of each such agent or employee. As to a change of address, see ยง 44.4905-2.

(3) Each agent or employee who receives wagers for or on behalf of a person engaged in the business of accepting wagers on his own account shall report on Form 11-C the name and residence address of each person (i.e., individual, partnership, corporation, etc.) on whose behalf wagers are to be received. Thereafter, the agent or employee shall file a return on Form 11-C, marked "Supplemental", each time he is engaged or employed to receive wagers for a person or persons other than the person or persons previously reported on Form 11-C. Such supplemental return shall be filed not later than 10 days after the date he is engaged to receive wagers and shall show the name, business address, or, if none, the residence address of the person or persons by whom he is engaged to receive wagers. As to a change of address, see ยง 44.4905-2.
