
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 44 - TAXES ON WAGERING; EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 1955
##### Subpart D - Miscellaneous and General Provisions Applicable to Taxes on Wagering
###### General Provisions Relating to Occupational Taxes
####### ยง 44.4901-1 Payment of special tax.
######## Computation of special tax.

(b)(1) Section 4411 imposes a special tax of $50 per year which is required to be paid by each person who is liable for the tax imposed by section 4401 (tax on wagers) or who is engaged in receiving wagers for or on behalf of any person who is liable for the tax imposed by section 4401. A person engaged both in accepting wagers on his own account and in receiving wagers for or on behalf of some other person is required to purchase but one special tax stamp.

(2) The tax year begins July 1 and ends June 30 of the following calendar year. Persons commencing business between August 1 and June 30 (both dates inclusive) shall pay a proportionate part of the annual tax. "Commencing business" means the initial acceptance by a person of a wager subject to the tax imposed by section 4401 or the initial receiving of a taxable wager by an agent or employee for or on behalf of some other person. Persons in business for only a portion of a month are liable for tax for the full month, i.e., a person first becoming subject to the special tax on, for example, the 20th day of a month, is liable for tax for the entire month.
