
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 48 - MANUFACTURERS AND RETAILERS EXCISE TAXES
##### Subpart F - Special Fuels
###### § 48.4041-6 Application of tax on use of taxable liquid fuel.
####### In general,Diesel fuel.

(a)-(1)(i) If, before April 1, 1983, a person acquires any diesel fuel by any means other than through a transaction subject to tax under section 4041(a)(1) and uses it as a fuel in a diesel powered highway vehicle, the person is liable for a tax under section 4041(a)(2) on the quantity of diesel fuel so used at the appropriate rate set forth in § 48.4041-1(b)(1)(i). If a person acquired any diesel fuel through a transaction which is subject to tax at the rate set forth in paragraph (b)(1)(i) (C) or (D) of § 48.4041-1, and uses it for a use described in paragraph (b) (1) (i) (A) or (B) of § 48.4041-1 the person is liable for an additional tax uder section 4041(a)(2) on the quantity of diesel fuel so used. See § 48.4041-1(b)(1)(i)(E), (F), or (G) for the applicable rate of tax. See section 6427(a) for credit or refund of tax where diesel fuel acquired in a transaction subject to tax at the rate set forth in paragraph (b)(1)(i) (A) or (B) of § 48.4041-1 is used as described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) (C) or (D) of § 48.4041-1 or in a nontaxable use.

(ii) On or after April 1, 1983, and before August 1, 1984, if a person acquires any diesel fuel by any means other than through a transaction subject to tax under section 4041(a)(1)(A) and uses it as a fuel in a diesel-powered highway vehicle, the person is liable for a tax under section 4041(a)(1)(B) on the quantity of diesel fuel so used at the appropriate rate set forth in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of § 48.4041-1. If a person acquired any diesel fuel through a transaction for which no tax is imposed by reason of paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(C) of § 48.4041-1 and uses it in other than a nontaxable use, the person is liable for a tax under section 4041(a)(1)(B) on the quantity of fuel so used. See paragraph (b)(1)(ii) (D) or (E) of § 48.4041-1 for the applicable rate of tax. See section 6427(a) for credit or refund of tax where diesel fuel acquired in a transaction subject to tax at the rate set forth in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) of § 48.4041-1 is used as described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(C) of § 48.4041-1 or in another nontaxable use.

(iii) On or after August 1, 1984, and before October 1, 1988, if a person acquires any diesel fuel by any means other than through a transaction subject to tax under section 4041(a)(1)(A) and uses it as a fuel in a diesel-powered highway vehicle, the person is liable for a tax under section 4041(a)(1)(B) on the quantity of diesel fuel so used at the appropriate rate set forth in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of § 48.4041-1. If a person acquired any diesel fuel through a transaction for which no tax is imposed by reason of paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(C) of § 48.4041-1 and uses it in other than a nontaxable use, the person is liable for a tax under section 4041(a)(1)(B) on the quantity of fuel so used. See paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(D) of § 48.4041-1 for the applicable rate of tax. See section 6427(a) for credit or refund of tax where diesel fuel acquired in a transaction subject to tax at the rate set forth in paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(A) of § 48.4041-1 is used as described in paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(C) of § 48.4041-1 or in another nontaxable use.
