
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 48 - MANUFACTURERS AND RETAILERS EXCISE TAXES
##### Subpart F - Special Fuels
###### § 48.4041-6 Application of tax on use of taxable liquid fuel.
####### Special motor fuel.

(2)(i) On or after January 1, 1979, and before April 1, 1983, if a person acquired any special motor fuel by any means other than through a transaction subject to tax under section 4041(b)(1) and uses it as a fuel in a motor vehicle or motorboat, the person is liable for a tax under section 4041(b)(2) on the quantity of special motor fuel so used at the appropriate rate set forth in § 48.4041-1(b)(2)(i). If a person acquired any special motor fuel through a transaction with is subject to a tax at the rate set forth in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C) of § 48.4041-1 and uses it in a use other than one for which the reduced rate applies, the person is liable for an additional tax under section 4041(b)(2) on the quantity of special motor fuel so used. See § 48.4041-1(b)(2)(i) (D) or (E) for the applicable rate of tax. See section 6427(a) for credit or refund of tax where special motor fuel acquired in a transaction subject to tax at the rate set forth in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of § 48.4041-1 is used for a purpose described in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C) of § 48.4041-1 or in a nontaxable use.

(ii) On or after April 1, 1983, and before October 1, 1988, if a person acquired any special motor fuel by any means other than through a transaction subject to tax under section 4041(a)(2)(A) and uses it as a fuel in a motor vehicle or motorboat, the person is liable for a tax under section 4041(a)(2)(B) on the quantity of spcial motor fuel so used at the appropriate rate set forth in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of § 48.4041-1. If a person acquired any special motor fuel through a transaction for which no tax is imposed by reason of paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(C) of § 48.4041-1 and uses it in other than a nontaxable use, the person is liable for a tax under section 4041(a)(2)(B) on the quantity of fuel so used. See paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(D) of § 48.4041-1 for the applicable rate of tax. See section 6427(a) for credit or refund of tax where special motor fuel acquired in a transaction subject to tax at the rate set forth in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) of § 48.4041-1 is used for a purpose described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(C) of § 48.4041-1 or in another nontaxable use.
