
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 48 - MANUFACTURERS AND RETAILERS EXCISE TAXES
##### Subpart F - Special Fuels
###### ยง 48.4041-10 Exemption for use as supplies for vessels or aircraft.
####### Evidence required to establish exemption.

(b)(1) In order to establish exemption from tax in the case of a sale of fuels for use as supplies for vessels or aircraft, it is necessary that the seller obtain from the owner, charterer, or authorized agent of the vessel or aircraft and retain in its possession a property executed exemption certificate in the form prescribed by paragraph (c) of this section. If fuel is sold tax free for use as supplies for civil aircraft employed in foreign trade or in trade between the United States and any of its possessions, the exemption certificate must show the name of the country in which the aircraft is registered.

(2) If only occasional sales of fuels are made to a purchaser for use which is exempt from tax as provided in this section, a separate exemption certificate must be furnished for each order. However, if sales are regularly or frequently made to a purchaser for such exempt use, a certificate covering all orders for a specified period not to exceed 12 calendar quarters is acceptable. Such certificates and proper records of invoices, orders, etc., relative to tax-free sales must be kept for inspection by the district director as provided in section 6001. If a seller's records with respect to any sale claimed to be tax free do not include a proper certificate, with supporting invoices and such other evidence as may be necessary to establish the exempt character of the sale, tax is payable by the seller on the sale.
