
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 48 - MANUFACTURERS AND RETAILERS EXCISE TAXES
##### Subpart F - Special Fuels
###### ยง 48.4041-20 Partially exempt methanol and ethanol fuel.
####### Partially exempt methanol or ethanol fuel defined.

(b)For purposes of section 4041(m) and this section, partially exempt methanol or ethanol fuel is liquid motor fuel, 85% of which by volume consists of alcohol, as defined in section 4081 and ยง 48.4081-2(a)(4) of the regulations, as modified by the following sentence. For purposes of section 4041(m) and this section, the alcohol contained in partially exempt methanol or ethanol fuel must be produced from natural gas. The actual gallonage of each component of the mixture (without adjustment for temperature) shall be used in determining whether the 85 percent alcohol requirement has been met. Further, in determining whether a particular mixture containing less than 85 percent alcohol satisfies this percentage requirement, the District Director shall take into account the existence of any facts and circumstances that establish that but for the commercial and operational realities of the blending process, it may reasonably be concluded that the mixture would have contained at least 85 percent alcohol. The necessary facts and circumstances will not be found to exist if over a period of time the mixtures blended by a blender show a consistent pattern of failing to contain 85 percent alcohol. See paragraph (f) of this section for rules relating to information required to be attached to the taxpayer's return of the tax imposed by chapter 31 relating to the alcohol content of the partially exempt methanol or ethanol fuel for which tax is paid.
