
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 48 - MANUFACTURERS AND RETAILERS EXCISE TAXES
##### Subpart H - Motor Vehicles, Tires, Tubes, Tread Rubber, and Taxable Fuel
###### Tires, Tubes, and Tread Rubber
####### ยง 48.4072-1 Definitions.
######## Tread rubber.

(b)The term "tread rubber" means any material (1) which is commonly or commercially known as tread rubber or camelback, or (2) which is a substitute for any material commonly or commercially known as tread rubber or camelback and is of a type used in recapping or retreading tires. The term includes, for example, strips of material, wholly or partially of rubber, natural or synthetic, intended to be vulcanized or otherwise affixed to a tire casing to form the outside perimeter of the tire, smooth or treaded. It also includes treading material produced by reprocessing scrap, salvage, or junk rubber and a continuous rubber ribbon produced through an extrusion process for direct application in recapping or retreading a tire casing. The term does not include rubber in various forms such as strip, slab, pellet, etc. which is used as raw material for the extrusion process. Tread rubber loses its identity as such when it has been used in the recapping or retreading of a tire of a type used on a highway vehicle (without regard to the actual use ultimately made of the tire) or has deteriorated in quality to the point where it is no longer suitable for use in recapping or retreading of a tire. (In the case of such deterioration, see section 6416(b)(2) and ยง 48.6416(b)-2 to secure a refund or credit of the tax paid.)
