
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 48 - MANUFACTURERS AND RETAILERS EXCISE TAXES
##### Subpart K - Sporting Goods
###### ยง 48.4161(b)-2 Meaning of terms.
####### General purpose materials and articles.

(2)General purpose materials and articles that are not specifically designed to directly improve the performance or appearance of bows or arrows, or to protect them while in use, are not considered to be "parts and accessories" for bows or arrows, even though such materials may be intended, after further processing, to be included in or attached to bows or arrows. An example of a nontaxable article that is designed for use with a bow, but is neither attached to a bow, nor serves a purpose directly related to the efficient use of a bow, is a carrying case for a bow. Examples of nontaxable general purpose materials or articles are glues and cements, feathers before they are prepared for use with arrows, and bowstring thread before it is processed into bowstrings. Arrow-shaft material is considered to be a taxable part for an arrow, unless the manufacturer, producer, or importer can establish that the particular material is unsuitable for use in the manufacture of arrows that are subject to the tax imposed by section 4161(b)(1)(B). In addition, the term "parts and accessories" does not include articles in the nature of expendable supplies, even though such articles are designed to be applied to, or used with, bows or arrows. Examples of such supply materials are bowstring wax, and archery powder.
