
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 48 - MANUFACTURERS AND RETAILERS EXCISE TAXES
##### Subpart M - Special Provisions Applicable to Manufacturers Taxes
###### ยง 48.4216(a)-1 Charges to be included in sale price.
####### In general.

(a)The "price" for which an article is sold includes the total consideration paid for the article, whether that consideration is in the form of money, services, or other things. See ยง 48.0-2 (a) (5). However, for purposes of the taxes imposed under Chapter 32 certain collateral charges made in connection with the sale of a taxable article must be included in the taxable sale price, whereas others may be excluded. Any charge which is required by a manufacturer, producer, or importer to be paid as a condition of its sale of a taxable article and which is not attributable to an expense falling within one of the exclusions provided in section 4216 or the regulations thereunder is includible in the taxable sale price. It is immaterial for this purpose that the charge may be paid to a person other than the manufacturer, producer, or importer, or that it may be separately billed to the purchaser as a charge earmarked for expenses incurred or to be incurred in his behalf, such as charges for demonstration or display of the article, for sales promotion programs, or otherwise. With respect to the rules relating to exclusion (in the case of sales after December 31, 1960) of charges for local advertising of a manufacturer's products, see section 4216(e) and ยง 48.4216(e)-1. In the case of sales on credit, a carrying, finance, or service charge is excludable from the sale price if it is reasonably related to the costs of carrying the deferred portion of the sale price (such as interest on the deferred portion of the sale price, expenses of bookkeeping necessary to keep the records of such sales, and expenses of correspondence and other communication in connection with collection).
