
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 48 - MANUFACTURERS AND RETAILERS EXCISE TAXES
##### Subpart M - Special Provisions Applicable to Manufacturers Taxes
###### ยง 48.4216(b)-3 Constructive sale price; special rule for arm's-length sales.
####### Application of section 4216(b)(2) to certain sales before June 22, 1965.

(6)In the case of sales before June 22, 1965, of articles then taxable under section 4121 (relating to electric, gas, and oil appliances), section 4216(b)(2) also applied in the case of a sale of such an article to a special dealer. The applicability of section 4216(b)(2) to such a sale may be determined by inserting "or to a special dealer" following "or to a retailer" in so much of section 4216(b)(2) as precedes subparagraph (A); by inserting "or to special dealers" following "retailers" in section 4216(b)(2)(A); and by inserting "(other than special dealers)" after "wholesale distributors" in section 4216(b)(2)(B) and so much of section 4216(b)(2) as follows section 4216(b)(2)(D). A "special dealer" was a distributor of articles taxable under section 4121 who did not maintain a sales force to resell the article whose constructive sale price was established under section 4216(b)(2) but relied on salesmen of the manufacturer, producer, or importer of the article. In the case of sales before June 22, 1965, of articles taxable under section 4191 (relating to business machines) or section 4211 (relating to matches), section 4216(b)(2) was applicable in the same manner as in the case of articles taxable under section 4061(a). With respect to sales after September 30, 1972, section 4216(b)(2)(C) applied only to articles taxable under section 4061(a), 4191, or 4211. Section 4216(b)(2)(C) was applicable to sales before October 1, 1962, of all articles subject to tax under Chapter 32.
