
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 48 - MANUFACTURERS AND RETAILERS EXCISE TAXES
##### Subpart N - Exemptions, Registration, Etc.
###### ยง 48.4221-1 Tax-free sales; general rule.
####### Limitations.

(2)The following restrictions must be taken into account in applying the regulations under section 4221:

(i) The exemptions under section 4221 (a)(4) and (a)(5) do not apply to the tax imposed by section 4064 (gas guzzler tax).

(ii) The exemptions under section 4221 do not apply to the tax imposed by section 4081 (taxable fuel tax).

(iii) The exemptions under section 4221 do not apply to the tax imposed by section 4091 (aviation fuel tax). For rules relating to tax-free sales of aviation fuel, see section 4092 and the regulations thereunder.

(iv) The exemptions under section 4221 do not apply to the tax imposed by section 4121 (coal tax).

(v) The exemptions under section 4221 (a)(3) through (a)(5) do not apply to the tax imposed by section 4131 (vaccine tax). In addition, the exemption under section 4221(a)(2) applies to the vaccine tax only to the extent provided in ยง 48.4221-3(e) (relating to tax-free sales of vaccine for export).

(vi) The exemptions under section 4221(a) apply only in those cases where the exportation or use referred to is to occur before any other use.

(vii) The exemptions under section 4221(a)(3) through (a)(6) do not apply to the tax imposed by section 4191 (medical device tax).
