
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 48 - MANUFACTURERS AND RETAILERS EXCISE TAXES
##### Subpart N - Exemptions, Registration, Etc.
###### ยง 48.4221-4 Tax-free sale of articles for use by the purchaser as supplies for vessels or aircraft.
####### Supplies for vessels or aircraft,In general.

(a)-(1)An article subject to tax under Chapter 32 may be sold tax free by the manufacturer, pursuant to section 4221(a)(3) and this section, for use by the purchaser as supplies for vessels or aircraft. See paragraph (b) of this section for the meaning of the term "supplies for vessels or aircraft." An article may be sold tax free under the provisions of this section only in those cases where the sale of an article by the manufacturer is made directly to the owner, officer, charterer, or authorized agent of a vessel or aircraft for use as supplies for the vessel or aircraft. No sale may be made tax free to a dealer for resale for use as supplies for vessels or aircraft, even though it is known at the time of sale by the manufacturer that the article will be so resold. See section 6416(b)(2)(B) and paragraph (b)(2) of ยง 48.6416 (b)-2 for circumstances under which credit or refund of tax is available where tax-paid articles are used, or sold for use, as supplies for vessels or aircraft. An article may not be sold tax free under the provisions of this section by the manufacturer to passengers or members of the crew of a vessel or aircraft.
