
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 48 - MANUFACTURERS AND RETAILERS EXCISE TAXES
##### Subpart O - Refunds and Other Administrative Provisions of Special Application to Retailers and Manufacturers Taxes
###### ยง 48.6416(b)(2)-2 Exportations, uses, sales, and resales included.
####### In general.

(a)The tax paid under chapter 32 (or under section 4041(a) or (d) in respect of sales or under section 4051) with respect to any article is considered to be an overpayment in the case of any exportation, use, sale, or resale described in this section. This section applies only in those cases in which the exportation, use, sale, or resale (or any combination thereof) referred to in this section occurs before any other use. In addition, the following restrictions must be taken into account in applying the regulations under section 6416(b)(2):

(1) Sections 6416(b)(2)(C) and (D) do not apply to any tax paid under section 4064 (gas guzzler tax).

(2) Sections 6416(b)(2)(B), (C), and (D) do not apply to any tax paid under section 4131 (vaccine tax) and section 6416(b)(2)(A) applies only to the extent prescribed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(3) Section 6416(b)(2) does not apply to any tax paid under section 4041(a)(1) or 4081 on diesel fuel or kerosene, section 4091 (aviation fuel tax), or section 4121 (coal tax).

(4) Beginning on January 1, 2013, sections 6416(b)(2)(B), (C), (D), and (E) do not apply to any tax paid under section 4191 (medical device tax).
