
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 48 - MANUFACTURERS AND RETAILERS EXCISE TAXES
##### Subpart O - Refunds and Other Administrative Provisions of Special Application to Retailers and Manufacturers Taxes
###### ยง 48.6420-1 Credits or payments to ultimate purchaser of gasoline used on a farm.
####### Use of gasoline.

(d)(1) The credit or payment described in paragraph (a) of this section is allowable only in respect of gasoline used on a farm in the United States for farming purposes. The credit or payment is not allowable with respect to gasoline used for nonfarming purposes, or gasoline used off a farm, regardless of the nature of the use. If a vehicle or other equipment is used both on a farm and off the farm, or if it is used on a farm both for farming and nonfarming purposes, the credit or payment is allowable only with respect to that portion of the gasoline which was "used on a farm for farming purposes" as defined in paragraph (a) of ยง 48.6420-4. In determining if this requirement is met, neither the type of equipment or vehicle used nor its registration for highway use is material. However, the actual use of the equipment or vehicle and the place where it is used are material. For example, if a truck used on a farm for farming purposes is also used on the highways, gasoline used in connection with operating the truck on the highways is not taken into account in computing the credit or payment.

(2) For purposes of determining the allowable credit or payment in respect of gasoline used on a farm for farming purposes, gasoline on hand shall be considered used in the order in which it was purchased. Thus, if the owner, tenant, or operator of a farm has on hand gasoline acquired in two purchases made at different times and subject to different rates of tax, in determining credit or payment for gasoline used on a farm for farming purposes, it will be assumed that the gasoline purchased first was the first gasoline used, and the rate applicable to that purchase will apply in determining the credit or payment, until all that gasoline is accounted for.
