
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 48 - MANUFACTURERS AND RETAILERS EXCISE TAXES
##### Subpart O - Refunds and Other Administrative Provisions of Special Application to Retailers and Manufacturers Taxes
###### ยง 48.6420-1 Credits or payments to ultimate purchaser of gasoline used on a farm.
####### In general.

(a)If gasoline is used on a farm for farming purposes after June 30, 1965, a credit (under the circumstances described in paragraph (b) of this section) or a payment (under the circumstances described in paragraph (c) of this section) in respect of the gasoline shall be allowed or made to the ultimate purchaser of the gasoline in an amount determined by multiplying (1) the number of gallons of gasoline so used by (2) the rate of tax on gasoline under section 4081 that applied on the date the gasoline was purchased by the ultimate purchaser. No interest shall be paid on any payment, allowed under paragraph (c) of this section. However, interest may be paid on any overpayment (as defined by section 6401) arising from a credit allowed under paragraph (b) of this section. See section 34(a), relating to credit for certain uses of gasoline and special fuels, and lubricating oil used prior to January 7, 1983). See ยง 48.6420-2 for the time within which a claim for credit or payment must be made. See section 4081 and the regulations thereunder for the rates of tax on gasoline. See ยง 48.6420-2 for meaning of the terms "Used on a farm for farming purposes," "farm," "gasoline," "ultimate purchaser," and "taxable year."
