
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 48 - MANUFACTURERS AND RETAILERS EXCISE TAXES
##### Subpart O - Refunds and Other Administrative Provisions of Special Application to Retailers and Manufacturers Taxes
###### ยง 48.6420-4 Meaning of terms.
####### Gasoline used in handling, packing, or storing.

(e)(1) Gasoline is used for "farming purposes" when it is used by the owner, tenant, or operator of the farm in handling, drying, packing, grading, or storing any agricultural or horticultural commodity in its unmanufactured state, but only if the owner, tenant, or operator produced more than one-half of the commodity which was so treated during the taxable year for which claim for credit or payment is filed.

(2) Gasoline used in connection with canning, freezing, packaging, or processing operations will not be considered to be used for farming purposes, even though these operations are performed on a farm. Thus, for example, although gasoline used on a farm in connection with the production or harvesting of maple sap or oleoresin from a living tree is considered to be used for farming purposes under paragraph (d) of this section, gasoline used in the processing of maple sap into maple syrup or maple sugar or used in the processing of oleoresin into gum spirits of turpentine or gum resin is not used for farming purposes, even though these processing operations are conducted on a farm.

(3) Gasoline used in connection with processing operations which change a commodity from its raw or natural state, or operations performed with respect to a commodity after its character has been changed from its raw or natural state by a processing operation, will not be considered to be used for farming purposes. For example, gasoline used for the extraction of juices from fruits or vegetables is used in a processing operation which changes the character of the fruits or vegetables from their raw or natural state and will not be considered to be used for "farming purposes."

(4) The term "commodity," as used in this paragraph (e), refers to a single agricultural or horticultural product. For example, all apples are treated as a single commodity while apples and peaches are treated as two separate commodities. Operations with respect to each commodity are to be considered separately in applying the "one-half" production test described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
