
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 48 - MANUFACTURERS AND RETAILERS EXCISE TAXES
##### Subpart O - Refunds and Other Administrative Provisions of Special Application to Retailers and Manufacturers Taxes
###### ยง 48.6420-4 Meaning of terms.
####### Form and manner of waiver.

(2)To waive the right to be treated as user and ultimate purchaser of gasoline which is used on a farm by an aerial applicator or other applicator, the owner, tenant, or operator of a farm who is otherwise entitled to treatment as user and ultimate purchaser must execute an irrevocable written agreement (as here described) no later than the date on which the aerial applicator or other applicator claiming the credit or payment files its return for the taxable year in which the gasoline is used. The agreement must identify the period for which the owner, tenant, or operator waives the right to credit or payment. The effective period of the waiver cannot extend beyond the last day of the taxable year of the owner, tenant, or operator of the farm on which the gasoline was used. If the owner, tenant, or operator's taxable year extends beyond the taxable year of the applicator, the applicator can only claim a credit or payment for periods included in the applicator's taxable year. Periods after the last day of the applicator's taxable year which are included under the agreement must be claimed on the applicator's return for the next succeeding taxable year. The waiver may be in the form shown under paragraph (l)(6) of this section or in any other form that meets the requirements of this paragraph and clearly states that the owner, tenant, or operator of the farm knowingly waives the right to receive the credit or payment.
