
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 48 - MANUFACTURERS AND RETAILERS EXCISE TAXES
##### Subpart O - Refunds and Other Administrative Provisions of Special Application to Retailers and Manufacturers Taxes
###### ยง 48.6421-1 Credits or payments to ultimate purchaser of gasoline used for certain nonhighway purposes.
####### Dual use of gasoline.

(d)(1) No credit or payment may be claimed in respect of gasoline used in a highway vehicle used in a trade or business or for the production of income solely by reason of the fact that the propulsion motor in the vehicle is also used for a purpose other than the propulsion of the vehicle. Thus, if the propulsion motor of a highway vehicle (used in a trade or business or for the production of income) also operates special equipment, such as a mixing unit on a concrete mixer truck or a pump for discharging fuel from a tank truck, by means of a power takeoff or power transfer, no credit or payment may be claimed in respect of the gasoline used to operate the special equipment, even though the special equipment is mounted on the highway vehicle.

(2) If a highway vehicle is equipped with a separate motor to operate the special equipment used in a trade or business or for the production of income, such as a refrigeration unit, pump, generator, or mixing unit, credit or payment may be claimed in respect of the gasoline used in the separate motor.

(3) If gasoline used in a separate motor is drawn from the same tank as the one which supplies gasoline for the propulsion of the highway vehicle, the determination as to the quantity of gasoline used in the separate motor operating the special equipment must be based on operating experience and supported by records.

(4) Devices to measure the number of miles the highway vehicle has traveled, such as hubometers, may be used in making a preliminary determination of the number of gallons of gasoline used to propel the vehicle. In order to make a final determination of the number of gallons of gasoline used to propel the vehicle, there must be added to this preliminary determination the number of gallons of gasoline consumed while idling or warming up the motor preparatory to propelling the vehicle.
