
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 48 - MANUFACTURERS AND RETAILERS EXCISE TAXES
##### Subpart O - Refunds and Other Administrative Provisions of Special Application to Retailers and Manufacturers Taxes
###### ยง 48.6421-2 Credits or payments to ultimate purchasers of gasoline used in intercity, local, or school buses.
####### In general.

(a)If gasoline is used in an intercity or local bus while engaged in furnishing (for compensation) passenger land transportation available to the general public or in a school bus engaged in the transportation of students or employees of schools, a credit (under the circumstances described in paragraph (b) of this section) or a payment (under the circumstances described in paragraph (c) of this section) in respect to the gasoline shall be allowed or made to the ultimate purchaser of the gasoline. The credit or payment under this section shall be an amount equal to the product of the number of gallons of gasoline so used multiplied by the rate at which tax was imposed on the gasoline by section 4081. No interest shall be paid on any payment allowed under paragraph (c) of this section. However, interest may be paid on an overpayment (as defined by section 6401) arising from a credit allowed under paragraph (b) of this section. See section 34(a) relating to credit for certain uses of gasoline and special fuels, (and lubricating oil used prior to January 7, 1983). See ยง 48.6421-3 for the time within which a claim for credit or payment must be made under this section. See ยง 48.6421-4 for the meaning of "gasoline."
