
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 48 - MANUFACTURERS AND RETAILERS EXCISE TAXES
##### Subpart O - Refunds and Other Administrative Provisions of Special Application to Retailers and Manufacturers Taxes
###### ยง 48.6421-3 Time for filing claim for credit or payment.
####### Death or termination.

(3)(i) If an individual dies, or if a sole proprietorship, partnership, or corporation is terminated or liquidated, during the taxable year, the claim for credit or payment may be filed in respect of gasoline used during the short taxable year in the same manner as is provided for gasoline used in a full taxable year. Those months which constitute a quarter of a full taxable year will constitute the same quarter of the short taxable year. For example, if a corporation using the calendar year is liquidated on September 30, 1982, and is entitled to $900 under ยง 48.6421-1 in respect of gasoline used in a qualified business use for the calendar quarters ending June 30 and September 30, it may file a claim for payment in respect of the gasoline used during the calendar quarters ending June 30, and September 30, 1981, and take a credit of $900 on its income tax return for the short taxable year in respect of the gasoline used during the calendar quarter ending March 31, 1982.

(ii) A claim for payment on behalf of a decedent may be filed by the decedent's executor, administrator, or any other person charged with responsibility for the decedent's affairs. Such a claim must be accompanied by copies of the letters testamentary, letters of administration, or, in the case of a claim filed by other than the executor or administrator, the information called for in Form 1310 (Statement of Person Claiming Refund Due a Deceased Taxpayer). The claim may cover only gasoline in respect of which the decedent would have been entitled to claim payment. For example, if an individual dies on July 15, 1982, prior to claiming payment under ยง 48.6421-1 or $1,000 or more applicable to gasoline purchased and used in a qualified business use during the calendar quarter ending June 30, 1982, the decedent's executor or other legal representative may file a claim for payment covering that calendar quarter, and take the credit provided by section 39(a)(2) against the decedent's income tax on the income tax return for the short taxable year in respect of gasoline purchased by the decedent and so used during the period from July 1, 1982 to July 15, 1982, the date of death.
