
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 48 - MANUFACTURERS AND RETAILERS EXCISE TAXES
##### Subpart O - Refunds and Other Administrative Provisions of Special Application to Retailers and Manufacturers Taxes
###### ยง 48.6427-2 Credits or payments to purchaser of diesel or special motor fuels used in intercity, local, or school buses.
####### In general.

(a)(1) If tax has been paid under section 4041(a)(1) on the sale of diesel fuel for use as a fuel in a diesel-powered highway vehicle or under section 4041(a)(2) on the sale of special motor fuel for use as a fuel in a motor vehicle or a motorboat and the fuel is used by the purchaser in an intercity or local bus while engaged in furnishing (for compensation) passenger land transportation available to the general public or in a school bus in the transportation of students and employees of schools, a credit (under the circumstances described in paragraph (b) of this section) or a payment (under the circumstances described in paragraph (c) of this section) in respect of the fuel so used shall be allowed or made to the purchaser of the fuel. The credit or payment under this section shall be an amount equal to the product of the number of gallons of fuel so used multiplied by the rate at which tax was imposed on the fuel by section 4041(a)(1) or section 4041(a)(2), reduced as limited by section 6427(b)(2). No interest shall be paid on any payment allowed under paragraph (c) of this section. However, interest may be paid on any overpayment (as defined by section 6401) arising from a credit. See section 34(a), relating to credit for certain uses of gasoline and special fuels, (and lubricating oil prior to January 7, 1983). See section 6611, relating to interest on overpayments. See ยง 48.6427-3 for the time within which a claim for credit or payment must be made under this section.

(2) The terms "diesel fuel" and "special motor fuel" have the same meaning as in section 4041 and the regulations thereunder. The term "fuel" means diesel fuel and special motor fuel. See ยง 48.6421-4 for the meaning of "calendar quarter" and "taxable year."
