
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 48 - MANUFACTURERS AND RETAILERS EXCISE TAXES
##### Subpart O - Refunds and Other Administrative Provisions of Special Application to Retailers and Manufacturers Taxes
###### ยง 48.6427-1 Credit or payments to purchaser of special fuels resold or used for nontaxable, farming, or other purposes.
####### Definitions, uses, and other rules.

(3)(i) No interest shall be paid on any payment allowed under paragraph (c) of this section. However, interest may be paid on any overpayment (as defined by section 6401) arising from a credit. See section 34(a), relating to credit for certain uses of gasoline and special fuels. See section 39(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 prior to its revision by the Highway Revenue Act of 1982, relating to credit for certain uses of lubricating oil. See section 6611, relating to interest on overpayments.

(ii) See ยง 48.6427-3 for the time within which a claim for credit or payment must be made under this section.

(iii) See ยง 48.6420-4 for the meaning of the terms "used on a farm for farming purposes" and "farm." The term "gasoline" has the same meaning given to this term by section 4082(b) and the regulations thereunder. For the meaning of the terms "diesel fuel," "special motor fuel," "motor vehicle," "highway vehicle," and "registered" see section 4041 and the regulations thereunder. The term "fuel" means diesel fuel, special motor fuel, or gasoline, as the context requires. Where appropriate, the term "use" includes a resale. See ยง 48.6421-4 for the meaning of "calendar quarter" and "taxable year".

(iv) For purposes of determining the allowable credit or payment in respect of fuel used for nontaxable purposes, on a farm for farming purposes, or for purposes taxable at a lower rate, fuel on hand shall be considered used in the order in which it was purchased. Thus, if the purchaser made purchases at different times and subject to different rates of tax, then in determining credit or payment for fuel used for a described purpose, it will be assumed that the fuel first purchased was the first fuel used, and the rate applicable to that purchase will apply in determining the credit of payment, until all of that fuel is accounted for.

(v) Fuel lost or destroyed through spillage, fire, or other casualty is not considered to have been "used" within the meaning of this section, and, accordingly, no credit or payment of the tax paid on the sale of the fuel may be made under this section.
