
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 48 - MANUFACTURERS AND RETAILERS EXCISE TAXES
##### Subpart O - Refunds and Other Administrative Provisions of Special Application to Retailers and Manufacturers Taxes
###### ยง 48.6427-1 Credit or payments to purchaser of special fuels resold or used for nontaxable, farming, or other purposes.
####### Used for farming purposes.

(2)(i) If tax has been paid under section 4041(a)(1) on the sale of diesel fuel for use as a fuel in a diesel-powered highway vehicle, or under section 4041(a)(2) on the sale of special motor fuel for use as a fuel in a motor vehicle or a motor boat and the fuel is used on a farm for farming purposes, a credit (under the circumstances described in paragraph (b) of this section) or a payment (under the circumstances described in paragraph (c) (1) or (2) of this section) in respect of the fuel shall be allowed or made to the purchaser of the fuel in an amount equal to the amount of tax that was imposed under section 4041 on the sale of the fuel. The provisions of section 6420(c) (1), (2), and (3) and ยง 48.6420-4 shall apply under this paragraph (a)(2) in determining whether the fuel is used on a farm for farming purposes.

(ii) The term "purchaser," as used in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, includes only a person who is an owner, tenant, or operator of a farm. A person who is owner, tenant, or operator of a farm is a purchaser of fuel only with respect to such fuel as is purchased by the person and used for farming purposes on a farm of which the person is the owner, tenant, or operator. Thus, the owner of a farm who purchases fuel which is used on the farm by its owner, tenant, or operator for farming purposes is generally the purchaser of the fuel. If, however, the cost of fuel supplied by an owner, tenant, or operator of a farm, is by agreement or other arrangement borne by a second person who is an owner, tenant, or operator of the farm, the second person who bore the cost of the fuel is considered to be the purchaser of the fuel.

(iii) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(iv) of this section, if fuel is used on a farm by any person other than the owner, tenant, or operator for the purposes described in section 6420(c)(3)(A) and ยง 48.6420-4(d) (relating to gasoline used in cultivating, raising, or harvesting), the owner, tenant, or operator (as the case may be) will be treated for the purposes of ยง 48.6427-1(a)(2)(i) as the purchaser who used the fuel on the farm for farming purposes.

(iv) Section 6427(c) provides that an aerial applicator or other applicator is entitled to be treated as the user and ultimate purchaser of fuel that the applicator uses on a farm for the purposes described in section 6420(c)(3)(A), but only if the owner, tenant, or operator of the farm who is otherwise entitled to be treated as the ultimate purchaser waives the right to credit or payment. The rules contained in section 6420 and the regulations under the section regarding waivers by owners, tenants, and operators of farms of their rights to payments under section 6420 for gasoline used by aerial applicators on a farm for farming purposes apply to waivers under this section.
