
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 48 - MANUFACTURERS AND RETAILERS EXCISE TAXES
##### Subpart O - Refunds and Other Administrative Provisions of Special Application to Retailers and Manufacturers Taxes
###### ยง 48.6427-9 Diesel fuel and kerosene; claims by registered ultimate vendors (farming and State use).
####### Content of claim,In general.

(e)-(1)Each claim for credit or payment under this section must contain the following information with respect to all the diesel fuel or kerosene covered by the claim:

(i) The total number of gallons.

(ii) A statement by the claimant that-

(A) The diesel fuel or kerosene did not contain visible evidence of dye; or

(B) In the case of diesel fuel or kerosene that contains visible evidence of dye, explains the circumstances under which tax was imposed on that fuel.

(iii) The claimant's registration number.

(iv) The name and taxpayer identification number of each person that bought diesel fuel or kerosene from the claimant in a transaction described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section and the number of gallons that the claimant sold to that person.

(v) A statement that the claimant-

(A) Has not included the amount of the tax in its sales price of the diesel fuel or kerosene and has not collected the amount of tax from its buyer;

(B) Has repaid the amount of the tax to the ultimate purchaser of the fuel; or

(C) Has obtained the written consent of its buyer to the allowance of the claim.

(vi) A statement that the claimant has in its possession an unexpired certificate described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section and the claimant has no reason to believe any information in the certificate is false.
