
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 49 - FACILITIES AND SERVICES EXCISE TAXES
##### Subpart E - Transportation of Property
###### ยง 49.4271-1 Tax on transportation of property by air.
####### Property exported or imported entirely by air.

(c)(1) The tax does not apply to amounts paid for transportation entirely by air which begins in the United States and ends outside the United States, or which begins outside the United States and ends in the United States. Transportation of property by air will be considered to begin and end at the points of origin and destination shown on a through airwaybill covering shipment of the property, even though there may be stopovers in the United States (such as, for example, to consolidate cargo at a "gateway" city). If a through airwaybill is issued by a person other than a person engaged in the business of transporting property by air for hire (for example, by a freight forwarder), the air carrier may accept an air freight manifest listing the article to be shipped by weight and destination as evidence of the existence of a through airwaybill.

(2) If a through airwaybill covering air transportation from its beginning in the United States to a foreign destination, or from its beginning abroad to a U.S. destination, has not been issued, then the export or import character of the shipment must be evidenced by a contract or other written evidence clearly showing the beginning point and ending point of the air transportation.

(3) If a through airwaybill has been issued covering air transportation to a foreign destination, but the transportation nevertheless ends in the United States (for example, because the foreign consignee cancels the order before the shipment leaves a gateway city), then the amount paid for air transportation is taxable. In such a case the air carrier must collect the tax from the shipper or other person who paid for the air transportation.

(4) Any transportation of property by air shipped by the Department of Defense through an aerial port of embarkation and debarkation on a U.S. Government bill of lading shall be considered to:

(i) Begin in the United States and end outside the United States if the bill of lading states that the shipment is "For Export", or

(ii) Begin outside the United States and end in the United States if the bill of lading states that the shipment is "Imported by Air".
