
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 49 - FACILITIES AND SERVICES EXCISE TAXES
##### Subpart E - Transportation of Property
###### ยง 49.4271-1 Tax on transportation of property by air.
####### a,b

(2)(i) Continuous movement in the course of exportation shall be evidenced by () the execution of the Export Exemption Certificate, Form 1363, and () proof that exportation has actually occurred.

(ii) Form 1363 may be used in connection with a separate payment otherwise subject to tax or it may be used, with the permission of the district director, as a blanket exemption certificate by a person who expects to make payments for numerous export shipments over an indefinite period of time. If used in connection with a separate payment, the certificate shall be executed, in duplicate, by the shipper or other person making the payment subject to tax. Such person shall retain the duplicate with the shipping papers for at least 3 years from the last day of the month during which the shipment was made from the point of origin, and shall file the original with the carrier at the time of payment of the transportation charge. The carrier receiving the original certificate shall retain it along with the document showing payment of the transportation charge, for a period of at least 3 years from the last day of the month during which the shipment was made from the point of origin.

(iii) Form 1363 may be used as a blanket exemption certificate by a person who demonstrates to the satisfaction of the district director that it is impracticable to execute a separate Form 1363 for each payment. Permission to execute a blanket exemption certificate shall be requested, in writing, from the district director for the district in which is located the principal place of business or principal office or agency of the shipper or other person seeking permission. If permission is granted a separate certificate shall be executed in duplicate, by the shipper or other person making the payments, for each air carrier to be used in making export shipments. Such person shall retain the duplicate together with all shipping papers, and shall file the original with the air carrier with or before payment of the first transportation charge to be covered by the certificate. The air carrier shall retain the original certificate together with all documents showing payment of the transportation charges. Permission to execute a blanket exemption certificate if granted, shall remain in force until withdrawn by the person who requested such permission or until withdrawn by the district director who granted such permission. Each person shall retain the certificate for at least 3 years after the last day of the month during which the final shipment covered by the certificate was made from the point of origin. Each person shall retain the shipping and payment documents for at least 3 years after the last day of the month during which the shipment was made from the point of origin.

(3) The filing of a properly executed Form 1363 with the carrier suspends liability for the payment of the tax for a period of 6 months from the date of shipment from the point of origin. If the person who is liable for the tax has not provided evidence to the carrier of the actual exportation of a shipment within such period, then the temporary suspension of the liability for the payment of the tax ceases and the carrier shall collect the tax from the person who paid the carrier for the transportation charge. If, after collection of the tax by the carrier, proof of exportation is subsequently received by the carrier, credit or refund of the tax may be obtained under the terms set forth in section 6415 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954.

(4) Documentary evidence of the exportation of the property may consist of a copy of export bill of lading, memorandum from the captain of the vessel, customs official, or a foreign consignee, shipper's export declaration, or other evidence sufficient to establish that the property has actually been exported. The person making the payment subject to tax shall furnish the appropriate documentary evidence to the carrier, or a statement that he holds such documentary evidence. In the latter case, the statement must: (i) Certify that the property covered by the Export Exemption Certificate, Form 1363 was exported; (ii) identify the evidence of exportation; (iii) specify the foreign destination or the possession of the United States to which the property was shipped; and (iv) show the place where such evidence will be available for inspection by internal revenue officers. Any documentary evidence or statement, as the case may be, shall be retained by the carrier and the person making the payment subject to tax for a period of three years from the last day of the month during which the shipment was made from the point of origin. If the person making the payment subject to tax is not the actual exporter and is unable to obtain documentary evidence of exportation, such person shall obtain from the person having custody of the documentary evidence a statement containing the same facts as listed above for a statement furnished to the carrier by the person liable for the tax. The person making the payment subject to tax shall furnish the original of such statement to the carrier and shall retain a copy in his records. The statement shall be retained for the same three year period as the evidence of exportation is to be retained.
