
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### § 1.162-10T Questions and answers relating to the deduction of employee benefits under the Tax Reform Act of 1984; certain limits on amounts deductible (temporary).

Q-1: How does the amendment of section 404(b) by the Tax Reform Act of 1984 affect the deduction of employee benefits under section 162 of the Internal Revenue Code?

A-1: As amended by the Tax Reform Act of 1984, section 404(b) clarifies that section 404(a) and (d) (in the case of employees and nonemployees, respectively) shall govern the deduction of contributions paid or compensation paid or incurred under a plan, or method or arrangement, deferring the receipt of compensation or providing for deferred benefits. Section 404(a) and (d) requires that such a contribution or compensation be paid or incurred for purposes of section 162 or 212 and satisfy the requirements for deductibility under either of these sections. However, notwithstanding the above, section 404 does not apply to contributions paid or accrued with respect to a "welfare benefit fund" (as defined in section 419(e)) after July 18, 1984, in taxable years of employers (and payors) ending after that date.

Also, section 463 shall govern the deduction of vacation pay by a taxpayer that has elected the application of such section. Section 404(b), as amended, generally applies to contributions paid and compensation paid or incurred after July 18, 1984, in taxable years of employers (and payors) ending after that date. See Q&A-3 of § 1.404(b)-1T. For rules relating to the deduction of contributions attributable to the provision of deferred benefits, see section 404 (a), (b) and (d) and § 1.404(a)-1T, § 1.404(b)-1T and § 1.404(d)-1T. For rules relating to the deduction of contributions paid or accrued with respect to a welfare benefit fund, see section 419, § 1.419-1T and § 1.419A-2T. For rules relating to the deduction of vacation pay for which an election is made under section 463, see § 301.9100-16T of this chapter and § 1.463-1T.

Q-2: How does the enactment of section 419 by the Tax Reform Act of 1984 affect the deduction of employee benefits under section 162?

A-2: As enacted by the Tax Reform Act of 1984, section 419 shall govern the deduction of contributions paid or accrued by an employer (or a person receiving services under section 419(g)) with respect to a "welfare benefit fund" (within the meaning of section 419(e)) after December 31, 1985, in taxable years of the employer (or person receiving the services) ending after that date. Section 419(a) requires that such a contribution be paid or accrued for purposes of section 162 or 212 and satisfy the requirements for deductibility under either of those sections. Generally, subject to a binding contract exception (as described in section 511(e)(5) of the Tax Reform Act of 1984), section 419 shall also govern the deduction of the contribution of a facility (or other contribution used to acquire or improve a facility) to a welfare benefit fund after June 22, 1984. See Q&A-11 of § 1.419-1T. In the case of a welfare benefit fund maintained pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement, section 419 applies to the extent provided under the special effective date rule described in Q&A-2 of § 1.419-1T and the special rules of § 1.419A-2T. For rules relating to the deduction of contributions paid or accrued with respect to a welfare benefit fund, see section 419 and § 1.419-1T.
