
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.162-19 Capital contributions to Federal National Mortgage Association.
####### In general.

(a)The initial holder of stock of the Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA) which is issued pursuant to section 303(c) of the Federal National Mortgage Association Charter Act (12 U.S.C., section 1718) in a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1959, shall treat the excess, if any, of the issuance price (the amount of capital contributions evidenced by a share of stock) over the fair market value of the stock as of the issue date of such stock as an ordinary and necessary business expense paid or incurred during the year in which occurs the date of issuance of the stock. To the extent that a sale to FNMA of mortgage paper gives rise to the issuance of a share of FNMA stock during a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1959, such sale is to be treated in a manner consistent with the purpose for, and the legislative intent underlying the enactment of, the provisions of section 8, Act of September 14, 1960 (Pub. L. 86-779, 74 Stat. 1003). Thus, for the purpose of determining an initial holder's gain or loss from the sale to FNMA of mortgage paper, with respect to which a share of FNMA stock is issued in a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1959 (irrespective of when the sale is made), the amount realized by the initial holder from the sale of the mortgage paper is the amount of the "FNMA purchase price". The "FNMA purchase price" is the gross amount of the consideration agreed upon between FNMA and the initial holder for the purchase of the mortgage paper, without regard to any deduction therefrom as, for example, a deduction representing a capital contribution or a purchase or marketing fee. The date of issuance of the stock is the date which appears on the stock certificates of the initial holder as the date of issue. The initial holder is the original purchaser who is issued stock of the Federal National Mortgage Association pursuant to section 303(c) of the Act, and who appears on the books of FNMA as the initial holder. In determining the period for which the initial holder has held such stock, such period shall begin with the date of issuance.
