
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 53 - FOUNDATION AND SIMILAR EXCISE TAXES
##### Subpart F - Taxes on Taxable Expenditures
###### ยง 53.4945-4 Grants to individuals.
####### "Grants" defined.

(2)For purposes of section 4945, the term "grants" shall include, but is not limited to, such expenditures as scholarships, fellowships, internships, prizes, and awards. Grants shall also include loans for purposes described in section 170(c) (2) (B) and "program related investments" (such as investments in small businesses in central cities or in businesses which assist in neighborhood renovation). Similarly, "grants" include such expenditures as payments to exempt organizations to be used in furtherance of such recipient organizations' exempt purposes whether or not such payments are solicited by such recipient organizations. Conversely, "grants" do not ordinarily include salaries or other compensation to employees. For example, "grants" do not ordinarily include educational payments to employees which are includible in the employees' incomes pursuant to section 61. In addition, "grants" do not ordinarily include payments (including salaries, consultants' fees and reimbursement for travel expenses such as transportation, board, and lodging) to persons (regardless of whether such persons are individuals) for personal services in assisting a foundation in planning, evaluating or developing projects or areas of program activity by consulting, advising, or participating in conferences organized by the foundation.
