
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 54 - PENSION EXCISE TAXES
##### ยง 54.4980G-1 Failure of employer to make comparable health savings account contributions.
###### In general.,See also

A-2: (a)Generally, the categories of coverage are self-only HDHP coverage and family HDHP coverage. Family HDHP coverage means any coverage other than self-only HDHP coverage. The comparability rules apply separately to self-only HDHP coverage and family HDHP coverage. In addition, if an HDHP has family coverage options meeting the descriptions listed in paragraph (b) of this Q & A-2, each such coverage option may be treated as a separate category of coverage and the comparability rules may be applied separately to each category. However, if the HDHP has more than one category that provides coverage for the same number of individuals, all such categories are treated as a single category for purposes of the comparability rules. Thus, the categories of "employee plus spouse" and "employee plus dependent," each providing coverage for two individuals, are treated as the single category "self plus one" for comparability purposes. See, however, the final sentence of paragraph (a) of Q & A-1 of ยง 54.4980G-4 for a special rule that applies if different amounts are contributed for different categories of family coverage.ยง 54.4980G-6 for the rules allowing larger comparable contributions to nonhighly compensated employees.
