
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 54 - PENSION EXCISE TAXES
##### § 54.9816-6 Methodology for calculating qualifying payment amount.
###### Downcode

(18)means the alteration by a plan or issuer of a service code to another service code, or the alteration, addition, or removal by a plan or issuer of a modifier, if the changed code or modifier is associated with a lower qualifying payment amount than the service code or modifier billed by the provider, facility, or provider of air ambulance services.

(b)-(c) For further guidance see § 54.9816-6T(b) and (c).

(d) For further guidance see § 54.9816-6T(d) introductory text through (d)(1)(i).

(1) [Reserved]

(i) [Reserved]

(ii) If the qualifying payment amount is based on a downcoded service code or modifier-

(A) A statement that the service code or modifier billed by the provider, facility, or provider of air ambulance services was downcoded;

(B) An explanation of why the claim was downcoded, which must include a description of which service codes were altered, if any, and a description of which modifiers were altered, added, or removed, if any; and

(C) The amount that would have been the qualifying payment amount had the service code or modifier not been downcoded.

(iii)-(v) For further guidance see § 54.9816-6T(d)(1)(iii) through (v).

(2) For further guidance see § 54.9816-6T(d)(2).

(e)-(f) For further guidance see § 54.9816-6T(e) and (f).
