
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 54 - PENSION EXCISE TAXES
##### § 54.9816-8 Independent dispute resolution process.
###### 2,Conclusion.,Example 5

()In this paragraph (c)(4)(iv)(E) (), the certified IDR entity must consider the qualifying payment amount, which is based on the downcoded service code. The certified IDR entity then must consider whether to give weight to additional information submitted by the parties. If the certified IDR entity determines that the additional credible information submitted by the provider demonstrates that the nonparticipating provider's offer, which is equal to the qualifying payment amount for the service code that the provider billed, best represents the value of the qualified IDR service, the certified IDR entity should select the nonparticipating provider's offer.

(v) For further guidance see § 54.9816-8T(c)(4)(v) through (c)(4)(vi)(A).

(vi) [Reserved]

(A) [Reserved]

(B) The certified IDR entity's written decision must include an explanation of their determination, including what information the certified IDR entity determined demonstrated that the offer selected as the out-of-network rate is the offer that best represents the value of the qualified IDR item or service, including the weight given to the qualifying payment amount and any additional credible information under paragraphs (c)(4)(iii)(B) through (D) of this section. If the certified IDR entity relies on information described under paragraphs (c)(4)(iii)(B) through (D) of this section in selecting an offer, the written decision must include an explanation of why the certified IDR entity concluded that this information was not already reflected in the qualifying payment amount.

(vii)-(ix) For further guidance see § 54.9816-8T(c)(4)(vii) through (ix).

(d)-(e) For further guidance see § 54.9816-8T(d) through (e).

(f) For further guidance see § 54.9816-8T(f) introductory text through (f)(1)(iv).

(1) [Reserved]

(i)-(iv) [Reserved]

(v) For further guidance see § 54.9816-8T(f)(1)(v) introductory text through (f)(1)(v)(E).

(A)-(E) [Reserved]

(F) The rationale for the certified IDR entity's decision, including the extent to which the decision relied on the criteria in paragraphs (c)(4)(iii)(B) through (D) of this section.

(G)-(I) For further guidance see § 54.9816-8T(f)(1)(v)(G) through (I).

(vi) For further guidance see § 54.9816-8T(f)(1)(vi).

(2) [Reserved]

(g) For further guidance see § 54.9816-8T(g).
