
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 54 - PENSION EXCISE TAXES
##### § 54.9817-2 Independent dispute resolution process for air ambulance services.
###### Weighing considerations.

(3)In weighing the considerations described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section and § 54.9817-2T(b)(2), the certified IDR entity should evaluate whether the information is credible and relates to the offer submitted by either party for the payment amount for the qualified IDR service that is the subject of the payment determination. The certified IDR entity should not give weight to information to the extent it is not credible, it does not relate to either party's offer for the payment amount for the qualified IDR service, or it is already accounted for by the qualifying payment amount under § 54.9816-8(c)(4)(iii)(A) or other credible information under § 54.9816-8(c)(4)(iii)(B) through (D), except that the additional circumstances in § 54.9816-8(c)(4)(iii)(B) shall be understood to refer to paragraph (b)(2) of this section and § 54.9817-2T(b)(2).

(4) For further guidance see § 54.9817-2T(b)(4) introductory text through (b)(4)(iii).

(i)-(iii) [Reserved]

(iv) For further guidance see § 54.9817-2T(b)(4)(iv) introductory text through (b)(4)(iv)(E).

(A)-(E) [Reserved]

(F) The rationale for the certified IDR entity's decision, including the extent to which the decision relied on the criteria in paragraph (b)(2) of this section and § 54.9816-8(c)(4)(iii)(C) and (D).

(G)-(I) For further guidance see § 54.9817-2T(b)(4)(iv)(G) through (I).
