
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 56 - PUBLIC CHARITY EXCISE TAXES
##### ยง 56.4911-4 Exempt purpose expenditures.
###### Transfers not exempt purpose expenditures

(e)-(1) An organization's transfer is described in this paragraph (e) if it is described in one of paragraphs (e)(2) through (e)(4).

(2) A transfer is described in this paragraph (e)(2) if it is made to a member of any affiliated group (as defined in ยง 56.4911-7(e)) of which the transferor is a member.

(3) A transfer is described in this paragraph (e)(3) if the Commissioner determines that the transfer artificially inflates the amount of the transferor's or transferee's exempt purpose expenditures. In general, the Commissioner will make that determination if a substantial purpose of a transfer is to inflate those exempt purpose expenditures. A transfer described in this paragraph will not be considered an exempt purpose expenditure of the transferor, but will be an exempt purpose expenditure of the transferee to the extent that the transferee expends the transfer in the active conduct of its charitable activities or attempts to influence legislation. Standards similar to those found in ยง 53.4942(b)-1(b) may be applied in determining whether the transferee has expended amounts in the "active conduct" of its charitable activities or attempts to influence legislation.

(4) A transfer is described in this paragraph (e)(4) if it is not a controlled grant and is made to an organization not described in section 501(c)(3) that does not attempt to influence legislation.
