
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 145 - TEMPORARY EXCISE TAX REGULATIONS UNDER THE HIGHWAY REVENUE ACT OF 1982 (PUB. L. 97-424)
##### ยง 145.4051-1 Imposition of tax on heavy trucks and trailers sold at retail.
###### Parts or accessories sold on or in connection with chassis, bodies, etc.

(3)The tax applies in respect of parts or accessories sold on or in connection with or with the sale of the vehicles specified in section 4051(a)(1). Thus, for example, if at the time the article is sold by the retailer, the part or accessory has been ordered from the retailer, the part or accessory will be considered as sold in connection with and with the sale of the vehicle. The tax applies in such a case whether or not the parts or accessories are billed separately by the retailer. If a taxable chassis, body, or tractor is sold by the retailer, without parts or accessories which are considered equipment essential for the operation or appearance of the taxable article, the sale of such parts or accessories by the retailer to the purchaser of the taxable article will be considered, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, to have been made in connection with the sale of the taxable article even though they are shipped separately, at the same time or on a different date. For example, if a retailer sells to any person a chassis and the bumpers for such chassis, or sells a taxable tractor and the fifth wheel and attachments, the tax applies to such parts or accessories regardless of the method of billing or the time at which the shipments were made. Parts and accessories that are spares or replacements are not subject to tax.
