
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 145 - TEMPORARY EXCISE TAX REGULATIONS UNDER THE HIGHWAY REVENUE ACT OF 1982 (PUB. L. 97-424)
##### ยง 145.4051-1 Imposition of tax on heavy trucks and trailers sold at retail.
###### Gross vehicle weight.

(3)(i) For purposes of this section the term "gross vehicle weight" means the maximum total weight of a loaded vehicle. Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (e)(3) (ii) through (v) of this section, such maximum total weight shall be the gross vehicle weight rating of the article as specified by the manufacturer or established by the seller of the completed article, unless the Commissioner finds that such rating is unreasonable in light of the facts and circumstances in a particular case.

(ii) A seller must specify or establish a weight rating for each chassis, body, or vehicle sold on or after April 1, 1983 if such article requires no additional manufacture other than (A) the addition of readily attachable articles, such as tire or rim assemblies or minor accessories, (B) the performance of minor finishing operations, such as painting, or (C) in the case of a chassis, the addition of a body. If an article is specially equipped to the purchaser's specifications, such specifications may be used to establish the gross vehicle weight of the article.

(iii) A seller shall maintain a record of the gross vehicle weight rating of each truck, trailer and semitrailer sold and excluded from the tax imposed by section 4051(a)(1) by reason of sections 4051(a) (2), (3) and paragraphs (e)(3) (i) through (v) of this section. For this purpose, a record of the serial number of each such article shall be treated as a record of the gross vehicle weight rating of the article if such rating is indicated by the serial number.

(iv) If (A) the seller's rating indicated in a label or identifying device affixed to an article, (B) the rating set forth in the sales invoice or warranty agreement, and (C) the advertised rating for that article (or two or more identical articles) are inconsistent, the highest of such ratings will be considered to be the seller's gross vehicle weight rating specified or established for purposes of the tax imposed by section 4051(a)(1).

(v) The seller's gross vehicle weight rating must take into account, among other things, the strength of the chassis frame and the axle capacity and placement. The Commissioner may exclude from the gross vehicle weight rating any readily attachable parts to the extent the Commissioner finds that the use of such parts in computing the gross vehicle weight rating is unreasonable.
