
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 145 - TEMPORARY EXCISE TAX REGULATIONS UNDER THE HIGHWAY REVENUE ACT OF 1982 (PUB. L. 97-424)
##### ยง 145.4052-1 Special rules and definitions.
###### Computation of tax.

(5)(i) Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(5)(ii) and (c)(5)(iii) of this section.

(ii) If the seller of an article regularly sells such articles at retail in arm's length transactions, tax liability on its use of any such article shall be computed on its lowest established retail price for such articles in effect at the time of the taxable use. In establishing such price, there shall be included and excluded, as applicable, the charges and readjustments specified in sections 4216(a), 4216(f), and 6416(b)(1) as in effect at the time the tax liability on the use of the article is incurred. If the seller of an article does not regularly sell such articles at retail in arm's length transactions, a constructive price on which the tax shall be computed will be determined by the Commissioner. This price will be established after considering the selling practices and price structures of sellers of similar articles.

(iii) In the case of any short-term lease (as defined in paragraph (d)(6) of this section) by any person other than a manufacturer, producer, or importer (or related person as defined in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section) of an article that is deemed to be a taxable use of such article under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the tax imposed by section 4051(a)(1) shall be computed on a price equal to the sum of-

(A) The price (as determined under paragraph (d) of this section) at which such article was sold to the lessor plus the cost of any parts and accessories installed by the lessor (or an agent of the lessor) on such article before the first use or lease by the lessor, plus

(B) The product of the sum described in paragraph (c)(5)(iii)(A) of this section and the presumed markup percentage (as defined in paragraph (d)(7) of this section).
