
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter D - Miscellaneous Excise Taxes
#### PART 145 - TEMPORARY EXCISE TAX REGULATIONS UNDER THE HIGHWAY REVENUE ACT OF 1982 (PUB. L. 97-424)
##### ยง 145.4052-1 Special rules and definitions.
###### Items excluded from price.

(8)There shall be excluded from the price:

(i) The amount of tax imposed under sections 4051(a)(1) and (b)(1);

(ii) If stated as a separate charge, the amount of any retail sales tax imposed by any state or political subdivision thereof or the District of Columbia, whether the liability for such tax is imposed on the vendor or vendee; and

(iii) The fair market value (including any tax imposed by section 4071) at retail of any tires (not including any metal rim or rim base). For purposes of this paragraph (d)(8)(iii), fair market value at retail shall be determined by the lowest established price for which the vehicle retailer would sell such tires at retail in the ordinary course of trade. The lowest established price is the lowest price for which the vehicle retailer sells, or offers to sell, a single tire to an independent purchaser who would not ordinarily be expected to buy more than one. If the vehicle retailer has no lowest established price the Commissioner will accept any price provided, under the facts and circumstances, such price is not unreasonable. For vehicles sold on or after April 1, 1983, and before October 13, 1985, a price will not be considered unreasonable if it is no more than an amount equal to 50 percent of the manufacturer's suggested retail price.
