
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Information and Returns
###### records, statements, and special returns
####### ยง 301.6057-1 Employee retirement benefit plans; identification of participant with deferred vested retirement benefit.
######## Annual registration statement,In general.

(a)-(1)Under section 6057(a), the plan administrator (within the meaning of section 414(g)) of an employee retirement benefit plan must file with the Internal Revenue Service information relating to each plan participant who separates from service covered by the plan and is entitled to a deferred vested retirement benefit under the plan, but is not paid this retirement benefit. Plans subject to this filing requirement are described in subparagraph (3) of this paragraph. Subparagraph (4) describes how the information is to be filed with the Internal Revenue Service. In the case of a plan to which only one employer contributes, the time for filing the information with respect to each separated participant is described in subparagraph (5). In the case of a plan to which more than one employer contributes the time for filing the information with respect to a participant is described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Paragraph (b) of this section also provides other rules applicable only to plans to which more than one employer contributes.
