
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Information and Returns
###### records, statements, and special returns
####### § 301.6104(a)-6 Procedural rules for inspection.
######## Request for inspection,Tax exempt organizations and pension and other plans; public inspection.

(b)-(1)Material relating to either tax exempt organizations or pension and other plans that is open to public inspection under section 6104(a)(1) and §§ 301.6104(a)-1 through § 301.6104(a)-3 will be available for inspection only upon request. If inspection at the National Office is desired, a request should be made in writing to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, Attention: Freedom of Information Reading Room, 1111 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, D.C. 20224. Requests for inspection in the office of a district director should be made in writing to the district director's office. The request must describe the material to be inspected in reasonably sufficient detail so that Internal Revenue Service personnel can locate the material. If a tax-exempt organization has more than one application for tax exemption open to public inspection, or if a pension or other plan has more than one application for a determination letter open to public inspection, only the most recent application and related material will be made available for inspection unless the request states otherwise. Further, in the case of a pension or other plan, only Internal Revenue Service documents issued or delivered after the date of the filing of the most recent application for a determination letter will be made available for inspection, unless the request states otherwise.
