
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Information and Returns
###### records, statements, and special returns
####### ยง 301.6104(c)-1 Disclosure of certain information to State officials.
######## Disclosures regarding charitable organizations and applicants,In general.

(c)-(1)With respect to any organization described in paragraph (d) of this section, the IRS may disclose or make available for inspection under section 6104(c)(1) and (2) and paragraph (a)(1) of this section to an ASO the following returns and return information with respect to a charitable organization or applicant:

(i) A refusal or proposed refusal to recognize an organization's exemption as a charitable organization (a final or proposed denial letter).

(ii) Return information regarding a grant of exemption following a proposed denial.

(iii) A revocation of exemption as a charitable organization (a final revocation letter), including a notice of termination or dissolution.

(iv) A proposed revocation of recognition of exemption as a charitable organization (a proposed revocation letter).

(v) Return information regarding the final disposition of a proposed revocation of recognition other than by final revocation.

(vi) A notice of deficiency or proposed notice of deficiency of tax imposed under section 507 or chapter 41 or 42 of the Code on the organization or on a taxable person (as described in paragraph (i)(4) of this section).

(vii) Returns and return information regarding the final disposition of a proposed notice of deficiency of tax imposed under section 507 or chapter 41 or 42 of the Code on the organization other than by issuance of a notice of deficiency.

(viii) The names, addresses, and taxpayer identification numbers of applicants for charitable status, provided on an applicant-by-applicant basis or by periodic lists of applicants. Under this paragraph (c)(1)(viii), the IRS may respond to inquiries from an ASO as to whether a particular organization has applied for recognition of exemption as a charitable organization.

(ix) Return information regarding the final disposition of an application for recognition of exemption where no proposed denial letter is issued, including whether the application was withdrawn or whether the applicant failed to establish its exemption.

(x) Returns and return information relating to the return information described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, except for returns and return information relating to proposed notices of deficiency described in paragraph (c)(1)(vi) of this section with respect to taxable persons.
