
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Information and Returns
###### records, statements, and special returns
####### ยง 301.6104(b)-1 Publicity of information on certain information returns.
######## Copies.

(4)Notes may be taken of the material opened for inspection under this section. Copies may be made manually or, if a person provides the equipment, photographically at the place of inspection, subject to reasonable supervision with regard to the facilities and equipment to be employed. Copies of the material opened for inspection will be furnished by the Internal Revenue Service to any person making request therefor. Requests for such copies shall be made in the same manner as requests for inspection (see subparagraph (1) of this paragraph) to the office of the Internal Revenue Service in which such material is available for inspection as provided in paragraph (c) of this section. Copies may also be obtained by written request to the director of any service center. If made at the time of inspection, the request for copies need not be in writing. Any copies furnished will be certified upon request. Any fees the Internal Revenue Service may charge for furnishing copies under this section shall be no more than under the fee schedule promulgated pursuant to section (a)(4)(A)(i) of the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, by the Commissioner from time to time.
