
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Information and Returns
###### records, statements, and special returns
####### ยง 301.6109-4 IRS truncated taxpayer identification numbers.
######## TTIN not permitted.

(2)Use of a TTIN is not permitted in the following circumstances:

(i) A TTIN may not be used on a statement or other document if such use is prohibited by statute, regulation, other guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin, form, or instructions.

(ii) A TTIN may not be used on a statement or document if a statute, regulation, other guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin, form, or instructions, specifically requires use of an SSN, ITIN, ATIN, or EIN and does not specifically state that the taxpayer identifying number may be truncated. For example, a TTIN may not be used on a Form W-8ECI or Form W-8IMY because the forms and/or form instructions specifically prescribe use of an SSN, EIN, or ITIN for the U.S. taxpayer identification number.

(iii) A TTIN may not be used on any return, statement, or other document that is required to be filed with or furnished to the Internal Revenue Service or the Social Security Administration in the case of forms required to be filed with the Social Security Administration under the internal revenue laws.

(iv) A person may not truncate its own taxpayer identifying number on any statement or other document that it furnishes to another person. For example, an employer may not truncate its EIN on a Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, that the employer furnishes to an employee; and a person may not truncate its TIN on a Form W-9, Request for Taxpayer Identification Number and Certification.
