
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.162-33 Certain employee remuneration in excess of $1,000,000 not deductible for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017.
####### Example 27 (Individual as covered employee of a publicly held corporation that includes the affiliated group),1,Facts.

(AA)-()Corporations CJ and CK are publicly held corporations for their 2020, 2021, and 2022 taxable years. Corporation CK is a direct subsidiary of Corporation CJ. Employee EO is an employee, but not a covered employee (as defined in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section), of Corporation CJ for its 2020, 2021, and 2022 taxable years. From April 1, 2020, to September 30, 2020, Employee EO serves as the PFO of Corporation CK. Employee EO does not perform any services for Corporation CK for its 2021 and 2022 taxable years, however, employee EO is a covered employee (as defined in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section) of Corporation CK for its 2020, 2021, and 2022 taxable years. For the 2020 taxable year, Employee EO receives compensation of $1,500,000 for services provided to Corporations CJ and CK. Employee EO receives $2,000,000 from Corporation CJ for performing services for Corporation CJ during each of its 2021 and 2022 taxable years. On June 30, 2022, Corporation CK pays $500,000 to Employee EO from a nonqualified deferred compensation plan that complies with section 409A.
