
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### ยง 301.6222-1 Partner's return must be consistent with partnership return.
######## Example.

(3)M is a partner in Partnership for 2018. Partnership is subject to subchapter C of chapter 63, and both Partnership and M are calendar year taxpayers. On its 2018 partnership return, Partnership reports that M's distributive share of ordinary income attributable to Partnership is $1,000. Partnership furnishes to M a Schedule K-1 for 2018 showing $500 as M's distributive share of ordinary income. M reports $500 of ordinary income attributable to Partnership on its 2018 income tax return consistent with the Schedule K-1 furnished to M. The IRS notifies M that M's treatment of the ordinary income attributable to Partnership on its 2018 income tax return is inconsistent with how Partnership treated the ordinary income allocated to M on its 2018 partnership return. Within 60 days of receiving the notice from the IRS of the inconsistency, M files an election with the IRS in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section. Because M made a valid election under section 6222(c)(2)(B) and paragraph (d)(1) of this section, M is treated as having notified the IRS of the inconsistency with respect to the ordinary income attributable to Partnership under paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
