
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### ยง 301.6222-1 Partner's return must be consistent with partnership return.
######## Example 2.

(ii)L is a partner in Partnership during 2018. On its 2018 partnership return, Partnership treats partner L's distributive share of ordinary loss attributable to Partnership as $8,000. L, however, claims an ordinary loss of $9,000 as attributable to Partnership on its 2018 income tax return and notifies the IRS of the inconsistent treatment in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section. As a result of the notice of inconsistent treatment, the IRS conducts a separate proceeding under subchapter B of chapter 63 of the Internal Revenue Code with respect to L's 2018 income tax return, a proceeding to which Partnership is not a party. During the proceeding, the IRS determines that the proper amount of L's distributive share of the ordinary loss from Partnership is $3,000. During the same proceeding, the IRS also determines that L overstated a charitable contribution deduction in the amount of $2,500 on its 2018 income tax return. The determination of the adjustment of L's share of ordinary loss is not binding on Partnership. The charitable contribution deduction is not attributable to Partnership or to another partnership subject to the provisions of subchapter C of chapter 63. The IRS may determine the amount of tax that results from adjusting the $9,000 ordinary loss deduction to $3,000 and from adjusting the charitable contribution deduction. Pursuant to paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section, the IRS is not limited to only adjusting the ordinary loss of $9,000, as originally reported on L's partner return, to $8,000, as originally reported by Partnership on its partnership return, nor is the IRS prohibited from adjusting the charitable contribution deduction in the proceeding with respect to L.
