
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.162-33 Certain employee remuneration in excess of $1,000,000 not deductible for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017.
####### Example 28 (Individual as covered employee of a publicly held corporation that includes the affiliated group),1,Facts.

(BB)-()Corporation CL is a publicly held corporation for its 2020 through 2023 taxable years. Corporations CM and CN are direct subsidiaries of Corporation CL and are privately held corporations for their 2020 through 2022 taxable years. Employee EP serves as the PFO of Corporation CL from January 1, 2020 to December 31, 2020, when Employee EP terminates employment from Corporation CL. On January 1, 2021, Employee EP starts performing services as an employee of Corporation CM. In 2021, Employee EP receives compensation from Corporation CM in excess of $1,000,000. On April 1, 2022, Employee EP starts performing services as an employee of Corporation CN. On September 30, 2022, Employee EP terminates employment from Corporations CM and CN. In 2022, Employee EP receives compensation from Corporations CM and CN in excess of $1,000,000. For the 2021 and 2022 taxable years, Employee EP does not serve as either the PEO or PFO of Corporations CM and CN, and is not one of the three highest compensated executive officers (other than the PEO or PFO) of Corporations CM and CN. On April 1, 2023, Corporation CL distributes all the shares of Corporation CM to its shareholders in a transaction described in section 355(a)(1). On April 1, 2023, the SEC declares effective Corporation CM's Securities Act registration statement in connection with its initial public offering. Corporation CM is a publicly held corporation for its 2023 taxable year. On April 2, 2023, Employee EP starts performing services as an employee of Corporation CM but is not an executive officer of Corporation CM.
