
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### ยง 301.6223-1 Partnership representative.
######## Factors considered when partnership representative designated by the IRS.

(ii)The IRS will ordinarily consider one or more of the factors set forth in this paragraph (f)(5)(ii) when determining whom to designate as partnership representative. No single factor is determinative, and other than as described in paragraph (f)(5)(iii) of this section, the IRS may exercise its discretion to designate a person as partnership representative even if none of the factors are applicable to such person. The factors are not requirements for eligibility to be designated by the IRS as partnership representative; the only requirements for eligibility are described under paragraph (b) of this section. The IRS is not obligated to search for or otherwise seek out information related to the factors, and the fact that the IRS is aware of any information related to such factors does not obligate the IRS to designate a particular person. Although the IRS may designate any person to be the partnership representative, a principal consideration in determining whom to designate as a partnership representative is whether there is a reviewed year partner that is eligible to serve as the partnership representative in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section or whether there is a partner at the time the partnership representative designation is made that is eligible to serve as the partnership representative. Other factors that will ordinarily be considered by the IRS in determining whom to designate as a partnership representative include, but are not limited to:

(A) The views of the partners having a majority interest in the partnership regarding the designation;

(B) The general knowledge of the person in tax matters and the administrative operation of the partnership;

(C) The person's access to the books and records of the partnership;

(D) Whether the person is a United States person (within the meaning of section 7701(a)(30)); and

(E) The profits interest of the partner in the case of a partner.
