
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### ยง 301.6224(c)-3 Consistent settlements.
######## Requirements for consistent settlement terms,In general.

(b)-(1)Consistent settlement terms are those based on the same determinations with respect to partnership items. However, consistent settlement terms also may include partnership-level determinations of any penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount that relates to partnership items. Settlements with respect to partnership items shall be self-contained; thus, a concession by one party with respect to a partnership item may not be based upon a concession by another party with respect to any item that is not a partnership item other than a partnership-level determination of any penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount that relates to an adjustment to a partnership item. Consistent agreements must be identical to the original settlement (that is, the settlement upon which the offered settlement terms are based). A consistent agreement must mirror the original settlement and may not be limited to selected items from the original settlement. Once a partner has settled a partnership item, or a partnership-level determination of any penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount that relates to an adjustment to a partnership item, that partner may not subsequently request settlement terms consistent with a settlement that contains the previously settled item. The requirement for consistent settlement terms applies only if-

(i) The items were partnership items (or a partnership-level determination of any related penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount) for the partner entering into the original settlement immediately before the original settlement; and

(ii) The items are partnership items (or a partnership-level determination of any related penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount) for the partner requesting the consistent settlement at the time the partner files the request.
