
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### ยง 301.6225-1 Partnership adjustment by the Internal Revenue Service.
######## Example 5.

(5)Partnership reported a $100 deduction for certain expenses on its 2019 partnership return and an additional $100 deduction with respect to the same type of expenses on its 2020 partnership return. The IRS initiates an administrative proceeding with respect to Partnership's 2019 and 2020 taxable years and determines that Partnership reported a portion of the expenses as a deduction in 2019 that should have been taken into account in 2020. Therefore, for taxable year 2019, the IRS determines that Partnership should have reported a deduction of $75 with respect to the expenses ($25 adjustment in the 2019 residual grouping). For 2020, the IRS determines that Partnership should have reported a deduction of $125 with respect to these expenses (-$25 adjustment in the 2020 residual grouping). There are no other adjustments for the 2019 and 2020 partnership taxable years. Pursuant to paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the adjustments for 2019 and 2020 are not netted with each other. The 2019 adjustment of $25 is the only adjustment for that year and a net positive adjustment under paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section, and therefore the total netted partnership adjustment for 2019 is $25 pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section. The $25 total netted partnership adjustment is multiplied by 40 percent resulting in an imputed underpayment of $10 for Partnership's 2019 taxable year. The $25 increase in the deduction for 2020, a net negative adjustment under paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section, is an adjustment that does not result in an imputed underpayment for that year. Therefore, there is no imputed underpayment for 2020.
