
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### ยง 301.6225-1 Partnership adjustment by the Internal Revenue Service.
######## Example 4.

(4)Partnership reported on its 2019 partnership return long-term capital gain of $125. In an administrative proceeding with respect to Partnership's 2019 taxable year, the IRS determines the long-term capital gain should have been reported as ordinary income of $125. There are no other adjustments for the 2019 taxable year. This recharacterization adjustment results in two adjustments in the residual grouping pursuant to paragraph (c)(6) of this section: an increase in ordinary income of $125 ($125 adjustment) as well as a decrease of long-term capital gain of $125 (-$125 adjustment). The decrease in long-term capital gain is a negative adjustment under paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section and the increase in ordinary income is a positive adjustment under paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section. Under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section, the adjustment to long-term capital gain is placed in a subgrouping separate from the adjustment to ordinary income because the reduction of long-term capital gain is required to be taken into account separately pursuant to section 702(a). The $125 decrease in long-term capital gain is a net negative adjustment in the long-term capital subgrouping and, as a result, is an adjustment that does not result in an imputed underpayment under paragraph (f) of this section and is taken into account in accordance with ยง 301.6225-3. The $125 increase in ordinary income results in a net positive adjustment under paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section. Because the ordinary subgrouping is the only subgrouping resulting in a net positive adjustment, $125 is the total netted partnership adjustment under paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Under paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section, $125 is multiplied by 40 percent resulting in an imputed underpayment of $50.
