
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### ยง 301.6225-1 Partnership adjustment by the Internal Revenue Service.
######## Example 3.

(3)Partnership reports on its 2019 partnership return ordinary income of $300, long-term capital gain of $125, long-term capital loss of -$75, a depreciation deduction of -$100, and a tax credit that can be claimed by the partnership of $5. In an administrative proceeding with respect to Partnership's 2019 taxable year, the IRS determines that ordinary income is $500 ($200 adjustment), long-term capital gain is $200 ($75 adjustment), long-term capital loss is -$25 ($50 adjustment), the depreciation deduction is -$70 ($30 adjustment), and the tax credit is $3 ($2 adjustment). Pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, the adjustment to the tax credit is in the credit grouping under paragraph (c)(3) of this section. The remaining adjustments are part of the residual grouping under paragraph (c)(5) of this section. Pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section, all of the adjustments in the residual grouping are positive adjustments. Because there are no negative adjustments, there are no subgroupings within the residual grouping. Under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the adjustments in the residual grouping are summed for a total netted partnership adjustment of $355. Under paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section, the total netted partnership adjustment is multiplied by 40 percent (highest tax rate in effect), which results in $142. Under paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section, the $142 is increased by the $2 credit adjustment, resulting in an imputed underpayment of $144.
