
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### ยง 301.6225-1 Partnership adjustment by the Internal Revenue Service.
######## Example 7.

(7)On its partnership return for the 2020 taxable year, Partnership reported a recourse liability of $100. During an administrative proceeding with respect to Partnership's 2020 taxable year, the IRS determines that the $100 recourse liability should have been reported as a $100 nonrecourse liability. Under paragraph (d)(2)(iii)(B) of this section, the adjustment to the character of the liability is an adjustment to an item that cannot be allocated under section 704(b). The adjustment therefore is treated as a $100 increase in income because such recharacterization of a liability could result in up to $100 in taxable income if taken into account by any person. The $100 increase in income is a positive adjustment in the residual grouping under paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section. There are no other adjustments for the 2020 partnership taxable year. The $100 positive adjustment is treated as a net positive adjustment under paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section, and the total netted partnership adjustment under paragraph (b)(2) of this section is $100. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the total netted partnership adjustment is multiplied by 40 percent for an imputed underpayment of $40.
