
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### ยง 301.6225-1 Partnership adjustment by the Internal Revenue Service.
######## Example 15.

(15)On its timely filed return for the 2022 taxable year, Partnership reports that it self-certified as a qualified opportunity fund, as defined in section 1400Z-2(d). Partnership also reports that it has not satisfied the 90-percent investment standard, as defined in ยง 1.1400Z2(a)-1(b)(4) of this chapter, and reports an amount due under section 1400Z-2(f) of $100. The IRS does not utilize ยง 301.6241-7(g) to determine adjustments to these partnership-related items without regard to subchapter C of chapter 63. In an administrative proceeding involving Partnership's 2022 taxable year, the IRS, in examining the amount due under section 1400Z-2(f), determines that Partnership incorrectly reported its qualified opportunity zone property for one month and that there should be one $40 adjustment to reduce the assets Partnership reported as qualified opportunity zone property. The IRS also determines that the basis of one of Partnership's qualified opportunity zone properties should be reduced by $30. Under paragraph (d) of this section, the adjustments to the basis and character of an asset are not adjustments to an item of income. Therefore, the $30 adjustment to the basis of the asset and the $40 recharacterization of an asset are treated as positive adjustments. As a result of the determinations, the IRS determines that the amount due for Partnership failing the section 1400Z-2(d)(1) investment standard should be increased. This results in a $4 adjustment to Partnership's liability under section 1400Z-2(f) which, under paragraph (d)(2) of this section is a positive adjustment because it is an increase in an amount Partnership is liable for under chapter 1. The total netted partnership adjustment for the 2022 taxable year is $70 ($30 basis adjustment + $40 recharacterization adjustment). Under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the $4 adjustment to Partnership's liability under chapter 1 is treated as an adjustment to a credit. Assuming the highest rate under section 1 or 11 is 40% this results in an imputed underpayment of $32 (($70 x 40%) + $4 section 1400Z-2(f) adjustment). The IRS issues a notice of final partnership adjustment to Partnership for its 2022 taxable year and Partnership makes a timely election under section 6226 with regard to the $32 imputed underpayment. Under ยง 301.6226-2(g)(4) , when Partnership furnishes statements to its reviewed year partners, Partnership must pay the $4 section 1400Z-2(f) amount because it is the liability of Partnership and may not include that adjustment in the statements.
