
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### ยง 301.6225-1 Partnership adjustment by the Internal Revenue Service.
######## Example 9.

(9)Partnership reports on its 2019 partnership return $400 of CFTEs in the passive category under section 904(d). The IRS initiates an administrative proceeding with respect to Partnership's 2019 taxable year and determines that the CFTEs reported by Partnership were general category instead of passive category CFTEs. No other adjustments are made. Under the rules in paragraph (c)(6) of this section, an adjustment to the category of a CFTE is treated as two separate adjustments: An increase to general category CFTEs of $400 and a decrease to passive category CFTEs of $400. Both adjustments are included in the creditable expenditure grouping under paragraph (c)(4) of this section, but they are included in separate subgroupings. Therefore, the two amounts do not net. Instead, the $400 increase to CFTEs in the general category subgrouping is treated as a net negative adjustment under paragraph (e)(3)(iii)(A) of this section and is an adjustment that does not result in an imputed underpayment under paragraph (f) of this section. The decrease to CFTEs in the passive category subgrouping of the creditable expenditure grouping results in a decrease in CFTEs. Therefore, pursuant to paragraph (e)(3)(iii)(A) of this section, it is treated as a positive adjustment to (decrease in) credits in the credit grouping under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, which results in an imputed underpayment of $400 under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
