
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### ยง 301.6225-1 Partnership adjustment by the Internal Revenue Service.
######## Example 11.

(11)Partnership has two partners, A and B. Partnership owns two entities, DE1 and DE2, that are disregarded as separate from their owner for Federal income tax purposes and are operating in and paying taxes to foreign jurisdictions. The partnership agreement provides that all items from DE1 and DE2 are allocable to A and B in the following manner. Items related to DE1: To A 75 percent and to B 25 percent. Items related to DE2: To A 25 percent and to B 75 percent. On Partnership's 2018 return, Partnership reports CFTEs in the general category of $300, $100 with respect to DE1 and $200 with respect to DE2. Partnership allocates the $300 of CFTEs $125 and $175 to A and B respectively. During an administrative proceeding with respect to Partnership's 2018 taxable year, the IRS determines that Partnership understated the amount of creditable foreign tax paid by DE2 by $40 and overstated the amount of creditable foreign tax paid by DE1 by $80. No other adjustments are made. Because the two adjustments each relate to CFTEs that are subject to different allocations, the two adjustments are in different subgroupings under paragraph (d)(3)(iii)(B) of this section. The adjustment reducing the CFTEs related to DE1 results in a decrease in CFTEs within that subgrouping and under paragraph (e)(3)(iii)(A) of this section is treated as a decrease in credits in the credit grouping under paragraph (c)(3) of this section and results in an imputed underpayment of $80 under paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The increase of $40 of general category CFTE related to the DE2 subgrouping results in an increase in CFTEs within that subgrouping and is treated as a net negative adjustment, which does not result in an imputed underpayment and is taken into account in the adjustment year in accordance with ยง 301.6225-3.
