
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### ยง 301.6225-1 Partnership adjustment by the Internal Revenue Service.
######## Example 13.

(13)The IRS initiates an administrative proceeding with respect to Partnership's 2019 partnership return and makes adjustments as follows: net positive adjustment of $100 ordinary income, net negative adjustment of $20 in credits, and a net negative adjustment of $25 to a chapter 1 tax liability of the partnership. The IRS determines that the net negative adjustment in credits should be taken into account in the calculation of the imputed underpayment in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section. Pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the $100 net positive adjustment to ordinary income is multiplied by 40 percent (highest tax rate in effect), which results in a $40 imputed underpayment. The adjustments in the credits grouping are then applied, which include the adjustment to credits and the adjustment to the chapter 1 tax liability. Applying the credits results in an amount less than zero as described in paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section ($40-$20-$25 = -$5). Pursuant to paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section, the imputed underpayment is recalculated without regard to the adjustment to the chapter 1 tax liability, resulting in a recalculation amount greater than zero as described in paragraph (f)(3)(ii)(B) of this section ($40-$20 = $20). Pursuant to paragraph (f)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, the IRS may apply a portion of the adjustment to chapter 1 tax liability to reduce the recalculation to zero but not below zero. In this case, the recalculation amount would be reduced to zero using $20 of the $25 adjustment to chapter 1 tax liability. Because the imputed underpayment was reduced to zero, pursuant to paragraph (f)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, the adjustments that went into the recalculation are not adjustments that do not result in an imputed underpayment. These adjustments are the $100 adjustment to ordinary income and the $20 adjustment to credits. The remaining $5 adjustment to the chapter 1 tax liability of the partnership is an adjustment that is treated as described in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section and is therefore not taken into account on the partnership's adjustment year return.
