
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### ยง 301.6225-1 Partnership adjustment by the Internal Revenue Service.
######## Example 12.

(12)Partnership has two partners, A and B. For the 2019 taxable year, Partnership allocated $70 of long term capital loss to B as well as $30 of ordinary income. In an administrative proceeding with respect to Partnership's 2019 taxable year, the IRS determines that the $30 of ordinary income and the $70 of long term capital loss should be reallocated from B to A. The partnership adjustments are a decrease of $30 of ordinary income (-$30 adjustment) allocated to B and a corresponding increase of $30 of ordinary income ($30 adjustment) allocated to A, as well as a decrease of $70 of long term capital loss ($70 adjustment) allocated to B and a corresponding increase of $70 of long term capital loss (-$70 adjustment) allocated to A. See paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section. Pursuant to paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(A) of this section, for purposes of determining the imputed underpayment, each positive adjustment and each negative adjustment allocated to A and B is placed in its own separate subgrouping. However, notwithstanding the general requirement that reallocation adjustments be subgrouped separately, the reallocation adjustments allocated to A and B may be subgrouped in accordance with paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section because there are two reallocation adjustments allocated to each of A and B, respectively. Pursuant to paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section, because the partnership adjustment allocated to A would not have been netted at the partnership level and would not have been allocated to A as a single partnership-related item for purposes of section 702(a), other provisions of the Code, regulations, forms, instructions, or other guidance prescribed by the IRS, the positive adjustment and the negative adjustment allocated to A remain in separate subgroupings. For the same reasons with respect to the adjustments allocated to B, the positive adjustment and the negative adjustment allocated to B also remain in separate subgroupings. As a result, the reallocation grouping would have four subgroupings, one for each adjustment: The decrease in ordinary income allocated to B (-$30 adjustment), the increase in ordinary income allocated to A ($30 adjustment), the decrease in long term capital loss allocated to B ($70 adjustment), and the increase long term capital loss allocated to A (-$70 adjustment). Pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, no netting may occur between subgroupings. Accordingly, the ordinary income allocated to A ($30 adjustment) and the long term capital loss allocated to B ($70 adjustment) are both net positive adjustments. These net positive adjustments are added together to determine the total netted partnership adjustment of $100. The total netted partnership adjustment is multiplied by 40 percent, which results in an imputed underpayment of $40. The ordinary income allocated to B (-$30 adjustment) and the long term capital loss allocated to A (-$70 adjustment) are net negative adjustments treated as adjustments that do not result in an imputed underpayment taken into account by the partnership pursuant to ยง 301.6225-3.
