
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### § 301.6225-2 Modification of imputed underpayment.
######## Partnership may request modification of an imputed underpayment.,relevant partner

(a)A partnership that has received a notice of proposed partnership adjustment (NOPPA) under section 6231(a)(2) from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) may request modification of a proposed imputed underpayment set forth in the NOPPA in accordance with this section and any forms, instructions, and other guidance prescribed by the IRS. The effect of modification on a proposed imputed underpayment is described in paragraph (b) of this section. Unless otherwise described in paragraph (d) of this section, a partnership may request any type of modification of an imputed underpayment described in paragraph (d) of this section in the time and manner described in paragraph (c) of this section. A partnership may request modification with respect to a partnership adjustment (as defined in § 301.6241-1(a)(6)) that does not result in an imputed underpayment (as described in § 301.6225-1(f)(1)(ii)) as described in paragraph (e) of this section. Only the partnership representative may request modification under this section. See section 6223 and § 301.6223-2 for rules regarding the binding authority of the partnership representative. For purposes of this section, the termmeans any person for whom modification is requested by the partnership that is-

(1) A reviewed year partner (as defined in § 301.6241-1(a)(9)), including any pass-through partner (as defined in § 301.6241-1(a)(5)), except for any reviewed year partner that is a wholly-owned entity disregarded as separate from its owner for Federal income tax purposes; or

(2) An indirect partner (as defined in § 301.6241-1(a)(4)) except for any indirect partner that is a wholly-owned entity disregarded as separate from its owner for Federal income tax purposes.
