
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### ยง 301.6225-2 Modification of imputed underpayment.
######## Example 2.

(2)The IRS initiates an administrative proceeding with respect to Partnership's 2019 taxable year. The IRS mails a NOPPA to Partnership for the 2019 partnership taxable year proposing a single partnership adjustment increasing ordinary income by $100, resulting in a $40 imputed underpayment ($100 multiplied by the 40 percent tax rate). Partner A, an individual, held a 20 percent interest in Partnership during 2019. Partnership timely requests modification under paragraph (d)(2) of this section based on A's filing an amended return for the 2019 taxable year taking into account $20 of the partnership adjustment and paying the tax and interest due attributable to A's share of the increased income and the tax rate applicable to A for the 2019 tax year. No tax attribute in any other taxable year of A is affected by A's taking into account A's share of the partnership adjustment for 2019. In accordance with paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section, Partnership's partnership representative provides the IRS with documentation demonstrating that A filed the 2019 return and paid all tax and interest due. The IRS approves the modification and, in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the $20 increase in ordinary income allocable to A is not included in the calculation of the total netted partnership adjustment (determined in accordance with ยง 301.6225-1). Partnership's total netted partnership adjustment is reduced to $80 ($100 adjustment less $20 taken into account by A), and the imputed underpayment is reduced to $32 (total netted partnership adjustment of $80 after modification multiplied by 40 percent).
