
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### § 301.6225-2 Modification of imputed underpayment.
######## Example 8.

(8)Partnership has two reviewed year partners, C1 and C2, both of which are C corporations. The IRS mails to Partnership a NOPPA with two adjustments, both based on rental real estate activity. The first adjustment is an increase of rental real estate income of $100 attributable to Property A. The second adjustment is an increase of rental real estate loss of $30 attributable to Property B. The Partnership did not treat the leasing arrangement with respect to Property A and Property B as an appropriate economic unit for purposes of section 469. If the $100 increase in income attributable to Property A and the $30 increase in loss attributable to Property B were included in the same subgrouping and netted, then taking the $30 increase in loss into account would result in a decrease in the amount of the imputed underpayment. Also, the $30 increased loss might be limited or restricted if taken into account by any person under the passive activity rules under section 469. For instance, under section 469, rental activities of the two properties could be treated as two activities, which could limit a partner's ability to claim the loss. In addition to the potential limitations under section 469, there are other potential limitations that might apply if the $30 loss were taken into account by any person. Therefore, in accordance with § 301.6225-1(d), the two adjustments are placed in separate subgroupings within the residual grouping, the total netted partnership adjustment is $100, the imputed underpayment is $40 ($100 x 40 percent), and the $30 increase in loss is an adjustment that does not result in an imputed underpayment under § 301.6225-1(f). Partnership requests modification under paragraph (d)(6) of this section, substantiating to the satisfaction of the IRS that C1 and C2 are publicly traded C corporations, and therefore, the passive activity loss limitations under section 469 of the Code do not apply. Partnership also substantiates to the satisfaction of the IRS that no other limitation or restriction applies that would prevent the grouping of the $100 with the $30 loss. The IRS approves Partnership's modification request and places the $100 of income and the $30 loss into the subgrouping in the residual grouping under the rules described in § 301.6225-1(c)(5). Under § 301.6225-1(e), because the two adjustments are in one subgrouping, they are netted together, resulting in a total netted partnership adjustment of $70 ($100 plus -$30) and an imputed underpayment of $28 ($70 x 40 percent). After modification, none of the adjustments is an adjustment that does not result in an imputed underpayment under § 301.6225-1(f) because the $30 loss is now netted with the $100 of income in a net positive adjustment for the residual grouping.
