
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### § 301.6225-2 Modification of imputed underpayment.
######## Example 7.

(7)The IRS initiates an administrative proceeding with respect to Partnership's 2019 taxable year. All of Partnership's partners during its 2019 taxable year are individuals. The IRS mails a NOPPA to Partnership for the 2019 taxable year proposing three partnership adjustments. The first partnership adjustment is an increase to ordinary income of $75 for 2019. The second partnership adjustment is an increase in the depreciation deduction allowed for 2019 of $25, which under § 301.6225-1(d)(2)(i) is treated as a $25 decrease in income. The third adjustment is an increase in long-term capital gain of $10 for 2019. Under the partnership agreement in effect for Partnership's 2019 taxable year, the long-term capital gain and the increase in depreciation would be specially allocated to B and the increase in ordinary income would be specially allocated to A. In accordance with § 301.6225-1(c) and (d), the three adjustments are placed into three separate subgroupings within the residual grouping because the partnership adjustments would not have been netted at the partnership level and would not have been required to be allocated to the partners of the partnership as a single, net partnership-related item for purposes of section 702(a), other provisions of the Code, regulations, forms, instructions, or other guidance prescribed by the IRS. Accordingly, the total netted partnership adjustment is $85 ($75 net positive adjustment to ordinary income plus $10 net positive adjustment to long term capital gain), and the imputed under payment is $34 ($85 multiplied by 40 percent). The net negative adjustment to depreciation is an adjustment that does not result in an imputed underpayment subject to treatment under § 301.6225-3. Partnership requests a modification under paragraph (d)(6) of this section to determine a specific imputed underpayment with respect to the $75 adjustment to ordinary income allocated to A. The specific imputed underpayment is with respect to $75 of the increase in income specially allocated to A and the general imputed underpayment is with respect to $10 of the increase in capital gain and the $25 increase in depreciation deduction specially allocated to B. If the modification is approved by the IRS, the specific imputed underpayment would consist of the $75 increase in ordinary income, and thus the total netted partnership adjustment for the specific imputed underpayment would be $75. The specific imputed underpayment is thus $30 ($75 multiplied by 40 percent). The general imputed underpayment would consist of two adjustments: The long term capital gain adjustment and the depreciation adjustment. The long term capital gain adjustment and the depreciation adjustment would be placed in different subgroupings under § 301.6225-1(d) because they are treated separately under section 702. Accordingly, the long term capital gain adjustment and the depreciation adjustment are not netted, and the long term capital gain adjustment would be a net positive adjustment while the depreciation adjustment would be a net negative adjustment. The long term capital gain net positive adjustment would be the only net positive adjustment, resulting in a total netted partnership adjustment of $10. The general imputed underpayment is $4 ($10 multiplied by 40 percent), and the net negative adjustment to depreciation of $25 would be an adjustment that does not result in an imputed underpayment under § 301.6225-1(f) associated with the general imputed underpayment.
