
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### ยง 301.6225-3 Treatment of partnership adjustments that do not result in an imputed underpayment.
######## Example 4.

(4)On its partnership return for the 2020 taxable year, Partnership reports a recourse liability of $1,000. During an administrative proceeding with respect to Partnership's 2020 taxable year, the IRS determines that the liability is a nonrecourse liability instead of a recourse liability. The IRS also determines that Partnership has a negative adjustment to credits of $400. There are no other adjustments for Partnership's 2020 taxable year. Under ยง 301.6225-1(d), the adjustment to the liability is not an adjustment to an item of income. Therefore, the $1,000 change to the liability is treated as two $1,000 positive adjustments (a $1,000 decrease to nonrecourse liabilities and a $1,000 increase to recourse liabilities). The IRS determines that the adjustment to nonrecourse liabilities should be treated as zero for purposes of calculating the imputed underpayment under ยง 301.6225-1(b)(4). The IRS also determines that the net negative adjustment to credits should be taken into account as part of the calculation of the imputed underpayment. The total netted partnership adjustment is $1,000, which, after applying the highest rate and decreasing the product by the $400 adjustment to credits results in an imputed underpayment of $0. Accordingly, both adjustments are adjustments that do not result in an imputed underpayment under ยง 301.6225-1(f). Partnership pays off the entire liability in 2021. The adjustment year is 2022. Under paragraph (b)(8) of this section, the liability no longer appears on the return due to the satisfaction of the liability in the 2021 taxable year. Accordingly, no adjustment is made to Partnership's 2022 return as a result of the adjustment to the liability. If, instead of satisfying the entire $1,000 liability in 2021, Partnership made a payment of $500 towards the liability, on its 2022 return, Partnership would change the character of the $500 liability on its 2022 return to be a nonrecourse liability.
