
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### § 301.6225-3 Treatment of partnership adjustments that do not result in an imputed underpayment.
######## Example 1.

(1)For all of Partnership's 2019, 2020, and 2021 partnership taxable years, Partnership has two equal partners, A and B. The IRS initiates an administrative proceeding with respect to Partnership's 2019 partnership taxable year. The IRS mails a notice of proposed partnership adjustment (NOPPA) to Partnership for the 2019 partnership taxable year proposing a recharacterization adjustment, changing a $100 ordinary loss to a $100 long term capital loss. Under § 301.6225-1, this recharacterization adjustment results in two adjustments: A $100 increase to ordinary income (positive adjustment) and a -$100 decrease in long term capital gain (negative adjustment). Under § 301.6225-1(b), the $100 positive adjustment is the total netted partnership adjustment, which is multiplied by the highest rate of 40 percent, resulting in a $40 imputed underpayment. Under § 301.6225-1(f), the -$100 negative adjustment is an adjustment that does not result in an imputed underpayment and is taken into account in accordance with this section. On March 1, 2021, the IRS mails a notice of final partnership adjustment (FPA), and because Partnership does not file a petition for readjustment with respect to the FPA, the adjustments are finally determined in 2021, and the adjustment year is determined to be 2021 pursuant to § 301.6241-1(a)(1). Pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, Partnership takes into account the -$100 adjustment that does not result in an imputed underpayment on its 2021 partnership return. In addition to the -$100 adjustment to partnership's 2019 taxable year taken into account under this section, Partnership has an additional $300 in long term capital gain reportable in its 2021 taxable year. The -$100 negative adjustment and the $300 long term capital gain are Partnership's only long term capital gains and losses for its 2021 taxable year. Because the -$100 net negative adjustment is an adjustment to long term capital gain, which is a separately stated item under section 702(a)(2), the -$100 negative adjustment must be taken into account in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Partnership includes both the -$100 negative adjustment and the $300 in long term capital gain as separately stated items on its 2021 tax return.
