
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### ยง 301.6225-3 Treatment of partnership adjustments that do not result in an imputed underpayment.
######## Example 5.,Example 3

(5)The facts are the same facts as the facts in paragraph (d)(3) () except that Partnership has two equal partners-A and B-both of whom are individuals. After Partnership receives a notice of proposed partnership adjustment containing the $4 negative adjustment to credits and the $10 adjustment to Asset, Partnership requests modification under ยง 301.6225-2(d)(2) and (e) based on A filing an amended return. On her amended return, A takes into account her share of the adjustments which is a $2 negative adjustment to credits and a $5 adjustment to Asset. Based on A's facts and circumstances, A does not have any tax impact as a result of the adjustment to Asset so her amended return only reflects a tax impact from the additional $2 in credits. Because A filed an amended return, the imputed underpayment is recalculated without the portion of the adjustments allocable to A. In this case, the total netted partnership adjustment is $5, which, after applying the highest rate and decreasing the product by the $2 adjustment to credits results in an imputed underpayment of $0. Accordingly, both adjustments (the $10 adjustment to Asset and the $4 adjustment to credits) are adjustments that do not result in an imputed underpayment under paragraph (f) of this section. The adjustment year is 2022 and Partnership still owns Asset. Under paragraph (b)(8) of this section, Partnership takes into account the $10 adjustment to Asset on its 2022 return by reducing its basis in Asset by $10. The reduction in the basis of Asset does not require Partnership to recognize income or gain in situations where income or gain is not otherwise recognized.
