
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### § 301.6225-3 Treatment of partnership adjustments that do not result in an imputed underpayment.
######## Example 2.,Example 1

(2)The facts are the same as inin paragraph (d)(1) of this section, except that the IRS proposes a reallocation adjustment instead of a recharacterization adjustment. The IRS determines that the -$100 ordinary loss that the Partnership allocated equally to A and B should instead all be allocated all to A. The IRS mails a NOPPA for the 2019 partnership taxable year proposing a reallocation adjustment resulting in a $50 increase in ordinary loss allocated to A (negative adjustment) and a $50 decrease in ordinary loss allocated to B (positive adjustment). Because the adjustments are the result of a reallocation, they are placed in separate subgroupings pursuant to § 301.6225-1(d). Because the adjustments are in different subgroupings, the adjustments are not netted under § 301.6225-1(e), resulting in a net negative adjustment of -$50 allocated to A and a net positive adjustment of $50 to B. Pursuant to § 301.6225-1(b), the total netted partnership adjustment includes the $50 net positive adjustment, and the imputed underpayment is $20 ($50 total netted partnership adjustment x 40 percent). Pursuant to § 301.6225-1(f), the -$50 net negative adjustment is an adjustment that does not result in an imputed underpayment and is taken into account in accordance with this section. On March 1, 2021, the IRS mails an FPA, and because Partnership does not file a petition for readjustment with respect to the FPA, the adjustments are finally determined in 2021, and the adjustment year is determined to be 2021 pursuant to § 301.6241-1(a)(1). Pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, Partnership takes into account the -$50 adjustment that does not result in an imputed underpayment on its 2021 partnership return. In addition to the -$50 net negative adjustment to partnership's 2019 taxable year taken into account under this section, Partnership also has an additional $300 in ordinary income reportable in its 2021 taxable year unrelated to the administrative proceeding with respect to Partnership's 2019 partnership taxable year. Because the -$50 net negative adjustment is due to a reallocation, the adjustment must be taken into account under paragraph (b)(4) of this section. Because the net negative adjustment was determined to have been entirely allocable to A, and because A was a reviewed year partner and is also an adjustment year partner, the net negative adjustment is taken into account by Partnership by allocating the entire adjustment to A on its 2021 tax return. The -$50 negative adjustment does not reduce the $300 in ordinary income.
