
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### ยง 301.6225-3 Treatment of partnership adjustments that do not result in an imputed underpayment.
######## Example 3.

(3)On its partnership return for the 2020 taxable year, Partnership placed Asset into service, reporting that Asset, a non-depreciable asset, had a basis of $100. During an administrative proceeding with respect to Partnership's 2020 taxable year, the IRS determines that Asset has a basis of $90 instead of $100. The IRS also determines that Partnership has a negative adjustment to credits of $4. There are no other adjustments for Partnership's 2020 taxable year. Under ยง 301.6225-1(d)(2)(iii), the adjustment to the basis of an asset is not an adjustment that is a decrease in an item of income, a partnership adjustment treated under paragraph ยง 301.6225-1(d)(2)(i) as a decrease in an item of income, or an increase in an item of credit. Therefore, the $10 adjustment to the basis of Asset is treated as a $10 positive adjustment. The IRS determines that the net negative adjustment to credits should be taken into account as part of the calculation of the imputed underpayment. The total netted partnership adjustment is $10, which, after applying the highest rate and decreasing the product by the $4 adjustment to credits results in an imputed underpayment of $0. Accordingly, both adjustments are adjustments that do not result in an imputed underpayment under ยง 301.6225-1(f). The adjustment year is 2022 and Partnership still owns Asset. Under paragraph (b)(8) of this section, Partnership takes into account the $10 adjustment to Asset on its 2022 return by reducing its basis in Asset by $10. The reduction in the basis of Asset does not require Partnership to recognize income or gain in situations where income or gain is not otherwise recognized.
