
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### § 1.162-33 Certain employee remuneration in excess of $1,000,000 not deductible for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017.
####### Transition rules,Amount of compensation payable under a written binding contract that was in effect on November 2, 2017,General rule.

(g)-(1)-(i)This section does not apply to the deduction for compensation payable under a written binding contract that was in effect on November 2, 2017, and that is not modified in any material respect on or after that date (a grandfathered amount). Instead, section 162(m), as in effect prior to its amendment by Public Law 115-97, applies to limit the deduction for that compensation. Because § 1.162-27 implemented section 162(m) as in effect prior to its amendment by Public Law 115-97, the rules of § 1.162-27 determine the applicability of the deduction limitation under section 162(m) with respect to the payment of a grandfathered amount (including the potential application of the separate grandfathering rules contained in § 1.162-27(h)). Compensation is a grandfathered amount only to the extent that as of November 2, 2017, the corporation was and remains obligated under applicable law (for example, state contract law) to pay the compensation under the contract if the employee performs services or satisfies the applicable vesting conditions. This section applies to the deduction for any amount of compensation that exceeds the grandfathered amount. If a grandfathered amount and non-grandfathered amount are otherwise deductible for the same taxable year and, under the rules of § 1.162-27, the deduction of some or all of the grandfathered amount may be limited (for example, the grandfathered amount does not satisfy the requirements of § 1.162-27(e)(2) through (5) as qualified performance-based compensation), then the grandfathered amount is aggregated with the non-grandfathered amount to determine the deduction disallowance for the taxable year under section 162(m)(1) (so that the deduction limit applies to the excess of the aggregated amount over $1 million).
