
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### ยง 301.6226-2 Statements furnished to partners and filed with the IRS.
######## Example 1.

(i)During Partnership's 2020 taxable year, A, an individual, was a partner in Partnership and had an address at 123 Main St. On February 1, 2021, A sells his interest in Partnership and informs Partnership that A moved to 456 Broad St. On March 15, 2021, Partnership mails A's statement under section 6031(b) for the 2020 taxable year to 456 Broad St. On June 1, 2023, A moves again but does not inform Partnership of A's new address. In 2023, the IRS initiates an administrative proceeding with respect to Partnership's 2020 taxable year and mails a notice of final partnership adjustment (FPA) to Partnership for that year that includes a single imputed underpayment. Partnership makes a timely election under section 6226 in accordance with ยง 301.6226-1 with respect to the imputed underpayment and on May 31, 2024, timely mails a statement described in paragraph (a) of this section to A at 456 Broad St. Although the statement was mailed to the last address for A that was known to Partnership, it is returned to Partnership as undeliverable because unknown to Partnership, A had moved. After undertaking reasonable diligence to obtain the correct address of A, Partnership is unable to ascertain the correct address. Therefore, pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, Partnership properly furnished the statement to A when it mailed the statement to 456 Broad St.
