
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### § 301.6226-3 Adjustments taken into account by partners.
######## Example 1.

(1)On its partnership return for the 2020 tax year, Partnership reported ordinary income of $1,000 and charitable contributions of $400. On June 1, 2023, the IRS mails a notice of final partnership adjustment (FPA) to Partnership for Partnership's 2020 year disallowing the charitable contribution in its entirety and determining that a 20 percent accuracy-related penalty under section 6662(b) applies to the disallowance of the charitable contribution, and setting forth a single imputed underpayment with respect to such adjustments. Partnership makes a timely election under section 6226 in accordance with § 301.6226-1 with respect to the imputed underpayment in the FPA for Partnership's 2020 year and files a timely petition in the Tax Court challenging the partnership adjustments. The Tax Court determines that Partnership is not entitled to any of the claimed $400 in charitable contributions and upholds the applicability of the penalty. The decision regarding Partnership's 2020 tax year becomes final on December 15, 2025. Pursuant to § 301.6226-2(b), the partnership adjustments are finally determined on December 15, 2025. On February 2, 2026, Partnership files the statements described under § 301.6226-2 with the IRS and furnishes to partner A, an individual who was a partner in Partnership during 2020, a statement described in § 301.6226-2. A had a 25 percent interest in Partnership during all of 2020 and was allocated 25 percent of all items from Partnership for that year. The statement shows A's share of ordinary income reported on Partnership's return for the reviewed year of $250 and A's share of the charitable contribution reported on Partnership's return for the reviewed year of $100. The statement also shows an adjustment to A's share of the charitable contribution, a reduction of $100 resulting in $0 charitable contribution allocated to A from Partnership for 2020. In addition, the statement reports that a 20 percent accuracy-related penalty under section 6662(b) applies. A must pay the additional reporting year tax as determined in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, in addition to A's penalties and interest. A computes his additional reporting year tax as follows. First, A determines the correction amount for the first affected year (the 2020 taxable year) by taking into account A's share of the partnership adjustment (-$100 reduction in charitable contribution) for the 2020 taxable year. A determines the amount by which his chapter 1 tax for 2020 would have increased or decreased if the $100 adjustment to the charitable contribution from Partnership were taken into account for that year. There is no adjustment to tax attributes in A's intervening years as a result of the adjustment to the charitable contribution for 2020. Therefore, A's aggregate of the correction amounts is the correction amount for 2020, A's first affected year. In addition to the aggregate of the correction amounts being added to the chapter 1 tax that A owes for 2026, the reporting year, A must calculate a 20 percent accuracy-related penalty on A's underpayment attributable to the $100 adjustment to the charitable contribution, as well as interest on the correction amount for the first affected year and the penalty determined in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. Interest on the correction amount for the first affected tax year runs from April 15, 2021, the due date of A's 2020 return (the first affected tax year) until A pays this amount. In addition, interest runs on the penalty from April 15, 2021, the due date of A's 2020 return for the first affected year until A pays this amount. On his 2026 income tax return, A must report the additional reporting year tax determined in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, which is the correction amount for 2020, plus the accuracy-related penalty determined in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, and interest determined in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section on the correction amount for 2020 and the penalty.
