
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### ยง 301.6226-3 Adjustments taken into account by partners.
######## Example 6.

(6)Partnership has two equal partners for the 2020 tax year: M (an individual) and J (a partnership). For the 2020 tax year, J has two equal partners-K and L-both individuals. On June 1, 2023, the IRS mails an FPA to Partnership for Partnership's 2020 year increasing Partnership's ordinary income by $500,000 and asserting an imputed underpayment of $200,000. Partnership makes a timely election under section 6226 in accordance with ยง 301.6226-1 with respect to the imputed underpayment in the FPA for Partnership's 2020 year and does not file a petition for readjustment under section 6234. The time to file a petition expires on August 30, 2023. Pursuant to ยง 301.6226-2(b), the partnership adjustments become finally determined on August 31, 2023. Therefore, Partnership's adjustment year is 2023, the due date of the adjustment year return is March 15, 2024 and the extended due date for the adjustment year return is September 16, 2024. On October 12, 2023, Partnership timely files with the IRS statements described in ยง 301.6226-2 and timely furnishes statements to its partners reflecting their share of the partnership adjustments as finally determined in the FPA. The statements to M and J each reflect a partnership adjustment of $250,000 of ordinary income. M takes her share of the adjustments reflected on the statements furnished by Partnership into account on M's return for the 2023 tax year in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. On April 1, 2024, J files the adjustment tracking report and files and furnishes statements to K and L reflecting each partner's share of the adjustments reflected on the statements Partnership furnished to J. K and L must take their share of adjustments reflected on the statements furnished by J into account on their returns for the 2023 tax year in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section by treating themselves as reviewed year partners for purposes of paragraph (b).
