
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### § 301.6226-3 Adjustments taken into account by partners.
######## Example 2.

(2)On its partnership return for the 2020 tax year, Partnership reported an ordinary loss of $500. On June 1, 2023, the IRS mails an FPA to Partnership for the 2020 taxable year determining that $300 of the $500 in ordinary loss should be recharacterized as a long-term capital loss. Partnership has no long-term capital gain for its 2020 tax year. The FPA for Partnership's 2020 tax year reflects an adjustment of an increase in ordinary income of $300 (as a result of the disallowance of the recharacterization of $300 from ordinary loss to long-term capital loss) and an imputed underpayment related to that adjustment, as well as an adjustment of an additional $300 in long-term capital loss for 2020 which does not result in an imputed underpayment under § 301.6225-1(f). Partnership makes a timely election under section 6226 in accordance with § 301.6226-1 with respect to the imputed underpayment in the FPA and does not file a petition for readjustment under section 6234. Accordingly, under § 301.6226-1(b)(2) and § 301.6225-3(b)(6), the adjustment year partners (as defined in § 301.6241-1(a)(2)) do not take into account the $300 long-term capital loss that does not result in an imputed underpayment. Rather, the $300 long-term capital loss is taken into account by the reviewed year partners. The time to file a petition expires on August 30, 2023. Pursuant to § 301.6226-2(b), the partnership adjustments become finally determined on August 31, 2023. On September 30, 2023, Partnership files with the IRS statements described in § 301.6226-2 and furnishes statements to all of its reviewed year partners in accordance with § 301.6226-2. One partner of Partnership in 2020, B (an individual), had a 25 percent interest in Partnership during all of 2020 and was allocated 25 percent of all items from Partnership for that year. The statement filed with the IRS and furnished to B shows B's allocable share of the ordinary loss reported on Partnership's return for the 2020 taxable year as $125. The statement also shows an adjustment to B's allocable share of the ordinary loss in the amount of -$75, resulting in a corrected ordinary loss allocated to B of $50 for taxable year 2020 ($125 originally allocated to B less $75 which is B's share of the adjustment to the ordinary loss). In addition, the statement shows an increase to B's share of long-term capital loss in the amount of $75 (B's share of the adjustment that did not result in the imputed underpayment with respect to Partnership). B must pay the additional reporting year tax as determined in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. B computes his additional reporting year tax as follows. First, B determines the correction amount for the first affected year (the 2020 taxable year) by taking into account B's share of the partnership adjustments (a $75 reduction in ordinary loss and an increase of $75 in long-term capital loss) for the 2020 taxable year. B determines the amount by which his chapter 1 tax for 2020 would have increased or decreased if the $75 adjustment to ordinary loss and the $75 adjustment to long-term capital loss from Partnership were taken into account for that year. Second, B determines if there is any increase or decrease in chapter 1 tax for any intervening year as a result of the adjustment to the ordinary and capital losses for 2020. B's aggregate of the correction amounts is the correction amount for 2020, B's first affected year plus any correction amounts for any intervening years. B is also liable for any interest on the correction amount for the first affected year and for any intervening year as determined in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
