
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### § 301.6226-3 Adjustments taken into account by partners.
######## Example 4.

(4)On its partnership return for the 2020 tax year, Partnership reported ordinary income of $100 and a long-term capital gain of $40. Partnership had four equal partners during the 2020 tax year: E, F, G, and H, all of whom were individuals. On its partnership return for the 2020 tax year, the entire long-term capital gain was allocated to partner E and the ordinary income was allocated to all partners based on their equal (25 percent) interest in Partnership. The IRS initiates an administrative proceeding with respect to Partnership's 2020 taxable year and determines that the long-term capital gain should have been allocated equally to all four partners and that Partnership should have recognized an additional $10 in ordinary income. On June 1, 2023, the IRS mails an FPA to Partnership reflecting the reallocation of the $40 long-term capital gain so that F, G, and H each have $10 increase in long-term capital gain and E has a $30 reduction in long-term capital gain for 2020. In addition, the FPA reflects the partnership adjustment increasing ordinary income by $10. The FPA reflects a general imputed underpayment with respect to the increase in ordinary income and a specific imputed underpayment with respect to the increase in long-term capital gain allocated to F, G, and H. In addition, the FPA reflects a $30 partnership adjustment that does not result in an imputed underpayment, that is, the reduction of $30 in long-term capital gain with respect to E that is associated with the specific imputed underpayment in accordance with § 301.6225-1(g)(2)(iii)(B). Partnership makes a timely election under section 6226 in accordance with § 301.6226-1 with respect to the specific imputed underpayment relating to the reallocation of long-term capital gain. Partnership does not file a petition for readjustment under section 6234. The time to file a petition expires on August 30, 2023. Pursuant to § 301.6226-2(b), the partnership adjustments become finally determined on August 31, 2023. Partnership timely pays the general imputed underpayment that resulted from the partnership adjustment to ordinary income. On September 30, 2023, Partnership files with the IRS statements described in § 301.6226-2 and furnishes statements to its partners reflecting their share of the partnership adjustments as finally determined in the FPA that relate to the specific imputed underpayment, that is, the reallocation of long-term capital gain. The statements for F, G, and H each reflect a partnership adjustment of an additional $10 of long-term capital gain for 2020. The statement for E reflects a partnership adjustment of a reduction of $30 of long-term capital gain for 2020. Because E, F, G, and H are all individuals, all partners must report the additional reporting year tax as determined in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section in the partners' reporting year, which is 2023. They compute their additional reporting year tax as follows. First, they determine the correction amount for the first affected year (the 2020 taxable year) by taking into account their share of the partnership adjustments for the 2020 taxable year. They each determine the amount by which their chapter 1 tax for 2020 would have increased or decreased if the adjustment to long-term capital gain from Partnership were taken into account for that year. Second, they determine if there is any increase or decrease in chapter 1 tax for any intervening year as a result of the adjustment to the long-term capital gain for 2020. Their aggregate of the correction amounts is the sum of the correction amount for 2020, their first affected year and any correction amounts for any intervening years. They are also liable for any interest on the correction amount for the first affected year and for any intervening year as determined in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
