
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### § 301.6226-3 Adjustments taken into account by partners.
######## Example 5.

(5)On its partnership return for the 2020 taxable year, Partnership reported a long-term capital loss of $500. During an administrative proceeding with respect to Partnership's 2020 taxable year, the IRS mails a notice of proposed partnership adjustment (NOPPA) in which it proposes to disallow $200 of the reported $500 long-term capital loss, the only adjustment. Accordingly, the imputed underpayment reflected in the NOPPA is $80 ($200 x 40 percent). F, a C corporation partner with a 50 percent interest in Partnership, received 50 percent of all long-term capital losses for 2020. As part of the modification process described in § 301.6225-2(d)(2), F files an amended return for 2020 taking into account F's share of the partnership adjustment ($100 reduction in long-term capital loss) and pays the tax owed for 2020, including interest. Also as part of the modification process, F also files amended returns for 2021 and 2022 and pays additional tax (and interest) for these years because the reduction in long-term capital loss for 2020 affected the tax due from F for 2021 and 2022. See § 301.6225-2(d)(2). The reduction of the long-term capital loss in 2020 did not affect any other taxable year of F. This is the only modification requested. The IRS approves the modification with respect to F and on June 1, 2023, mails an FPA to Partnership for Partnership's 2020 year reflecting the partnership adjustment reducing the long-term capital loss in the amount of $200. The FPA also reflects the modification to the imputed underpayment based on the amended returns filed by F taking into account F's share of the reduction in the long-term capital loss. Therefore, the imputed underpayment in the FPA is $40 ($100 x 40 percent). Partnership makes a timely election under section 6226 in accordance with § 301.6226-1 with respect to the imputed underpayment in the FPA for Partnership's 2020 year and files a timely petition in the Tax Court challenging the partnership adjustments. The Tax Court upholds the determinations in the FPA and the decision regarding Partnership's 2020 tax year becomes final on December 15, 2025. Pursuant to § 301.6226-2(b), the partnership adjustments are finally determined on December 15, 2025. On February 1, 2026, Partnership files the statements described under § 301.6226-2 with the IRS and furnishes to its partners statements reflecting their shares of the partnership adjustment. The statement issued to F reflects F's share of the partnership adjustment for Partnership's 2020 taxable year as finally determined by the Tax Court. The statement shows F's share of the long-term capital loss adjustment for the reviewed year of $100, as well as the $100 long-term capital loss taken into account by F as part of the amended return modification. Accordingly, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, when F computes its correction amounts for the first affected year (the 2020 taxable year) and the intervening years (the 2021 through 2026 taxable years), F computes any increase or decrease in chapter 1 tax for those years using the returns for the 2020, 2021, and 2022 taxable years as amended during the modification process and taking into account any chapter 1 tax paid with those amended returns. F also takes into account the interest paid with F's amended returns when determining the interest under paragraph (c) of this section that must be paid in the reporting year.
