
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### § 301.6226-3 Adjustments taken into account by partners.
######## Example 3.

(3)On its partnership return for the 2020 tax year, Partnership, a domestic partnership, reported U.S. source dividend income of $2,000. On June 1, 2023, the IRS mails an FPA to Partnership for Partnership's 2020 year increasing the amount of U.S. source dividend income to $4,000 and determining that a 20 percent accuracy-related penalty under section 6662(b) applies to the increase in U.S. source dividend income. Partnership makes a timely election under section 6226 in accordance with § 301.6226-1 with respect to the imputed underpayment in the FPA for Partnership's 2020 year and does not file a petition for readjustment under section 6234. The time to file a petition expires on August 30, 2023. Pursuant to § 301.6226-2(b), the partnership adjustments become finally determined on August 31, 2023. On September 30, 2023, Partnership files the statements described under § 301.6226-2 with the IRS and furnishes to partner C, a nonresident alien individual who was a partner in Partnership during 2020 (and remains a partner in Partnership in 2023), a statement described in § 301.6226-2. C had a 50 percent interest in Partnership during all of 2020 and was allocated 50 percent of all items from Partnership for that year. The statement shows C's share of U.S. source dividend income reported on Partnership's return for the reviewed year of $1,000 and an adjustment to U.S. source dividend income of $1,000. In addition, the statement reports that a 20 percent accuracy-related penalty under section 6662(b) applies. Under § 301.6241-6(b)(4)(i), because the additional $1,000 in U.S. source dividend income allocated to C is an amount subject to withholding (as defined in § 301.6241-6(b)(2)), Partnership must pay the amount of tax required to be withheld on the adjustment. See §§ 1.1441-1(b)(1) and 1.1441-5(b)(2)(i)(A) of this chapter. Under § 301.6241-6(b)(4)(ii), Partnership may reduce the amount of withholding tax it must pay because it has valid documentation from 2020 that establishes that C was entitled to a reduced rate of withholding in 2020 on U.S. source dividend income of 10 percent pursuant to a treaty. Partnership withholds $100 of tax from C's distributive share, remits the tax to the IRS, and files the necessary return and information returns required by § 1.1461-1 of this chapter. On his 2023 return, C must report the additional reporting year tax determined in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, the accuracy-related penalty determined in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, and interest determined in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section on the correction amount for the first affected year, the correction amount for any intervening year, and the penalty. Under paragraph (f) of this section, C may claim the $100 withholding tax paid by Partnership pursuant to § 301.6241-6(b)(4)(i) as a credit under section 33 against C's income tax liability on his 2023 return.
