
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### § 301.6226-3 Adjustments taken into account by partners.
######## Example 8.

(8)On its partnership return for the 2020 tax year, Partnership reported $1,000 of ordinary loss. Partnership has two equal partners for the 2020 tax year: P and Q, both S corporations. For the 2020 tax year, P had one shareholder, R, an individual. For the 2020 tax year, Q had two shareholders, S and T, both individuals. On June 1, 2023, the IRS mails an FPA to Partnership for Partnership's 2020 year determining $500 of the $1,000 of ordinary loss should be recharacterized as $500 of long-term capital loss and $500 of the ordinary loss should be disallowed. The FPA asserts an imputed underpayment of $400 ($1,000 x 40 percent) with respect to the $1,000 reduction to ordinary loss and reflecting an adjustment that does not result in an imputed underpayment of a $500 capital loss. Partnership makes a timely election under section 6226 in accordance with § 301.6226-1 with respect to the imputed underpayment in the FPA for Partnership's 2020 year and does not file a petition for readjustment under section 6234. The time to file a petition expires on August 30, 2023. Pursuant to § 301.6226-2(b), the partnership adjustments become finally determined on August 31, 2023. On October 12, 2023, Partnership timely files with the IRS statements described in § 301.6226-2 and furnishes statements to its partners reflecting their share of the partnership adjustments as finally determined in the FPA. The statements to P and Q each reflect a partnership adjustment of $500 increase in ordinary income and a $250 increase in capital loss in accordance with § 301.6225-3(b)(6). P takes the adjustments into account under paragraph (e)(3) of this section by timely filing a partnership adjustment tracking report and furnishing a statement to R. Q timely filed a partnership adjustment tracking report, but chooses not to furnish statements and instead must calculate and pay an imputed underpayment under paragraph (e)(4) of this section as well as interest on the imputed underpayment determined under paragraph (e)(4)(iv)(B) of this section. After applying the rules set forth in § 301.6225-1, Q calculates the imputed underpayment that it is required to pay of $200 ($500 adjustment to ordinary income x 40 percent). Q also has one adjustment that does not result in an imputed underpayment-the $250 increase to capital loss. Pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section, Q files the partnership adjustment tracking report and pay the amounts due under paragraph (e)(4) of this section by September 15, 2024, the extended due date of Partnership's return for the adjustment year, 2023. Pursuant to paragraph (e)(4)(v) of this section, on its 2024 return, the year in which Q made its payment of the imputed underpayment, Q reports and allocates the $250 capital loss to its shareholders for its 2024 taxable year as a capital loss as provided in § 301.6225-3.
