
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### ยง 301.6226-3 Adjustments taken into account by partners.
######## Example 7.

(7)On its partnership return for the 2020 tax year, Partnership reported that it placed Asset, which had a depreciable basis of $210,000, into service in 2020 and depreciated Asset over 5 years, using the straight-line method. Accordingly, Partnership claimed depreciation of $42,000 in each year related to Asset. Partnership has two equal partners for the 2020 tax year: M (a partnership) and N (an S corporation). For the 2020 tax year, N has one shareholder, O, who is an individual. On June 1, 2023, the IRS mails an FPA to Partnership for Partnership's 2020 year. In the FPA, the IRS determines that Asset should have been depreciated over 7 years instead of 5 years and adjusts the depreciation for the 2020 tax year to $30,000 instead of $42,000 resulting in a $12,000 adjustment. This adjustment results in an imputed underpayment of $4,800 ($12,000 x 40 percent). Partnership makes a timely election under section 6226 in accordance with ยง 301.6226-1 with respect to the imputed underpayment in the FPA for Partnership's 2020 year and does not file a petition for readjustment under section 6234. The time to file a petition expires on August 30, 2023. Pursuant to ยง 301.6226-2(b), the partnership adjustments become finally determined on August 31, 2023. On October 12, 2023, Partnership timely files with the IRS statements described in ยง 301.6226-2 and furnishes statements to its partners reflecting their share of the partnership adjustments as finally determined in the FPA. The statements to M and N reflect a partnership adjustment of $6,000 of ordinary income for the 2020 tax year. On February 1, 2024, N takes the adjustments into account under paragraph (e)(3) of this section by filing a partnership adjustment tracking report and furnishing a statement to O reflecting her share of the adjustments reported to N on the statement it received from Partnership. M does not furnish statements and instead chooses to calculate and pay an imputed underpayment under paragraph (e)(4) of this section equal to $1,200 ($6,000 x 40 percent) on the adjustments reflected on the statement it received from Partnership plus interest on the amount calculated in accordance with paragraph (e)(4)(iv)(B) of this section. On her 2023 return, O properly takes the adjustments into account under this section. Therefore, O reports and pays the additional reporting year tax determined in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, which is the correction amount for 2020 plus any correction amounts for 2021 and 2022 (if the adjustments in 2020 resulted in any changes to the tax attributes of O in those years), and pays interest determined in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section on the correction amounts for each of those years.
