
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### § 301.6226-3 Adjustments taken into account by partners.
######## Example 9.

(9)On its partnership return for the 2020 tax year, Partnership reported a $1,000 long-term capital gain on the sale of Stock. Partnership has two equal partners for the 2020 tax year: U (an individual) and V (a partnership). For the 2020 tax year, V has two equal partners: W (an individual) and X (a partnership). For the 2020 tax year, X has two equal partners: Y and Z, both of which are C corporations. On June 1, 2023, the IRS mails a NOPPA to Partnership for Partnership's 2020 year proposing a $500 increase in the long-term capital gain from the sale of Stock and an imputed underpayment of $200 ($500 x 40 percent). On July 17, 2023, Partnership timely submits a request to modify the rate used in calculating the imputed underpayment under § 301.6225-2(d)(4). Partnership submits sufficient information demonstrating that $375 of the $500 adjustment is allocable to individuals (50 percent of the $500 adjustment allocable to U and 25 percent of the $500 adjustment allocable to W) and the remaining $125 is allocable to C corporations (the indirect partners Y and Z). The IRS approves the modification and the imputed underpayment is reduced to $81.25 (($375 x 15 percent) + ($125 x 20 percent)). See § 301.6225-2(b)(3). No other modifications are requested. On February 28, 2024, the IRS mails an FPA to Partnership for Partnership's 2020 year determining a $500 increase in the long-term capital gain on the sale of Stock and asserting an imputed underpayment of $81.25 after taking into account the approved modifications. Partnership makes a timely election under section 6226 in accordance with § 301.6226-1 with respect to the imputed underpayment in the FPA for Partnership's 2020 year and does not file a petition for readjustment under section 6234. The time to file a petition expires on May 28, 2024. Pursuant to § 301.6226-2(b), the partnership adjustments become finally determined on May 29, 2024. On July 26, 2024, Partnership timely files with the IRS statements described in § 301.6226-2 and furnishes statements to its partners reflecting their share of the partnership adjustments as finally determined in the FPA. The statements to U and V each reflect a partnership adjustment of a $250 increase in long-term capital gain. V timely files the adjustment tracking report but fails to furnish statements and therefore must calculate and pay an imputed underpayment under paragraph (e)(4) of this section as well as interest on the imputed underpayment determined under paragraph (e)(4)(iv)(B) of this section. On February 3, 2025, V pays an imputed underpayment of $43.75 (($125 x 20 percent for the adjustments allocable to X) + ($125 x 15 percent for the adjustments allocable to W)) which takes into account the rate modifications approved by the IRS with respect to Y and Z. V must also pay any interest on the amount as determined in accordance with paragraph (e)(4)(iv)(B) of this section. V must file the adjustment tracking report and pay the amounts due under paragraph (e)(4) of this section no later than September 15, 2025, the extended due date of Partnership's return for the 2024 year, which is the adjustment year.
