
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.162-33 Certain employee remuneration in excess of $1,000,000 not deductible for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017.
####### Nonaccount balance plan providing right to terminate.

(B)If under the terms of the nonaccount balance plan in effect as of November 2, 2017, the corporation may terminate the plan and distribute the total benefit to the employee, then the grandfathered amount would be the present value of the total benefit (lump sum value) determined as if the corporation had terminated the plan on November 2, 2017 or, if later, the earliest possible date the plan could be terminated in accordance with the terms of the plan (termination date). Whether an increase or decrease in the lump sum value after the termination date, through the earliest possible date the lump sum value could have been distributed to the employee, is grandfathered depends on whether the terms of the plan require the corporation to increase or decrease the lump sum value through the distribution date. For example, if the plan did not require the corporation to make further service or compensation credits, then any increase in the lump sum value for these credits after the termination date is not grandfathered. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the corporation may treat the lump sum value as of the termination date as the grandfathered amount regardless of when the amount is paid and regardless of whether it has increased or decreased prior to payment. For purposes of this paragraph (g)(1)(vi)(B), the lump sum value is determined based on the actuarial methods and assumptions provided in the plan in effect on November 2, 2017, if the assumptions are reasonable, or any reasonable actuarial assumptions if the plan does not provide for applicable actuarial methods and assumptions or the terms of the plan were not reasonable. The determination of the lump sum value may not take into account the likelihood that payments will not be made (or will be reduced) because of the unfunded status of the plan, the risk that the employer, the trustee, or another party will be unwilling or unable to pay, the possibility of future plan amendments, the possibility of a future change in the law, or similar risks or contingencies. If the benefit provided under the plan in effect on November 2, 2017, is paid as a life annuity or other form of benefit that is not a single lump sum payment, the application of the grandfathered amount to the payments of the benefit is determined in accordance with the ordering rule of paragraph (g)(1)(viii) of this section.
