
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### § 301.6227-1 Administrative adjustment request by partnership.
######## In general.

(a)A partnership may file a request for an administrative adjustment with respect to any partnership-related item (as defined in § 301.6241-1(a)(6)(ii)) for any partnership taxable year. When filing an administrative adjustment request (AAR), the partnership must determine whether the adjustments requested in the AAR result in an imputed underpayment in accordance with § 301.6227-2(a) for the reviewed year (as defined in § 301.6241-1(a)(8)). If the adjustments requested in the AAR result in an imputed underpayment, the partnership must take the adjustments into account under the rules described in § 301.6227-2(b) unless the partnership makes an election under § 301.6227-2(c), in which case each reviewed year partner (as defined in § 301.6241-1(a)(9)) must take the adjustments into account in accordance with § 301.6227-3. If the adjustments requested in the AAR are adjustments described in § 301.6225-1(f)(1) that do not result in an imputed underpayment (as determined under § 301.6227-2(a)), such adjustments must be taken into account by the reviewed year partners in accordance with § 301.6227-3. A partner may not make a request for an administrative adjustment of a partnership-related item except in accordance with § 301.6222-1 or if the partner is doing so on behalf of the partnership in the partner's capacity as the partnership representative designated under section 6223. In addition, a partnership may not file an AAR solely for the purpose of changing the designation of a partnership representative or changing the appointment of a designated individual. See § 301.6223-1 (regarding designation of the partnership representative). When the partnership changes the designation of the partnership representative (or appointment of the designated individual) in conjunction with the filing of an AAR in accordance with § 301.6223-1(e), the change in designation (or appointment) is treated as occurring prior to the filing of the AAR. For rules regarding a notice of change to the amount of creditable foreign tax expenditures see paragraph (g) of this section.
