
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### ยง 301.6233(a)-1 Interest and penalties determined from reviewed year.
######## Calculating the portion of an imputed underpayment subject to penalty and penalty amounts.

(ii)To determine the portion of an imputed underpayment subject to a penalty and the amount of a particular penalty, apply the following steps to all adjustments subject to penalty remaining after application of negative adjustments (as described in paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section) and to all adjustments subject to penalty contained in groupings or subgroupings that do not contain a negative adjustment.

(A) For purposes of applying this paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(A), disregard adjustments to credits or adjustments treated as adjustments to credits. Total all adjustments to which a particular penalty was imposed and to which the highest rate of tax in effect for the reviewed year under section 1 or 11 was applied when calculating the imputed underpayment. See ยง 301.6225-1(b)(1)(iv).

(B) Multiply the total in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(A) of this section by the highest rate of tax in effect for the reviewed year under section 1 or 11.

(C) If the imputed underpayment was modified in accordance with ยง 301.6225-2(b)(3), repeat the steps in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section for every tax rate applied in calculating the imputed underpayment by substituting the applicable tax rate determined under ยง 301.6225-2(b)(3) for the highest rate of tax in effect for the reviewed year under section 1 or 11.

(D) Total all amounts determined after completing the steps in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.

(E) Adjust the amount calculated in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(D) of this section by:
