
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### ยง 301.6233(a)-1 Interest and penalties determined from reviewed year.
######## Example 5.

(E)Partnership has four equal partners during its 2019 taxable year: Two partners are partnerships, A and B; one partner is a tax-exempt entity, C; and the fourth partner is an individual, D. In an administrative proceeding with respect to Partnership's 2019 taxable year, the IRS timely mails a notice of proposed partnership adjustment (NOPPA) to Partnership for its 2019 taxable year proposing a single partnership positive adjustment to Partnership's ordinary income by $400,000. The $400,000 positive adjustment is due to negligence or disregard of rules or regulations under section 6662(c). A 20-percent accuracy-related penalty under section 6662(a) and (c) applies to the portion of the imputed underpayment attributable to the negligence or disregard of the rules or regulations. In the NOPPA, the IRS determines an imputed underpayment of $160,000 ($400,000 x 40 percent) and that the 20-percent penalty applies to the entire imputed underpayment. The penalty is $32,000 ($160,000 x 20 percent). Partnership requests modification under ยง 301.6225-2(d)(3) (regarding tax-exempt partners) with respect to the amount of additional income allocated to C, and the IRS approves the modification request. As a result, Partnership's total netted partnership adjustment under ยง 301.6225-1(b)(2) is $300,000 ($400,000 less $100,000 allocable to C). The imputed underpayment is $120,000 (($300,000) x 40 percent), and the penalty is $24,000 ($120,000 x 20 percent).
