
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### ยง 301.6241-1 Definitions.
######## Item or amount with respect to the partnership.

(iii)For purposes of paragraph (a)(6)(ii) of this section, an item or amount is with respect to the partnership if the item or amount is shown or reflected, or required to be shown or reflected, on a return of the partnership under section 6031 or the forms and instructions prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for the partnership's taxable year or is required to be maintained in the partnership's books or records. Items or amounts relating to any transaction with, liability of, or basis in the partnership are with respect to the partnership only if those items or amounts are described in the preceding sentence. An item or amount shown or required to be shown on a return of a person other than the partnership (or in that person's books and records) that results after application of the Code to a partnership-related item based upon the person's specific facts and circumstances, including an incorrect application of the Code or taking into account erroneous facts and circumstances of the partner, is not an item or amount with respect to the partnership. For instance, a deduction shown on the return of a partner that results after applying a limitation under the Code (such as section 170(b)) at the partner level to a partnership-related item based on the partner's facts and circumstances is not an item or amount with respect to the partnership, even though the corresponding expense on the return of the partnership is an item or amount with respect to the partnership. Likewise, an amount on the return of a partner that is after either an incorrect application of a limitation under the Code or based on facts and circumstances of the partner that are erroneous, or both (such as an incorrect application of section 170(b)) at the partner level to a partnership-related item is not an item or amount with respect to the partnership. Similarly, a partner's adjusted basis is not with respect to the partnership because it is an item or amount shown in the partner's books or records that results after application of the Code to partnership-related items taking into account the facts and circumstances specific to that partner.
