
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### ยง 301.6241-1 Definitions.
######## Example 4.,Example 3

(D)The facts are the same as inin paragraph (a)(6)(vi)(C) of this section. On his return for the 2020 taxable year, D also deducts the entire $100 in charitable contributions but treats the charitable contributions as if they were cash contributions, instead of non-cash contributions. D does not file a notice of inconsistent treatment under section 6222. If D had treated the $100 in charitable contributions as non-cash contributions, D's deduction for the charitable contributions from Partnership would have be limited by section 170(b)(1)(A) due to D's income. D's deduction of the $100 in charitable contributions is an item or amount shown on D's return, derives from the charitable contributions reported by the partnership, and is subject to the application of the limitation under section 170(b)(1)(A). Therefore, D's deduction is not an item or amount with respect to the partnership. The charitable contribution reported by the partnership and its character are items or amounts with respect to the partnership pursuant to paragraph (a)(6)(iii) of this section. An adjustment to the character of the contributions is a partnership adjustment. Because D's treatment of the charitable contributions is inconsistent with the treatment of that item by Partnership on its partnership return, the IRS may make that partnership adjustment in a proceeding with respect to D and determine and assess any underpayment that results from conforming D's treatment to the treatment of the contributions by Partnership and applying the limit in section 170(b)(1)(A). See ยง 301.6222-1(b).
