
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### ยง 301.6241-3 Treatment where a partnership ceases to exist.
######## Example 1.

(1)The IRS initiates a proceeding under subchapter C of chapter 63 with respect to the 2020 partnership taxable year of Partnership. During 2023, in accordance with section 6235(b), Partnership extends the period of limitations on adjustments under section 6235(a) until December 31, 2025. However, on July 31, 2024, Partnership terminates within the meaning of section 708(b)(1). Based on the prior termination under section 708(b)(1), the IRS determines that Partnership ceased to exist, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, on September 16, 2024. On February 1, 2025, the IRS mails Partnership a notice of final partnership adjustment (FPA) that determines partnership adjustments that result in a single imputed underpayment. Partnership does not timely file a petition under section 6234 and does not make a valid election under section 6226. Partnership files its final return of partnership income on October 15, 2024, listing A and B, both individuals, as the partners for its final taxable year ending July 31, 2024. Accordingly, under paragraph (d) of this section, A and B are former partners. Therefore, A and B are required to take their share of the partnership adjustments determined in the FPA into account under paragraph (e) of this section.
