
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### § 301.6241-6 Coordination with other chapters of the Internal Revenue Code.
######## Example 1.

(i)Partnership, a partnership created or organized in the United States, has two equal partners, A and B. A is a nonresident alien who is a resident of Country A, and B is a U.S. citizen. In 2018, Partnership earned $200 of U.S. source royalty income. Partnership was required to withhold 30 percent of the gross amount of the royalty income allocable to A unless Partnership had documentation that it could rely on to establish that A was entitled to a reduced rate of withholding. See §§ 1.1441-1(b)(1) and 1.1441-5(b)(2)(i)(A) of this chapter. Partnership withheld $15 from the $100 of royalty income allocable to A based on its incorrect belief that A is entitled to a reduced rate of withholding under the U.S.-Country A Income Tax Treaty. In 2020, the IRS determines in an examination of Partnership's Form 1042, Annual Withholding Tax Return for U.S. Source Income of Foreign Persons, that Partnership should have withheld $30 instead of $15 on the $100 of royalty income allocable to A because Partnership failed to obtain documentation from A establishing a valid treaty claim for a reduced rate of withholding. The tax imposed on Partnership for its failure to withhold on that income, however, is not a tax imposed by chapter 1. Rather, it is a tax imposed by chapter 3, which is not a partnership-related item under § 301.6241-1(a)(6)(ii). Therefore, in accordance with section 6221(a), the adjustment to increase Partnership's withholding tax liability by $15 is not determined under subchapter C of chapter 63, and instead must be determined as part of the Form 1042 examination.
