
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### § 301.6241-6 Coordination with other chapters of the Internal Revenue Code.
######## Example 2.

(ii)Partnership, a partnership created or organized in the United States, has two equal partners, A and B. A is a nonresident alien who is a resident of Country A, and B is a U.S. citizen. In 2018, Partnership earned $100 of U.S. source dividend income. Partnership was required to report the dividend income on its 2018 Form 1065, U.S. Return of Partnership Income, and withhold 30 percent of the gross amount of the dividend income allocable to A unless Partnership had documentation that it could rely on to establish that A was entitled to a reduced rate of withholding. See §§ 1.1441-1(b)(1) and 1.1441-5(b)(2)(i)(A) of this chapter. In 2020, in an examination of Partnership's Form 1042, the IRS determines that Partnership earned but failed to report the $100 of U.S. source dividend income in 2018. The adjustment to increase Partnership's dividend income by $100 is an adjustment to a partnership-related item. The tax imposed on Partnership for its failure to withhold on that income, however, is not a tax imposed by chapter 1; rather, it is a tax imposed by chapter 3. Pursuant to § 301.6221(a)-1(a), only chapter 1 tax attributable to adjustments to partnership-related items is assessed under subchapter C of chapter 63. Therefore, because the tax imposed with respect to the adjustment is a chapter 3 tax, under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the IRS may determine, assess, and collect chapter 3 tax attributable to an adjustment to a partnership-related item without conducting a proceeding under subchapter C of chapter 63. Accordingly, the IRS may determine the chapter 3 tax in the examination of Partnership's Form 1042 by adjusting Partnership's withholding tax liability by an additional $15 for failing to withhold on the $50 of dividend income allocable to A. However, the IRS must initiate an administrative proceeding under subchapter C of chapter 63 to make any adjustments for purposes of chapter 1 attributable to the income. If the IRS subsequently initiates an administrative proceeding under subchapter C of chapter 63 and makes an adjustment to the same item of income, the portion of the dividend income allocable to A will be disregarded in the calculation of the total netted partnership adjustment to the extent that the chapter 3 tax has been collected with respect to such income. See § 301.6225-1(b)(3).
