
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Assessment
###### In General
####### ยง 301.6241-7 Treatment of special enforcement matters.
######## Example.

(2)The following example illustrates the provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section. For purposes of this example, the partnership has no liabilities, is subject to subchapter C of chapter 63, and the partnership and partner each has a calendar taxable year. On June 1, 2018, A acquires an interest in Partnership by contributing Asset to Partnership in a section 721 contribution (Contribution). Under section 722, A claims a basis in its interest in Partnership of $50 equal to A's purported adjusted basis in Asset at the time of the Contribution. Partnership claims a basis in Asset of $50 under section 723 equal to A's purported adjusted basis in Asset as of June 1, 2018, based on information A provided to Partnership as part of the Contribution. There is no activity in Partnership that gives rise to any other partnership-related items between June 1, 2018, and June 2, 2019. On June 2, 2019, A sells A's interest in Partnership to B for $100 in cash and reports a gain of $50 based on A's purported adjusted basis in its interest in Partnership of $50. The IRS opens an examination of A and determines that A's adjusted basis in its interest in Partnership should be $30 instead of the $50 claimed by A because A's Contribution to Partnership should have been $30 instead of $50. Under paragraph (b) of this section, the IRS may determine that the rules of subchapter C of chapter 63 do not apply to the Contribution and make a determination about the Contribution (which is a partnership-related item under ยง 301.6241-1(a)(6)(v)(C)) as part of an adjustment to A's adjusted basis in its interest in Partnership (which is not a partnership-related item). The IRS may make this determination because Partnership's reported basis in Asset was based on the information provided by A. Because A's adjusted basis in A's interest in Partnership is reduced to $30, the total gain from the sale of A's interest in Partnership is increased to $70 ($50 as originally reported plus $20 as adjusted by the IRS). In accordance with paragraph (h)(2) of this section, if A's basis in its interest in Partnership is adjusted based on a determination about the Contribution, Partnership and the other partners of Partnership are not bound by any determination regarding the Contribution resulting from the examination of A and no adjustment is required to be made to their returns under this section.
