
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Collection
###### General Provisions
####### ยง 301.6311-1 Payment by check or money order.
######## Authority to receive,In general.,a,b,c,d

(a)-(1)(i) District directors, Service Center directors, and Compliance Center directors (director) may accept checks or drafts drawn on any financial institution incorporated under the laws of the United States or under the laws of any State, the District of Columbia, or any possession of the United States, or money orders in payment for internal revenue taxes, provided the checks, drafts, or money orders are collectible in United States currency at par, and subject to the further provisions contained in this section. The director may accept the checks, drafts, or money orders in payment for internal revenue stamps to the extent and under the conditions prescribed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. A check or money order in payment for internal revenue taxes or internal revenue stamps should be made payable to the United States Treasury. A check or money order is payable at par only if the full amount thereof is payable without any deduction for exchange or other charges. As used in this section, the term "money order" means: () U.S. postal, bank, express, or telegraph money order; () money order issued by a domestic building and loan association (as defined in section 7701(a)(19)) or by a similar association incorporated under the laws of a possession of the United States; () a money order issued by such other organization as the Commissioner may designate; and () a money order described in subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph in cases therein described. However, the director may refuse to accept any personal check whenever he or she has good reason to believe that such check will not be honored upon presentment.

(ii) An American citizen residing in a country with which the United States maintains direct exchange of money orders on a domestic basis may pay his tax by postal money order of such country. For a list of such countries, see section 171.27 of the Postal Manual of the United States.

(iii) If one check or money order is remitted to cover two or more persons' taxes, the remittance should be accompanied by a letter of transmittal clearly identifying-
