
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Collection
###### General Provisions
####### § 301.6316-5 Manner of paying tax by foreign currency.
######## Deposit of foreign currency with disbursing officer.

(d)(1) After the portion of the tax which is attributable to amounts received in nonconvertible foreign currency is determined in U.S. dollars, the amount so determined shall be deposited in the same nonconvertible foreign currency with the disbursing officer of the Department of State for the foreign country where the fund is located from which the payments in nonconvertible foreign currency are made to the taxpayer. The amount of foreign currency to be deposited shall be that amount which, when converted at the rate of exchange used on the date of deposit by that disbursing officer for the acquisition of such currency for his official disbursements, equals the portion of the tax so determined in U.S. dollars.

(2) The disbursing officer may rely upon the taxpayer for the determination of the amount of tax payable in foreign currency but may not accept any such currency for deposit until the taxpayer has presented for inspection the certified statement referred to in paragraph (b)(1) of § 301.6316-4. Upon acceptance of foreign currency for deposit the disbursing officer shall give the taxpayer a receipt in duplicate showing the name and address of the depositor, the date of the deposit, the amount of foreign currency deposited, and its equivalent in U.S. dollars on the date of deposit.

(3) Every taxpayer making a deposit of foreign currency in accordance with this paragraph shall attach to the return required to be filed in accordance with § 301.6316-4, in part or full payment of the taxes shown thereon, the original of the receipt given by the disbursing officer and shall pay to the Director of International Operations in U.S. dollars the balance, if any, of the tax shown to be due. Tender of such receipt to the Director of International Operations shall be considered as payment of tax in an amount equal to the U.S. dollars represented by the receipt.

(4) A taxpayer shall make the deposit required by this paragraph in ample time to permit him to attach the receipt to his return for filing within the time prescribed by section 6072 or 6081 and §§ 1.6072-1, 1.6081-1, and 1.6081-2 of this chapter (Income Tax Regulations).
