
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Collection
###### General Provisions
####### ยง 301.6316-7 Payment of Federal Insurance Contributions Act taxes in foreign currency.
######## Deposit of foreign currency with disbursing officer.

(2)(i) After determination is made in U.S. dollars of the Federal Insurance Contributions Act taxes with respect to wages paid in nonconvertible foreign currency, the amount so determined shall be deposited in the same nonconvertible foreign currency with the disbursing officer of the Department of State for the foreign country where the fund is located from which such wages were paid. The amount of the foreign currency to be deposited shall be that amount which, when converted at the rate of exchange used on the date of deposit by the disbursing officer for the acquisition of such currency for his official disbursements, equals the taxes determined in U.S. dollars.

(ii) The disbursing officer may rely upon the taxpayer for the determination of the amount of tax payable in foreign currency but may not accept any such currency for deposit until the taxpayer has presented for inspection the certified statement referred to in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Upon acceptance of foreign currency for deposit the disbursing officer shall give the taxpayer a receipt in duplicate showing the name and address of the depositor, the date of the deposit, the amount of foreign currency deposited and its equivalent in U.S. dollars on the date of deposit, and the kind of tax for which the deposit is made.

(iii) Every taxpayer making a deposit of foreign currency in accordance with this paragraph shall attach to the return required to be filed in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section the original of the receipt given by the disbursing officer. Tender of such receipt to the Director of International Operations shall be considered as payment of tax in an amount equal to the U.S. dollars represented by the receipt.

(iv) A taxpayer shall make the deposit required by this paragraph in ample time to permit it to attach the receipt to its return for filing within the time prescribed by ยง 31.6071(a)-1 of this chapter (Employment Tax Regulations).
