
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.163-3 Deduction for discount on bond issued on or before May 27, 1969.
####### Deduction upon repurchase.

(c)(1) Except as provided in subparagraphs (2) and (3) of this paragraph, if bonds are issued by a corporation and are subsequently repurchased by the corporation at a price in excess of the issue price plus any amount of discount deducted prior to repurchase, or (in the case of bonds issued subsequent to Feb. 28, 1913) minus any amount of premium returned as income prior to repurchase, the excess of the purchase price over the issue price adjusted for amortized premium or discount is a deductible expense for the taxable year.

(2) In the case of a convertible bond (except a bond which the corporation, before Sept. 5, 1968, has obligated itself to repurchase at a specified price), the deduction allowable under subparagraph (1) of this paragraph may not exceed an amount equal to 1 year's interest at the rate specified in the bond, except to the extent that the corporation can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Commissioner or his delegate that an amount in excess of 1 year's interest does not include any amount attributable to the conversion feature.

(3) No deduction shall be allowed under subparagraph (1) of this paragraph to the extent a deduction is disallowed under subparagraph (2) of this paragraph or to the extent a deduction is disallowed by section 249 (relating to limitation on deduction of bond premium on repurchase of convertible obligation) and the regulations thereunder. See paragraph (f) of ยง 1.249-1 for effective date limitation on section 249.
