
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Seizure of Property for Collection of Taxes
###### ยง 301.6334-2 Wages, salary, and other income.
####### Payment of exempt amounts to taxpayer,From wages, salary, or income from other sources where levy on all sources not made.

(c)-(1)In the case of a taxpayer who has more than one source of wages, salary, or other income, the district director may elect to levy on only one or more sources while leaving other sources of income free from levy. If the wages, salary, or other income that the district director leaves free from levy equal or exceed the amount to which the taxpayer is entitled as an exemption from levy under section 6334(a)(9), computed in accordance with ยง 301.6334-3 (and are not otherwise exempt), the district director may treat no amount of the taxpayer's wages, salary, or other income on which the district director elects to levy as exempt from levy. In such a case, the district director must notify the employer or other person upon whom the levy is served that no amount of the taxpayer's wages, salary, or other income is exempt from levy. The employer or other person upon whom the levy is served may rely on such notification in paying over amounts pursuant to the levy. In the absence of such notification from the district director, however, the employer or other person upon whom the levy is served must determine the amount exempt from levy pursuant to ยง 301.6334-3 as if that employer or other person upon whom the levy is served is the only source of wages, salary, or other income. Amounts not exempt from levy are to be paid to the district director in accordance with the terms of the levy. The provisions of this paragraph (c)(1) may be illustrated by the following example:
