
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Seizure of Property for Collection of Taxes
###### ยง 301.6334-4 Verified statements.
####### Effect of verified statement

(d)-(1) A verified statement submitted by an employee is effective upon receipt by the employer, and the employer is required to compute the exempt amount on the basis of the information contained in the verified statement unless notified to the contrary by the Internal Revenue Service.

(2) The Internal Revenue Service may find that a verified statement submitted by an employee contains a materially incorrect statement, or it may determine, after written request to the employee for verification of information contained in the verified statement, that it lacks sufficient information to determine whether the verified statement is correct. If the Internal Revenue Service so finds or determines, and notifies the employer in writing that the verified statement is defective, upon receipt of such notice the employer shall consider the verified statement to be defective for purposes of computing the exempt amount.

(3) If the Internal Revenue Service notifies the employer that the verified statement is defective, the Internal Revenue Service will, based upon its finding, advise the employer that the employer is to compute the exempt amount as if no verified statement had been submitted by the employee or will describe upon what basis the exempt amount is to be computed. The Internal Revenue Service will also specify which Internal Revenue Service office to contact for further information.

(4) In addition to any notice furnished to the employer for the employer's use, the Internal Revenue Service will provide the employer with a copy for the employee of each notice it furnishes the employer.

(5) The employer must promptly furnish the employee with a copy of any Internal Revenue Service notice with respect to a verified statement submitted by the employee.

(6) Once paragraph (d)(3) of this section applies, the employer must continue to compute the exempt amount on the basis of the written notice from the Internal Revenue Service until the Internal Revenue Service by written notice advises the employer to compute the exempt amount on the basis of a new verified statement (as described in paragraph (d)(7) of this section) and revokes its earlier written notice.

(7) Once paragraph (d)(3) of this section applies, the employee may submit a new verified statement together with a written explanation of any circumstances of the employee which have changed since the Internal Revenue Service's earlier written notice, or any other circumstances or reasons as justification or support for the claims made by the employee on the new verified statement. The employee may submit the new verified statement and written explanation either-

(i) To the Internal Revenue Service office specified in the notice furnished to the employer under paragraph (d)(3) of this section; or

(ii) To the employer, who must forward the new verified statement and written explanation to the Internal Revenue Service office specified in the notice earlier furnished to the employer on the next occasion on which the employer responds to the notice of levy.
