
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Seizure of Property for Collection of Taxes
###### ยง 301.6361-3 Transfers to States.
####### Determination of amounts of transfers.

(b)The amounts allocable to the qualified taxes of each State for purposes of periodic transfer shall be determined as a percentage of the estimated aggregate net individual income tax collections made by the Federal Government. For purposes of this paragraph, the "aggregate net individual income tax collections" shall include amounts collected on account of the Federal individual income tax and all qualified taxes by all means (including withholding, tax returns, and declarations of estimated tax), and shall be reduced to the extent of any liability to taxpayers for credits or refunds by reason of overpayments of such taxes. The percentage of the estimated amount of such collections which is allocated to each State shall be based on an estimate which is to be made by the Office of Tax Analysis prior to the beginning of each calendar year as to what portion of the estimated aggregate net individual income tax collections for the forthcoming year will be attributable to the qualified taxes of that State. Each State will be notified prior to the beginning of each calendar year of the amount which it is estimated that the State will receive by application of that percentage for the year. However, the Office of Tax Analysis shall, from time to time throughout the calendar year, revise the percentage estimates when such a revision is, in the opinion of that office necessary to conform such estimates to the actual receipts. When such a revision is made, the payments to the State will be adjusted accordingly.
