
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Seizure of Property for Collection of Taxes
###### ยง 301.6362-6 Requirements relating to residence.
####### Special rules.

(4)If the application of the provisions of the foregoing subparagraphs of this paragraph results in a determination of more than one State of residence for a trust, or does not provide a rule by which the residence or nonresidence of the trust can be determined, then the determination of the State of residence of such trust shall be made according to the rules of the applicable subdivision of this subparagraph.

(i) If, at the time of creation of the trust, 50 percent or more in value of the trust corpus consists of real property, then the trust shall be treated as a resident of the State in which more of the real property (in value) which was in the trust at such time was located than any other State.

(ii) If, at the time of creation of the trust, less than 50 percent in value of the trust corpus consists of real property, then the trust shall be treated as a resident of the State in which, at such time, the trustee, if an individual, had his principal place of residence, or, if a corporation, had its principal place of business. If there were two or more trustees, then the foregoing sentence shall be applied by reference to the principal places of residence, or of business, of the majority of trustees who had authority to make investment and other management decisions for the trust.

(iii) If, after application of the provisions of subdivisions (i) and (ii) of this subparagraph, the State of residence of the trust still cannot be ascertained, then the Commissioner of Internal Revenue shall determine the State of residence of such trust for purposes of qualified taxes. Such determination shall be made by reference to the number of significant contacts each State had with the trust at the time of its creation. Significant contacts shall include the principal place of residence of the principal contributor or contributors to the trust, the principal place of residence or business of the trustee (or trustees), the situs of the assets of which the trust corpus was composed, and the location from which management decisions emanated with respect to the business and investment interests of the trusts.
