
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Seizure of Property for Collection of Taxes
###### ยง 301.6363-1 State agreements.
####### Rules relating to time for filing notice of election.

(b)An electing State must file its notice of election more than 6 months prior to the January 1 as of which the notice specifies that the provisions of subchapter E are desired to become applicable to such State. Thus, for example, if the date specified in the notice is January 1, 1979, the notice must be filed no later than June 30, 1978. However, because under the provisions of section 204(b) of the Federal-State Tax Collection Act of 1972 (86 Stat. 945), as amended by section 2116(a) of the Tax Reform Act of 1976 (90 Stat. 1910), the provisions of subchapter E will initially take effect on the first January 1 which is more than 1 year after the first date on which at least one State has filed a notice of its election (see ยง 301.6361-5), the notice of an election which causes subchapter E to initially take effect must be filed with the Secretary or his delegate more than 1 year prior to the January 1 as of which such notice specifies that the provisions of subchapter E are desired to become applicable to such State. Thus, for example, if such an initially electing State desires to elect subchapter E as of January 1, 1979, its notice must be filed no later than December 31, 1977. For purposes of this section, if the notice of election is sent by either registered or certified mail to the Secretary of the Treasury, Washington, D.C. 20220, then it shall be deemed to be filed on the date of mailing; otherwise, the notice of election shall be deemed to be filed when it is received by the Secretary or his delegate.
