
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Seizure of Property for Collection of Taxes
###### ยง 301.6363-2 Withdrawal from State agreements.
####### By change in State law.

(b)If any law of a State which has entered into a State agreement is enacted pertaining to individual income taxes (including the collection or administration of such taxes, and the prosecution of alleged civil or criminal violations with respect to such taxes), and if the Secretary or his delegate determines that as a result of such law the State no longer has a qualified tax, then such change in the State law shall be treated as a notification of withdrawal from the agreement. The Secretary shall notify the Governor in writing when a change is to be so treated. Such notification shall have the same effect as if, on the effective date of the disqualifying change in the law, the Governor had filed with the Secretary or his delegate a valid and sufficient notice of withdrawal requesting that the State agreement cease to be effective with respect to taxable years beginning on or after the first January 1 which is more than 6 months thereafter, subject to the exception with respect to withholding in the case of fiscal-year taxpayers. However, the cessation of effectiveness may be deferred to a subsequent January 1 if the Governor so requests and if the Secretary or his delegate in his discretion determines that the date of cessation provided in the preceding sentence would subject the State or its taxpayers to undue hardship. In addition, the Governor may request the Secretary or his delegate to permit the State's early withdrawal from the agreement, pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Until the date of cessation of effectiveness of the State agreement, the change in State law which was treated as a notification of withdrawal, and any other such subsequent change that would be similarly treated, shall not be given effect for purposes of the Federal collection and administration of the State taxes. Similarly, such changes shall not be given effect for such purposes during the period of litigation if the State seeks judicial review of the action of the Secretary or his delegate pursuant to section 6363(d) or ยง 301.6363-4, even if such changes are ultimately found by the court not to disqualify the State's qualified tax. However, a change in State law which would be treated as a notice of withdrawal in the absence of this sentence shall not be so treated if, prior to the last November 1 preceding the January 1 on which the cessation of effectiveness of the State agreement is to occur, either such change in State law is retroactively repealed, or the State law is retroactively modified and the Secretary or his delegate determines that with such modification the State has a qualified tax.
