
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Abatements, Credits, and Refunds
###### Procedure in General
####### ยง 301.6402-5 Offset of past-due support against overpayment.
######## Introduction,Scope.

(a)-(1)Section 6402(c) requires the Secretary of the Treasury or his delegate to reduce the amount of any overpayment to be refunded to a person making an overpayment by the amount of past-due support owed by that person of which the Secretary has been notified in accordance with section 464 of the Social Security Act. Past-due support shall be collected by offset under section 6402(c) and this section in the same manner as if it were a liability for tax imposed by the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (except that a liability for tax shall be given priority with respect to offset arising under section 6402(a)). Collection by offset under section 6402(c) of this section is a collection procedure separate from the collection procedures provided by section 6305 and ยง 301.6305-1, relating to assessment and collection of certain child and spousal support liabilities. The sole collection procedure provided by section 6402(c) and this section is that of offset against overpayment. Section 6305 and ยง 301.6305-1, by contrast, provide for other collection procedures in addition to collection by offset against overpayment. Sections 6305 and 6402(c) have differing procedural requirements and may be used separately or in conjunction with each other.
