
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Abatements, Credits, and Refunds
###### Procedure in General
####### ยง 301.6402-5 Offset of past-due support against overpayment.
######## General rule.

(2)An amount of past-due support qualifies for offset under this section if it satisfies the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. A State shall submit to the Department of Health and Human Services a notification of liability for qualifying past-due support containing the information described in paragraph (c) of this section. A qualifying amount of past-due support owed by a taxpayer who has made an overpayment shall be collected in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph (d) of this section. Under paragraph (d), the balance of any overpayment remaining after crediting of the overpayment under section 6402(a) to any liability for an internal revenue tax on the part of the taxpayer shall be offset by the amount of past-due support of which the Internal Revenue Service has been notified. The amount of the overpayment not subject to offset for any liability for an internal revenue tax or for past-due support shall be promptly refunded to the taxpayer. Paragraph (e) of this section requires that the Internal Revenue Service notify the taxpayer of the amount of the offset and of the State to which it has been paid. Under procedures set forth in paragraph (f) of this section, amounts collected by offset shall be transferred to a special account maintained by the Bureau of Government Financial Operations for distribution to the States. The Internal Revenue Service shall make monthly collection reports to the Secretary of Health and Human Services or his delegate. The States shall reimburse the Secretary of the Treasury for the full cost of the refund offset under paragraph (g) of this section.
