
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Abatements, Credits, and Refunds
###### Procedure in General
####### ยง 301.6404-4 Suspension of interest and certain penalties when the Internal Revenue Service does not timely contact the taxpayer.
######## Providing notice in TEFRA partnership proceedings.

(ii)In the case of TEFRA partnership proceedings, the IRS must provide notice of final partnership administrative adjustments (FPAA) by mail to those partners specified in section 6223. Within 60 days of an FPAA being mailed, the TMP is required to forward notice of the FPAA to those partners not entitled to direct notice from the IRS under section 6223. Certain partners with small interests in partnerships with more than 100 partners may form a Notice Group and designate a partner to receive the FPAA on their behalf. The IRS may provide other information after the beginning of the partnership administrative proceeding to the TMP who, in turn, must provide that information to the partners specified in ยง 301.6223(g)-1 within 30 days of receipt. Pass-thru partners who receive notices and other information from the IRS or the TMP must forward that notice or information within 30 days to those holding an interest through the pass-thru partner. Information provided by the IRS to the TMP is deemed to be notice for purposes of this section to those partners specified in ยง 301.6223(g)-1 as of the date the IRS provides that notice to the TMP. A similar rule applies to notice provided to the designated partner of a Notice Group, and to notice provided to a pass-thru partner. In the foregoing situations, the TMP, designated partner, and pass-thru partner are agents for direct and indirect partners. Consequently, notice to these agents is deemed to be notice to the partners for whom they act.
