
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### § 1.163-5T Denial of interest deduction on certain obligations issued after December 31, 1982, unless issued in registered form (temporary).
####### Regular interests in REMICS.

(e)(1) A regular interest in a REMIC, as defined in sections 860D and 860G and the regulations thereunder, is considered to be a "registration-required obligation" under section 163(f)(2)(A) and § 1.163-5(c) if the regular interest is described in section 163(f)(2)(A) and § 1.163-5(c), without regard to whether any obligation held by the REMIC to which the regular interest relates is described in section 163(f)(2)(A) and § 1.163-5(c). A regular interest in a REMIC is considered to be described in section 163(f)(2)(B) and § 1.163-5(c), if the regular interest is described in section 163(f)(2)(B) and § 1.163(c), without regard to whether any obligation held by the REMIC to which the regular interest relates is described in section 163(f)(2)(B) and § 1.163-5(c).

(2) An obligation held by a REMIC is considered to be described in section 163(f)(2) (A) or (B) if such obligation is described in section 163(f)(2) (A) or (B), respectively, without regard to whether the regular interests in the REMIC are so considered.

(3) For purposes of section 4701, a regular interest is considered to be issued solely by the recipient of the proceeds from the issuance of the regular interest (hereinafter the "sponsor"). The sponsor is therefore liable for any excise tax under section 4701 that may be imposed with reference to the principal amount of the regular interest.

(4) In order to implement the purpose of section 163, § 1.163-5(c), and this section, the Commissioner may characterize a regular interest in a REMIC and any obligation held by such REMIC in accordance with the substance of the arrangement they represent and may impose the penalties provided under sections 163(f)(1) and 4701 in the appropriate amounts and on the appropriate persons. This provision may be applied, for example, where a corporation issues an obligation that is purportedly in registered form and that will qualify as a "qualified mortgage" within the meaning of section 860G(a)(3) in the hands of a REMIC, contributes the obligation to a REMIC as its only asset, and arranges for the sale to investors of regular interests in the REMIC in bearer form that do not meet the requirements of section 163(f)(2)(B). If this provision is applied, the obligation held by the REMIC will not be considered to be issued in registered form or to meet the requirements of section 163(f)(2)(B). The corporation will not be allowed a deduction for the payment of interest on the obligation held by the REMIC, and the excise tax under section 4701, calculated with reference to the principal amount of the obligation held by the REMIC, will be imposed on the corporation and may be collected from the corporation and its agents.
