
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Interest
###### Interest on Underpayments
####### ยง 301.6621-2T Questions and answers relating to the increased rate of interest on substantial underpayments attributable to certain tax motivated transactions (temporary).
######## i.e.,

A-8. For purposes of A-5 and A-6 of this section, a net operating loss carryover, capital loss carryover, or credit carryover is treated as a deduction or credit in the year in which taken into account. In any computation of tax liability required under A-5 or A-6 of this section (total tax liability, tax liability without regard to tax motivated transactions, etc.), the amount of such deduction or credit is the amount of the carryover determined as if the taxpayer had properly reported in each taxable year all items of income, gain, loss, deduction, or credit affecting the amount of the carryover other than adjustments of a type not taken into account in such computation of tax liability. A net operating loss carryback, capital loss carryback, or credit carryback is not taken into account, however, in determining the amount of the tax motivated underpayment or the amount of the underpayment attributable to fraud or negligence for periods before the last date prescribed for filing the income tax return for the taxable year in which the carryback arises (determined without regard to extensions).

Q-9. What amount is subject to the 120 percent rate if the amount of a taxpayer's unpaid tax for a year is less than the taxpayer's substantial tax motivated underpayment?

A-9. The 120 percent rate applies with respect to the lesser of-

(1) The amount of unpaid tax for the taxable year determined in accordance with ยง 301.6601-1; or

(2) The substantial tax motivated underpayment for the taxable year.

Q-10. What is the effective date for the 120 percent rate?

A-10. The 120 percent rate applies to interest accruing on a deficiency attributable to a substantial tax motivated underpayment after December 31, 1984, including interest accruing with respect to transactions described in A-3 and A-4 of this section, regardless of the date prescribed for payment of the tax.

Q-11. Can a taxpayer stop the running of interest on a tax motivated underpayment by application of a remittance?

A-11. Yes. The running of interest on a tax liability stops on the date the remittance (either a payment of tax or a deposit in the nature of a cash bond) is received by the Internal Revenue Service, regardless of when the liability is assessed or the remittance is actually applied against the taxpayer's account. A taxpayer must make a remittance for both the tax liability and the interest that has accrued as of the date of remittance to stop the running of interest on both the tax liability and the accrued interest with respect to the liability. (See Rev. Proc. 84-58.) Taxpayer cannot make partial remittances applicable only to tax motivated underpayments. Under A-9 of this section, the 120 percent rate applies to the amount of unpaid tax to the extent that amount does not exceed the tax motivated underpayment. Therefore, a partial remittance is applied first to any tax due that is not attributable to a tax motivated underpayment. The excess of the partial remittance over tax that is not attributable to a tax motivated underpayment, if any, will then be applied to tax due that is attributable to a tax motivated underpayment.

Q-12. Does the 120 percent rate apply to interest accruing on interest, penalties, additional amounts, or additions to tax as provided in section 6601(e)(2)?

A-12. The 120 percent rate applies only to taxes imposed by subtitle A (income taxes) and to interest accrued with respect to such taxes. The penalties, additional amounts, and additions to tax specified in section 6601(e)(2) are not imposed by subtitle A and are not, therefore, included in the amount of a tax motivated underpayment. They are, however, included in the amount of unpaid tax for purposes of A-9 of this section.
