
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Interest
###### Interest on Underpayments
####### ยง 301.6621-2T Questions and answers relating to the increased rate of interest on substantial underpayments attributable to certain tax motivated transactions (temporary).
######## i.e.,

A-6: If all or a portion of the taxpayer's underpayment is attributable to tax motivated transactions, and all or a portion is attributable to fraudulent or negligent items (items that result in an underpayment subject to the addition to tax imposed by section 6653 (a)(2) or (b)(2)), the amount of the tax motivated underpayment and the underpayment attributable to fraud or negligence is determined in the following manner:

(1) Determine the following amounts;

(i) The tax liability for the taxable year of the taxpayer as if all items of income, gain, loss, deduction, or credit had been reported properly on the income tax return of the taxpayer ("total tax liability");

(ii) The tax liability for the taxable year of the taxpayer as if all items of income, gain, loss, deduction, or credit without taking into account adjustments to items of income, gain, loss, deduction, or credit that are both (a) attributable to tax motivated transactions and (b) subject to section 6653(a)(2) or section 6653(b)(2), had been reported properly on the income tax return of the taxpayer ("tax liability without regard to fraudulent or negligent tax motivated items");

(iii) The tax liability for the taxable year of the taxpayer as if all items of income, gain, loss, deduction, or credit, without taking into account adjustments to items of income, gain, loss, deduction, or credit that are subject to section 6653(a)(2) or section 6653(b)(2), had been reported properly on the income tax return of the taxpayer ("tax liability without regard to fraudulent or negligent items");

(iv) The tax liability for the taxable year of the taxpayer as if all items of income, gain, loss, deduction, or credit, without taking into account adjustments to items of income, gain, loss, deduction, or credit that are either subject to section 6653(a)(2) or section 6653(b)(2) or attributable to tax motivated transactions, had been reported properly on the income tax return of the taxpayer ("tax liability without regard to tax motivated or fraudulent or negligent items").

(2) The tax motivated underpayment attributable to fraudulent or negligent items is the excess of the total tax liability over the tax liability determined without regard to fraudulent or negligent tax motivated items ((i)-(ii)).

(3) The tax motivated underpayment is the sum of (a) the tax motivated underpayment attributable to fraudulent or negligent items ((i)-(ii)) plus (b) the excess of the tax liability without regard to fraudulent or negligent items over the tax liability without regard to tax motivated or fraudulent or negligent items ((iii)-(iv)). Interest on this underpayment is computed at the 120 percent rate.

(4) The underpayment attributable to fraudulent or negligent items is the excess of the total tax liability over the tax liability without regard to fraudulent or negligent items ((i)-(iii)). The section 6653 addition to tax is 50 percent of the interest on this underpayment computed at the 120 percent rate on an amount equal to the tax motivated underpayment attributable to fraudulent or negligent items (computed in (2)) and at the adjusted rate on the remainder.

(2) The tax motivated underpayment attributable to fraudulent or negligent items is $2,500 ((i))-(ii) or $39,685-$37,185).

(3) The tax motivated underpayment is $10,844 ((2) + ((iii)-(iv)) or $2,500 + ($33,435-$25,091)). Interest on $10,844 is computed at the 120 percent rate.

(4) The underpayment attributable to fraudulent or negligent items is $6,250 ((i)-(iii) or $39,685-$33,435). The section 6653 addition to tax is 50 percent of the interest on $6,250, computed at the 120 percent rate on an amount equal to the tax motivated underpayment attributable to fraudulent or negligent items ($2,500) and at the adjusted rate on the remainder ($3,750).

(5) In summary, therefore, the total underpayment is $16,514 (total tax liability ($39,685) less reported tax liability ($23,171)) of which $10,844 accrues interest at the 120 percent rate and $5,670 ($16,514-$10,844) accrues interest at the adjusted rate. In addition, $6,250 of the underpayment is subject to the section 6653(a)(2) or section 6653(b)(2) addition to tax. The underlying interest, upon which the addition to tax is based, is computed using the 120 percent rate for the portion of the underpayment subject to section 6621(d) ($2,500) and the adjusted rate for the portion that is not subject to section 6621(d) ($3,750).

Q-7. Does the 120 percent rate apply to all tax motivated underpayments?

A-7. No. The 120 percent rate applies only if the tax motivated underpayment for the taxable year is substantial. A tax motivated underpayment is substantial only if it exceeds $1,000. If, for example, a taxpayer has a $600 underpayment attributable to a valuation overstatement (within the meaning of section 6659(c)(1)) and a $500 underpayment attributable to a loss disallowed under section 465(a), the amount of the tax motivated underpayment is $1,100. Because the amount of the tax motivated underpayment is thus substantial the 120 percent rate applies.

Q-8. How do carryovers affect the amount of the tax motivated underpayment and the amount of the underpayment attributable to fraudulent or negligent items?
