
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Additions to the Tax, Additional Amounts, and Assessable Penalties
###### Additions to the Tax and Additional Amounts
####### § 301.6652-3 Failure to file information with respect to employee retirement benefit plan.
######## Annual return of funded plan of deferred compensation.

(3)Under section 6652(f) the amount described in this subparagraph is imposed in each case in which there is a failure to file the annual return described in section 6058(a) on behalf of a plan described in § 301.6058-1(a) at the time and in the manner prescribed therefor (determined with regard to any extension of time for filing). The employer maintaining the plan is liable for the amount imposed with respect to a failure to so file the annual return in each case in which the employer must file the return under § 301.6058-1(a). The plan administrator (within the meaning of section 414(g)) is liable for the amount imposed in each case in which the plan administrator must file the return under § 301.6058-1(a). In the case of an individual retirement account or annuity described in section 408, the individual described in § 301.6058-1(d)(2) who must file the annual return under § 301.6058-1(d) is liable for the amount imposed with respect to a failure to so file the annual return. The amount imposed is $10 for each day during which the failure to file the annual return on behalf of a plan for a year continues. However, the total amount imposed with respect to a failure to file on behalf of a plan for any year shall not exceed $5,000.
