
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Additions to the Tax, Additional Amounts, and Assessable Penalties
###### Additions to the Tax and Additional Amounts
####### ยง 301.6707-1 Failure to furnish information regarding reportable transactions.
######## Factors that weigh in favor of granting rescission.

(3)In determining whether rescission would promote compliance with the requirements of the Code and effective tax administration, the Commissioner (or the Commissioner's delegate) will take into account the following list of factors that weigh in favor of granting rescission. This is not an exclusive list, and no single factor will be determinative of whether to grant rescission in any particular case. Rather, the Commissioner (or the Commissioner's delegate) will consider and weigh all relevant factors, regardless of whether the factor is included in this list.

(i) The material advisor, upon becoming aware of the failure to disclose a reportable transaction in accordance with section 6111 and the regulations thereunder, filed a complete and proper, albeit untimely, Form 8918 (or successor form). This factor weighs in favor of rescission if circumstances suggest that the material advisor did not delay in filing an untimely but properly completed Form 8918 (or successor form) until after the IRS had taken steps to identify the person as a material advisor with respect to the reportable transaction. For instance, this factor will weigh strongly in favor of rescission if the material advisor files the Form 8918 (or successor form) prior to the date the IRS contacts the material advisor concerning the reportable transaction. However, this factor will not weigh in favor of rescission if the facts and circumstances indicate that the material advisor delayed filing the Form 8918 (or successor form) until after a taxpayer files a Form 8886 (or successor form) identifying the material advisor with respect to the reportable transaction in question.

(ii) The material advisor's failure to disclose the reportable transaction properly was due to an unintentional mistake of fact that existed despite the material advisor's reasonable attempts to ascertain the correct facts with respect to the transaction.

(iii) The material advisor has an established history of properly disclosing other reportable transactions and complying with other tax laws, including compliance with any requests made by the IRS under section 6112, if applicable.

(iv) The material advisor demonstrates that the failure to include on any return or statement any information required to be disclosed under section 6111 arose from events beyond the material advisor's control.

(v) The material advisor cooperates with the IRS by providing timely information with respect to the transaction at issue that the Commissioner (or the Commissioner's delegate) may request in consideration of the rescission request. In considering whether a material advisor cooperates with the IRS, the Commissioner (or the Commissioner's delegate) will take into account whether the material advisor meets the deadlines described in guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin for complying with requests for additional information.

(vi) Assessment of the penalty weighs against equity and good conscience, including whether the material advisor demonstrates that there was reasonable cause for, and the material advisor acted in good faith with respect to, the failure to timely file or to include on any return any information required to be disclosed under section 6111. An important factor in determining reasonable cause and good faith is the extent of the material advisor's efforts to determine whether there was a requirement to file the return required under section 6111. The presence of reasonable cause, however, will not necessarily be determinative of whether to grant rescission.
