
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Additions to the Tax, Additional Amounts, and Assessable Penalties
###### Additions to the Tax and Additional Amounts
####### ยง 301.6707A-1 Failure to include on any return or statement any information required to be disclosed under section 6011 with respect to a reportable transaction.
######## In general.

(a)Any person who fails to include on any return or statement any information required to be disclosed under section 6011 with respect to a reportable transaction may be subject to a monetary penalty. Subject to maximum and minimum limits, the penalty for failure to include information with respect to any reportable transaction is 75 percent of the decrease in tax shown on the return as a result of the transaction or the decrease that would have resulted from the transaction if it were respected for Federal tax purposes. The penalty for failure to include information with respect to a listed transaction shall not exceed $100,000 for a natural person and $200,000 for all other persons. The penalty for failure to include information with respect to any other reportable transaction shall not exceed $10,000 for a natural person and $50,000 for all other persons. The penalty with respect to any reportable transaction shall not be less than $5,000 for a natural person and $10,000 for all other persons. The section 6707A penalty is in addition to any other penalty that may be imposed.
