
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Additions to the Tax, Additional Amounts, and Assessable Penalties
###### Additions to the Tax and Additional Amounts
####### ยง 301.6707A-1 Failure to include on any return or statement any information required to be disclosed under section 6011 with respect to a reportable transaction.
######## Example 4.,See

(iv)Taxpayer X, a natural person, timely filed X's 2019 return and reported income tax of $40,000. X did not participate in a reportable transaction in 2019. X participated in a listed transaction in 2020, but failed to file a complete and proper disclosure statement with X's 2020 return as required by the regulations under section 6011. As filed, the 2020 return reports that X owes no tax and has a loss of $10,000. If the tax consequences of the listed transaction were not reflected on the 2020 return, the return would show income tax of $15,000 and no loss. X files an amended return for the 2019 tax year on which the only amendment is to carry back the $10,000 loss reported on the 2020 tax return to the 2019 tax year. The loss carryback reduces X's tax liability for 2019 by $3,000 to $37,000. X fails to file a complete and proper disclosure statement with the 2019 amended return as required by the regulations under section 6011. Two penalties under section 6707A apply: one for X's failure to disclose participation in a listed transaction reflected on the 2020 return and another for the failure to disclose participation in the same listed transaction reflected on the 2019 amended return. Under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the decrease in tax on the 2020 return resulting from the listed transaction is $15,000, which is the excess of the amount of tax that would have been shown on X's 2020 return if that return did not reflect X's participation in the listed transaction over the tax X actually reported on the 2020 return. The amount of the section 6707A penalty with respect to the 2020 return is $11,250, which amount is 75 percent of the decrease in tax. Under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the decrease in tax on the 2019 amended return that results from the listed transaction is $3,000. This amount is computed by determining the excess of the amount of tax that would have been shown on X's 2019 amended return if that return did not reflect X's participation in the listed transaction over the tax X actually reported on the 2019 amended return reflecting the loss carryback resulting from X's participation in the listed transaction in 2020.paragraph (c) of this section. However, because X is a natural person, and because 75 percent of the $3,000 decrease in tax is less than $5,000, which is the minimum penalty under paragraph (a) of this section and section 6707A(b)(3), the section 6707A penalty with respect to the failure to disclose the listed transaction with respect to the 2019 amended return is $5,000. Accordingly, X is subject to a $11,250 section 6707A penalty for failure to disclose participation in a listed transaction reflected on the 2020 return and a $5,000 section 6707A penalty for failure to disclose participation in a listed transaction reflected on the 2019 amended return.
