
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Additions to the Tax, Additional Amounts, and Assessable Penalties
###### Additions to the Tax and Additional Amounts
####### ยง 301.6707A-1 Failure to include on any return or statement any information required to be disclosed under section 6011 with respect to a reportable transaction.
######## Example 6.

(vi)Taxpayer X, a natural person, files X's 2019 return reflecting participation in a reportable transaction that is not a listed transaction, but fails to disclose the transaction as required by the regulations under section 6011. The decrease in tax with respect to X's 2019 return as a result of participation in the reportable transaction is $20,000. X files an amended 2019 return to include a net operating loss carried forward from a prior year, which X inadvertently failed to include when filing the original 2019 return. The amended return reflects participation in the same reportable transaction, but X again fails to disclose the transaction as required by the regulations under section 6011. The decrease in tax with respect to the amended 2019 return as a result of participation in the transaction is also $20,000. X is subject to two separate 6707A penalties: one for the failure to disclose the reportable transaction with respect to the tax benefits from the reportable transaction reflected on the original 2019 return and one for the failure to disclose the reportable transaction with respect to the tax benefits from the reportable transaction reflected on the amended 2019 return. Seventy-five percent of the $20,000 decrease in tax shown on the original 2019 return is $15,000 and on the amended 2019 return is another $15,000. However, because X is a natural person, the amount of the penalty for failure to disclose is limited to the maximum amount of $10,000 under ยง 301.6707A-1(a) and section 6707A(b)(2)(B). Accordingly, the amount of the section 6707A penalty for the 2019 original return is $10,000 and the amount of the section 6707A penalty for the 2019 amended return is also $10,000, for a total penalty of $20,000.
