
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Additions to the Tax, Additional Amounts, and Assessable Penalties
###### Additions to the Tax and Additional Amounts
####### ยง 301.6707A-1 Failure to include on any return or statement any information required to be disclosed under section 6011 with respect to a reportable transaction.
######## Factors that weigh in favor of granting rescission.

(3)In determining whether rescission would promote compliance with the requirements of the Internal Revenue Code and effective tax administration, the Commissioner (or the Commissioner's delegate) will take into account the following list of factors that weigh in favor of granting rescission. This is not an exclusive list and no single factor will be determinative of whether to grant rescission in any particular case. Rather, the Commissioner (or the Commissioner's delegate) will consider and weigh all relevant factors, regardless of whether the factor is included in this list.

(i) The taxpayer, upon becoming aware that it failed, in whole or in part, to disclose a reportable transaction in accordance with the requirements of ยง 1.6011-4 of this chapter, filed a complete and proper, albeit untimely, Form 8886 (or successor form), as required by ยง 1.6011-4. If the penalty is due to the taxpayer's failure to file Form 8886 (or successor form) with a return, in order for an untimely disclosure to weigh in favor of rescission, the taxpayer must file an amended return with the appropriate Service Center and attach a complete and proper Form 8886 (or successor form) to that amended return. The amended return filed with the untimely Form 8886 (or successor form) must not reflect any other changes to the return that it amends, and the taxpayer must, in the space provided for an explanation of changes on the amended return, state the reason for filing the amended return. If the penalty is due to the taxpayer's failure to file Form 8886 (or successor form) with OTSA, in order for an untimely disclosure to weigh in favor of rescission, the taxpayer must file a complete and proper Form 8886 (or successor form) with OTSA. If the taxpayer fails to file a complete and proper Form 8886 (or successor form) with the return and also fails to file a copy of the complete and proper Form 8886 (or successor form) with OTSA, incurring one penalty for both failures, then the taxpayer must, in the manner prescribed in this paragraph (e)(3)(i), file complete and proper Forms 8886 with both the Service Center and OTSA in order for the untimely disclosures to weigh in favor of rescission. This factor will weigh heavily in favor of rescission provided that-

(A) The taxpayer files the Form 8886 prior to the date the IRS first contacts the taxpayer (including contacts by the IRS with any partnership in which the taxpayer is a partner, any S corporation in which the taxpayer is a shareholder, or any trust in which the taxpayer is a beneficiary) concerning a tax examination for the tax period in which the taxpayer participated in the reportable transaction; and

(B) Other circumstances suggest that the taxpayer did not delay filing an untimely but properly completed Form 8886 until after the IRS had taken steps to identify the taxpayer's participation in the reportable transaction in question.

(ii) The failure, in whole or in part, to disclose in accordance with the requirements of ยง 1.6011-4 of this chapter was due to an unintentional mistake of fact that existed despite the taxpayer's reasonable attempts to ascertain the correct facts with respect to the transaction.

(iii) The taxpayer has an established history of properly disclosing other reportable transactions and complying with other tax laws.

(iv) The taxpayer demonstrates that the failure to include on any return or statement any information required to be disclosed under section 6011 arose from events beyond the taxpayer's control.
