
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Additions to the Tax, Additional Amounts, and Assessable Penalties
###### Additions to the Tax and Additional Amounts
####### § 301.6707A-1 Failure to include on any return or statement any information required to be disclosed under section 6011 with respect to a reportable transaction.
######## Example 7.

(vii)Taxpayer X, a natural person, timely files X's 2019 return on April 15, 2020, reflecting participation in a transaction that was not identified as a reportable transaction when X filed the return, the only year X participated in the transaction. In early 2021, the IRS identifies the transaction as a listed transaction. X fails to disclose the listed transaction as required by the regulations under section 6011. In late 2021, X files an amended 2019 income tax return to claim deductions that had been omitted from the originally filed 2019 return. The amended 2019 return reflects X's participation in the listed transaction. X does not disclose the listed transaction when filing the amended 2019 return. The decrease in tax resulting from X's participation in the transaction is $100,000 with respect to the original 2019 return and $80,000 with respect to the 2019 amended return. Pursuant to § 1.6011-4(e)(2)(i) of this chapter, X was required to file a disclosure statement reflecting X's participation in the listed transaction if the period of limitations on assessment of tax remained open for any taxable year in which the taxpayer participated in the listed transaction. When the transaction at issue became listed, the period of limitations on assessment on X's 2019 tax year was open. Pursuant to § 1.6011-4(e)(1) of this chapter, X was also required to disclose participation in the transaction when the 2019 amended return was filed because the transaction was a listed transaction at that time. X is subject to two penalties under section 6707A: one for the failure to disclose participation in a listed transaction reflected on X's original 2019 return within 90 calendar days of the date the transaction became a listed transaction as required by § 1.6011-4(e)(2)(i) of this chapter and another for the failure to disclose participation in the same listed transaction reflected on the 2019 amended return. Seventy-five percent of this decrease in tax with respect to the original 2019 return is $75,000 (75 percent of $100,000) and with respect to the 2019 amended return is $60,000 (75 percent of $80,000). Pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(iv) of this section, because X is subject to two separate penalties, the maximum penalty amount of $100,000 under § 301.6707A-1(a) and section 6707A(b)(2)(A) applies separately to each penalty and does not operate to reduce the amount of the X's 6707A penalties.
