
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Additions to the Tax, Additional Amounts, and Assessable Penalties
###### Additions to the Tax and Additional Amounts
####### ยง 301.6707A-1 Failure to include on any return or statement any information required to be disclosed under section 6011 with respect to a reportable transaction.
######## Example 10.,i.e.,

(x)In tax year 2020, Taxpayer X, a natural person, participated in a listed transaction that resulted in a $50,000 deduction. X also has a net operating loss carryover of $150,000 from 2019. X uses the deduction of $50,000 and a portion of the net operating loss carryover resulting in zero tax liability for 2020. X carries over the remaining net operating loss to tax year 2021. X's gross income for 2021 is $250,000, but as a result of the net operating loss carryover, X reports reduced adjusted gross income of $150,000. Pursuant to ยง 1.6011-4 of this chapter, X is required to disclose participation in the listed transaction for both 2020 and 2021, but X fails to make the required disclosures and is subject to the section 6707A penalty for each failure. The decrease in tax on the 2020 return that results from the reportable transaction is zero. Because X has $150,000 of a net operating loss carryover not attributable to the reportable transaction, X's tax without the benefits of the reportable transaction is the same as the tax shown on the 2020 return as filed. Because X is a natural person, the minimum penalty of $5,000 under ยง 301.6707A-1(a) and section 6707A(b)(3) will apply for the failure to disclose the listed transaction with the 2020 return. The decrease in tax on the 2021 return is the difference between the tax shown on the return as filed and the tax that would be shown if X had only $50,000 of net operating loss to carry over to 2021 (if X had not offset $50,000 of its 2020 gross income with the deduction resulting from the reportable transaction and thus had used $100,000 of its net operating loss carryover in 2020), including any changes to the amount of tax that are only indirectly connected with the listed transaction. The amount of the penalty with respect to the disclosure relating to 2021 will be 75 percent of this decrease in tax, subject to the minimum and maximum penalty amount limitations.
