
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Additions to the Tax, Additional Amounts, and Assessable Penalties
###### Additions to the Tax and Additional Amounts
####### ยง 301.6721-1 Failure to file correct information returns.
######## Failures subject to the penalty.

(2)The failures to which section 6721(a) and paragraph (a)(1) of this section apply are-

(i) A failure to file an information return on or before the required filing date ("failure to file timely"), and

(ii) A failure to include all the information required to be shown on the return or including incorrect information (failure to include correct information). A failure to file timely includes a failure to file in the required manner, for example, electronically or in other machine-readable form as provided under section 6011(e). However, no penalty is imposed under paragraph (a)(1) of this section solely by reason of any failure to comply with the requirements of section 6011(e)(2), except to the extent that the failure occurs with respect to more than 10 returns, or with respect to a return described in section 6011(e)(4). If a partnership return under section 6031(a) is required to be filed electronically, each schedule required to be included with such return with respect to each partner will be treated as a separate information return for purposes of this section. See section 6724(e). Filers who are required to file information returns electronically and who file those information returns electronically are considered to have satisfied the electronic-filing requirement. Except as provided in paragraph (c)(1) or (e)(1) of this section, a failure to include correct information encompasses a failure to include the information required by applicable information-reporting statutes or by any administrative pronouncements (such as regulations, revenue rulings, revenue procedures, or information-reporting forms, and form instructions). A failure to include information in the correct format may be either a failure to file timely an information return or a failure to include correct information on an information return. For example, an error on an electronic submission to the Internal Revenue Service that prevents processing by the Internal Revenue Service may constitute a failure to file timely. However, if information is set forth on the wrong field of the electronic submission, that error may constitute a failure to file timely or a failure to include correct information, depending upon the extent of the failure. For purposes of paragraph (b) of this section, a failure to file corrected information returns in the format required under ยง 301.6011-2(c)(4)(ii) is a failure to correct the corresponding original information returns.
