
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Additions to the Tax, Additional Amounts, and Assessable Penalties
###### Additions to the Tax and Additional Amounts
####### ยง 301.6721-1 Failure to file correct information returns.
######## Imposition of penalty,General rule.,de minimis

(a)-(1)A penalty of $50 is imposed for each information return (as defined in section 6724(d)(1) and paragraph (g) of this section) with respect to which a failure (as defined in section 6721(a)(2) and paragraph (a)(2) of this section) occurs. No more than one penalty will be imposed under this paragraph (a)(1) with respect to a single information return even though there may be more than one failure with respect to such return. The total amount imposed on any person for all failures during any calendar year with respect to all information returns shall not exceed $250,000. See paragraph (b) of this section for a reduction in the penalty when the failures are corrected within specified periods. See paragraph (c) of this section for an exception to the penalty for inconsequential errors or omissions. See paragraph (d) of this section for an exception to the penalty for anumber of failures. See paragraph (e) of this section for lower limitations to the $250,000 maximum penalty. See paragraph (f) of this section for higher penalties when a failure is due to intentional disregard of the requirement to file timely correct information returns. See paragraph (a)(1) of ยง 301.6724-1 for waiver of the penalty for a failure that is due to reasonable cause.
