
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Additions to the Tax, Additional Amounts, and Assessable Penalties
###### Additions to the Tax and Additional Amounts
####### ยง 301.6721-1 Failure to file correct information returns.
######## Example 6.

(vi)Partnership X has 120 partners in calendar year 2023. In calendar year 2024, it timely filed on paper its 2023 Form 1065 and 230 accompanying Schedules K-1 and Schedules K-3 (120 Schedules K-1 and 110 Schedules K-3). Partnership X filed no other returns during calendar year 2024. Under ยง 301.6011-3(a)(1)(ii), a partnership with more than 100 partners must electronically file its partnership return, including Schedules K-1 and K-3. Under section 6724(e), Schedules K-1 and K-3 are treated as separate information returns for purposes of penalties under section 6721, even though they are not listed under ยง 301.6011-2(b) as information returns required to be filed electronically and are not defined as information returns under section 6724(d). Under section 6724(c) and paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the penalty for a failure to file timely electronically applies only to the extent the number of returns exceeds 10. Partnership X would be subject to a penalty of $55,000 for failing to electronically file 220 Schedules K-1 and K-3 required to be included with the partnership return: the 11th through the 230th of the required schedules ($250 x 220 = $55,000). See section 6698 for the penalty for the failure to file the partnership return.
