
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Additions to the Tax, Additional Amounts, and Assessable Penalties
###### Additions to the Tax and Additional Amounts
####### ยง 301.6724-1 Reasonable cause.
######## Acting in a responsible manner-special rules for missing TINs,In general.,i.e.,

(e)-(1)A filer that is seeking a waiver for reasonable cause under paragraph (c)(6) of this section will satisfy paragraph (d)(2) of this section with respect to establishing that a failure to include a TIN or an information return resulted from the failure of the payee to provide information to the filer (a missing TIN) only if the filer makes the initial and, if required, the annual solicitations described in this paragraph (e) (required solicitations). For purposes of this section, a number is treated as a "missing TIN" if the number does not contain nine digits or includes one or more alpha characters (a character or symbol other than an Arabic numeral) as one of the nine digits. A solicitation means a request by the filer for the payee to furnish a correct TIN. See paragraph (f) of this section for the rules that a filer must follow to establish that the filer acted in a responsible manner with respect to providing incorrect TINs on information returns. See paragraph (e)(1)(vi)(A) of this section for alternative solicitation requirements. See paragraph (g) of this section for the safe harbor due diligence rules. See paragraph (h) of this section for the rule applicable to failures with respect to information returns the due date for which (without regard to extensions) is after December 31, 1989, and on or before April 22, 1991.
