
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Additions to the Tax, Additional Amounts, and Assessable Penalties
###### Additions to the Tax and Additional Amounts
####### ยง 301.6724-1 Reasonable cause.
######## Initial solicitation.

(i)An initial solicitation for a payee's correct TIN must be made at the time an account is opened. The term "account" includes accounts, relationships, and other transactions. However, a filer is not required to make an initial solicitation under this paragraph (e)(1)(i) with respect to a new account if the filer has the payee's TIN and uses that TIN for all accounts of the payee. For example, see ยง 31.3406(h)-3(a) of this chapter. Further, a filer is not required to make an initial solicitation under this paragraph (e)(1)(i) with respect to accounts for which the filer filed an information return subject to paragraph (h) of this section. For purposes of this section, the initial solicitation requirement is deemed to have been met with respect to accounts opened after December 31, 1989, and on or before April 22, 1991. If the account is opened in person, the initial solicitation may be made by oral or written request, such as on an account creation document. If the account is opened by mail, telephone, or other electronic means, the TIN may be requested through such communications. If the account is opened by the payee's completing and mailing an application furnished by the filer that requests the payee's TIN, the initial solicitation requirement is considered met. If a TIN is not received as a result of an initial solicitation, the filer may be required to make additional solicitations ("annual solicitations").
