
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Additions to the Tax, Additional Amounts, and Assessable Penalties
###### Additions to the Tax and Additional Amounts
####### ยง 301.6724-1 Reasonable cause.
######## Responsible manner,In general.

(d)-(1)Acting in a responsible manner means-

(i) That the filer exercised reasonable care, which is that standard of care that a reasonably prudent person would use under the circumstances in the course of its business in determining its filing obligations and in handling account information such as account numbers and balances, and

(ii) That the filer undertook significant steps to avoid or mitigate the failure, including, where applicable-

(A) Requesting appropriate extensions of time to file, when practicable, in order to avoid the failure,

(B) Attempting to prevent an impediment or a failure, if it was foreseeable,

(C) Acting to remove an impediment or the cause of a failure, once it occurred, and

(D) Rectifying the failure as promptly as possible once the impediment was removed or the failure was discovered. Ordinarily, a rectification is considered prompt if it is made within 30 days after the date the impediment is removed or the failure is discovered or on the earliest date thereafter on which a regular submission of corrections is made. Submissions will be considered regular only if made at intervals of 30 days or less. A failure may be rectified by filing or correcting the information return, furnishing or correcting the payee statement, or by providing or correcting the information to satisfy the specified information reporting requirement with respect to which the failure occurs. Paragraph (d)(ii)(D) of this section does not apply with respect to information the filer is prohibited from altering under specific information reporting rules. See ยง 1.6045-4(i)(5) of this chapter.
