
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Additions to the Tax, Additional Amounts, and Assessable Penalties
###### Additions to the Tax and Additional Amounts
####### ยง 301.6724-1 Reasonable cause.
######## 2

() Satisfying paragraph (e)(1)(iv) of this section.

For example, a filer who has made none of the required solicitations may satisfy the requirements of this section by making two consecutive solicitations. In determining whether a filer has made two consecutive solicitations, years to which paragraph (e)(1)(vi)(B) of this section applies shall be disregarded. If a filer fails to make the initial solicitation under paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section, the make-up solicitations described in this paragraph (e)(1)(vi)(C) may be made in the years in which the first and second annual solicitations are required to be made; however, the penalty will apply with respect to the year in which the filer failed to make the initial solicitation. The penalty will apply to failures with respect to years for which a required solicitation is not made and to failures with respect to all subsequent years until the filer conducts its make-up solicitations. The penalty will not apply with respect to the year in which the first make-up solicitation is made (unless it is also the year in which the filer fails to make its initial solicitation) if the second make-up solicitation is made in the following year.

(D) A financial institution is not required to make an annual solicitation by mail on accounts with "stop-mail" or "hold-mail" instructions, provided the filer furnishes the solicitation material to the payee in the same manner as it furnishes other mail.

(E) A filer is not required to make annual solicitations on accounts with respect to which the filer undertook two consecutive annual mailings by December 31, 1989, under Q/A-5 through Q/A-7B or under Q/A-56 of ยง 35a.9999-1 of the Temporary Employment Tax Regulations under the Interest and Dividend Tax Compliance Act of 1983, as provided under section 6676(b) (prior to its amendment by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1989).
