
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Additions to the Tax, Additional Amounts, and Assessable Penalties
###### Additions to the Tax and Additional Amounts
####### ยง 301.6724-1 Reasonable cause.
######## Exceptions and limitations.

(5)(i) The solicitation requirements under this paragraph (f) do not apply to the extent that an information reporting provision under which a return, as defined in paragraph (g) of ยง 301.6721-1, is filed provides specific requirements relating to the manner or the time period in which a TIN must be solicited. In that event, the requirements of this paragraph (f) will be satisfied only if the filer complies with the manner and time period requirement under the specific information reporting provisions and this paragraph (f), to the extent applicable.

(ii) An annual solicitation is not required to be made for a year under this paragraph (f) with respect to an account if no payments are made to the account for such year or if no return as defined in paragraph (g) of ยง 301.6721-1 is required to be filed for the account for such year.

(iii) If a filer fails to make one (or more) of the required solicitations under paragraph (f)(1) (i), (ii), and (iii) of this section, the filer may satisfy the requirements of this section by:

(A) Making two consecutive annual solicitations in subsequent years ("make-up solicitations"), and

(B) Satisfying paragraph (f)(1)(iv) of this section.

For example, a filer who has made none of the required solicitations may satisfy the requirements of this section by making two consecutive solicitations. In determining whether a filer has made two consecutive solicitations, years to which paragraph (f)(5)(ii) of this section applies are disregarded. If a filer fails to make the initial solicitation under paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section, the make-up solicitations described in this paragraph (f)(5)(iii) may be made in the years in which the first and second annual solicitations are required to be made; however, the penalty will apply with respect to the year in which the filer failed to make the initial solicitation. The penalty will apply to failures in years in which a required solicitation is not made and to failures with respect to all subsequent years until the filer conducts its make-up solicitations. The penalty will not apply with respect to the year in which the first make-up solicitation is made (unless it is also the year in which the filer fails to make the initial solicitation) if the second make-up solicitation is made in the following year.

(iv) A financial institution is not required to make an annual solicitation by mail on accounts with "stop-mail" or "hold-mail" instructions, provided the filer furnishes the solicitation material to the payee in the same manner as it furnishes other mail.
