
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Additions to the Tax, Additional Amounts, and Assessable Penalties
###### Additions to the Tax and Additional Amounts
####### § 301.6724-1 Reasonable cause.
######## i.e.

A-2. (1) In general, the payor of an account or instrument that is not a pre-1984 account nor a window transaction must use a TIN provided by the payee under penalties of perjury on information returns filed with the IRS to satisfy the due diligence requirement. Therefore, if a payor permits a payee to open an account without obtaining the payee's TIN under penalties of perjury and files an information return with the IRS with a missing or an incorrect TIN, the payor will be liable for the $50 penalty for the year with respect to which such information return is filed. However, in its administrative discretion, the IRS will not enforce the penalty with respect to a calendar year if the certified TIN is obtained after the account is opened and before December 31 of such year, provided that the payor exercises due diligence in processing such number,, the payor uses the same care in processing the TIN provided by the payee that a reasonably prudent payor would use in the course of the payor's business in handling account information such as account numbers and balances.

(2) Once notified by the IRS (or a broker) that a number is incorrect, a payor is liable for the penalty for all prior years in which an information return was filed with that particular incorrect number if the payor has not exercised due diligence with respect to such years. A pre-existing certified TIN does not constitute an exercise of due diligence after the IRS or a broker notifies the payor that the number is incorrect unless the payor undertakes the actions described in § 31.3406(d)-5(d)(2)(i) of this chapter with respect to accounts receiving reportable payments described in section 3406(b)(1) and reported on information returns described in sections 6724(d)(1)(A) (i) through (iv).

Q-3. Is a payor as described in A-2 liable for the penalty if the payor obtained a certified TIN from a payee but inadvertently processed the name or number incorrectly on the information return?

A-3. Yes. The payor is liable for the penalty unless the payor exercised that degree of care in processing the TIN and name and in furnishing it on the information return that a reasonably prudent payor would use in the course of the payor's business in handling account information, such as account numbers and account balances.

Q-4. With respect to an instrument transferred without the assistance of a broker, is a payor liable for the penalty for filing an information return with a missing or an incorrect TIN if the payor records on its books a transfer of a readily tradable instrument in a transaction in which the payor was not a party?

A-4. Generally, a payor as described in Q-4 will be considered to have exercised due diligence with respect to a readily tradable instrument that is not part of a pre-1984 account with the payor if the payor records on its books a transfer in which the payor was not a party. This exception applies until the calendar year in which the payor receives a certified TIN from the payee.

Q-5. Is the payor described in A-4 required to solicit the TIN of a payee of an account with a missing TIN in order to be considered as having exercised due diligence in a subsequent calendar year?

A-5. There is no requirement on the payor to solicit the TIN in order to be considered to have exercised due diligence in a subsequent calendar year under the rule set forth in A-4.

Q-6. Is a payor as described in Q-4 considered to have exercised due diligence if the payee provides a TIN to the payor (whether or not certified), the payor uses that number on the information return filed for the payee, and the number is later determined to be incorrect?

A-6. A payor as described in Q-4 who records on its books a transfer in which it was not a party is considered to have exercised due diligence under the rule set forth in A-4 where the transfer is accompanied with a TIN provided that the payor uses the same care in processing the TIN provided by a payee that a reasonably prudent payor would use in the course of the payor's business in handling account information, such as account numbers and account balances. Thus, a payor will not be liable for the penalty if the payor uses the TIN provided by the payee on information returns that it files, even if the TIN provided by the payee is later determined to be incorrect. However, a payor will not be considered as having exercised due diligence under A-4 after the IRS or a broker notifies the payor that the number is incorrect unless the payor undertakes the required additional actions described in the second paragraph of A-2.

Q-7. Is a payor liable for a penalty for filing an information return with a missing or an incorrect TIN with respect to a post-1983 account or instrument if the payor could have met the due diligence requirements but for the fact that the payor incurred an undue hardship?

A-7. A payor of a post-1983 account or instrument is not liable for a penalty under section 6721(a) for filing an information return with a missing or an incorrect TIN if the IRS determines that the payor could have satisfied the due diligence requirements but for the fact that the payor incurred an undue hardship. An undue hardship is an extraordinary or unexpected event such as the destruction of records or place of business of the payor by fire or other casualty (or the place of business of the payor's agent who under a pre-existing written contract had agreed to fulfill the payor's due diligence obligations with respect to the account subject to the penalty and there was no means for the obligations to be performed by another agent or the payor). Undue hardship will also be found to exist if the payor could have met the due diligence requirements only by incurring an extraordinary cost.

Q-8. How does a payor obtain a determination from the IRS that the payor has met the undue hardship exception to the penalty under section 6721(a) for the failure to include the correct TIN on an information return for the year with respect to which the payor is subject to the penalty?

A-8. A determination of undue hardship may be established only by submitting a written statement to the IRS signed under penalties of perjury that sets forth all the facts and circumstances that make an affirmative showing that the payor could have satisfied the due diligence requirements but for the occurrence of an undue hardship. Thus, the statement must describe the undue hardship and make an affirmative showing that the payor either was in the process of exercising or stood ready to exercise due diligence when the undue hardship occurred. A payor may request an undue hardship determination from the district director or the director of the Internal Revenue Service Center where the payor is required to remit the penalty under section 6721(a).

Q-9. Is a pre-1984 account or instrument of a payor that is exchanged for an account or instrument of another payor as a result of a merger of the other payor or acquisition of the accounts or instruments of such payor transformed into a post-1983 account or instrument if the merger or acquisition occurs after December 31, 1983?

A-9. No. A pre-1984 account or instrument that is exchanged for another account or instrument pursuant to a statutory merger or the acquisition of accounts or instruments is not transformed into a post-1983 account or instrument because the exchange occurs without the participation of the payee.

Q-10. May the acquiring taxpayer described in A-9 rely upon the business records and past procedures of the merged payor or the payor whose accounts or instruments were acquired in order to establish that due diligence has been exercised on the acquired pre-1984 and post-1983 accounts or instruments?

A-10. Yes. The acquiring payor may rely upon the business records and past procedures of the merged payor or of the payor whose accounts or instruments were acquired in order to establish due diligence to avoid the penalty under section 6721(a) with respect to information returns that have been or will be filed.

Q-11. To what extent may a payor rely on the due diligence rules set forth in §§ 35a.9999-1, 35a.9999-2, and 35a.9999-3 of this chapter in effect prior to January 1, 2001 (see §§ 35a.9999-1, 35a.9999-2, and 35a.9999-3 as contained in 26 CFR part 35a, revised April 1, 1999).

A-11. A payor may rely on the due diligence rules set forth in §§ 35a.9999-1, 35a.9999-2, and 35a.9999-3 of this chapter in effect prior to January 1, 2001 (see §§ 35a.9999-1, 35a.9999-2, and 35a.9999-3 as contained in 26 CFR part 35a, revised April 1, 1999) solely for the definitions of terms or phrases used in this paragraph (g)(2).
