
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Jeopardy, Bankruptcy, and Receiverships
###### termination of taxable year
####### ยง 301.6862-1 Jeopardy assessment of taxes other than income, estate, gift, and certain excise taxes.

(a) If the district director believes that the collection of any tax (other than income, estate, gift, chapter 41, 42, 43, or 44 tax) will be jeopardized by delay, the director shall, whether or not the time otherwise prescribed by law for filing the return or paying such tax has expired, immediately assess such tax, together with all interest, additional amounts and additions to the tax provided by law. A district director will make an assessment under this section if collection is determined to be in jeopardy because at least one of the conditions described in ยง 1.6851-1(a)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) (relating to termination assessments) exists. For example, assume that a taxpayer incurs on January 18, 1977, liability for tax imposed by section 4061, that the last day on which return and payment of such tax is required to be made is May 2, 1977, and that on January 18, 1977, the district director determines that collection of such tax would be jeopardized by delay. In such case, the district director shall immediately assess the tax.

(b) The tax, interest, additional amounts, and additions to the tax will, upon assessment, become immediately due and payable, and the district director shall, without delay, issue a notice and demand for payment thereof in full. Upon failure or refusal to pay the amount demanded, collection thereof by levy shall be lawful without regard to the 10-day period provided in section 6331 (a). However, the collection of the whole or any part of the amount of the jeopardy assessment may be stayed by timely filing with the district director a bond as provided in section 6863.

(c) See section 7429 with respect to requesting the district director to review the making of the jeopardy assessment.
