
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Jeopardy, Bankruptcy, and Receiverships
###### termination of taxable year
####### ยง 301.6863-1 Stay of collection of jeopardy assessments; bond to stay collection.
######## General rule.

(a)(1) The collection of an assessment under section 6851, 6861, or 6862 (referred to as a "jeopardy assessment" for purposes of this section), or under section 6852 (referred to as a political assessment for purposes of this section) of any tax may be stayed by filing with the district director a bond on the form to be furnished by the district director upon request.

(2) The bond may be filed-

(i) At any time before the time collection by levy is authorized under section 6331(a), or

(ii) After collection by levy is authorized and before levy is made on any property or rights to property, or

(iii) In the discretion of the district director, after any such levy has been made and before the expiration of the period of limitations on collection.

(3) The bond must be in an amount equal to the portion (including interest thereon to the date of payment as calculated by the district director) of the jeopardy assessment or political assessment collection of which is sought to be stayed. See section 7101 and ยง 301.7101-1, relating to the form of bond and the sureties thereon. The bond shall be conditioned upon the payment of the amount (together with interest thereon), the collection of which is stayed, at the time at which, but for the making of the jeopardy assessment, such amount would be due.

(4) Upon the filing of a bond in accordance with this section, the collection of so much of the assessment as is covered by the bond will be stayed. The taxpayer may at any time waive the stay of collection of the whole or any part of the amount covered by the bond. If as a result of such waiver any part of the amount covered by the bond is paid, or if any portion of the jeopardy assessment or political assessment is abated by the district director, then the bond shall be at the request of the taxpayer be proportionately reduced.
