
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Jeopardy, Bankruptcy, and Receiverships
###### termination of taxable year
####### ยง 301.6871(a)-2 Collection of assessed taxes in bankruptcy and receivership proceedings.

(a) During a proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act (11 U.S.C. chapters 1-14) or a receivership proceeding in either a Federal or State court, generally the assets of the taxpayer are under the control of the court in which such proceeding is pending, and the collection of taxes cannot be made by levying upon such assets. However, any assets which under applicable provisions of law are not under the control of the court may be subject to levy. See paragraph (b) of this section and ยง 301.6871(b)-1 with respect to claims for such taxes. See section 6873 with respect to collection of unpaid claims.

(b) District directors should, promptly after ascertaining the existence of any outstanding liability against a taxpayer in any proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act or in any receivership proceeding, and in any event within the time limited by the appropriate provisions of the Bankruptcy Act, or by the appropriate orders of the court in which such proceeding is pending, file proof of claim covering such liability in the court in which such proceeding is pending. Such proof of claim should be filed whether the unpaid taxes involved have been assessed or not, except in cases where the instructions of the Commissioner direct otherwise; for example, where the payment of the taxes is secured by a sufficient bond. At the same time proof of claim is filed with the bankruptcy or receivership court, the district director will send notice and demand for payment to the taxpayer, together with a copy of such proof of claim.

(c) Under sections 3466 and 3467 of the Revised Statutes (31 U.S.C. 191, 192) and section 64 of the Bankruptcy Act (11 U.S.C. 104), taxes are entitled to the priority over other claims therein specified, and the trustee, receiver, debtor in possession, or other person designated as in control of the assets of the debtor by the court in which the proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act or receivership proceeding is pending, may be held personally liable for failure on his part to protect the priority of the Government respecting taxes of which he has notice. Sections 75(l), 77(e), 199, 337(2), 455, and 659(6) of the Bankruptcy Act (11 U.S.C. 203(l), 205(e), 599, 737(2), 855, and 1059(6)) also contain provisions with respect to the rights of the United States relative to priority of payment. For the filing of returns by a trustee in bankruptcy or by a receiver, see section 6012(b)(3) and 28 U.S.C. 960. Bankruptcy courts have jurisdiction under the Bankruptcy Act to determine all disputes regarding the amount and validity of taxes claimed in a proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act. A proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act or a receivership proceeding does not discharge any portion of a claim of the United States for taxes except in the case of a proceeding under section 77 or chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act. However, the claim may be settled or compromised as in other cases in court.

(d) For the requirement that a receiver, trustee in bankruptcy, or other like fiduciary give notice as to his qualification as such, see section 6036 and the regulations thereunder.
