
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Crimes, Other Offenses, and Forfeitures
###### general provisions
####### ยง 301.7216-2 Permissible disclosures or uses without consent of the taxpayer.
######## Lists for solicitation of tax return preparation business.,b,list,

(n)(1) A tax return preparer, other than a person who is a tax return preparer solely because the person provides auxiliary services as defined in ยง 301.7216-1(b)(2)(iii), may compile and maintain a separate list containing solely items of tax return information. The following items of tax return information are permissible: The names, mailing addresses, email addresses, phone numbers, taxpayer entity classification (including "individual" or the specific type of business entity), and income tax return form number (for example, Form 1040-EZ) of taxpayers whose tax returns the tax return preparer has prepared or processed. The Internal Revenue Service may issue guidance, by publication in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see ยง 601.601(d)(2)(ii)() of this chapter), describing other types of information that may be included in a list compiled and maintained pursuant to this paragraph. This list may be used by the compiler solely to contact the taxpayers on the list for the purpose of providing tax information and general business or economic information or analysis for educational purposes, or soliciting additional tax return preparation services. The list may not be used to solicit any service or product other than tax return preparation services. The compiler of the list may not transfer the taxpayer list, or any part thereof, to any other person unless the transfer takes place in conjunction with the sale or other disposition of the compiler's tax return preparation business. Due diligence conducted prior to a proposed sale of a compiler's tax return preparation business is in conjunction with the sale or other disposition of a compiler's tax return preparation business and will not constitute a transfer of the list if conducted pursuant to a written agreement that requires confidentiality of the tax return information disclosed and expressly prohibits the further disclosure or use of the tax return information for any purpose other than that related to the purchase of the tax return preparation business. A person who acquires a taxpayer list, or a part thereof, in conjunction with a sale or other disposition of a tax return preparation business falls under the provisions of this paragraph with respect to the list. The termas used in this paragraph (n), includes any record or system whereby the types of information expressly authorized for inclusion in a taxpayer list pursuant to the terms of this paragraph (n) are retained. The provisions of this paragraph (n) also apply to the transfer of any records and related papers to which this paragraph (n) applies.
