
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Judicial Proceedings
###### Civil Actions by the United States
####### § 301.7425-1 Discharge of liens; scope and application; judicial proceedings.
######## In general.

(a)A tax lien of the United States, or a title derived from the enforcement of a tax lien of the United States, may be discharged or divested under local law only in the manner prescribed in section 2410 of title 28 of the United States Code or in the manner prescribed in section 7425 of the Internal Revenue Code. Section 7425 (a) contains provisions relating to the discharge of a lien when the United States is not joined as a party in the judicial proceedings described in subsection (a) of section 2410 of title 28 of the United States Code. These judicial proceedings are plenary in nature and proceed on formal pleadings. Section 7425(b) contains provisions relating to the discharge of a lien or a title derived from the enforcement of a lien in the event of a nonjudicial sale with respect to the property involved. Section 7425 (c) contains special rules relating to the notice of sale requirements contained in section 7425(b). Section 301.7425-2 contains rules with respect to the nonjudicial sales described in section 7425(b). Paragraph (a) of § 301.7425-3 contains rules with respect to the notice of sale provisions of section 7425(c)(1). Paragraph (b) of § 301.7425-3 contains rules relating to the consent to sale provisions of section 7425(c)(2). Paragraph (c) of § 301.7425-3 contains rules relating to the sale of perishable goods provisions of section 7425(c)(3). Paragraph (d) of § 301.7425-3 contains the requirements with respect to the contents of a notice of sale. Section 301.7425-4 prescribes rules with respect to the redemption of real property by the United States.
