
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Judicial Proceedings
###### Civil Actions by the United States
####### ยง 301.7425-4 Discharge of liens; redemption by United States.
######## Excess expenses incurred by purchaser.

(3)(i) Expenses necessarily incurred in connection with the property after the foreclosure sale and before redemption by the United States are taken into account in determining if there are excess expenses payable under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section. Expenses incurred by the purchaser prior to the foreclosure sale are not considered under this subparagraph. (See paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section for circumstances under which such expenses may be included in the amount to be paid.) Expenses necessarily incurred in connection with the property include, for example, rental agent commissions, repair and maintenance expenses, utilities expenses, legal fees incurred after the foreclosure sale and prior to redemption in defending the title acquired through the foreclosure sale, and a proportionate amount of casualty insurance premiums and ad valorem taxes. Improvements made to the property are not considered as an expense unless the amounts incurred for such improvements are necessarily incurred to maintain the property.

(ii) At any time prior to the expiration of the redemption period applicable under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the district director may, by certified or registered mail or hand delivery, request a written itemized statement of the amount claimed by the purchaser or his successor in interest to be payable under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section. Unless the purchaser or his successor in interest furnishes the written itemized statement within 15 days after the request is made by the district director, it shall be presumed that no amount is payable for expenses in excess of income and the Internal Revenue Service shall tender only the amount otherwise payable under paragraph (b)(1) of this section. If a purchaser or his or her successor in interest has failed to furnish the written itemized statement within 15 days after the request therefor is made by the district director, or there is a disagreement as to the amount properly payable under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, or if there were additional excess expenses that were not claimed in the original itemized statement, the purchaser or his or her successor in interest may submit a written itemized statement to the district director within 30 days after the date of redemption. If the purchaser or his or her successor in interest fails to timely submit such a written itemized statement, no amount shall be payable for expenses in excess of income.
