
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Judicial Proceedings
###### Civil Actions by the United States
####### ยง 301.7507-9 Termination of immunity.
######## In general.

(a)(1) In the case of a bank within section 7507(a), immunity will end whenever, and to the extent that, taxes may be assessed and collected, within the applicable limitation periods as extended by section 7507, without diminishing the assets available and necessary for payment of depositors. Immunity of a bank within section 7507 (b) is terminated, as to segregated assets, whenever claims of depositors against such assets have been paid in full. See ยง 301.7507-3. As to segregated assets, the termination of immunity is complete, and any balance remaining after payment of depositors is available, within statutory limitations, for collection of tax due at any time. However, taxes of the bank will be collectible from segregated assets only to the extent that the bank has a legal or equitable interest therein. Assets as to which there has been a complete conveyance for benefit of depositors, and the bank has bonafide been divested of all legal and equitable interest, are not available for collection of the bank's tax liability.

(2) As to unsegregated assets of a bank within section 7507(b), immunity terminates only as to taxes thereafter becoming due. When taxes are once immune from collection, the immunity as to unsegregated assets is absolute. But see paragraph (a) of ยง 301.7507-4.
