
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Judicial Proceedings
###### Civil Actions by the United States
####### ยง 301.7508A-1 Postponement of certain tax-related deadlines by reasons of a federally declared disaster or terroristic or military action.
######## Example (4).

(iv)Individual D lives in the United States, which is experiencing a nationwide emergency as a result of its residents being exposed to a highly infectious and dangerous pandemic disease. On March 13, the President declared a nationwide emergency under section 501(b) of the Stafford Act. The pandemic became a federally declared disaster for purposes of section 7508A on March 13, however, no incident date was specified in the President's emergency declaration. Pursuant to the President's March 13 emergency declaration, the IRS published several notices identifying the taxpayers affected by the disaster for purposes of section 7508A and specifying the time-sensitive acts that are postponed and a period of postponement that generally ran from April 1 through July 15, pursuant to section 7508A(a). Because, in this circumstance, the emergency declaration pursuant to which the notices were published did not specify an incident date, there is no mandatory postponement period under section 7508A(d). The only postponement period is the period determined by the Secretary pursuant to the discretionary authority under section 7508A(a).
