
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Judicial Proceedings
###### Civil Actions by the United States
####### ยง 301.7514-1 Seals of office.
######## District Directors of Internal Revenue.

(3)(i) There is hereby established an official seal in and for each of the offices of District Director of Internal Revenue listed in subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph. The seal is described as follows, and one such seal is illustrated below: A circle within which shall appear that part of the seal of the Treasury Department represented by the shield and side wreaths. Exterior to this circle and within a circumscribed circle in the form of a rope shall appear in the upper part the words "District Director of Internal Revenue" and in the lower part the location of the office for which the seal is established.

(ii) The offices of District Director of Internal Revenue for which seals are established in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph are as follows:

(iii) There is hereby established an official seal in and for each of the offices of district director of internal revenue listed in paragraph (a)(2)(iv) of this section. The seal is described as follows, and one such seal is illustrated below: A circle within which shall appear that part of the seal of the Treasury Department represented by the shield. Exterior to this circle and within a circumscribed circle in the form of a rope shall appear in the upper part the words "DISTRICT DIRECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE" and in the lower part the location of the office for which the seal is established.

(iv) The offices of district director of internal revenue for which seals are established in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section are as follows:

(v) There is hereby established an official seal in and for the office of district director of internal revenue listed in paragraph (a)(2)(vi) of this section. The seal is described as follows, and illustrated below: A circle within which shall appear the Internal Revenue emblem. Exterior to this circle and within a circumscribed circle in the form of a rope shall appear in the upper part the words "DISTRICT DIRECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE" and in the lower part the location of the office for which the seal is established.

(vi) The office of district director of internal revenue for which the seal is established in paragraph (a)(2)(v) of this section is as follows:
