
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Discovery of Liability and Enforcement of Title
###### Examination and Inspection
####### ยง 301.7611-1 Questions and answers relating to church tax inquiries and examinations.
######## i.e.,

In the case of any church tax examination with respect to the revocation of tax-exempt status under section 501(a), any tax imposed by chapter 1 (other than section 511) may be assessed, or a proceeding in court for collection of such tax may be begun without assessment, only for the three most recently completed taxable years preceding the examination notice date (the date the notice of examination is mailed to the church). If an organization is not a church exempt from tax under section 501(a) for any of the three years described in the preceding sentence, then the period of assessment will apply to the six most recently completed taxable years ending before the examination notice date.

For examinations concerning qualification for tax-exempt status, the examination is limited initially to an examination of church records which are relevant to a determination of tax status or liability for the three most recently completed taxable years ending before the examination notice date. If it is determined that an organization is not a church exempt from tax for one or more of the three most recently completed taxable years and no return has been filed for the three years ending before the three most recently completed taxable years, an examination of relevant records may be made, as part of the same examination, for the six most recently completed taxable years ending before the examination notice date. (This assumes that no returns were filed for any of the three years to which the examination is to be extended. If a return was timely filed for any such year, the filing of that return determines the applicable statute of limitations for that year in the absence of other factors, for example, fraud, willful tax evasion or substantial understatement, which ordinarily would extend the statute of limitations.)

For purposes of section 7611(d)(2)(A) and this question and answer, an organization is determined not to be a church exempt from tax for one or more of the three most recently completed taxable years ending before the examination notice date, when the appropriate Regional Commissioner approves, in writing, the completed findings of the examining agent that the organization is not a church exempt from tax for one or more of such years. Such approval may not be delegated by the Regional Commissioner to a subordinate official. The completed findings of the examining agent, as approved by the appropriate Regional Commissioner for this purpose, do not constitute a final revenue agent's report under section 7611(g).

Church records of a year earlier than the third or sixth completed taxable year, as applicable, may be examined if material to a determination of tax-exempt status during the applicable three or six year period.

For examinations concerning unrelated business taxable income, where no return has been filed by the church, tax may be assessed or collected for the six most recently completed taxable years ending before the examination notice date. Church records of a year earlier than the sixth year may be examined if material to a determination of unrelated business income tax liability during the six year period.

For examinations involving issues other than revocation of exempt status or unrelated business income (e.g., examinations relating to social security or other employment taxes), no limitation period is to apply if no return has been filed.

The applicable limitation period may be extended by mutual agreement of the church and the Internal Revenue Service.

Q-16: What are the special multiple examination rules applicable to churches?

A-16: The Assistant Commissioner (Employee Plans and Exempt Organizations) is required to approve, in writing, any second inquiry or examination of a church, if the second inquiry or examination is to be undertaken within five years of an earlier inquiry or examination and if the earlier inquiry or examination did not result in either (1) revocation of tax exemption, notice of deficiency or an assessment of tax, or (2) a request for any significant changes in church operational practices (including the adequacy or sufficiency of records maintained to reflect income). The Assistant Commissioner's approval is required only if the second inquiry or examination involves the same or similar issues as the earlier inquiry or examination. The 5-year period is counted from the examination notice date of the earlier examination or, if no notice of examination was mailed, the inquiry notice date of the earlier examination. This 5-year period is to be suspended for periods during which the two-year period for completion of an examination is suspended (as described in Q and A-13) unless the prior examination was actually concluded within 2 years of the notice of examination.

In determining whether the second church tax inquiry or examination involves the same or similar issues as the preceding inquiry or examination, the substantive factual issues involved in the two examinations, rather than legal classifications, will govern. For example, where a prior examination and a current examination of unrelated business income involve income from different sources, the current examination involves different issues than the prior examination and the approval of the Assistant Commissioner (Employee Plans and Exempt Organizations) is not necessary.

Q-17: What remedy is available for a violation of the church inquiry and examination procedures?

A-17: The exclusive remedy for any Internal Revenue Service violation of the church tax inquiry and examination procedures is as follows: Failure to comply substantially with the requirements that (1) two notices be sent to the church; (2) the Regional Commissioner approve the commencement of a church tax inquiry; or (3) an offer of a conference with the church be made (and a conference held if timely requested), will result in a stay of proceedings in a summons proceeding to gain access to church records (but not in dismissal of such proceeding), until these requirements are satisfied. The two-year limitation on duration of a church tax examination will not be suspended during stays of summons proceedings resulting from violations described above; however, violations may be corrected without regard to the otherwise applicable time limits prescribed under the procedures of section 7611. In determining whether a stay is necessary, a court must consider the good faith effort of the Internal Revenue Service and the effect of any violation of the proper examination procedures.
