
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Discovery of Liability and Enforcement of Title
###### Examination and Inspection
####### ยง 301.7610-1 Fees and costs for witnesses.
######## Subsistence allowances.

(4)A subsistence allowance shall be paid to a summoned person (other than a summoned person who is incarcerated) when an overnight stay is required at the place of attendance because the place is so far removed from the residence of the summoned person as to prohibit return thereto from day to day. A subsistence allowance for a summoned person shall be paid in an amount not to exceed the maximum per diem allowance prescribed by the Administrator of General Services, under 5 U.S.C. 5702(a), for official travel in the area of attendance by employees of the Federal Government. As of April 30, 1979, that maximum per diem allowance is $35 per day. A subsistence allowance for a summoned person attending in an area designated by the Administrator of General Services as a high-cost area shall be paid in an amount not to exceed the maximum actual subsistence allowance prescribed by the Administrator, under 5, U.S.C. 5702(c)(B), for official travel in that area by employees of the Federal Government. As of April 30, 1979, maximum rates of up to $50 per day have been prescribed by the Administrator for certain areas. An alien who has been paroled into the United States for prosecution, under section 212 (d)(5) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(d)(5)), or an alien who either has admitted belonging to a class of aliens who are deportable or has been determined under section 242(b) of that Act (8 U.S.C. 1252(b)) to be deportable, shall be ineligible to receive the fees or allowances provided for under section 7610(a)(1).
