
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Discovery of Liability and Enforcement of Title
###### Examination and Inspection
####### ยง 301.7611-1 Questions and answers relating to church tax inquiries and examinations.
######## i.e.,

Section 7611(e)(2) provides that no suit may be maintained and no defense may be raised, other than a stay in a summons enforcement proceeding, by reason of any noncompliance with the requirements of section 7611. Thus, failure to comply with any of these requirements may not be raised as a defense or affirmative ground for relief in any judicial proceeding including, but not limited to, a summons proceeding to gain access to church records; a declaratory judgment proceeding involving a determination of tax-exempt status under section 7428; a proceeding to collect unpaid tax; or a deficiency or refund proceeding. Additionally, failure to substantially comply with the requirements that two notices be sent, that the Regional Commissioner approve an inquiry, and that a conference be offered (and the conference held if requested) may not be raised as a defense or as an affirmative ground for relief in a summons proceeding or any other judicial proceeding other than as specifically set forth above. Therefore, a church or its representatives will not be able to litigate the issue of the reasonableness of the appropriate Regional Commissioner's belief in approving the commencement of a church tax inquiry (that the church may not be tax-exempt or may be engaged in taxable activities) in a summons proceeding or any other judicial proceeding. The church retains the right to raise any substantive or procedural argument which would be available to taxpayers generally in an appropriate proceeding.

Q-18: What is the effective date of the church examination procedures?

A-18: The procedures set forth in section 7611 apply to all tax inquiries and examinations beginning after December 31, 1984. The procedures of section 7605 will apply to any examination commenced before January 1, 1985. Any activities commenced after December 31, 1984, that would constitute a new inquiry or new examination must comply with the procedures of section 7611.

Q-19: When do the church tax inquiry and examination procedures described in section 7611 apply to a determination of whether there was an excess benefit transaction described in section 4958?

A-19: See ยง 53.4958-8(b) of this chapter for rules governing the interaction between section 4958 excise taxes on excess benefit transactions and section 7611 church tax inquiry and examination procedures.
