
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Discovery of Liability and Enforcement of Title
###### Examination and Inspection
####### ยง 301.7654-1 Coordination of U.S. and Guam individual income taxes.
######## Military personnel in Guam.

(e)The Commissioner of Internal Revenue shall arrange to pay to Guam the amount of the taxes deducted and withheld by the United States under section 3402 from wages paid to members of the Armed Forces who are stationed in Guam but who have no income tax liability to Guam with respect to such wages by reason of section 514 of the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act of 1940 (50 App. U.S.C. 574). Section 514 of that Act provides in effect that for purposes of the taxation of income by Guam a person shall not be deemed to have lost a residence or domicile in the United States solely by reason of being absent therefrom in compliance with military or naval orders and the compensation for military or naval service of such a person who is not a resident of, or domiciled in, Guam shall not be deemed income for services performed within, or from sources within, Guam. Any amount paid to Guam under this paragraph in respect of a member of the Armed Forces described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall be taken into account in determining the amount required to be covered into the treasury of Guam under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section. For purposes of this paragraph, the term "Armed Forces of the United States" has the meaning provided by ยง 301.7701-8 of this chapter. This paragraph does not apply to wages for services performed in Guam by members of the Armed Forces of the United States which are not compensation for military or naval service. In determining the amount of tax to be covered into the treasury of Guam under this paragraph with respect to remuneration for services performed in Guam by members of the Armed Forces of the United States, the special procedure agreed upon with the Department of Defense in 1951 shall not apply to remuneration paid after December 31, 1974. Under that procedure the tax withheld under section 3402 upon such remuneration for services performed in Guam during April and October of each year was to be projected for the appropriate six-month period of which the base month is a part, thereby arriving at an estimated figure for semiannual withholding tax to be covered over.
