
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Definitions
###### ยง 301.7701-13 Pre-1970 domestic building and loan association.
####### Treatment of certain assets and reserves.

(2)For purposes of this paragraph (l):

(i) Reserves for bad debts established pursuant to section 593, or corresponding provisions of prior law, and the regulations thereunder shall not constitute a reduction of total assets, but shall be treated as a surplus or net worth item.

(ii) The adjusted basis of a "loan in process" does not include the unadvanced portion of such loan.

(iii) Advances made by the association for taxes, insurance, etc., on loans shall be treated as being in the same category as the loan with respect to which the advances are made (irrespective of whether the advances are secured by the property securing the loan).

(iv) Interest receivable included in gross income shall be treated as being in the same category as the loan or asset with respect to which it is earned.

(v) The unamortized portion of premiums paid on mortgage loans acquired by the association shall be considered part of the acquisition cost of such loans.

(vi) Prepaid Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation premiums shall be treated as being governmental obligations defined in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.

(vii) Accounts receivable (other than accrued interest receivable), and prepaid expenses and deferred charges other than those referred to in subdivision (v) or (vi) of this subparagraph, shall be disregarded both as separate categories and in the computation of total assets.

(viii) Foreclosed property (as defined in paragraph (j)(1) of this section) shall be treated as having the same character as the loan for which it was given as security.
