
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Definitions
###### ยง 301.7701-13A Post-1969 domestic building and loan association.
####### Acquiring the savings of the public.

(2)The requirement that an association's business (other than investing in loans) must consist principally of acquiring the savings of the public ordinarily will be considered to be met if savings are acquired in all material respects in conformity with the rules and regulations of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board or substantially equivalent rules of a State law or supervisory authority. Alternatively, such requirement will be considered to be met if more than 75 percent of the dollar amount of the total deposits, withdrawable shares, and other obligations of the association are held during the taxable year by the general public, as opposed to amounts deposited or held by family or related business groups or persons who are officers or directors of the association. However, the preceding sentence shall not apply if the dollar amount of other obligations of the association outstanding during the taxable year exceeds 25 percent of the dollar amount of the total deposits, withdrawable shares, and other obligations of the association outstanding during such year. For purposes of this paragraph, the term "other obligations" means notes, bonds, debentures, or other obligations, or other securities (except capital stock), issued by an association in conformity with the rules and regulations of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board or substantially equivalent rules of a State law or supervisory authority. The term "other obligations" does not include an advance made by a Federal Home Loan Bank under the authority of section 10 or 10b of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430, 1430b) as amended and supplemented. Both percentages specified in this paragraph shall be computed either as of the close of the taxable year or, at the option of the taxpayer, on the basis of the average of the dollar amounts of the total deposits, withdrawable shares, and other obligations of the association held during the taxable year. Such averages shall be determined by computing each percentage specified either as of the close of each month, as of the close of each quarter, or semiannually during the taxable year and by using the yearly average of the monthly, quarterly, or semiannual percentages obtained. The method selected must be applied uniformly for the taxable year to both percentages, but the method may be changed from year to year.
