
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Definitions
###### ยง 301.7701-13A Post-1969 domestic building and loan association.
####### 60 percent of assets test.

(d)At least 60 percent of the amount of the total assets of a domestic building and loan association must consist of the assets defined in paragraph (e) of this section. The percentage specified in this paragraph is computed as of the close of the taxable year or, at the option of the taxpayer, may be computed on the basis of the average assets outstanding during the taxable year. Such average is determined by making the appropriate computation described in this section either as of the close of each month, as of the close of each quarter, or semiannually during the taxable year and by using the yearly average of the monthly, quarterly, or semiannual percentage obtained for each category of assets defined in paragraph (e) of this section. The method selected must be applied uniformly for the taxable year to all categories of assets, but the method may be changed from year to year. For purposes of this paragraph, it is immaterial whether the association originated the loans defined in paragraphs (4) through (8) and (10) of paragraph (e) of this section or purchased or otherwise acquired them in whole or in part from another. See paragraph (f) of this section for definition of certain terms used in this paragraph and in paragraph (e) of this section, and for the determination of amount and character of loans.
