
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.163-10T Qualified residence interest (temporary).
####### ii

() Under paragraph (n)(1)(iii) of this section, the amount of qualified indebtedness for 1988 with respect to the original debt is $4,000 (the lesser of its average balance ($4,000) and the amount of the debt used to pay for qualified medical and educational expenses ($5,000)). Similarly, the amount of qualified indebtedness for 1988 with respect to the replacement debt is also $4,000. Both debts, however, are subject in 1988 to the limitation in paragraph (n)(1)(v)(A) of this section. The combined qualified indebtedness, determined without regard to the limitation, is $8,000 ($4,000 of qualified indebtedness from each debt). The combined qualified expenses are $5,000 ($5,000 from the original debt and $0 from the replacement debt). The amount of qualified indebtedness from each debt must, therefore, be reduced by a fraction, the numerator of which is $5,000 (the combined qualified expenses) and the denominator of which is $8,000 (the combined qualified indebtedness). After application of the limitation, the amount of qualified indebtedness for the original debt is $2,500 ($4,000 x x). Similarly, the amount of qualified indebtedness for the replacement debt is $2,500. Note that the total qualified indebtedness for both the original and the replacement debt is $5,000 ($2,500 + $2,500). Therefore, C is entitled to the same amount of qualified indebtedness as C would have been entitled to if C had not refinanced the debt.
