
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Definitions
###### ยง 301.7705-1 Certified professional employer organization.
####### Responsible individual

(13)means, with respect to a CPEO applicant or CPEO, (or, for purposes of paragraph (b)(10)(ii) or (b)(12)(ii) of this section, a provider of payroll services), the following individuals:

(i) Any individual who owns, directly or indirectly, applying the constructive ownership rules of section 1563(e) with respect to stock ownership and substituting the term "interest" for the term "stock" and the term "partnership" for the term "corporation" used in that section, as appropriate for purposes of determining whether an interest in a partnership is indirectly owned by any person, 33 percent or more of-

(A) In the case of a corporation, the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote of such corporation or the total value of shares of all classes of stock of such corporation; or

(B) In the case of a partnership, the capital interest or profits interest of such partnership.

(ii) Any individual who is a director or an officer. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(13)(ii), a director is a voting member of the governing body (that is, the board of directors or equivalent controlling body authorized under state law to make governance decisions on behalf of the organization), and the officers are determined by reference to the organizing document, bylaws, or resolutions of the governing body, or otherwise designated consistent with state law. Officers may include individuals such as a president, vice-president, secretary, and treasurer.

(iii) Any individual who, regardless of title, has ultimate responsibility for implementing the decisions of the organization's governing body. An individual who serves with the title of chief executive officer, executive director, and/or president has this ultimate responsibility. An individual with this ultimate responsibility may include an individual who is not treated as an employee of the organization. If this ultimate responsibility resides with two or more individuals (for example, co-presidents), who may exercise such responsibility in concert or individually, then each such individual is a responsible individual.

(iv) Any individual who, regardless of title, has ultimate responsibility for supervising the management, administration, or operation of the organization. An individual who serves with the title of chief operating officer has this ultimate responsibility. An individual with this ultimate responsibility may include an individual who is not treated as an employee of the organization. If this ultimate responsibility resides with two or more individuals, who may exercise such responsibility in concert or individually, then each such individual is a responsible individual.

(v) Any individual who, regardless of title, has ultimate responsibility for managing the organization's finances. An individual who serves with the title of chief financial officer or treasurer has this ultimate responsibility. An individual with this ultimate responsibility may include an individual who is not treated as an employee of the organization. If this ultimate responsibility resides with two or more individuals who may exercise the responsibility in concert or individually, then each such individual is a responsible individual.

(vi) In the case of a partnership, any individual who is a managing member or general partner.

(vii) In the case of a sole proprietorship, the sole proprietor.

(viii) In the case of a disregarded entity owned by a corporation or partnership, the responsible individuals of that corporation or partnership.

(ix) In the case of a disregarded entity owned by an individual, the individual owner.

(x) Any other individual with primary responsibility for the organization's federal employment tax compliance.
