
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### Definitions
###### ยง 301.7705-1 Certified professional employer organization.
####### Work site

(16)means a physical location at which an individual regularly performs services for a customer of a CPEO or, if there is no such location, the location from which the customer assigns work to the individual. A work site may not be the individual's residence or a telework site unless the customer requires the individual to work at that site. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(16), work sites that are contiguous locations will be treated as a single physical location and thus a single work site, and noncontiguous locations will be treated as separate physical locations and thus separate work sites, except as provided in the next sentence. A CPEO customer may treat noncontiguous locations as a single physical location and thus a single work site if each of the locations is separated by less than 35 miles from every other location in the single work site and all locations in the single work site operate in the same industry. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the determination of the industry of a work site is based on the nature of the CPEO customer's work at that work site, irrespective of work performed by other entities at the same site. When treating noncontiguous locations as a single physical location and thus a single work site, one noncontiguous location cannot be included in more than one work site. For example, assume there are three noncontiguous locations, A, B, and C, operating in the same industry and that B is 20 miles east from A and C is 20 miles east from B. A CPEO customer would not be permitted to treat these three locations as a single work site but would be permitted to treat either A and B as a single work site or B and C as a single work site.
