
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### General Rules
###### Application of Internal Revenue Laws
####### ยง 301.9001-1 Collection of fee.
######## Imposition of fee,In general.

(a)-(1)Under section 302(d) of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act Amendments of 1978 (Act), the Internal Revenue Service is authorized to collect a fee of not more than 3 cents per barrel on oil that is obtained from the Outer Continental Shelf. This fee is established by the Commandant, United States Coast Guard, and is imposed on the owner of the oil as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The barrels subject to the fee shall be those barrels reported by the owner of the oil (ยง 301.9001-1 (a)(2)), or a person authorized to act for the owner, on the monthly royalty reports, Form 9-153, filed with the U.S. Geological Survey as required by 30 CFR 250.94. For the purpose of computing this fee, the owner of the oil shall measure the Outer Continental Shelf oil production by employing the criteria of the U.S. Geological Survey contained in 30 CFR 250.60 and Outer Continental Shelf Gulf of Mexico Order 13. No reduction in the amount due will be permitted by reason of theoretical or actual oil lost in transit. To ensure that the Fund is maintained at a level of not less than $100,000,000 and not more than $200,000,000, the Commandant, United States Coast Guard, may modify the amount of this fee.
