
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### General Rules
###### Application of Internal Revenue Laws
####### ยง 301.9100-4T Time and manner of making certain elections under the Economic Recovery Tax Act of 1981.
######## Designation of principal campaign committee.

(b)This paragraph applies to the designation of a principal campaign committee under section 527(h) of the Code, as added by section 128 of the Act. References in this section to "elections" include designations under section 527(h). Under that provision a candidate for Congress may designate one committee as the candidate's principal campaign committee. The political organization taxable income of that committee shall be taxed at the appropriate rates under section 11(b); that income is ordinarily taxed at the highest rate specified in section 11(b). The candidate shall designate the principal campaign committee by filing a statement of designation with the income tax return of the committee for the first taxable year of the committee ending after 1981 for which the designation is to be effective. The return and the statement shall be filed by the due date (taking extensions into account) of the return. The rules of section 21 (relating to effects of changes in rates during a taxable year) shall apply in the case of any taxable year beginning before 1982 for which a designation is made. The statement of designation shall be signed by the candidate and shall-

(1) Contain the name, address, and taxpayer identification number of the candidate and of the committee,

(2) Identify the statement as a designation under section 527(h) of the Code, and

(3) Designate the committee as the principal campaign committee of the candidate.
