
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### General Rules
###### Application of Internal Revenue Laws
####### ยง 301.9100-4T Time and manner of making certain elections under the Economic Recovery Tax Act of 1981.
######## Election to have Code section 422A apply to options granted before 1981.

(e)This paragraph applies to the election provided under section 251(c)(1)(B) of the Act to have Code section 422A apply to certain options granted before 1981. A corporation may make only one election under this provision. Thus, a corporation that makes an election under this provision with respect to certain options granted before 1981 may not make any subsequent election under this provision with respect to other options granted before 1981. An election under this provision shall be made no later than the due date (taking extensions into account) of the income tax return of the corporation for its first taxable year during which either an option subject to the election or an option subject to the rules of section 422A of the Code is exercised. In any event, no election under this provision will be permitted after the due date (taking extensions into account) of the income tax return for the taxable year including December 31, 1982. A corporation shall make this election by attaching to its income tax return (or amended return) a statement that-

(1) Contains the name, address, and taxpayer identification number of the corporation,

(2) Identifies the election as an election under section 251(c)(1)(B) of the Economic Recovery Tax Act of 1981,

(3) Specifies the options to which the election applies, and

(4) Provides all information necessary to show that the corporation is entitled to make the election.
