
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### General Rules
###### Application of Internal Revenue Laws
####### ยง 301.9100-6T Time and manner of making certain elections under the Deficit Reduction Act of 1984.
######## Election to issue taxable student loan bonds.

(c)This paragraph applies to the election by an issuer to issue taxable student loan bonds under section 625(c) of the Act. The election is available for obligations issued after December 31, 1983, and is made by filing a statement and necessary attachments with the Internal Revenue Service Center, Philadelphia, PA 19255, prior to the issuance of such taxable bonds. The statement shall identify the election as made under section 625(c) of the Tax Reform Act of 1984 and shall contain the name, address and taxpayer identification number of the issuer, and the total purchase price, face amount and interest rate of the issue, bond issuance costs, amounts allocated to reasonably required reserve or replacement funds, and the date of issue. The issuer shall attach to the statement of election a copy of previous Internal Revenue Service correspondence relating to the tax exempt status of the issuing authority and a statement containing the total purchase price, face amount, interest rate, bond issuance costs, amounts allocated to reasonably required reserve or replacement funds, and the date of issuance of outstanding tax exempt issues of student loan bonds of the issuer. With respect to outstanding tax exempt issues of student loan bonds of the issuer issued after December 31, 1982, the issuer may alternatively attach copies of the Form 8038 filed with respect to such issues. Each taxable student loan bond must state on its face that the interest paid on such bond is subject to federal income taxation. An election with respect to an issue is irrevocable once made.

(d) [Reserved]
