
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### General Rules
###### Application of Internal Revenue Laws
####### ยง 301.9100-6T Time and manner of making certain elections under the Deficit Reduction Act of 1984.
######## Election to treat certain section 1248 amounts as included in gross income under section 951(a)(1)(A).

(i)This paragraph applies to the elections, provided under section 133(d)(3) of the Act, to treat amounts included in the gross income of any person as a dividend by reason of section 1248 (a) or (f) after October 9, 1975, and before July 19, 1985, as an amount included in the gross income of such person under section 951(a)(1)(A). The election with respect to transactions to which section 1248(a) applies may be made by the foreign corporation described in section 1248(a) (or its successor in interest). The election with respect to transactions to which section 1248(f) applies may be made by the domestic corporation described in section 1248(f)(1) (or its successor in interest). Neither election may be made by an affected shareholder of any such corporation (unless the shareholder is the successor in interest). This election must be made no later than January 14, 1985, and shall apply with respect to all transactions to which section 1248 (a) or (f) applies that occurred after October 9, 1975, and before July 19, 1984. Once made, the election may be revoked only with the consent of the Commissioner. A foreign corporation shall make this election by filing the statement described in this paragraph with the Internal Revenue Service Center, Philadelphia, PA 19255. A domestic corporation shall make this election by filing the statement described in this paragraph with the service center with which the domestic corporation files its income tax return. In either case, the statement shall-

(1) Contain the name, address, and taxpayer identification number (if any) of the corporation making the election,

(2) Identify the election as made under section 133(d)(3) of the Tax Reform Act of 1984, and

(3) Identify all of the transactions (including the date of each transaction), shareholders involved in those transactions, and amounts to which the election applies.
