
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### General Rules
###### Application of Internal Revenue Laws
####### ยง 301.9100-6T Time and manner of making certain elections under the Deficit Reduction Act of 1984.
######## Special election for computing investment company taxable income.

(j)This paragraph applies to the election by a regulated investment company provided under section 1071(b) of the Act, which added section 852(b)(2)(F) to the Code. Under section 852(b)(2)(F), the taxable income of a regulated investment company shall be computed without regard to section 454(b) (relating to short-term obligations issued on a discount basis) if the company so elects. The election may be made only for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1978. A regulated investment company shall make the election by computing taxable income without regard to section 454(b) on its return for the first taxable year for which it desires the election to apply and shall attach the statement described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section to the return on which the election is made. A regulated investment company shall make the election by the time set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. Once made, the election applies to the first taxable year for which it is made and to all subsequent taxable years and cannot be revoked without the consent of the Commissioner.
