
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### General Rules
###### Application of Internal Revenue Laws
####### ยง 301.9100-6T Time and manner of making certain elections under the Deficit Reduction Act of 1984.
######## Election to treat a stapled foreign entity as a subsidiary.

(h)This paragraph applies to the election, provided under section 136(c)(6) of the Act, to treat a foreign corporation which was a stapled entity with a domestic corporation as of June 30, 1983, as being owned (to the extent of its stapled interests) by the domestic corporation with which it is stapled. This treatment, if so elected, is in lieu of the treatment prescribed in section 269B(a)(1) of the Code, as added by the Act. This election may be made by the domestic corporation with which the foreign entity is stapled. The election may not be made by the foreign entity or by shareholders of the domestic corporation. This election must be made no later than January 14, 1985, and may be revoked only with the consent of the Commissioner. This election shall be effective after December 31, 1986. The domestic corporation shall make this election by filing with the service center with which the domestic corporation files its income tax return a statement that-

(1) Contains the name, address, and taxpayer identification number of the domestic corporation,

(2) Identifies the election as made under section 136(c)(6) of the Tax Reform Act of 1984, and,

(3) Identifies the foreign entity and the interests in the foreign entity which constitute stapled interests with respect to the stock of the domestic corporation, and specifies the date on which those interests became stapled interests.
