
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### General Rules
###### Application of Internal Revenue Laws
####### ยง 301.9100-7T Time and manner of making certain elections under the Tax Reform Act of 1986.
######## Partnerships or S corporations that do not make the election to reduce income for the short taxable year by an unamortized adjustment amount existing as of October 22, 1986.

(3)Where a partnership or S corporation does not elect to reduce its income for the short taxable year created by the provisions of section 806 of the Act by the unamortized adjustment amount existing as of October 22, 1986, as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, the short taxable year required under the provisions of section 806 of the Act shall be considered one taxable year for purposes of amortizing the adjustment amount under the requirements of Rev. Proc. 72-51, 1972-2 C.B. 832, or Rev. Proc. 83-25, 1983-1 C.B. 689. The net income of the partnership or S corporation after reduction by the adjustment amount for the short taxable year may then be subject to the election under section 806(e)(2)(C) of the Act by partners or S corporation shareholders to include all the net income for the short taxable year entirely in income for the partners' or shareholders' taxable year with or within which the short taxable year of the partnership or S corporation ends.
