
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### General Rules
###### Application of Internal Revenue Laws
####### ยง 301.9100-12T Various elections under the Tax Reform Act of 1976.
######## Certain other elections.

(c)The elections described in this paragraph shall be made in the manner and within the time prescribed herein and in paragraph (d) of this section.

(1) The following elections under the Tax Reform Act of 1976 shall be made:

(i) Section 207(c)(3) of Act; change from static value method of accounting; all taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976.

(ii) Section 604 of Act; travel expenses of State legislators; all taxable years beginning before January 1, 1976.

(iii) Section 804(e)(2) of Act; retroactive applications of amendments to property described in section 50(a) of Code; certain taxable years beginning before January 1, 1975.

(iv) Section 1608(d)(2) of Act; election as a result of determination as defined in section 859(c) of the Code; determinations made after October 4, 1976.

(v) Section 2103 of Act; treatment of certain 1972 disaster losses. Any taxable year in which payment is received or indebtedness is foregiven.

(2) [Reserved]

(3) The election provided for in section 167(e)(3) of the Code shall be made in accordance with ยง 1.167(e)-1(d) except that the election shall be applicable for the first taxable year of the taxpayer beginning after December 31, 1975.
