
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### General Rules
###### Application of Internal Revenue Laws
####### ยง 301.9100-16T Election to accrue vacation pay.
######## Time for making election.

(b)(1) In the case of a taxpayer who established or maintained a vacation pay account pursuant to I.T. 3956 and who continued to maintain such account pursuant to section 97 of the Technical Amendments Act of 1958, as amended, for its last taxable year ending before January 1, 1973, the election must be made for each trade or business for which such account was maintained on or before the later of (i) July 21, 1975, or (ii) the due date for filing the income tax return (determined with regard to any extensions of time granted the taxpayer for filing such return) for the first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1973. The election pursuant to this paragraph shall be effective with respect to an account described in this paragraph (b)(1) for taxable years ending after December 31, 1972. Failure to file such election shall constitute a change in the method of accounting for vacation pay for the first taxable year ending after December 31, 1972. Such change in accounting method will be considered a change initiated by the taxpayer.

(2) In the case of a trade or business of a taxpayer to which paragraph (b)(1) does not apply, the election provided for in this section may be made for any taxable year beginning after December 31, 1973, by making the election not later than (i) July 21, 1975, or (ii) the due date for filing the income tax return (determined with regard to any extensions of time granted the taxpayer for filing such return) for the first taxable year for which the election is made.

(3) A taxpayer who elects under section 463 to treat vacation pay as provided in this section and who wishes to revoke such election may only do so with the consent of the Commissioner. Such revocation shall constitute a change in the method of accounting.
