
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### General Rules
###### Application of Internal Revenue Laws
####### ยง 301.9100-17T Procedure applicable to certain elections.
######## Notification as to section 615(e) election.

(3)(i) The notification referred to in paragraph (a)(3) of this section in respect of an election under section 615(e) which was made before the date on which the regulations in this section are filed with the Office of the Federal Register shall be made in a statement attached to the taxpayer's income tax return for the first taxable year in which expenditures are paid or incurred after December 31, 1969, which would be deductible by the taxpayer under section 617 if he so elects. The statement shall indicate the first taxable year for which such election was effective and the district director, or the director of the regional service center, with whom the election was filed.

(ii) The notification referred to in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, in respect of an election under section 615(e) which is made on or after the date on which the regulations in this section are filed with the Office of the Federal Register, shall be made in the statement of election required by paragraph (a)(2) of ยง 15.1-1 of this chapter (Temporary Income Tax Regulations Relating to Exploration Expenditures in the Case of Mining).

(iii) The serving of notice pursuant to this subparagraph shall not preclude the subsequent making of an election under section 617(a). A failure to serve notice pursuant to this subparagraph shall be treated as an election under section 617(a) and paragraph (a)(1) of ยง 15.1-1 of this chapter with respect to exploration expenditures paid or incurred after December 31, 1969, whether or not the taxpayer subsequently revokes his election under section 615(e) with respect to exploration expenditures paid or incurred before January 1, 1970.

(iv) For rules relating to the revocation of an election under section 615(e), including such an election which is treated pursuant to this subparagraph as an election under section 617(a), see paragraph (a) of ยง 15.1-2 of this chapter (T.D. 6907, C.B. 1967-1, 531, 535).
