
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.163-12 Deduction of original issue discount on instrument held by related foreign person.
####### General rules,Deferral of deduction.

(a)-(1)Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, section 163(e)(3) requires a taxpayer to use the cash method of accounting with respect to the deduction of original issue discount owed to a related foreign person. A deduction for an otherwise deductible portion of original issue discount with respect to a debt instrument will not be allowable as a deduction to the issuer until paid if, at the close of the issuer's taxable year in which such amount would otherwise be deductible, the person holding the debt instrument is a related foreign person. For purposes of this section, a related foreign person is any person that is not a United States person within the meaning of section 7701(a)(30), and that is related (within the meaning of section 267(b)) to the issuer at the close of the taxable year in which the amount incurred by the taxpayer would otherwise be deductible. Section 267(f) defines "controlled group" for purposes of section 267(b) without regard to the limitations of section 1563(b). An amount is treated as paid for purposes of this section if the amount is considered paid for purposes of section 1441 or section 1442 (including an amount taken into account pursuant to section 871(a)(1)(C), section 881(a)(3), or section 884(f)). The rules of this paragraph (a) apply even if the original issue discount is not subject to United States tax, or is subject to a reduced rate of tax, pursuant to a provision of the Internal Revenue Code or a treaty obligation of the United States. For purposes of this section, original issue discount is an amount described in section 1273, whether from sources inside or outside the United States.
