
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### General Rules
###### Application of Internal Revenue Laws
####### ยง 301.9100-20T Election to treat certain distributions as made on the last day of the taxable year.
######## Shareholders' consent.

(c)The consent of a shareholder to an election under section 1375(e) shall be in the form of a statement signed by the shareholder in which such shareholder consents to the election of the corporation. Such shareholder's consent is binding and may not be withdrawn after a valid election is made by the corporation. Each person who is a shareholder of the electing corporation must consent to the election; thus, where stock of the corporation is owned by a husband and wife as community property (or the income from which is community property), or is owned by tenants in common, joint tenants, or tenants by the entirety, each person having a community interest in such stock and each tenant in common, joint tenant, and tenant by the entirety must consent to the election. The consent of a minor shall be made by the minor or by his legal guardian, or his natural guardian if no legal guardian has been appointed. The consent of an estate shall be made by the executor or administrator thereof. The statement shall set forth the name, address, and account number of the corporation and of the shareholder, the date the distribution is received, the number and proportion of the shares of stock of the corporation owned by him on the date the distribution is received, and the number and proportion of such shares owned by him on the last day of the taxable year of the corporation with respect to which the election is made. The consents of all shareholders may be incorporated in one statement.
