
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 301 - PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATION
##### General Rules
###### Application of Internal Revenue Laws
####### ยง 301.9100-19T Election relating to passive investment income of electing small business corporations.
######## Consents by shareholders.

(3)An election by a corporation pursuant to this paragraph must be accompanied by the consent of each person who was a shareholder of the corporation at any time during any taxable year of the corporation beginning after December 31, 1962, and ending before April 15, 1966. This includes persons who may not be shareholders on the date the election is filed. Where stock of the corporation was owned by a husband and wife as community property (or the income from which was community property), or was owned by tenants in common, joint tenants, or tenants by the entirety, each person who had a community interest in such stock and each tenant in common, joint tenant, and tenant by the entirety must consent to the election. The consent of a minor shall be made by the minor or by his legal guardian, or by his natural guardian if no legal guardian has been appointed. The consent of an estate shall be made by the executor or administrator thereof. If a person who is required to file a consent under this subparagraph is deceased, the executor or administrator of such person's estate, or other person charged with the property of such person, shall file the required consent. The consent of each shareholder shall be in the form of a statement signed by the shareholder in which he states that he consents to the election by the corporation under this paragraph. Each of such statements shall set forth the name and address of the corporation and of the shareholder; the number of shares of stock of the corporation owned by such shareholder at any time during any taxable year of the corporation beginning after December 31, 1962; the date (or dates) on which such stock was acquired, and, if disposed of, the date (or dates) of disposition; and the internal revenue officer with whom the shareholder's income tax returns have been filed for each of such taxable years in which he owned any such stock. In addition, a consent under this paragraph is not effective unless (i) the statutory period for assessment of any deficiency for each taxable year for which there would be a deficiency attributable to the election and consents under this paragraph has not expired on the date the election and consents under this paragraph are filed, and (ii) there is included in, or attached to, the statement of consent a written consent that the statutory period for assessment of any deficiency for any taxable year (to the extent that such deficiency is attributable to the election and consents under this paragraph) shall not expire before the expiration of 1 year after the date the election and consents under this paragraph are filed. Each of the statements of consent under this subparagraph shall be filed with the corporation's election under this paragraph. The consents of all shareholders may be incorporated in one statement.
