
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 302 - TAXES UNDER THE INTERNATIONAL CLAIMS SETTLEMENT ACT, AS AMENDED AUGUST 9, 1955
##### ยง 302.1-4 Computation of taxes.
###### Final computation,General.

(f)-(1)A final computation of the amount of taxes payable by the person to whom property is returnable, or out of property to be returned, will be made as soon as practicable in every case. In any case in which the amount shown by a tentative computation has been paid, refund or credit of any amount paid in excess of the amount properly due will be made in accordance with the final computation, even though a claim therefor has not been filed, if the period of limitation applicable to the filing of such claim has not expired. However, if it is desired to protect the right to any credit or refund determined to be due, a claim for credit or refund should be filed. The sufficiency of any such claim in respect of any amount paid in accordance with a tentative computation under the regulations in this part will not be questioned solely because facts upon which a more accurate computation could be made are not available or cannot be established at the time such claim is filed. Any such claim in respect of an amount paid in accordance with a final computation must, however, clearly set forth in detail under penalties of perjury all the facts relied upon in support of the claim and must conform to the regulations applicable to an ordinary claim for refund or credit. See ยง 302.1-7 relating to claims for credit or refunds.
