
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 303 - TAXES UNDER THE TRADING WITH THE ENEMY ACT
##### ยง 303.1-4 Computation of taxes.
###### Relationship of Attorney General and former owner.

(b)In the computation of tax liability under this part, except as otherwise provided in this part, the vesting of property shall not be considered as affecting the ownership thereof; and any act of the Attorney General in respect of such property (including the collection or operation thereof and any investment, sale, or other disposition and any payment or other expenditure) shall be considered as the act of the owner. Nevertheless, except as otherwise provided in the Act or this part, insofar as taxes are incident to vested property during the period of vesting, they shall be payable by the Attorney General, except that to the extent of the value of any of the property returned to the former owner the latter shall be liable for such tax not paid by the Attorney General. While tax incident to nonvested property is collectible out of both vested and nonvested property, the nonvested property will be regarded as the primary source of collection of such tax. In determining the amount of the liability to be paid out of property not vested by the Attorney General a computation shall be made covering the taxpayer's full period of liability, but without regard to the vested property, or the income received by, or the operations of, the Attorney General. The amount so computed shall be first asserted against and collected so far as practicable from the taxpayer or out of his property which is not vested. Such part of the total tax liability as is not paid by the taxpayer or collected out of property not vested shall be asserted against the vested property. See ยง 303.1-5, relating to payment of taxes, and ยง 303.1-7, relating to claims for refund or credit.
