
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 400 - TEMPORARY REGULATIONS UNDER THE FEDERAL TAX LIEN ACT OF 1966
##### ยง 400.1-1 Refiling of notice of tax lien.
###### Requirement to refile.

(b)In order to continue the effect of a notice of lien, the notice must be refiled in the place described in paragraph (c) of this section during the required refiling period (described in paragraph (d) of this section). In the event that two or more notices of lien are filed with respect to a particular tax assessment, the failure to comply with the provisions of paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (d) of this section in respect of one of the notices of lien does not affect the effectiveness of the refiling of the other notice or notices of lien. Thus, except for the filing of a notice of lien required by paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section relating to a change of residence, the validity of any refiling of a notice of lien is not affected by the refiling or non-refiling of any other notice of lien. The effectiveness of a timely refiled notice of lien relates back to the date on which the notice of lien was effective before the refiling. If the district director fails to refile a notice of lien in the manner described in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, the notice of lien is not effective, after the expiration of the required refiling period, as against any person without regard to when the interest of the person in the property subject to the lien was acquired. However, the failure of the district director to refile a notice of lien during the required refiling period will not affect the effectiveness of the notice with respect to (1) property which is the subject matter of a suit, to which the United States is a party, commenced prior to the expiration of the required refiling period, or (2) property which has been levied upon by the United States prior to the expiration of the required refiling period. Failure to refile a notice of lien does not affect the existence of the lien. If a notice of lien is not refiled, and if the lien is still in existence, the Internal Revenue Service may nevertheless file a new notice of lien either on the form prescribed for the filing of a notice of lien or on the form prescribed for refiling a notice of lien. This new filing must meet the requirements of section 6323(f) and is effective from the date on which such filing is made. Upon written request of any person who has a proper interest, any district director may issue a certificate of release of lien if notice of the lien has not been refiled within the required refiling period and the entire liability for the tax has been satisfied or has become unenforceable as a matter of law. Such request should be sent to the district director for the internal revenue district shown on the notice of lien. For provisions relating to certificates of release of lien, see section 6325.
