
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 305 - TEMPORARY PROCEDURAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE TAX REGULATIONS UNDER THE INDIAN TRIBAL GOVERNMENTAL TAX STATUS ACT OF 1982
##### ยง 305.7871-1 Indian tribal governments treated as States for certain purposes.
###### Treatment of subdivisions of Indian tribal governments as political subdivisions.

(e)A subdivision of an Indian tribal government shall be treated as a political subdivision of a State for purposes of section 7871 and this section if the Internal Revenue Service determines that the subdivision has been delegated the right to exercise one or more of the substantial governmental functions of the Indian tribal government. Designation of a subdivision of an Indian tribal government as a political subdivision of a State will be by revenue procedure. If a subdivision of an Indian tribal government is not currently designated by the applicable revenue procedure as a political subdivision of a State, and such subdivision believes that it qualifies for such designation, the subdivision may apply for a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service. In order to qualify as a political subdivision of a State, for purposes of section 7871 and this section, such subdivision must receive a favorable ruling from the Internal Revenue Service. The request for a ruling shall be made in accordance with all applicable procedural rules set forth in the Statement of Procedural Rules (26 CFR part 601) and any applicable revenue procedures relating to submission of ruling requests. The request shall be submitted to the Internal Revenue Service, Associate Chief Counsel (Technical), Attention: CC:IND:S, Room 6545, 1111 Constitution Ave., NW., Washington, D.C. 20224.
