
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 400 - TEMPORARY REGULATIONS UNDER THE FEDERAL TAX LIEN ACT OF 1966
##### ยง 400.4-1 Notice required with respect to a nonjudicial sale.
###### Scope and application of this section,In general.

(a)-(1)Section 109 of the Federal Tax Lien Act of 1966 (80 Stat. 1141) amended the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 by adding a new section 7425, relating to the discharge of liens. A tax lien of the United States, or a title derived from the enforcement of a tax lien of the United States, may be discharged or divested under local law only in the manner prescribed in section 2410 of title 28 of the United States Code or section 7425 of the Internal Revenue Code. Section 7425(a) contains provisions relating to the discharge of a lien or a title derived from the enforcement of a lien in the judicial proceedings described in subsection (a) of section 2410 of title 28 of the United States Code. These judicial proceedings are plenary in nature and proceed on formal pleadings. Section 7425(b) contains provisions relating to the discharge of a lien or a title derived from the enforcement of a lien in the event of a nonjudicial sale with respect to the property involved. Section 7425(c) contains special rules relating to the notice of sale requirements contained in section 7425(b). Paragraph (b) of this section of the regulations contains rules with respect to the nonjudicial sales described in section 7425(b). Paragraph (c) of this section of the regulations contains rules with respect to the notice of sale provisions of section 7425(c)(1). Paragraph (d) of this section of the regulations contains rules relating to the consent to sale provisions of section 7425(c)(2). Paragraph (e) of this section of the regulations contains rules relating to the sale of perishable goods provisions of section 7425(c)(3). Paragraph (f) of this section of the regulations contains the requirements with respect to the contents of a notice of sale.
