
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 400 - TEMPORARY REGULATIONS UNDER THE FEDERAL TAX LIEN ACT OF 1966
##### ยง 400.4-1 Notice required with respect to a nonjudicial sale.
###### Sale of perishable goods,In general.

(e)-(1)A notice (as described in paragraph (f) of this section) of a nonjudicial sale of perishable goods (as defined in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph (e)) shall be given in writing, by registered or certified mail or delivered by personal service, at any time before the sale to the district director (marked for the attention of the chief, special procedures section) for the internal revenue district in which the sale is to be conducted. If a notice of a nonjudicial sale is timely given in the manner described in this paragraph, the nonjudicial sale shall discharge or divest the tax lien, or a title derived from the enforcement of a tax lien, of the United States in the property. The provisions of sections 7502 (relating to timely mailing treated as timely filing) and 7503 (relating to time for performance of acts where last day falls on Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday) apply in the case of notices required to be made under this paragraph. For example, where the sale of perishable goods is scheduled for 1 p.m. on November 1, 1968, and the notice is mailed by certified mail to the district director at 10 a.m. on November 1, 1968, the notice shall be considered as timely given for purposes of this paragraph. The seller of the perishable goods shall hold the proceeds (exclusive of costs) of the sale as a fund, for not less than 30 days after the date of the sale, subject to the liens and claims of the United States, in the same manner and with the same priority as the liens and claims of the United States had with respect to the property sold. If the seller fails to hold the proceeds of the sale in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph, the seller shall be personally liable to the United States for an amount equal to the value of the interest of the United States in the fund. However, even if the proceeds of the sale are not so held by the seller, but all the other provisions of this paragraph are satisfied, the buyer of the property at the sale takes the property free of the liens and claims of the United States. In the event of a postponement of the scheduled sale of perishable goods, the seller is not required to notify the district director of the postponement. For provisions relating to the authority of the district director to discharge property subject to a tax lien in the case where the proceeds of the sale are held as a fund subject to the liens and claims of the United States, see section 6325(b)(3) and ยง 400.2-1.
