
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter F - Procedure and Administration
#### PART 403 - DISPOSITION OF SEIZED PERSONAL PROPERTY
##### Subpart C - Seizures and Forfeitures
###### ยง 403.30 Special disposition of perishable goods.

The proceedings to enforce forfeiture of perishable goods shall, as is the case with proceedings to enforce forfeiture of nonperishable goods, be in the nature of proceedings in rem in the United States District Court for the district wherein such seizure is made. When any seized property is liable to perish or become greatly reduced in price or value by keeping, or when it cannot be kept without great expense, the Commissioner or his delegate shall advise the owner, when known, of the seizure thereof. The owner of the seized property may apply to the District Director of the internal revenue district in which the property was seized to examine the property at any time prior to referral of the property to the U.S. Marshal for disposition. If, in the opinion of the Commissioner or his delegate it is necessary that such property be sold to prevent waste or expense, the Commissioner or his delegate shall cause the property to be appraised in accordance with the procedures set forth in ยง 403.26(a)(2). The owner shall have such property returned to him upon giving a corporate surety bond pursuant to ยง 403.28 in an amount equal to the appraised value of the property, to abide the final order, decree, or judgment of the court having cognizance of the case. The bond shall be conditioned to pay the amount of the appraised value to the Commissioner or his delegate, the U.S. Marshal, or otherwise, as may be ordered and directed by the court. The bond shall be filed by the Commissioner or his delegate with the U.S. Attorney for the district in which the proceedings may be commenced. If the owner of such property neglects or refuses to give such bond within a reasonable time considering the condition of the property, the Commissioner or his delegate shall request the U.S. Marshal to proceed to sell the property at public sale as soon as practicable and to pay the proceeds of sale, less reasonable costs of the seizure and sale, to the court to abide its final order, decree, or judgment.
