
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter G - Regulations Under Tax Conventions
#### PART 514 - FRANCE
##### Subpart - Withholding of Tax
###### ยง 514.9 Refund of excess tax withheld.
####### Years 1952, 1953, 1954, 1955, 1956.

(a)Where the tax withheld at the source upon dividends and interest paid in any one or more of the calendar years 1952, 1953, 1954, 1955, and 1956 is in excess of the tax due from the taxpayer under the convention, supplemented as set forth above, it will be necessary for the taxpayer to file an income tax return (Form 1040NB France for individuals and Form 1120NB France for corporations) with respect to such taxable year or years. The return shall cover all years for which a refund is claimed. The return must be filed on or before June 13, 1959. One return shall cover all years for which a refund is claimed. The taxpayer's total fixed or determinable, annual or periodical income (other than royalties) from sources within the United States should be reported on the return, and the income for each taxable year should be shown separately. There shall also be shown on such returns the amounts, if any, received in any of such years of capital gains (other than gains from the sale or exchange of stocks, securities or commodities) from sources within the United States. For this purpose, beginning with the calendar year 1954, certain distributions from employees' trusts, and amounts received incident to disposal of timber or coal or patent rights shall be included in such capital gains. See section 871(a)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 for provisions pertaining to individual taxpayers and section 881(a) for provisions pertinent to corporate taxpayers. There shall be included with the return the following statements:

(1) That the taxpayer was a nonresident alien (including a nonresident alien individual, fiduciary, or partnership) resident in France or was a French corporation, during the year or years for which the return is filed;

(2) That the taxpayer had no permanent establishment in the United States during the respective years in which the income was received;

(3) That no penalty for fraud has been imposed by the United States against the taxpayer claimant with respect to income tax for the year or years for which the return is filed.
