
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter G - Regulations Under Tax Conventions
#### PART 521 - DENMARK
##### Subpart - General Income Tax
###### Taxation of Nonresident Aliens Who Are Residents of Denmark and of Danish Corporations
####### ยง 521.106 Control of a domestic enterprise by a Danish enterprise.

Article IV of the convention provides, in effect, that if a Danish corporation by reason of its control of a domestic enterprise imposes on such later enterprise conditions different from those which would result from normal business relations between independent enterprises, the accounts between the enterprises may be adjusted so as to ascertain the true net income of each enterprise. The purpose is to place the controlled domestic enterprise on a tax parity with an uncontrolled domestic enterprise by determining, according to the standard of an uncontrolled enterprise, the true net income from the property and business of the controlled enterprise. The basic objective of the article is that if the accounting records do not truly reflect the net income from the property and business of such domestic enterprise the Commissioner of Internal Revenue may intervene and, by making such distributions, apportionments, or allocations as he may deem necessary of gross income or deductions of any item or element affecting net income as between such domestic enterprise and the Danish enterprise by which it is controlled or directed, determine the true net income of the domestic enterprise. The provisions of ยง 29.45-1 of Regulations 111 (26 CFR 1949 ed. Supps. 29.45-1) [and ยง 39.45-1 of Regulations 118 (26 CFR, Rev. 1953, Parts 1-79, and Supps.)] shall, insofar as applicable, be followed in the determination of the net income of the domestic business.
