
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.163(j)-0 Table of contents.
####### 2,4

(4) Paragraphs (b)(1)(iv)(A)() through (), (B) through (G), (b)(22)(iii)(F), and (b)(35).

(a) Overview.

(b) General rule.

(1) In general.

(2) 50 percent ATI limitation for taxable years beginning in 2019 or 2020.

(3) Election to use 2019 ATI in 2020.

(i) In general.

(ii) Short taxable years.

(iii) Transactions to which section 381 applies.

(iv) Consolidated groups.

(4) Time and manner of making or revoking the elections.

(c) Disallowed business interest expense carryforward.

(1) In general.

(2) Coordination with small business exemption.

(3) Cross-references.

(d) Small business exemption.

(1) Exemption.

(2) Application of the gross receipts test.

(i) In general.

(ii) Gross receipts of individuals.

(iii) Partners and S corporation shareholders.

(iv) Tax-exempt organizations.

(3) Determining a syndicate's loss amount.

(e) REMICs.

(f) Trusts.

(i) Calculation of ATI with respect to certain trusts and estates.

(ii) Calculation of ATI with respect to certain beneficiaries.

(g) Tax-exempt organizations.

(h) Examples.

(i) [Reserved]

(j) Anti-avoidance rule.

(1) In general.

(2) Examples.

(k) Applicability dates.

(1) In general.

(2) Paragraphs (b)(3)(iii), (b)(3)(iv), and (d)(3).

(a) Overview.

(b) Coordination of section 163(j) with certain other provisions.

(1) In general.

(2) Disallowed interest provisions.

(3) Deferred interest provisions.

(4) At risk rules, passive activity loss provisions, and limitation on excess business losses of noncorporate taxpayers.

(5) Capitalized interest expenses.

(6) Reductions under section 246A.

(7) Section 381.

(8) Section 382.

(c) Examples.

(d) Applicability date.

(a) Scope.

(b) Characterization of items of income, gain, deduction, or loss.

(1) Interest expense and interest income.

(2) Adjusted taxable income.

(3) Investment interest, investment income, investment expenses, and certain other tax items of a partnership with a C corporation partner.

(i) Characterization as expense or income properly allocable to a trade or business.

(ii) Effect of characterization on partnership.

(iii) Separately stated interest expense and interest income of a partnership not treated as excess business interest expense or excess taxable income of a C corporation partner.

(iv) Treatment of deemed inclusions of a domestic partnership that are not allocable to any trade or business.

(4) Application to RICs and REITs.

(i) In general.

(ii) Tentative taxable income of RICs and REITs.

(iii) Other adjustments to adjusted taxable income for RICs and REITs.

(5) Application to tax-exempt corporations.

(6) Adjusted taxable income of cooperatives.

(7) Examples.

(c) Effect on earnings and profits.

(1) In general.

(2) Special rule for RICs and REITs.

(3) Special rule for partners that are C corporations.

(4) Examples.

(d) Special rules for consolidated groups.

(1) Scope.

(2) Calculation of the section 163(j) limitation for members of a consolidated group.

(i) In general.

(ii) Interest.

(iii) Calculation of business interest expense and business interest income for a consolidated group.

(iv) Calculation of adjusted taxable income.

(v) Treatment of intercompany obligations.

(A) In general.

(B) Repurchase premium.

(3) Investment adjustments.

(4) Examples.

(e) Ownership of partnership interests by members of a consolidated group.

(1) [Reserved]

(2) Change in status of a member.

(3) Basis adjustments under ยง 1.1502-32.

(4) Excess business interest expense and ยง 1.1502-36.

(f) Cross-references.

(g) Applicability date.

(1) In general.

(2) [Reserved]

(a) Scope and definitions.

(1) Scope.

(2) Definitions.

(i) Allocable share of the consolidated group's remaining section 163(j) limitation.

(ii) Consolidated group's remaining section 163(j) limitation.

(iii) Remaining current-year interest ratio.

(b) Treatment of disallowed business interest expense carryforwards.

(1) In general.

(2) Deduction of business interest expense.

(3) Consolidated groups.

(i) In general.

(ii) Deduction of business interest expense.

(A) General rule.

(B) Section 163(j) limitation equals or exceeds the current-year business interest expense and disallowed business interest expense carryforwards from prior taxable years.

(C) Current-year business interest expense and disallowed business interest expense carryforwards exceed section 163(j) limitation.

(iii) Departure from group.

(iv) Example: Deduction of interest expense.

(c) Disallowed business interest expense carryforwards in transactions to which section 381(a) applies.

(d) Limitations on disallowed business interest expense carryforwards from separate return limitation years.

(1) General rule.

(A) Cumulative section 163(j) SRLY limitation.

(B) Subgrouping.

(2) Deduction of disallowed business interest expense carryforwards arising in a SRLY.

(3) Examples.

(e) Application of section 382.

(1) Pre-change loss.

(2) Loss corporation.

(3) Ordering rules for utilization of pre-change losses and for absorption of the section 382 limitation.

(4) Disallowed business interest expense from the pre-change period in the year of a testing date.

(5) Recognized built-in loss.

(f) Overlap of SRLY limitation with section 382.

(g) Additional limitations.

(h) Applicability date.

(a) Overview.

(b) Definitions.

(1) Section 163(j) items.

(2) Partner basis items.

(3) Remedial items.

(4) Excess business interest income.

(5) Deductible business interest expense.

(6) Section 163(j) excess items.

(7) Non-excepted assets.

(8) Excepted assets.

(c) Business interest income and business interest expense of the partnership.

(1) Modification of business interest income for partnerships.

(2) Modification of business interest expense for partnerships.

(3) Transition rule.

(4) Character of business interest expense.

(d) Adjusted taxable income of a partnership.

(1) Tentative taxable income of a partnership.

(2) Section 734(b), partner basis items, and remedial items.

(3) Section 743(b) adjustments and publicly traded partnerships.

(4) Modification of adjusted taxable income for partnerships.

(5) Election to use 2019 adjusted taxable income for taxable years beginning in 2020.

(e) Adjusted taxable income and business interest income of partners.

(1) Modification of adjusted taxable income for partners.

(2) Partner basis items and remedial items.

(3) Disposition of partnership interests.

(4) Double counting of business interest income and floor plan financing interest expense prohibited.

(5) Partner basis items, remedial items, and publicly traded partnerships.

(6) [Reserved]

(f) Allocation and determination of section 163(j) excess items made in the same manner as nonseparately stated taxable income or loss of the partnership.

(1) Overview.

(i) In general.

(ii) Relevance solely for purposes of section 163(j).

(iii) Exception applicable to publicly traded partnerships.

(2) Steps for allocating deductible business interest expense and section 163(j) excess items.

(i) Partnership-level calculation required by section 163(j)(4)(A).

(ii) Determination of each partner's relevant section 163(j) items.

(iii) Partner-level comparison of business interest income and business interest expense.

(iv) Matching partnership and aggregate partner excess business interest income.

(v) Remaining business interest expense determination.

(vi) Determination of final allocable ATI.

(A) Positive allocable ATI.

(B) Negative allocable ATI.

(C) Final allocable ATI.

(vii) Partner-level comparison of 30 percent of adjusted taxable income and remaining business interest expense.

(viii) Partner priority right to ATI capacity excess determination.

(ix) Matching partnership and aggregate partner excess taxable income.

(x) Matching partnership and aggregate partner excess business interest expense.

(xi) Final section 163(j) excess item and deductible business interest expense allocation.

(g) Carryforwards.

(1) In general.

(2) Treatment of excess business interest expense allocated to partners.

(3) Excess taxable income and excess business interest income ordering rule.

(4) Special rule for taxable years beginning in 2019 and 2020.

(h) Basis adjustments.

(1) Section 704(d) ordering.

(2) Excess business interest expense basis adjustments.

(3) Partner basis adjustment upon disposition of partnership interest.

(4)-(5) [Reserved]

(i)-(j) [Reserved]

(k) Investment items and certain other items.

(l) S corporations.

(1) In general.

(i) Corporate level limitation.

(ii) Short taxable periods.

(2) Character of deductible business interest expense.

(3) Adjusted taxable income of an S corporation.

(4) Adjusted taxable income and business interest income of S corporation shareholders.

(i) Adjusted taxable income of S corporation shareholders.

(ii) Disposition of S corporation stock.

(iii) Double counting of business interest income and floor plan financing interest expense prohibited.

(iv) [Reserved]

(5) Carryforwards.

(6) Basis adjustments and disallowed business interest expense carryforwards.

(7) Accumulated adjustment accounts.

(8) Termination of qualified subchapter S subsidiary election.

(9) Investment items.

(10) Application of section 382.

(m) Partnerships and S corporations not subject to section 163(j).

(1) Exempt partnerships and S corporations.

(2) Partnerships and S corporations engaged in excepted trades or businesses.

(3) Treatment of excess business interest expense from partnerships that are exempt entities in a succeeding taxable year.

(4) S corporations with disallowed business interest expense carryforwards prior to becoming exempt entities.

(n) Treatment of self-charged lending transactions between partnerships and partners.

(o) Examples.

(p) Applicability dates.

(1) In general.

(2) Paragraphs (c)(1) and (2), (d)(3) through (5), (e)(5), (f)(1)(iii), (g)(4), (n), and (o)(24) through (29), and (34) through (36).

(a) Overview.

(b) General rule regarding the application of section 163(j) to relevant foreign corporations.

(c) Application of section 163(j) to CFC group members of a CFC group.

(1) Scope.

(2) Calculation of section 163(j) limitation for a CFC group for a specified period.

(i) In general.

(ii) Certain transactions between CFC group members disregarded.

(iii) [Reserved]

(iv) [Reserved]

(3) Deduction of business interest expense.

(i) CFC group business interest expense.

(A) In general.

(B) Modifications to relevant terms.

(ii) Carryforwards treated as attributable to the same taxable year.

(iii) Multiple specified taxable years of a CFC group member with respect to a specified period.

(iv) Limitation on pre-group disallowed business interest expense carryforward.

(A) General rule.
