
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.163(j)-0 Table of contents.
####### 1.163(j)-9 Elections for excepted trades or businesses; safe harbor for certain REITs.

ยง

(a) Overview.

(b) Availability of election.

(1) In general.

(2) Special rules.

(i) Exempt small businesses.

(ii) Section 162 trade or business not required for electing real property trade or business.

(c) Scope and effect of election.

(1) In general.

(2) Irrevocability.

(3) Depreciation.

(d) Time and manner of making election.

(1) In general.

(2) Election statement contents.

(3) Consolidated group's trade or business.

(4) Partnership's trade or business.

(e) Termination of election.

(1) In general.

(2) Taxable asset transfer defined.

(3) Related party defined.

(4) Anti-abuse rule.

(f) Additional guidance.

(g) Examples.

(h) Safe harbor for REITs.

(1) In general.

(2) REITs that do not significantly invest in real property financing assets.

(3) REITs that significantly invest in real property financing assets.

(4) REIT real property assets, interests in partnerships, and shares in other REITs.

(i) Real property assets.

(ii) Partnership interests.

(iii) Shares in other REITs.

(A) In general.

(B) Information necessary.

(iv) Tiered entities.

(5) Value of shares in other REITs.

(i) In general.

(ii) Information necessary.

(iii) Tiered REITs.

(6) Real property financing assets.

(7) Application of safe harbor for partnerships controlled by REITS.

(8) REITs or partnerships controlled by REITs that do not apply the safe harbor.

(i) [Reserved]

(j) Special anti-abuse rule for certain real property trades or businesses.

(1) In general.

(2) Exceptions.

(i) De minimis exception.

(ii) Look-through exception.

(iii) Inapplicability of exceptions to consolidated groups.

(iv) Exception for certain REITs.

(3) Allocations.

(4) Examples.

(k) Applicability date.

(a) Overview.

(1) In general.

(i) Purposes.

(ii) Application of section.

(2) Coordination with other rules.

(i) In general.

(ii) Treatment of investment interest, investment income, investment expenses, and certain other tax items of a partnership with a C corporation or tax-exempt corporation as a partner.

(3) Application of allocation rules to foreign corporations and foreign partnerships.

(4) Application of allocation rules to members of a consolidated group.

(i) In general.

(ii) Application of excepted business percentage to members of a consolidated group.

(iii) Basis in assets transferred in an intercompany transaction.

(5) Tax-exempt organizations.

(6) Application of allocation rules to disallowed disqualified interest.

(7) Examples.

(b) Allocation of tax items other than interest expense and interest income.

(1) In general.

(2) Gross income other than dividends and interest income.

(3) Dividends.

(i) Look-through rule.

(ii) Inapplicability of the look-through rule.

(4) Gain or loss from the disposition of non-consolidated C corporation stock, partnership interests, or S corporation stock.

(i) Non-consolidated C corporations.

(ii) Partnerships and S corporations.

(5) Expenses, losses, and other deductions.

(i) Expenses, losses, and other deductions that are definitely related to a trade or business.

(ii) Other deductions.

(6) Treatment of investment items and certain other items of a partnership with a C corporation partner.

(7) Examples: Allocation of income and expense.

(c) Allocating interest expense and interest income that is properly allocable to a trade or business.

(1) General rule.

(i) In general.

(ii) De minimis exception.

(2) Example.

(3) Asset used in more than one trade or business.

(i) General rule.

(ii) Permissible methodologies for allocating asset basis between or among two or more trades or businesses.

(iii) Special rules.

(A) Consistent allocation methodologies.
