
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter H - Internal Revenue Practice
#### PART 601 - STATEMENT OF PROCEDURAL RULES
##### Subpart B - Rulings and Other Specific Matters
###### ยง 601.201 Rulings and determinations letters.
####### Exceptions.,e.g.,

(2)There are, however, certain areas where, because of the inherently factual nature of the problems involved or for other reasons, the Service will not issue advance rulings or determination letters. Ordinarily, an advance ruling or determination letter is not issued on any matter where the determination requested is primarily one of fact (market value of property), or on the tax effect of any transaction to be consummated at some indefinite future time or of any transaction or matter having as a major purpose the reduction of Federal taxes. A specific area or a list of these areas is published from time to time in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see, for example, Rev. Proc. 80-22, 1980-1, C.B. 654). Such list is not all inclusive. Whenever a particular item is added to or deleted from the list, however, appropriate notice thereof will be published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin. The authority and general procedures of the National Office of the Internal Revenue Service and of the offices of the district directors of internal revenue with respect to the issuance of advance rulings and determination letters are outlined in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
