
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter H - Internal Revenue Practice
#### PART 601 - STATEMENT OF PROCEDURAL RULES
##### Subpart B - Rulings and Other Specific Matters
###### ยง 601.202 Closing agreements.
####### General.

(a)(1) Under section 7121 of the Code and the regulations and delegations thereunder, the Commissioner, or any officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service authorized in writing by the Commissioner, may enter into and approve a written agreement with a person relating to the liability of such person (or of the person or estate for whom he acts) in respect of any internal revenue tax for any taxable period. Such agreement, except upon a showing of fraud or malfeasance, or misrepresentation of a material fact, shall be final and conclusive.

(2) Closing agreements under section 7121 of the Code may relate to any taxable period ending prior or subsequent to the date of the agreement. With respect to taxable periods ended prior to the date of the agreement, the matter agreed upon may relate to the total tax liability of the taxpayer or it may relate to one or more separate items affecting the tax liability of the taxpayer. A closing agreement may also be entered into in order to provide a "determination", as defined in section 1313 of the Code, and for the purpose of allowing a deficiency dividend deduction under section 547 of the Code. But see also sections 547(c)(3) and 1313(a)(4) of the Code and the regulations thereunder as to other types of "determination" agreements. With respect to taxable periods ending subsequent to the date of the agreement, the matter agreed upon may related to one or more separate items affecting the tax liability of the taxpayer. A closing agreement with respect to any taxable period ending subsequent to the date of the agreement is subject to any change in or modification of the law enacted subsequent to the date of the agreement and applicable to such taxable period, and each such closing agreement shall so recite. Closing agreements may be entered into even though under the agreement the taxpayer is not liable for any tax for the period to which the agreement relates. There may be a series of agreements relating to the tax liability for a single period. A closing agreement may be entered into in any case in which there appears to be an advantage in having the case permanently and conclusively closed, or where good and sufficient reasons are shown by the taxpayer for desiring a closing agreement and it is determined by the Commissioner or his representatives that the Government will sustain no disadvantage through consummation of such an agreement.
