
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter H - Internal Revenue Practice
#### PART 601 - STATEMENT OF PROCEDURAL RULES
##### Subpart B - Rulings and Other Specific Matters
###### ยง 601.204 Changes in accounting periods and in methods of accounting.
####### Accounting periods.

(a)A taxpayer who changes his accounting period shall, before using the new period for income tax purposes, comply with the provisions of the income tax regulations relating to changes in accounting periods. In cases where the regulations require the taxpayer to secure the consent of the Commissioner to the change, the application for permission to change the accounting period shall be made on Form 1128 and shall be submitted to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, Washington, DC 20224, within the period of time prescribed in such regulations. See section 442 of the Code and regulations thereunder. If the change is approved by the Commissioner, the taxpayer shall thereafter make his returns and compute his net income upon the basis of the new accounting period. A request for permission to change the accounting period will be considered by the Corporation Tax Division. However, in certain instances, Form 1128 may be filed with the Director of the Internal Revenue Service Center in which the taxpayer files its return. See, for example, Rev. Proc. 66-13, 1966-1 C.B. 626; Rev. Proc. 66-50, 1966-2 C.B. 1260, and Rev. Proc. 68-41, 1968-2 C.B. 943. With respect to partnership adoptions, see ยง 1.706-1(b) of the Income Tax Regulations.
