
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter H - Internal Revenue Practice
#### PART 601 - STATEMENT OF PROCEDURAL RULES
##### Subpart G - Records (Note)
###### ยง 601.702 Publication, public inspection, and specific requests for records.
####### Responsible officials and their addresses.

(h)For purposes of this section, the IRS officials in the disclosure offices listed below are responsible for the control of records within their geographic area. In the case of records of the Headquarters Office (including records of the National Office of the Office of Chief Counsel), except as provided in paragraph (c)(9)(i)(A), the Director, Office of Governmental Liaison and Disclosure, or delegate, is the responsible official. Requests for these records should be sent to: IRS FOIA Request, Headquarters Disclosure Office, CL:GLD:D, 1111 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20224.

(1) For Personnel Background Investigation Records, the address of the responsible official is: Internal Revenue Service, Attn: Associate Director, Personnel Security, Room 4244, A:PS:PSO, 1111 Constitution Avenue, NW. Washington, DC 20224.

(2) For records of the Office of Chief Counsel other than those located in the Headquarters or Division Counsel immediate offices, records shall be deemed to be under the jurisdiction of the local area Disclosure Office. Requesters seeking records under this section should send their requests to the local area Disclosure Office address listed for the state where the requester resides or any activity associated with the records occurred (for states with multiple offices, the request should be sent to the nearest office):
