
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.163(j)-1 Definitions.
####### 2,Example.,1

()A is a calendar-year individual taxpayer engaged in a trade or business that is neither an excepted trade or business nor eligible for the small business exemption. A has no disallowed business interest expense carryforwards. In 2021, A has $100x of business interest expense, no business interest income or floor plan financing interest expense, and $400x of tentative taxable income. After taking into account the adjustments to tentative taxable income under paragraph (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section other than positive adjustments under paragraphs (b)(1)(i)(D) through (F) of this section, A has tentative taxable income of $450x. A increases its tentative taxable income by $30x (from $450x to $480x) under paragraph (b)(1)(i)(D) of this section to reflect $30x of depreciation deductions with respect to Asset Y in 2021. Thus, for 2021, A would have a section 163(j) limitation of $135x ($450x x 30 percent) without regard to adjustments under paragraphs (b)(1)(i)(D) through (F) of this section. After the application of paragraph (b)(1)(i)(D) of this section, A has a section 163(j) limitation of $144x ($480x x 30 percent). In 2022, A sells Asset Y at a gain of $50x. Under paragraph (b)(1)(iv)(F)() of this section, A is not required to reduce its tentative taxable income in 2022 under paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(C) through (E) or paragraph (b)(1)(iv)(E) of this section. As established by A, the $30x addition to tentative taxable income under paragraph (b)(1)(i)(D) of this section resulted in no increase in the amount allowed as a deduction for business interest expense in 2021.
