
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.163(j)-1 Definitions.
####### 2,Analysis.,2,2,2

()The P group's section 163(j) limitation for 2021 is $48x ($160x x 30 percent). Thus, all $45x of the P group's business interest expense incurred in 2021 is deductible in that year. Under paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(D) of this section, the P group must subtract $30x from its tentative taxable income in computing its ATI for its 2024 taxable year. Alternatively, under paragraph (b)(1)(iv)(E)() of this section, the P group must subtract $25x (the lesser of $30x or $25x) from its tentative taxable income in computing its ATI for its 2024 taxable year. However, the negative adjustments under paragraphs (b)(1)(ii)(D) and (b)(1)(iv)(E)() of this section are both subject to the negative adjustment cap in paragraph (b)(1)(iv)(F) of this section. Under that paragraph, the P group's negative adjustment under either paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(D) or paragraph (b)(1)(iv)(E)() of this section is capped at $20x, or $150x (the amount of ATI the P group needed in order to deduct all $45x of business interest expense in 2021) minus $130x (the amount of the P group's tentative taxable income in 2021 before adding back any amounts under paragraph (b)(1)(i)(D) through (F) of this section). As established by the P group, the additional $10x ($30x-$20x) of depreciation deductions that were added back to tentative taxable income in 2021 under paragraph (b)(1)(i)(D) of this section did not increase the P group's business interest expense deduction for that year.
