
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.163(j)-1 Definitions.
####### 6,Non-deconsolidating disposition of member stock followed by asset disposition.,5,1,1,i,1,ii,2,ii,1,1

()The facts are the same as in paragraph (b)(1)(viii)(B)() of this section, except that, in 2025, S sells Asset Y to an unrelated third party for a gain of $20x. Under paragraph (b)(1)(iv)(E)() of this section, the amount of the adjustment in 2025 is the lesser of two amounts. The first amount is the amount of S's gain recognized on the sale of Asset Y ($20x). See paragraph (b)(1)(iv)(E)()() of this section. The second amount is the amount of depreciation with respect to Asset Y (see paragraph (b)(1)(iv)(E)()() of this section), reduced by the amount of depreciation previously taken into account in the computation under paragraph (b)(1)(iv)(E)()() of this section ($30x-$3x, or $27x). See paragraph (b)(1)(iv)(D)() of this section. Thus, the amount of the adjustment under paragraphs (b)(1)(iv)(D) and (b)(1)(iv)(E)() of this section is $20x. In turn, this amount is subject to the negative adjustment cap under paragraph (b)(1)(iv)(F), which, after accounting for the negative adjustment on the earlier sale of S stock in 2024, is $17.5x ($20x-$2.5x). Accordingly, the P group must subtract $17.5x from its tentative taxable income in computing its ATI for its 2025 taxable year.
