
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.163(j)-1 Definitions.
####### 2,Analysis.,1,1,1

()A's section 163(j) limitation for 2021 is $78x ($260x x 30 percent). Thus, all $75x of A's business interest expense incurred in 2021 is deductible in that year. Under paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(C) of this section, A must subtract $110x ($30x + $80x) from its tentative taxable income in computing its ATI for its 2024 taxable year. Alternatively, under paragraph (b)(1)(iv)(E)() of this section, A must subtract $30x with respect to Asset X (the lesser of $30x or $40x ($40x-$0x)), and $80x with respect to Asset Y (the lesser of $80x or $90x ($90x-$0x)), from its tentative taxable income in computing its ATI for its 2024 taxable year. However, the negative adjustments under paragraphs (b)(1)(ii)(C) and (b)(1)(iv)(E)() of this section are both subject to the negative adjustment cap in paragraph (b)(1)(iv)(F) of this section. Under that paragraph, A's negative adjustment in 2024 under either paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(C) ($110x) or paragraph (b)(1)(iv)(E)() (also $110x) of this section is limited to $100x. This amount equals $250x (the amount of ATI that A needed in order to deduct all $75x of business interest expense in 2021) minus $150x (the amount of A's tentative taxable income in 2021 before adding back any amounts under paragraph (b)(1)(i)(D) through (F) of this section). As established by A, the additional $10x ($110x-$100x) of depreciation deductions that were added back to tentative taxable income in 2021 under paragraph (b)(1)(i)(D) of this section did not increase A's business interest expense deduction for that year.
