
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.163(j)-1 Definitions.
####### 3,Sale of assets in different taxable years.,1,1,2,1,1,1

()The facts are the same as in paragraph (b)(1)(viii)(E)() of this section, except that A sells Asset Y to an unrelated third party for $90x in 2025. Under paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(C) of this section, A must subtract $30x from its tentative taxable income in computing its ATI for its 2024 taxable year. Alternatively, under paragraph (b)(1)(iv)(E)() of this section, A must subtract $30x (the lesser of $30x or $40x ($40x-$0x)) from its tentative taxable income in computing its ATI for its 2024 taxable year. Because A's negative adjustment cap for its 2021 taxable year is $100x (see paragraph (b)(1)(viii)(E)() of this section), A's negative adjustment in 2024 of $30x is not reduced under paragraph (b)(1)(iv)(F) of this section. In 2025, A must subtract $80x from its tentative taxable income under paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(C) of this section in computing its ATI. Alternatively, under paragraph (b)(1)(iv)(E)() of this section, A must subtract $80x (the lesser of $80x or $90x ($90x-$0x)) from its tentative taxable income in computing its ATI for its 2025 taxable year. However, the negative adjustments under paragraphs (b)(1)(ii)(C) and (b)(1)(iv)(E)() of this section are both subject to the negative adjustment cap in paragraph (b)(1)(iv)(F) of this section. Moreover, A's negative adjustment cap for its 2021 taxable year is reduced from $100x to $70x to reflect A's $30x negative adjustment in 2024. See paragraph (b)(1)(iv)(F) of this section. Thus, A's negative adjustment for 2025 under either paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(C) or paragraph (b)(1)(iv)(E)() of this section is reduced from $80x to $70x. As established by A, the additional $10x ($110x-$100x) of depreciation deductions that were added back to tentative taxable income in 2021 under paragraph (b)(1)(i)(D) of this section did not increase A's business interest expense deduction for that year.
