
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.163(j)-3 Relationship of the section 163(j) limitation to other provisions affecting interest.
####### Analysis.

(ii)Under paragraph (b)(4) of this section, section 163(j) is applied before the section 469 passive loss rules apply, except that section 469 is taken into account in the determination of tentative taxable income for purposes of computing ATI. D's section 163(j) limitation is $120x, determined by adding to D's business interest income ($0), floor plan financing ($0), and 30 percent of D's ATI ($120x). See ยง 1.163(j)-2(b). Because D's business interest expense of $150x exceeds D's section 163(j) limitation for 2021, $30x of D's business interest expense is disallowed under section 163(j) and will be carried forward as a disallowed business interest expense carryforward. See ยง 1.163(j)-2(c). Because the section 163(j) limitation is applied before the limitation under section 469, only $120x of the business interest expense allowable under section 163(j) is included in determining D's passive activity loss limitation for the 2021 tax year under section 469. The $30x of disallowed business interest expense is not an allowable deduction under section 163(j) and, therefore, is not a deduction under section 469 in the current taxable year. See ยง 1.469-2(d)(8).
