
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.163(j)-3 Relationship of the section 163(j) limitation to other provisions affecting interest.
####### Passive activity loss.

(v)Because D's passive deductions exceed the passive income from V, and D does not have any passive income from other sources, section 469 applies to limit D's passive loss from V. Having first applied section 163(j), D has $660x of passive expenses, determined by adding D's $60x of business interest expense that is allowed by section 163(j) as a deduction and $600x of section 162 expense ($60x + $600x). D offsets $500x of the passive expenses against $500x of passive income; therefore, D has a passive activity loss of $160x in Year 1, determined as the excess of D's total passive expenses over D's passive income ($660x-$500x). The amount of D's loss from the passive activity that is disallowed under section 469 ($160x) is generally ratably allocated to each of D's passive activity deductions under ยง 1.469-1T(f)(2)(ii)(A). As a general rule, each deduction is multiplied by the ratio of the total passive loss to total passive expenses (160x/660x). Of D's $60x business interest expense, $14.55x (($160x/$660x) x $60x) is disallowed in Year 1. Additionally, of D's $600x section 162 expense, $145.45x (($160x/$660x) x $600x) is disallowed. The amounts disallowed under section 469(a)(1) and ยง 1.469-2T(f)(2) are carried over to the succeeding taxable year under section 469(b) and ยง 1.469-1(f)(4).
