
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.163(j)-3 Relationship of the section 163(j) limitation to other provisions affecting interest.
####### Tentative taxable income.

(ii)To determine D's tentative taxable income, D must first determine D's allowable deductions. In year 2, D has $260x of allowable deductions, which includes $100x of business interest expense generated Year 2, $14.55x of business interest expense disallowed in Year 1 by section 469, and $145.45x of section 162 expense disallowed in Year 1 by section 469 ($100x + $14.55x + $145.45x)). D's disallowed business interest expense carryforward from Year 1 is not taken into account in determining tentative taxable income. See ยง 1.163(j)-1(b)(43). Additionally, the $14.55x of business interest expense disallowed in Year 1 by section 469 is not business interest expense in Year 2 because it was deductible after the application of section 163(j) (but before the application of section 469) in Year 1. D does not have a tentative passive activity loss in Year 2, because D's $500x of passive income from V exceeds D's $260x of tentative passive expenses. Therefore, D's tentative taxable income in Year 2 is $240x, which is determined by subtracting D's allowable deductions other than disallowed business interest expense carryforwards, or $260x, from D's gross income, or $500x ($500x-$260x).
