
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.163(j)-4 General rules applicable to C corporations (including REITs, RICs, and members of consolidated groups) and tax-exempt corporations.
####### Analysis.

(B)As provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, P's interest expense is treated as business interest expense for purposes of section 163(j). If P and S were to apply the section 163(j) limitation on a separate-entity basis, then P's ATI would be $150x ($50x + $65x + $35x = $150x), its section 163(j) limitation would be $45x (30 percent x $150x = $45x), and a deduction for $20x of its $65x of business interest expense would be disallowed in the 2021 taxable year under section 163(j). However, as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the P group computes a single section 163(j) limitation, and that computation begins with the P group's tentative taxable income (as determined prior to the application of section 163(j)), or $90x. The P group's ATI is $200x ($50x + $40x + $65x + $35x + $10x = $200x). Thus, the P group's section 163(j) limitation for the 2021 taxable year is $60x (30 percent x $200x = $60x). As a result, all but $5x of the P group's business interest expense is deductible in the 2021 taxable year. P carries over the $5x of disallowed business interest expense to the succeeding taxable year.
