
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### § 1.163(j)-5 General rules governing disallowed business interest expense carryforwards for C corporations.
####### Limitations on disallowed business interest expense carryforwards from separate return limitation years,General rule,Cumulative section 163(j) SRLY limitation.

(d)-(1)-(A)This paragraph (d) applies to disallowed business interest expense carryforwards of a member arising in a SRLY (see § 1.1502-1(f))) or treated as arising in a SRLY under the principles of § 1.1502-21(c) and (g). The amount of the carryforwards described in the preceding sentence that are included in the consolidated group's business interest expense deduction for any taxable year under paragraph (b) of this section may not exceed the aggregate section 163(j) limitation for all consolidated return years of the group, determined by reference only to the member's items of income, gain, deduction, and loss, and reduced (including below zero) by the member's business interest expense (including disallowed business interest expense carryforwards) absorbed by the group in all consolidated return years (cumulative section 163(j) SRLY limitation). For purposes of computing the member's cumulative section 163(j) SRLY limitation, intercompany items referred to in § 1.163(j)-4(d)(2)(iv) are included, with the exception of interest items with regard to intercompany obligations. See § 1.163(j)-4(d)(2)(v). Thus, for purposes of this paragraph (d), income and expense items arising from intercompany transactions (other than interest income and expense with regard to intercompany obligations) are included in the calculation of the cumulative section 163(j) SRLY limitation. In addition, items of interest expense with regard to intercompany obligations are not characterized as business interest expense for purposes of the reduction described in the second sentence of this paragraph (d)(1)(A).
