
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.163(j)-5 General rules governing disallowed business interest expense carryforwards for C corporations.
####### Analysis.

(B)Under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, S's cumulative section 163(j) SRLY limitation is increased in the current year by $160x. The P group's section 163(j) limitation permits the P group to deduct all $70x of S's current-year business interest expense (and all $180x of P and R's current-year business interest expense). S's cumulative section 163(j) SRLY limitation is reduced by the $70x of S's business interest expense absorbed by the P group in the current year, resulting in a $90x balance. Because the P group has $50x of section 163(j) limitation remaining after the absorption of current-year business interest expense, the P group can absorb $50x of its members' disallowed business interest expense carryforwards. Under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, SRLY-limited disallowed business interest expense carryforwards are deducted on a pro rata basis with other disallowed business interest expense carryforwards from the same taxable year. Accordingly, the P group can deduct $10x ($50x x ($30x/$150x)) of S's SRLY-limited disallowed business interest expense carryforwards. S's cumulative section 163(j) SRLY limitation is reduced (to $80x) by the $10x of SRLY-limited disallowed business interest carryforwards absorbed by the P group in the current year.
