
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### credits allowable under sections 30 through 45D
###### ยง 1.41-9 Alternative simplified credit.
####### Time and manner of election.

(2)A taxpayer makes an election under section 41(c)(5) by completing the portion of Form 6765, "Credit for Increasing Research Activities," (or successor form) relating to the election of the ASC, and attaching the completed form to the taxpayer's timely filed (including extensions) original return for the taxable year to which the election applies. A taxpayer may make an election under section 41(c)(5) for a tax year on an amended return, but only if the taxpayer has not previously claimed a section 41(a)(1) credit on its original return or an amended return for that tax year, and only if that tax year is not closed by the period of limitations on assessment under section 6501(a). An extension of time to make an election under section 41(c)(5) will not be granted under ยง 301.9100-3 of this chapter. A taxpayer that is a member of a controlled group in a tax year may not make an election under section 41(c)(5) for that tax year on an amended return if any member of the controlled group for that tax year previously claimed the research credit under section 41(a)(1) using a method other than the ASC on an original or amended return for that tax year. See paragraph (b)(4) of this section for additional rules concerning controlled groups. See also ยง 1.41-6(b)(1) requiring that all members of the controlled group use the same method of computation.
