
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.163(j)-6 Application of the section 163(j) limitation to partnerships and subchapter S corporations.
####### Determination of each partner's relevant section 163(j) items.,allocable ATI,allocable business interest income,allocable business interest expense,Example 1,Example 16

(ii)Second, a partnership must determine each partner's allocable share of each section 163(j) item under section 704(b) and the regulations under section 704 of the Code, including any allocations under section 704(c), other than remedial items. Only section 163(j) items that were actually taken into account in the partnership's section 163(j) calculation under paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section are taken into account for purposes of this paragraph (f)(2)(ii). Partner basis items, allocations of investment income and expense, remedial items, and amounts determined for the partner under ยง 1.163-8T are not taken into account for purposes of this paragraph (f)(2)(ii). For purposes of paragraphs (f)(2)(ii) through (xi) of this section, the termmeans a partner's distributive share of the partnership's ATI (that is, a partner's distributive share of gross income and gain items comprising ATI less such partner's distributive share of gross loss and deduction items comprising ATI), the termmeans a partner's distributive share of the partnership's business interest income, and the termmeans a partner's distributive share of the partnership's business interest expense that is not floor plan financing interest expense. If the partnership determines that each partner has a pro rata share of allocable ATI, allocable business interest income, and allocable business interest expense, then the partnership may bypass paragraphs (f)(2)(iii) through (xi) of this section and allocate its section 163(j) excess items in the same proportion. Seethroughin paragraphs (o)(1) through (16), respectively. This pro-rata exception does not result in allocations of section 163(j) excess items that vary from the array of allocations of section 163(j) excess items that would have resulted had paragraphs (f)(2)(iii) through (xi) been applied.
