
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### § 1.163(j)-6 Application of the section 163(j) limitation to partnerships and subchapter S corporations.
####### Special rule for taxable years beginning in 2019 and 2020.,Example 35,Example 36

(4)In the case of any excess business interest expense of a partnership for any taxable year beginning in 2019 that is allocated to a partner under paragraph (f)(2) of this section, 50 percent of such excess business interest expense (§ 1.163(j)-6(g)(4) business interest expense) is treated as business interest expense that, notwithstanding paragraph (g)(2) of this section, is paid or accrued by the partner in the partner's first taxable year beginning in 2020. Additionally, § 1.163(j)-6(g)(4) business interest expense is not subject to the section 163(j) limitation at the level of the partner. For purposes of paragraph (h)(1) of this section, any § 1.163(j)-6(g)(4) business interest expense is, similar to deductible business interest expense, taken into account before any excess business interest expense. This paragraph applies after paragraph (n) of this section. If a partner disposes of a partnership interest in the partnership's 2019 or 2020 taxable year, § 1.163(j)-6(g)(4) business interest expense is deductible by the partner (except to the extent that the business interest expense is negative section 163(j) expense as defined in § 1.163(j)-6(h)(1) immediately prior to the disposition) and thus does not result in a basis increase under paragraph (h)(3) of this section. Seeandin paragraphs (o)(35) and (o)(36), respectively, of this section. A partner may elect to not have this provision apply with respect to each partnership interest held by the partner on an interest by interest basis. The rules and procedures regarding the time and manner of making, or revoking, such an election are provided in Revenue Procedure 2020-22, 2020-18 I.R.B. 745, and may be further modified through other guidance (see §§ 601.601(d) and 601.602 of this chapter).
