
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### § 1.163(j)-6 Application of the section 163(j) limitation to partnerships and subchapter S corporations.
####### Partner-level allocations.

(iii)Because PRS is not subject to section 163(j) by reason of section 163(j)(3), PRS's $45 of business interest expense does not retain its character as business interest expense for purposes of section 163(j). As a result, such business interest expense is not subject to the section 163(j) limitation at the level of either the partnership or partner. Additionally, pursuant to § 1.163(j)-6(m)(1), each partner includes its share of non-excepted trade or business items of income, gain, loss, and deduction (including business interest expense and business interest income) of PRS when calculating its ATI; however, a net loss allocation of trade or business items from an exempt entity does not reduce a partner's ATI. Because each of the partners has a net loss allocation of trade or business items from PRS, none of the partners adjust their ATI for the trade or business items of PRS. X, the corporate partner, increases its ATI by $25 because its items of investment income and loss from PRS are recharacterized as trade or business income and loss at its level pursuant to §§ 1.163(j)-4(b)(3)(i) and 1.163(j)-10(b)(6). Further, X increases its business interest expense by its $20 allocation of investment interest expense from PRS pursuant to §§ 1.163(j)-4(b)(3)(i) and 1.163(j)-10(b)(6).
