
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.163(j)-6 Application of the section 163(j) limitation to partnerships and subchapter S corporations.
####### Example 21: Facts.

(21)A, B, C, and D own all of the interests in partnership PRS. In Year 1, PRS has $200 of ATI, $0 of business interest income, and $150 of business interest expense. PRS's ATI consists of $500 of gross income and $300 of gross deductions. PRS allocates its items comprising ATI $50 to A, $50 to B, $400 to C, and ($300) to D. PRS allocates its business interest expense $0 to A, $50 to B, $50 to C, and $50 to D.

(i) First, PRS determines its limitation pursuant to ยง 1.163(j)-2. PRS's section 163(j) limit is 30 percent of its ATI plus its business interest income, or $60 ($200 x 30 percent). Thus, PRS has $60 of deductible business interest expense, and $90 of excess business interest expense.

(ii) Second, PRS determines each partner's allocable share of section 163(j) items used in its own section 163(j) calculation.

(iii) Third, PRS compares each partner's allocable business interest income to such partner's allocable business interest expense. No partner has allocable business interest income. Consequently, each partner's allocable business interest income deficit is equal to such partner's allocable business interest expense. Thus, A's allocable business interest income deficit is $0, B's allocable business interest income deficit is $50, C's allocable business interest income deficit is $50, and D's allocable business interest income deficit is $50. The total allocable business interest income deficit is $150 ($0 + $50 + $50 + $50). No partner has allocable business interest income excess because no partner has allocable business interest income in excess of its allocable business interest expense. Thus, the total allocable business interest income excess is $0.

(iv) Fourth, PRS determines each partner's final allocable business interest income excess. Because no partner has any allocable business interest income excess, each partner has final allocable business interest income excess of $0.

(v) Fifth, PRS determines each partner's remaining business interest expense. Because no partner has any allocable business interest income excess, each partner's remaining business interest expense equals its allocable business interest income deficit. Thus, A's remaining business interest expense is $0, B's remaining business interest expense is $50, C's remaining business interest expense is $50, and D's remaining business interest expense is $50.

(vi) Sixth, PRS determines each partner's final allocable ATI. Because D's allocable ATI is comprised of $300 of items of deduction and loss and $0 of income and gain, D has negative allocable ATI of $300. D is the only partner with negative allocable ATI. Thus, the total negative allocable ATI amount is $300. Any partner with a negative allocable ATI, or an allocable ATI of $0, has a positive allocable ATI of $0. Therefore, D has a positive allocable ATI of $0. PRS determines A's final allocable ATI by reducing, but not below $0, A's positive allocable ATI ($50) by the product of total negative allocable ATI ($300) and the ratio of A's positive allocable ATI to the total positive allocable ATI ($50/$500). Therefore, A's positive allocable ATI is reduced by $30 ($300 x 10 percent). As a result, A's final allocable ATI is $20. PRS determines B's final allocable ATI by reducing, but not below $0, B's positive allocable ATI ($50) by the product of total negative allocable ATI ($300) and the ratio of B's positive allocable ATI to the total positive allocable ATI ($50/$500). Therefore, B's positive allocable ATI is reduced by $30 ($300 x 10 percent). As a result, B's final allocable ATI is $20. PRS determines C's final allocable ATI by reducing, but not below $0, C's positive allocable ATI ($400) by the product of total negative allocable ATI ($300) and the ratio of C's positive allocable ATI to the total positive allocable ATI ($400/$500). Therefore, C's positive allocable ATI is reduced by $240 ($300 x 80 percent). As a result, C's final allocable ATI is $160. Because D has a positive allocable ATI of $0, D's final allocable ATI is $0.

(vii) Seventh, PRS compares each partner's ATI capacity (ATIC) amount to such partner's remaining business interest expense. A's ATIC amount is $6 ($20 x 30 percent), B's ATIC amount is $6 ($20 x 30 percent), C's ATIC amount is $48 ($160 x 30 percent), and D's ATIC amount is $0 ($0 x 30 percent). Because A's ATIC amount exceeds its remaining business interest expense by $6 ($6-$0), A has an ATIC excess of $6. B, C, and D do not have any ATIC excess. Thus, the total ATIC excess amount is $6 ($6 + $0 + $0 + $0). A does not have any ATIC deficit. Because B's remaining business interest expense exceeds its ATIC amount by $44 ($50-$6), B has an ATIC deficit of $44. Because C's remaining business interest expense exceeds its ATIC amount by $2 ($50-$48), C has an ATIC deficit of $2. Because D's remaining business interest expense exceeds its ATIC amount by $50 ($50-$0), D has an ATIC deficit of $50. Thus, the total ATIC deficit is $96 ($0 + $44 + $2 + $50).

(viii)(A) Eighth, PRS must perform the calculations and make the necessary adjustments described under paragraph (f)(2)(viii) of this section if, and only if, PRS has-
