
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.163(j)-6 Application of the section 163(j) limitation to partnerships and subchapter S corporations.
####### 1

(D)() Because B and C are the only partners with priority amounts greater than $0, B and C are priority partners, while A and D are non-priority partners. For purposes of paragraph (f)(2)(ix) of this section, each partner's final ATIC excess amount is $0. For purposes of paragraph (f)(2)(x) of this section, each non-priority partner's final ATIC deficit amount is such partner's ATIC deficit determined pursuant to paragraph (f)(2)(vii) of this section. Therefore, A has a final ATIC deficit of $0 and D has a final ATIC deficit of $50. Additionally, for purposes of paragraph (f)(2)(x) of this section, PRS must determine each priority partner's step eight excess share. A priority partner's step eight excess share is the product of the total ATIC excess and the ratio of the partner's priority amount to the total priority amount. Thus, B's step eight excess share is $0.67 ($6 x ($9/$81)) and C's step eight excess share is $5.33 ($6 x ($72/$81)). To the extent a priority partner's step eight excess share exceeds its ATIC deficit, the excess will be the partner's ATIC excess for purposes of paragraph (f)(2)(x) of this section. B's step eight excess share does not exceed its ATIC deficit. Because C's step eight excess share ($5.33) exceeds its ATIC deficit ($2), C's ATIC excess for purposes of paragraph (f)(2)(x) of this section is $3.33 ($5.33-$2). Thus, the total ATIC excess for purposes of paragraph (f)(2)(x) of this section is $3.33 ($0 + $3.33). To the extent a priority partner's ATIC deficit exceeds its step eight excess share, the excess will be the partner's ATIC deficit for purposes of paragraph (f)(2)(x) of this section. Because B's ATIC deficit ($44) exceeds its step eight excess share ($0.67), B's ATIC deficit for purposes of paragraph (f)(2)(x) of this section is $43.33 ($44-$0.67). C's ATIC deficit does not exceed its step eight excess share. Thus, the total ATIC deficit for purposes of paragraph (f)(2)(x) of this section is $43.33 ($43.33 + $0).
