
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### § 1.163(j)-6 Application of the section 163(j) limitation to partnerships and subchapter S corporations.
####### Analysis.

(ii)X treats 50 percent of its $10 of excess business interest expense allocated from PRS in 2019 as § 1.163(j)-6(g)(4) business interest expense. Thus, $5 of § 1.163(j)-6(g)(4) business interest expense is treated as paid or accrued by X in 2020 and is not subject to the section 163(j) limitation at X's level. Because X was allocated $16 of excess taxable income from PRS in 2020, X treats $16 of its $25 of excess business interest expense as business interest expense paid or accrued pursuant to § 1.163(j)-6(g)(2). X, in computing its limit under section 163(j) in 2020, has $16 of ATI (as a result of its allocation of $16 of excess taxable income from PRS), $0 of business interest income, and $16 of business interest expense ($16 of excess business interest expense treated as paid or accrued in 2020). Pursuant to § 1.163(j)-2(b)(2)(i), X's section 163(j) limit in 2020 is $8 ($16 x 50 percent). Thus, X has $8 of business interest expense that is deductible under section 163(j). The $8 of X's business interest expense not allowed as a deduction ($16 business interest expense subject to section 163(j), less $8 section 163(j) limit) is treated as business interest expense paid or accrued by X in 2021. At the end of 2020, X has $9 of excess business interest expense from PRS ($20 from 2018, plus $10 from 2019, less $5 treated as paid or accrued pursuant to § 1.163(j)-6(g)(4), less $16 treated as paid or accrued pursuant to § 1.163(j)-6(g)(2)).
