
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### credits allowable under sections 30 through 45D
###### ยง 1.42-1T Limitation on low-income housing credit allowed with respect to qualified low-income buildings receiving housing credit allocations from a State or local housing credit agency (temporary).
####### Limitation on low-income housing credit allowed.

(2)Generally, the low-income housing credit determined under section 42 is allowed and may be claimed for any taxable year if, and to the extent that, the owner of a qualified low-income building receives a housing credit allocation from a State or local housing credit agency. The aggregate amount of housing credit allocations that may be made in any calendar year by all housing credit agencies within a State is limited by a State housing credit ceiling, or volume cap, described in paragraph (b) of this section. The authority to make housing credit allocations within the State housing credit ceiling may be apportioned among the State and local housing credit agencies, under the rules prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section. Upon apportionment of the State housing credit volume cap, each State or local housing credit agency receives an aggregate housing credit dollar amount that may be used to make housing credit allocations among qualified low-income buildings located within an agency's geographic jurisdiction. The rules governing the making of housing credit allocations by any state or local housing credit agency are provided in paragraph (d) of this section. Housing credit allocations are required to be taken into account by owners of qualified low-income buildings under the rules prescribed in paragraph (e) of this section. Exceptions to the requirement that a qualified low-income building receive a housing credit allocation from a State or local housing credit agency are provided in paragraph (f) of this section. Rules regarding termination of the authority of State and local housing credit agencies to make housing credit allocations after December 31, 1989, are specified in paragraph (g) of this section. Rules concerning information reporting by State and local housing credit agencies and owners of qualified low-income buildings are provided in paragraph (h) of this section. Special statutory transitional rules are incorporated into this section of the regulations as described in paragraph (i) of this section.
