
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### credits allowable under sections 30 through 45D
###### ยง 1.42-1T Limitation on low-income housing credit allowed with respect to qualified low-income buildings receiving housing credit allocations from a State or local housing credit agency (temporary).
####### Set-aside apportionments for projects involving a qualified nonprofit organization,In general.

(5)-(i)Ten percent of the State housing credit ceiling for a calendar year must be set aside exclusively for projects involving a qualified nonprofit organization (as defined in paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section). Thus, at least 10 percent of apportionments of the State housing credit ceiling under paragraphs (c) (2) and (3) of this section must be used only to make housing credit allocations to buildings that are part of projects involving a qualified nonprofit organization. In the case of apportionments of the State housing credit ceiling under paragraph (c)(4) of this section, the State enabling act must ensure that the apportionment of at least 10 percent of the State housing credit ceiling be used exclusively to make housing credit allocations to buildings that are part of projects involving a qualified nonprofit organization. The State enabling act shall prescribe which housing credit agencies in the State receive apportionments that must be set aside for making housing credit allocations to buildings that are part of projects involving a qualified nonprofit organization. These set-aside apportionments may be distributed disproportionately among the State or local housing credit agencies receiving apportionments under paragraph (c)(4) of this section. The 10-percent set-aside requirement of this paragraph (c)(4) is a minimum requirement, and the State enabling act may set aside more than 10 percent of the State housing credit ceiling for apportionment to housing credit agencies for exclusive use in making housing credit allocations to buildings that are part of projects involving a qualified nonprofit organization.
