
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.163(j)-10 Allocation of interest expense, interest income, and other items of expense and gross income to an excepted trade or business.
####### Application of allocation rules to members of a consolidated group,In general.

(4)-(i)As provided in ยง 1.163(j)-4(d), the computations required by section 163(j) and the regulations in this part under section 163(j) of the Code generally are made for a consolidated group on a consolidated basis. In this regard, for purposes of applying the allocation rules of this section, all members of a consolidated group are treated as one corporation. Therefore, the rules of this section apply to the activities conducted by the group as if those activities were conducted by a single corporation. For example, the group (rather than a particular member) is treated as engaged in excepted or non-excepted trades or businesses. In the case of intercompany obligations, within the meaning of ยง 1.1502-13(g)(2)(ii), for purposes of allocating asset basis between excepted and non-excepted trades or businesses, the obligation of the member borrower is not considered an asset of the creditor member. Similarly, intercompany transactions, within the meaning of ยง 1.1502-13(b)(1)(i), are disregarded for purposes of this section, as are the resulting offsetting items, and property is allocated to a trade or business based on the activities of the group as if the members of the group were divisions of a single corporation. Further, stock of a group member that is owned by another member of the same group is not treated as an asset for purposes of this section, and the transfer of any amount of member stock to a non-member is treated by the group as a transfer of the member's assets proportionate to the amount of member stock transferred. Additionally, stock of a corporation that is not a group member is treated as owned by the group.
