
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### credits allowable under sections 30 through 45D
###### ยง 1.42-1T Limitation on low-income housing credit allowed with respect to qualified low-income buildings receiving housing credit allocations from a State or local housing credit agency (temporary).
####### Housing credit allocation taken into account by owner of a qualified low-income building,Time and manner for taking housing credit allocation into account.

(e)-(1)An owner of a qualified low-income building may not claim a low-income housing credit determined under section 42 in any year in excess of an effective housing credit allocation received from a State or local housing credit agency. A housing credit allocation made to a qualified low-income building is effective with respect to any owner of the building beginning with the owner's taxable year in which the housing credit allocation is received. A housing credit allocation is deemed received in a taxable year, except as modified in the succeeding sentence, if that allocation is made (in the manner described in paragraph (d)(8) of this section) not later than the earlier of (i) the 60th day after the close of the taxable year, or (ii) the close of the calendar year in which such taxable year ends. A housing credit allocation is deemed received in a taxable year ending in 1987, if such allocation is made (in the manner described in paragraph (d)(8) of this section) on or before December 31, 1987. A housing credit allocation is not effective for any taxable year if received in a calendar year which ends prior to when the qualified low-income building is placed in service. A housing credit allocation made to a qualified low-income building remains effective for all taxable years in the compliance period.
