
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.163(j)-10 Allocation of interest expense, interest income, and other items of expense and gross income to an excepted trade or business.
####### Example 3: Application of look-through rules,Facts.

(3)-(i)(A) Each of Corp A, Corp B, Corp C, and Corp D is a domestic calendar-year corporation that is not a member of a consolidated group. Corp A owns 100 percent of the stock of Corp C; the basis of Corp A's stock in Corp C is $500x. Corp C owns 10 percent of the interests in PS1 (a domestic partnership), and Corp B owns the remaining 90 percent. Corp C's basis in its PS1 interests is $25x; Corp B's basis in its PS1 interests is $225x. PS1 owns 100 percent of the stock of Corp D; the basis of PS1's stock in Corp D is $1,000x. Corp A and Corp B are owned by unrelated, non-overlapping shareholders.

(B) In 2021, Corp C was engaged solely in a non-excepted trade or business. That same year, PS1's only activity was holding Corp D stock. In turn, Corp D was engaged in both an electing farming business and a non-excepted trade or business. Under the allocation rules in paragraph (c) of this section, 50 percent of Corp D's asset basis in 2021 was allocable to the electing farming business, and the remaining 50 percent was allocable to the non-excepted trade or business.

(C) Corp A and Corp B each paid or accrued (without regard to section 163(j)) $150x of interest expense allocable to a trade or business. Corp A's trade or business was an excepted trade or business, and Corp B's trade or business was a non-excepted trade or business. Corp A's basis in the assets used in its trade or business was $100x, and Corp B's basis in the assets used in its trade or business was $112.5x.
