
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.163(j)-10 Allocation of interest expense, interest income, and other items of expense and gross income to an excepted trade or business.
####### 2

(B) From Corp A's perspective, PS1 is not engaged in a trade or business for purposes of section 163(j); instead, PS1 is merely holding its Corp D stock as an investment. Under paragraph (c)(5)(ii)(A)() of this section, if a partnership is not engaged in a trade or business, then its C corporation partner must treat its entire basis in the partnership interest as allocable to a non-excepted trade or business. Thus, for purposes of Corp A's application of the look-through rules, Corp C's entire basis in its PS1 interest ($25x) is allocable to a non-excepted trade or business. Corp C's basis in its other assets also is allocable to a non-excepted trade or business (the only trade or business in which Corp C is engaged). Thus, under paragraph (c) of this section, Corp A's $500x basis in its Corp C stock is allocable entirely to a non-excepted trade or business. Corp A's $100x basis in its other business assets is allocable to an excepted trade or business. Thus,(or $125x) of Corp A's $150x of interest expense is properly allocable to a non-excepted trade or business and is business interest expense subject to the section 163(j) limitation, and the remaining $25x of Corp A's $150x of interest expense is allocable to an excepted trade or business and is not subject to the section 163(j) limitation.

(C) From Corp B's perspective, PS1 must look through its stock in Corp D to determine the extent to which PS1's basis in the stock is allocable to an excepted or non-excepted trade or business. Half of Corp D's basis in its assets is allocable to an excepted trade or business, and the other half is allocable to a non-excepted trade or business. Thus, from Corp B's perspective, $500x of PS1's basis in its Corp D stock (PS1's only asset) is allocable to an excepted trade or business, and the other half is allocable to a non-excepted trade or business. Corp B's basis in its PS1 interests is $225x. Applying the look-through rules to Corp B's PS1 interests, $112.5x of Corp B's basis in its PS1 interests is allocable to an excepted trade or business, and $112.5x of Corp B's basis in its PS1 interests is allocable to a non-excepted trade or business. Since Corp B's basis in the assets used in its non-excepted trade or business also was $112.5x, two-thirds of Corp B's interest expense ($100x) is properly allocable to a non-excepted trade or business and is business interest expense subject to the section 163(j) limitation, and one-third of Corp B's interest expense ($50x) is allocable to an excepted trade or business and is not subject to the section 163(j) limitation.
