
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.163(j)-10 Allocation of interest expense, interest income, and other items of expense and gross income to an excepted trade or business.
####### Dividend.

(iii)The facts are the same as in paragraph (e)(6)(i) of this section, except that U distributes a $160x dividend pro rata to its shareholders. Thus, P receives $8x (5 percent of $160x) of the U dividend, S receives $24x (15 percent of $160x), and T receives $128x (80 percent of $160x). Under paragraph (c)(7)(i)(B) of this section, if a shareholder's direct interest in a corporation satisfies the ownership requirements of section 1504(a)(2), the shareholder must look through to the activities of a domestic non-consolidated C corporation in determining whether dividend income is from an excepted or non-excepted trade or business. The constructive ownership rules do not apply in allocating dividends under paragraph (c)(7)(i)(B) of this section. P directly owns 5 percent of the stock of U as measured by vote and value, and S directly owns 15 percent of the stock of U as measured by vote and value; thus, neither P nor S is required to apply the look-through rules in allocating its dividend income from U, and all such income is allocable to non-excepted trades or businesses. T directly owns 80 percent of the stock of U as measured by vote and value; thus, T must allocate its U dividend in accordance with the activities of U's excepted and non-excepted trades or businesses.
