
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### credits allowable under sections 30 through 45D
###### ยง 1.42-1T Limitation on low-income housing credit allowed with respect to qualified low-income buildings receiving housing credit allocations from a State or local housing credit agency (temporary).
####### Transitional rules.

(i)The transitional rules contained in section 252(f)(1) of the Tax Reform Act of 1986 are incorporated into this section of the regulations for purposes of determining whether a qualified low-income building is entitled to receive a housing credit allocation or is excepted from the requirement that a housing credit allocation be received. Housing credit allocations made to qualified low-income buildings described in section 252(f)(1) shall not count against the State or local housing credit agency's aggregate housing credit dollar amount. The transitional rules contained in section 252(f)(2) of the Tax Reform Act of 1986 are incorporated into this section of the regulations for purposes of determining amounts available to certain State or local housing credit agencies for the making of housing credit allocations to certain qualified low-income housing projects. Amounts available to housing credit agencies under section 252(f)(2) shall be treated as special apportionments unavailable for housing credit allocations to qualified low-income buildings not described in section 252(f)(2). Housing credit allocations made from the special apportionments shall not count against the State or local credit agency's aggregate housing credit dollar amount. The set-aside requirements shall not apply to these special apportionments. The transitional rules contained in section 252(f)(3) of the Tax Reform Act 1986 are incorporated in this section of the regulations for purposes of determining the amount of housing credit allocations received by certain qualified low-income buildings. Housing credit allocations deemed received under section 252(f)(3) shall not count against the State or local housing credit agency's aggregate housing credit dollar amount.
