
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.165-12 Denial of deduction for losses on registration-required obligations not in registered form.
####### Persons permitted to hold through financial institutions.

(3)The holder is any person that purchases and holds a registration-required obligation in bearer form through a financial institution with which the holder maintains a customer, custodial or nominee relationship and such institution agrees to satisfy, and does in fact satisfy, the conditions set forth in subdivisions (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v) of this paragraph (c)(3).

(i) The financial institution makes a return of information to the Internal Revenue Service with respect to any interest payments received. The financial institution must report original issue discount includable in the holder's gross income for the taxable year on any obligation so held, but only if the obligation appears in an Internal Revenue Service publication of obligations issued at an original issue discount and only in an amount determined in accordance with information contained in that publication. An information return for any interest payment shall be made on a Form 1099 for the calendar year. It shall indicate the aggregate amount of the payment received, the name, address and taxpayer identification number of the holder, and such other information as is required by the form. No return of information is required under this subdivision if the financial institution reports payments under section 6041 or 6049.

(ii) The financial institution makes a return of information on Form 1099B with respect to any disposition by the holder of such obligation. The return shall show the name, address, and taxpayer identification number of the holder of the obligation, Committee on Uniform Security Information Procedures (CUSIP), gross proceeds, sale date, and such other information as may be required by the form. No return of information is required under this subdivision if such financial institution reports with respect to the disposition under section 6045.

(iii) In the case of a bearer obligation offered for resale or resold in the United States, the financial institution may resell the obligation only to another financial institution for its own account or for the account of an exempt organization.

(iv) The financial institution covenants with the holder that the financial institution will deliver the obligation in bearer form in accordance with the requirements set forth in paragraph (c)(1) (ii) and (iii).

(v) The financial institution delivers the obligation in bearer form in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) (ii) and (iv) as if the financial institution delivering the obligation were the holder referred to in such paragraph.
