
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.167(a)-11 Depreciation based on class lives and asset depreciation ranges for property placed in service after December 31, 1970.
####### Requirement of vintage accounts,In general.

(3)-(i)For purposes of this section, a "vintage account" is a closed-end depreciation account containing eligible property to which the taxpayer elects to apply this section, first placed in service by the taxpayer during the taxable year of election. The "vintage" of an account refers to the taxable year during which the eligible property in the account is first placed in service by the taxpayer. Such an account will consist of an asset, or a group of assets, within a single asset guideline class established pursuant to subparagraph (4) of this paragraph and may contain only eligible property. Each item of eligible property to which the taxpayer elects to apply this section, first placed in service by the taxpayer during the taxable year of election (determined without regard to a convention described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section) shall be placed in a vintage account of the taxable year of election. For rule regarding "special basis vintage accounts" for certain property improvements, see paragraph (d)(2)(viii) and (3)(vi) of this section. Any number of vintage accounts of a taxable year may be established. More than one account of the same vintage may be established for different assets of the same asset guideline class. See paragraph (d)(3)(xi) of this section for special rule for treatment of certain multiple asset and item accounts.
