
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.167(a)-11 Depreciation based on class lives and asset depreciation ranges for property placed in service after December 31, 1970.
####### Estimation of salvage value.

(iii)The salvage value of each vintage account of the taxable year shall be estimated by the taxpayer at the time the election to apply this section is made, upon the basis of all the facts and circumstances existing at the close of the taxable year in which the account is established. The taxpayer shall specify the amount, if any, by which gross salvage value taken into account is reduced by application of section 167(f). See paragraph (f)(2) of this section for requirement that the election specify the estimated salvage value for each vintage account of the taxable year of election. The salvage value estimated by the taxpayer will not be redetermined merely as a result of fluctuations in price levels or as a result of other facts and circumstances occurring after the close of the taxable year of election. Salvage value for a vintage account need not be established or increased as a result of a property improvement as described in subparagraph (2) (vii) of this paragraph. The taxpayer shall maintain records reasonably sufficient to determine facts and circumstances taken into account in estimating salvage value.
