
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.167(a)-11 Depreciation based on class lives and asset depreciation ranges for property placed in service after December 31, 1970.
####### Accounting for eligible property,Definition of first placed in service,In general.

(e)-(1)-(i)The term "first placed in service" refers to the time the property is first placed in service by the taxpayer, not to the first time the property is placed in service. Property is first placed in service when first placed in a condition or state of readiness and availability for a specifically assigned function, whether in a trade or business, in the production of income, in a tax-exempt activity, or in a personal activity. In general, the provisions of paragraph (d)(1)(ii) and (d)(2) of ยง 1.46-3 shall apply for the purpose of determining the date on which property is placed in service, but see subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph for special rule for certain replacement parts. In the case of a building which is intended to house machinery and equipment and which is constructed, reconstructed, or erected by or for the taxpayer and for the taxpayer's use, the building will ordinarily be placed in service on the date such construction, reconstruction, or erection is substantially complete and the building is in a condition or state of readiness and availability. Thus, for example, in the case of a factory building, such readiness and availability shall be determined without regard to whether the machinery or equipment which the building houses, or is intended to house, has been placed in service. However, in an appropriate case, as for example where the building is essentially an item of machinery or equipment, or the use of the building is so closely related to the use of the machinery or equipment that it clearly can be expected to be replaced or retired when the property it initially houses is replaced or retired, the determination of readiness or availability of the building shall be made by taking into account the readiness and availability of such machinery or equipment. The date on which depreciation begins under a convention used by the taxpayer or under a particular method of depreciation, such as the unit of production method or the retirement method, shall not determine the date on which the property is first placed in service. See paragraph (c)(2) of this section for application of a first-year convention to determine the allowance for depreciation of property in a vintage account.
