
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.167(a)-11 Depreciation based on class lives and asset depreciation ranges for property placed in service after December 31, 1970.
####### Leased property.,b

(iii)The asset depreciation range and the asset depreciation period for eligible property subject to a lease shall be determined without regard to the period for which such property is leased, including any extensions or renewals of such period. See paragraph (b)(5)(v) of this section for exclusion of property amortized under paragraph (b) of ยง 1.162-11 from an election to apply this section. In the case of a lessor of property, unless there is an asset guideline class in effect for lessors of such property, the asset guideline class for such property shall be determined as if the property were owned by the lessee. However, in the case of an asset guideline class based upon the type of property (such as trucks or railroad cars) as distinguished from the activity in which used, the property shall be classified without regard to the activity of the lessee. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if a lease with respect to property, which would be includible in an asset guideline class based upon the type of property under the preceding sentence (such as trucks or railroad cars), is entered into after March 12, 1971, and before April 23, 1973, or a written contract to execute such a lease is entered into during such period and such contract is binding on April 23, 1973, and at all times thereafter, and if the rent or rate of return is based on a classification of such property as if it were owned by the lessee, then such property shall be classified as if it were owned by the lessee. However, the preceding sentence shall not apply if pursuant to the terms or conditions of the lease or binding contract the rent or rate of return may be adjusted to take account of a change in the period for depreciation with respect to the property resulting from inclusion of the property in an asset guideline class based upon the type of property rather than in an asset guideline class based upon the activity of the lessee. Similarly, where the terms of such a lease or contract provide that the obligation of the taxpayer to enter into the lease is subject to a condition that the property be included in an asset guideline class based upon the activity of the lessee, the contract or lease will not be considered as binding upon the taxpayer, for purposes of this subdivision. See paragraph (b)(4)(iii)() of this section for general rule for classification of property according to primary use.
