
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.167(a)-12 Depreciation based on class lives for property first placed in service before January 1, 1971.
####### In general,Summary.

(a)-(1)This section provides an elective class life system for determining the reasonable allowance for depreciation of certain classes of assets for taxable years ending after December 31, 1970. The system applies only to assets placed in service before January 1, 1971. Depreciation for such assets during periods prior to January 1, 1971, may have been determined in accordance with Revenue Procedure 62-21. Accordingly, rules are provided which permit taxpayers to apply the system in taxable years ending after December 31, 1970, to such assets without the necessity of changing or regrouping their depreciation accounts other than as previously required by Revenue Procedure 62-21. The system is designed to minimize disputes between taxpayers and the Internal Revenue Service as to the useful life of assets, salvage value, and repairs. See ยง 1.167(a)-11 for a similar system for property placed in service after December 31, 1970. See paragraph (d)(2) of ยง 1.167(a)-11 for treatment of expenditures for the repair, maintenance, rehabilitation or improvement of certain property. The system provided by this section is optional with the taxpayer. An election under this section applies only to qualified property in an asset guideline class for which an election is made and only for the taxable year of election. The taxpayer's election is made with the income tax return for the taxable year. This section also revokes the reserve ratio test for taxable years ending after December 31, 1970, and provides transitional rules for taxpayers who after January 11, 1971, adopt Revenue Procedure 62-21 for a taxable year ending prior to January 1, 1971.
