
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.167(a)-12 Depreciation based on class lives for property first placed in service before January 1, 1971.
####### Determination of reasonable allowance for depreciation,In general.

(5)-(i)The allowance for depreciation of qualified property to which the taxpayer elects to apply this section shall be determined in accordance with this section. The annual allowance for depreciation is determined by using the method of depreciation adopted by the taxpayer and a rate based upon a life permitted by this section. In the case of the straight-line method of depreciation, the rate of depreciation shall be based upon the class life (or individual life if the taxpayer assigns individual depreciable lives in accordance with subdivision (iii) of this subparagraph) used by the taxpayer with respect to the assets in the asset guideline class. Such rate will be applied to the unadjusted basis of the asset guideline class (individual assets or depreciation accounts if the taxpayer assigns individual depreciable lives). In the case of the sum of the years-digits method of depreciation, the rate of depreciation will be determined based upon the remaining life of the class (or individual remaining lives if the taxpayer assigns such lives in accordance with subdivision (iii) of this subparagraph) and is applied to the adjusted basis of the class (or individual accounts or assets) as of the beginning of the taxable year of election. The remaining life of a depreciation account is determined by dividing the unrecovered cost or other basis of the account, as computed by straight-line depreciation, by the gross cost or unadjusted basis of the account, and multiplying the result by the class life used with respect to the account. In the case of the declining balance method of depreciation, the rate of depreciation for the asset guideline class shall be based upon the class life (or individual life if the taxpayer assigns such lives in accordance with subdivision (iii) of this subparagraph). Such rate is applied to the adjusted basis of the class (or individual accounts or assets) as of the beginning of the taxable year of election.
