
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.167(a)-12 Depreciation based on class lives for property first placed in service before January 1, 1971.
####### Class lives in special situations.

(2)Notwithstanding subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, for the purposes of this section the class life for the asset guideline class determined under this subparagraph shall be used if such class life is shorter than the class life determined under subparagraph (1) of this paragraph. If property described in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section in an asset guideline class is acquired by the taxpayer in a transaction to which section 381(a) applies, for purposes of this subparagraph such property shall be segregated from other property in the class and treated as in a separate asset guideline class, and the class life for that asset guideline class under this subparagraph shall be the shortest class life the transferor was entitled to use under this section for such property on the date of such transfer. In all other cases, the class life for the asset guideline class for purposes of this subparagraph shall be the shortest class life (within the meaning of sec. 4, part II, of Revenue Procedure 62-21) which can be justified by application of secs. 3.02(a), 3.03(a), or 3.05, part II, of Revenue Procedure 62-21 (other than the portion of such sec. 3.05 dealing with justification of a class life by reference to facts and circumstances) for the taxpayer's last taxable year ending prior to January 1, 1971.
