
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.167(a)-12 Depreciation based on class lives for property first placed in service before January 1, 1971.
####### Limitation on adjustment of reasonable salvage value.

(3)The salvage value established by the taxpayer for a depreciation account will not be redetermined if it is reasonable. Since the determination of salvage value is a matter of estimation, minimal adjustments will not be made. The salvage value established by the taxpayer will be deemed to be reasonable unless there is sufficient basis for a determination of an amount of salvage value for the account which exceeds the salvage value established by the taxpayer for the account by an amount greater than 10 percent of the unadjusted basis of the account at the close of such taxable year. If the salvage value established by the taxpayer for the account is not within the 10-percent range or if the taxpayer follows the practice of understating his estimates of salvage to take advantage of this subdivision, and if there is a determination of an amount of salvage value for the account for the taxable year which exceeds the salvage value established by the taxpayer for the account for such taxable year, an adjustment will be made by increasing the salvage value established by the taxpayer for the account by an amount equal to the difference between the salvage value as determined and the salvage value established by the taxpayer for the account. For the purposes of this subdivision, a determination of salvage value shall include all determinations at all levels of audit and appellate proceedings, and as well as all final determinations within the meaning of section 1313(a)(1). This subparagraph shall apply to each such determination.
