
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.167(b)-3 Sum of the years-digits method.
####### Remaining life plan.,i.e.

(2)The remaining life plan as applied to a single asset is described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. This plan may also be applied to group, classified, or composite accounts. Under this plan the allowance for depreciation is computed by applying changing fractions to the unrecovered cost or other basis of the account reduced by estimated salvage. The numerator of the fraction changes each year to a number which corresponds to the remaining useful life of the account (including the year for which the allowance is being computed), and the denominator changes each year to a number which represents the sum of the years digits corresponding to the years of estimated remaining useful life of the account. Decimal equivalents of such fractions can be obtained by use of Table I under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section. The proper application of this method requires that the estimated remaining useful life of the account be determined each year. This determination, of course, may be made each year by analysis,, by determining the remaining lives for each of the components in the account, and averaging them. The estimated remaining life of any account, however, may also be determined arithmetically. For example, it may be computed by dividing the unrecovered cost or other basis of the account, as computed by straight line depreciation, by the gross cost or other basis of the account, and multiplying the result by the average life of the assets in the account. Salvage value is not a factor for the purpose of determining remaining life. Thus, if a group account with an average life of ten years had at January 1, 1958, a gross asset balance of $12,600 and a depreciation reserve computed on the straight line method of $9,450, the remaining life of the account at January 1, 1958, would be computed as follows:
