
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.167(e)-1 Change in method.
####### Declining balance to straight line.

(b)In the case of an account to which the method described in section 167(b)(2) is applicable, a taxpayer may change without the consent of the Commissioner from the declining balance method of depreciation to the straight line method at any time during the useful life of the property under the following conditions. Such a change may not be made if a provision prohibiting such a change is contained in an agreement under section 167(d). When the change is made, the unrecovered cost or other basis (less a reasonable estimate for salvage) shall be recovered through annual allowances over the estimated remaining useful life determined in accordance with the circumstances existing at the time. With respect to any account, this change will be permitted only if applied to all the assets in the account as defined in ยง 1.167(a)-7. If the method of depreciation described in section 167(b)(2) (the declining balance method of depreciation using a rate not exceeding 200 percent of the straight line rate) is an acceptable method of depreciation with respect to a particular account, the taxpayer may elect under this paragraph to change to the straight line method of depreciation even if with respect to that particular account the declining balance method is permitted under a provision other than section 167(b)(2). Thus, for example, in the case of section 1250 property to which section 167(j)(1) is applicable, section 167(b) does not apply, but the declining balance method of depreciation using 150 percent of the straight line rate is an acceptable method of depreciation under section 167(j)(1)(B). Accordingly, the taxpayer may elect under this paragraph to change to the straight line method of depreciation with respect to such property. Similarly, if the taxpayer acquired used property before July 25, 1969, and adopted the 150 percent declining balance method of depreciation permitted with respect to such property under ยง 1.167(b)-0(b), the taxpayer may elect under this paragraph to change to the straight line method of depreciation with respect to such property. The taxpayer shall furnish a statement with respect to the property which is the subject of the change showing the date of acquisition, cost or other basis, amounts recovered through depreciation and other allowances, the estimated salvage value, the character of the property, the remaining useful life of the property, and such other information as may be required. The statement shall be attached to the taxpayer's return for the taxable year in which the change is made. A change to the straight line method must be adhered to for the entire taxable year of the change and for all subsequent taxable years unless, with the consent of the Commissioner, a change to another method is permitted.
