
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.167(e)-1 Change in method.
####### Change with respect to section 1245 property.

(c)(1) In respect of his first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1962, a taxpayer may elect, without the consent of the Commissioner, to change the method of depreciation of section 1245 property (as defined in section 1245(a)(3)) from any declining balance method or sum of the years-digits method to the straight line method. With respect to any account (as defined in ยง 1.167(a)-7), this change may be made notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in an agreement under section 167(d), but such change shall constitute (as of the first day of such taxable year) a termination of such agreement as to all property in such account. With respect to any account, this change will be permitted only if applied to all the section 1245 property in the account. The election shall be made by a statement on, or attached to, the return for such taxable year filed on or before the last day prescribed by law, including any extensions thereof, for filing such return.

(2) When an election under this paragraph is made in respect of section 1245 property in an account, the unrecovered cost or other basis (less a reasonable estimate for salvage) of all the section 1245 property in the account shall be recovered through annual allowances over the estimated remaining useful life determined in accordance with the circumstances existing at that time. If there is other property in such account, the other property shall be placed in a separate account and depreciated by using the same method as was used before the change permitted by this paragraph, but the estimated useful life of such property shall be redetermined in accordance with ยง 1.167(b)-2, or 1.167(b)-3, whichever is applicable. The taxpayer shall maintain records which permit specific identification of the section 1245 property in the account with respect to which the election is made, and any other property in such account. The records shall also show for all the property in the account the date of acquisition, cost or other basis, amounts recovered through depreciation and other allowances, the estimated salvage value, the character of the property, and the remaining useful life of the property. A change to the straight line method under this paragraph must be adhered to for the entire taxable year of the change and for all subsequent taxable years unless, with the consent of the Commissioner, a change to another method is permitted.
