
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### credits allowable under sections 30 through 45D
###### ยง 1.42-5 Monitoring compliance with low-income housing credit requirements.
####### Effective/applicability dates,In general.

(h)-(1)Allocation plans must comply with these regulations by June 30, 1993. The requirement of section 42 (m)(1)(B)(iii) that allocation plans contain a procedure for monitoring for noncompliance becomes effective on January 1, 1992, and applies to buildings for which a low-income housing credit is, or has been, allowable at any time. Thus, allocation plans must comply with section 42(m)(1)(B)(iii) prior to June 30, 1993, the effective date of these regulations. An allocation plan that complies with these regulations, with the notice of proposed rulemaking published in theon December 27, 1991, or with a reasonable interpretation of section 42(m)(1)(B)(iii) will satisfy the requirements of section 42(m)(1)(B)(iii) for periods before June 30, 1993. Section 42(m)(1)(B)(iii) and these regulations do not require monitoring for whether a building or project is in compliance with the requirements of section 42 prior to January 1, 1992. However, if an Agency becomes aware of noncompliance that occurred prior to January 1, 1992, the Agency is required to notify the Service of that noncompliance. In addition, the requirements in paragraphs (b)(3) and (c)(1)(v), (vi), and (xi) of this section (involving recordkeeping and annual owner certifications) and paragraphs (c)(2)(ii)(B), (c)(2)(iii), and (d) of this section (involving tenant file reviews and physical inspections of existing projects, and the physical inspection standard) are applicable January 1, 2001. The requirement in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(A) of this section (involving tenant file reviews and physical inspections of new projects) is applicable for buildings placed in service on or after January 1, 2001. The requirements in paragraph (c)(5) of this section (involving Agency reporting of compliance monitoring activities to the Service) and paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section (involving Agency reporting of corrected noncompliance or failure to certify within 3 years after the end of the correction period) are applicable January 14, 2000.
