
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.167(l)-3 Multiple regulation, asset acquisitions, reorganizations, etc.
####### Leasing transactions,Leased property.

(b)-(1)Public utility property as defined in paragraph (b) of ยง 1.167(l)-1 includes property which is leased by a taxpayer where the leasing of such property is part of the lessor's section 167(l) public utility activity. Thus, such leased property qualifies as public utility property even though the predominant use of such property by the lessee is in other than a section 167(l) public utility activity. Further, leased property qualifies as public utility property under section 167(l) even though the leasing is not part of the lessor's public utility activity if the predominant use of such property by the lessee or any sublessee is in a section 167(l) public utility activity. However, the limitations of section 167(l) apply to a taxpayer only if such taxpayer is subject to the jurisdiction of a regulatory body described in a section 167(l)(3)(A). For example, if a financial institution purchases property which it then leases to a lessee which uses such property predominantly in a section 167(l) public utility activity, the property qualifies as public utility property. However, because the financial institution's rates for leasing the property are not subject to the jurisdiction of a regulatory body described in section 167(l)(3)(A), the provisions of section 167(l) do not apply to the depreciation deductions taken with respect to the property by the financial institution. For possible application of section 167(l) to the lessee, see subparagraph (2) of this paragraph.
