
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.168(i)-1 General asset accounts.
####### Special rules,In general.,asset

(3)-(i)This paragraph (e)(3) provides the rules for terminating general asset account treatment upon certain dispositions. While the rules under paragraphs (e)(3)(ii) and (iii) of this section are optional rules, the rules under paragraphs (e)(3)(iv), (v), (vi), and (vii) of this section are mandatory rules. A taxpayer elects to apply paragraph (e)(3)(ii) or (iii) of this section by reporting the gain, loss, or other deduction on the taxpayer's timely filed original Federal tax return, including extensions, for the taxable year in which the disposition occurs. However, if the loss is on account of the demolition of a structure to which section 280B and ยง 1.280B-1 apply, a taxpayer elects to apply paragraph (e)(3)(ii) or (iii) of this section by ending depreciation for the structure at the time of the disposition of the structure, taking into account the convention applicable to the general asset account in which the demolished structure was included, and reporting the amount of depreciation for that structure for the taxable year in which the disposition occurs on the taxpayer's timely filed original Federal tax return, including extensions, for that taxable year. A taxpayer may revoke the election to apply paragraph (e)(3)(ii) or (iii) of this section only by filing a request for a private letter ruling and obtaining the Commissioner's consent to revoke the election. The Commissioner may grant a request to revoke this election if the taxpayer acted reasonably and in good faith, and the revocation will not prejudice the interests of the Government. See generally ยง 301.9100-3 of this chapter. The election to apply paragraph (e)(3)(ii) or (iii) of this section may not be made or revoked through the filing of an application for change in accounting method. For purposes of applying paragraphs (e)(3)(iii) through (vii) of this section, see paragraph (j) of this section for identifying an asset disposed of and its unadjusted depreciable basis. Solely for purposes of applying paragraphs (e)(3)(iii), (e)(3)(iv)(C), (e)(3)(v)(B), and (e)(3)(vii) of this section, the termis:

(A) The asset as determined under paragraph (e)(2)(viii) of this section; or

(B) The portion of such asset that is disposed of in a disposition described in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section.
