
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.168(i)-8 Dispositions of MACRS property.
####### Special rules.

(ii)In addition to the general rules in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section, the following rules apply for purposes of applying this section:

(A) Each building, including its structural components, is the asset, except as provided in ยง 1.1250-1(a)(2)(ii) or in paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(B) or (D) of this section.

(B) If a building has two or more condominium or cooperative units, each condominium or cooperative unit, including its structural components, is the asset, except as provided in ยง 1.1250-1(a)(2)(ii) or in paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(D) of this section.

(C) If a taxpayer properly includes an item in one of the asset classes 00.11 through 00.4 of Rev. Proc. 87-56 (1987-2 CB 674) (see ยง 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter) or properly classifies an item in one of the categories under section 168(e)(3), except for a category that includes buildings or structural components (for example, retail motor fuels outlet, qualified leasehold improvement property, qualified restaurant property, and qualified retail improvement property), each item is the asset provided paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(D) of this section does not apply to the item. For example, each desk is the asset, each computer is the asset, and each qualified smart electric meter is the asset.

(D) If the taxpayer places in service an improvement or addition to an asset after the taxpayer placed the asset in service, the improvement or addition and, if applicable, its structural components are a separate asset.
