
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.168(k)-1 Additional first year depreciation deduction.
####### Otherwise allowable depreciation deduction.,In general.,b

(2)(i)Before determining the amount otherwise allowable as a depreciation deduction for the qualified property or the 50-percent bonus depreciation property for the placed-in-service year and any subsequent taxable year, the taxpayer must determine the remaining adjusted depreciable basis of the qualified property or the 50-percent bonus depreciation property. This remaining adjusted depreciable basis is equal to the unadjusted depreciable basis of the qualified property or the 50-percent bonus depreciation property reduced by the amount of the additional first year depreciation allowed or allowable, whichever is greater. The remaining adjusted depreciable basis of the qualified property or the 50-percent bonus depreciation property is then depreciated using the applicable depreciation provisions under the Internal Revenue Code for the qualified property or the 50-percent bonus depreciation property. The remaining adjusted depreciable basis of the qualified property or the 50-percent bonus depreciation property that is MACRS property is also the basis to which the annual depreciation rates in the optional depreciation tables apply (for further guidance, see section 8 of Rev. Proc. 87-57 (1987-2 C.B. 687) and ยง 601.601(d)(2)(ii)() of this chapter). The depreciation deduction allowable for the remaining adjusted depreciable basis of the qualified property or the 50-percent bonus depreciation property is affected by a taxable year of less than 12 months.
