
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### § 1.168(k)-2 Additional first year depreciation deduction for property acquired and placed in service after September 27, 2017.
####### 3,primarily used,b,3,3

(F) Primarily used in a trade or business described in section 163(j)(7)(A)(iv) and §§ 1.163(j)-1(b)(15)(i) and 1.163(j)-10(c)(3)(iii)(C)(), and placed in service by the taxpayer in any taxable year beginning after December 31, 2017. For purposes of section 168(k)(9)(A) and this paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(F), the termhas the same meaning as that term is used in § 1.167(a)-11(b)(4)(iii)() and (e)(3)(iii) for classifying property. This paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(F) does not apply to property that is leased to a lessee's trade or business described in section 163(j)(7)(A)(iv) and §§ 1.163(j)-1(b)(15)(i) and 1.163(j)-10(c)(3)(iii)(C)(), by a lessor's trade or business that is not described in section 163(j)(7)(A)(iv) and §§ 1.163(j)-1(b)(15)(i) and 1.163(j)-10(c)(3)(iii)(C)() for the taxable year; or

(G) Used in a trade or business that has had floor plan financing indebtedness, as defined in section 163(j)(9)(B) and § 1.163(j)-1(b)(18), if the floor plan financing interest expense, as defined in section 163(j)(9)(A) and § 1.163(j)-1(b)(19), related to such indebtedness is taken into account under section 163(j)(1)(C) for the taxable year. Such property also must be placed in service by the taxpayer in any taxable year beginning after December 31, 2017. Solely for purposes of section 168(k)(9)(B) and this paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(G), floor plan financing interest expense is taken into account for the taxable year by a trade or business that has had floor plan financing indebtedness only if the business interest expense, as defined in section 163(j)(5) and § 1.163(j)-1(b)(3), of the trade or business for the taxable year (which includes floor plan financing interest expense) exceeds the sum of the amounts calculated under section 163(j)(1)(A) and (B) for the trade or business for the taxable year. If the trade or business has taken floor plan financing interest expense into account pursuant to this paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(G) for a taxable year, this paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(G) applies to any property placed in service by that trade or business in that taxable year. This paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(G) does not apply to property that is leased to a lessee's trade or business that has had floor plan financing indebtedness, by a lessor's trade or business that has not had floor plan financing indebtedness during the taxable year or that has had floor plan financing indebtedness but did not take into account floor plan financing interest expense for the taxable year pursuant to this paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(G).
