
# Title 26 - Internal Revenue
## Chapter I - Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury
### Subchapter A - Income Tax
#### PART 1 - INCOME TAXES
##### Itemized Deductions for Individuals and Corporations
###### ยง 1.168(k)-2 Additional first year depreciation deduction for property acquired and placed in service after September 27, 2017.
####### Example 14. Q,,R,,S,QRS,,QRS,QRS',QRS,QRS,QRS,Q,T,T,T,Q. T',T',T'

(N)andform an equal partnership,in 2019. Each partner contributes $100, whichuses to purchase a retail motor fuels outlet for $300. Assume this retail motor fuels outlet isonly property and is qualified property under section 168(k)(2)(A)(i).makes an election not to deduct the additional first year depreciation for all qualified property placed in service during 2019.has a section 754 election in effect.claimed depreciation of $15 for the retail motor fuels outlet for 2019. During 2020, when the retail motor fuels outlet's fair market value is $600,sells all of its partnership interest toin a fully taxable transaction for $200.never previously had a depreciable interest in the retail motor fuels outlet.takes an outside basis of $200 in the partnership interest previously owned bys share of the partnership's previously taxed capital is $95. Accordingly,s section 743(b) adjustment is $105 and is allocated entirely to the retail motor fuels outlet under section 755. Assuming all other requirements are met,s section 743(b) adjustment qualifies for the additional first year depreciation deduction under this section.
