
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix Q to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Fluorescent Lamp Ballasts
###### Current Probe.

2.2.3.In addition to the specifications in section 9 of ANSI C78.375A, the current probe must be galvanically isolated and have frequency response between 40 Hz and 20 MHz.

2.3.1. Connect the ballast to a main power source and to the fluorescent lamp(s) as specified in this section. Ensure the ballast is connected to fluorescent lamp(s) according to any manufacturer's wiring instructions on or sold with each unit (including those provided online). To test a low-frequency ballast, follow ANSI C82.1 but disregard section 5.3 of ANSI C82.1. To test a high-frequency ballast, follow ANSI C82.11 but disregard sections 5.3.1 and 5.13 and Annex D of ANSI C82.11.

2.3.2. In the test setup, all wires used in the apparatus, including any wires from the ballast to the lamps and from the lamps to the measuring devices, must meet the following specifications:

2.3.2.1. Use the wires provided by the ballast manufacturer and only the minimum wire length necessary to reach both ends of each lamp. If the wire lengths supplied with the ballast are too short to reach both ends of each lamp, add the minimum additional wire length necessary to reach both ends of each lamp, using wire of the same wire gauge(s) as the wire supplied with the ballast. If no wiring is provided with the ballast, use 18 gauge or thicker wire.

2.3.2.2. Keep wires loose. Do not shorten or allow bundling of any wires. Separate all wires from each other, and ground them to prevent parasitic capacitance.

2.3.3. Test each ballast with only one fluorescent lamp type. Select the one type of fluorescent lamp for testing as follows:

2.3.3.1. Each fluorescent lamp must meet the specifications of a reference lamp as defined by ANSI C82.13, be seasoned at least 12 hours, and be stabilized as specified in 2.5.2.1 of this appendix. Test each reference lamp with a reference ballast that meets the criteria of ANSI C82.3. For low frequency ballasts that operate:

(a) 32 W 4-foot medium bipin T8 lamps, use the following reference lamp specifications: 30.8 W, arc wattage; 1.7 W, approximate cathode wattage (with 3.6 V on each cathode); 32.5 W, total wattage; 137 V, voltage; 0.265 A, current. Test the selected reference lamp with the following reference ballast specifications: 300 V, rated input voltage; 0.265 A, reference current; 910 ohms, impedance. Use the following cathode heat requirements for rapid start: 3.6 V nominal, voltage; 2.5 V min, 4.4 V max, limits during operation; 11.0 ohms +/- 0.1 ohms, dummy load resistor; 3.4 V min, 4.5 V max, voltage across dummy load.

(b) 59 W 8-foot single pin T8 lamps, use the following reference lamp specifications: 60.1 W, arc wattage; 270.3 V, voltage; 0.262 A, current. Test the selected reference lamp with the following reference ballast specifications: 625 V, rated input voltage; 0.260 A, reference current; 1960 ohms, impedance.

(c) 32 W 2-foot U-shaped medium bipin T8 lamps, use the following reference lamp specifications: 30.5 W, arc wattage; 1.7 W, approximate cathode wattage (with 3.6 V on each cathode); 32.2 W, total wattage; 137 V, voltage; 0.265 A, current. Test the selected reference lamp with the following reference ballast specifications: 300 V, rated input voltage; 0.265 A, reference current; 910 ohms, impedance. Use the following cathode heat requirements for rapid start: 3.6 V nominal, voltage; 2.5 V min, 4.4 V max, limits during operation; 11.0 ohms +/- 0.1 ohms, dummy load resistor; 3.4 V min, 4.5 V max, voltage across dummy load.

2.3.3.2 For any sign ballast designed and marketed to operate both T8 and T12 lamps, use a T12 lamp as specified in Table 1 of this appendix.

2.3.3.3. For any ballast designed and marketed to operate lamps of multiple base types, select lamp(s) of one base type, in the following order of decreasing preference: Medium bipin, miniature bipin, single pin, or recessed double contact.

2.3.3.4. After selecting the base type (per section 2.3.3.3), select the diameter of the reference lamp. Any ballast designed and marketed to operate lamps of multiple diameters, except for any sign ballast capable of operating both T8 and T12 lamps, must be tested with lamps of one of those diameters, selected in the following order of decreasing preference: T8, T5, or T12.

2.3.3.5. Connect the ballast to the maximum number of lamps (lamp type as determined by 2.3.3.2, 2.3.3.3, and 2.3.3.4 of this section) the ballast is designed and marketed to operate simultaneously.

For any ballast designed and marketed to operate both 4-foot medium bipin lamps and 2-foot U-shaped lamps, test with the maximum number of 4-foot medium bipin lamp(s).

2.3.3.6. Test each ballast with the lamp type specified in Table A of this section that corresponds to the lamp diameter and base type the ballast is designed and marketed to operate.

2.3.4.1. The power analyzer test setup must have exactly n + 1 channels, where n is the maximum number of lamps (lamp type as determined by sections 2.3.3.2, 2.3.3.3, and 2.3.3.4 of this appendix) a ballast is designed and marketed to operate. Use the minimum number of power analyzers possible during testing. Synchronize all power analyzers. A system may be used to synchronize the power analyzers.
