
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix Q to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Fluorescent Lamp Ballasts
###### Input Voltage.

2.4.3.For any ballast designed and marketed for operation at only one input voltage, test at that specified voltage. For any ballast that is neither a residential ballast nor a sign ballast but is designed and marketed for operation at multiple voltages, test the ballast at 277 V +/-0.1%. For any residential ballast or sign ballast designed and marketed for operation at multiple voltages, test the ballast at 120 V +/-0.1%.

2.5.1. Connect the ballast to the selected fluorescent lamps (as determined in section 2.3.3 of this appendix) and to measurement instrumentation as specified in the Test Setup in section 2.3 of this appendix.

2.5.2. Determine stable operating conditions according to Option 1 or Option 2.

2.5.2.1. Option 1. Operate the ballast for at least 15 minutes before determining stable operating conditions. Determine stable operating conditions by measuring lamp arc voltage, current, and power once per minute in accordance with the setup described in section 2.3 of this appendix. The system is stable once the difference between the maximum and minimum for each value of lamp arc voltage, current, and power divided by the average value of the measurements do not exceed one percent over a four minute moving window. Once stable operating conditions are reached, measure each of the parameters described in sections 2.5.3 through 2.5.9 of this appendix.

2.5.2.2 Option 2. Determine stable operating conditions for lamp arc voltage, current, and power according to steps 1 through 6 of section D.2.1 in Annex D of ANSI C82.11.
