
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix R to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring Electrical and Photometric Characteristics of General Service Fluorescent Lamps, Incandescent Reflector Lamps, and General Service Incandescent Lamps
###### General Service Fluorescent Lamps

4.1.1

4.1.1.1 Establish ambient, physical, and electrical conditions in accordance with Sections (and corresponding subsections) 4.0, 5.0, 6.1, 6.5, and 6.6 of IES LM-9-20.

4.1.1.2 Operate each lamp at the appropriate voltage and current conditions as described in ANSI C78.375A-2020 and in either ANSI C78.81-2010 or ANSI C78.901-2005. Operate each lamp using the appropriate reference ballast at input voltage specified by the reference circuit as described in ANSI C82.3. If, for a lamp, both low-frequency and high-frequency reference ballast settings are included in ANSI C78.81-2010 or ANSI C78.901-2005, operate the lamp using the low-frequency reference ballast. When testing with low-frequency reference ballast settings, include cathode power only if the circuit application of the lamp is specified as rapid start in ANSI C78.81-2010 or ANSI C78.901-2005. When testing with high-frequency reference ballast settings, do not include cathode power in the measurement.

For any lamp not listed in ANSI C78.81-2010 or ANSI C78.901-2005, operate the lamp using the following reference ballast settings:

4.1.1.2.1 For 4-Foot medium bi-pin lamps, use the following reference ballast settings:

(a) T10 or T12 lamps: 236 volts, 0.43 amps, and 439 ohms, at low frequency (60 Hz) and with cathode power. Approximate cathode wattage (with 3.6 V on each cathode): 2.0 W. Cathode characteristics for low resistance (at 3.6V): 9.6 ohms (objective), 7.0 ohms (minimum). Cathode heat for rapid start: 3.6 V (nominal); 2.5 V min, 4.0 V max (limits during operation); 9.6 ohms +/-0.1 ohm (dummy load resistor); 3.4 V min, 4.5 V max (voltage across dummy load).

(b) T8 lamps greater than or equal to 32 W: 300 volts, 0.265 amps, and 910 ohms, at low frequency (60 Hz) and with cathode power. Approximate cathode wattage (with 3.6 V on each cathode): 1.7 W. Cathode characteristics for low resistance (at 3.6 V): 12.0 +/-2.0 ohms; 4.75 +/-0.50 (Rh/Rc ratio). Cathode heat for rapid start: 3.6 V (nominal); 2.5 V min; 4.4 V max (limits during operation); 11.0 ohms +/-0.1 ohms (dummy load resistor); 3.4 V min, 4.5 V max (voltage across dummy load).

(c) T8 lamps less than 32 W: 300 volts, 0.265 amps, and 910 ohms, at low frequency (60 Hz) and without cathode power.

4.1.1.2.2 For 2-Foot U-shaped lamps, use the following reference ballast settings:

(a) T12 lamps: 236 volts, 0.430 amps, and 439 ohms, at low frequency (60 Hz) and with cathode power. Approximate cathode wattage (with 3.6 V on each cathode): 2.0 W. Cathode characteristics for low resistance (at 3.6V): 9.6 ohms (objective), 7.0 ohms (minimum). Cathode heat for rapid start: 3.6 V (nominal); 2.5 V min, 4.0 V max (limits during operation); 9.6 ohms +/-0.1 ohm (dummy load resistor); 3.4 V min, 4.5 V max (voltage across dummy load).

(b) T8 lamps greater than or equal to 31 W: 300 volts, 0.265 amps, and 910 ohms, at low frequency (60 Hz) and with cathode power. Approximate cathode wattage (with 3.6 V on each cathode): 1.7 W. Cathode characteristics for low resistance (at 3.6 V): 11.0 ohms (objective); 8.0 ohms (minimum). Cathode heat for rapid start: 3.6 V (nominal); 2.5 V min; 4.4 V max (limits during operation); 11.0 ohms +/-0.1 ohms (dummy load resistor); 3.4 V min, 4.5 V max (voltage across dummy load).

(c) T8 lamps less than 31 W: 300 volts, 0.265 amps, and 910 ohms, at low frequency (60 Hz) and without cathode power.

4.1.1.2.3 For 8-foot slimline lamps, use the following reference ballast settings:
