
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix Q to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Fluorescent Lamp Ballasts
###### e.g.,

3.1. The measurement of standby mode power is required to be performed only if a manufacturer makes any representations with respect to the standby mode power use of the fluorescent lamp ballast. When there is a conflict, the language of the test procedure in this appendix takes precedence over IEC 62301 (incorporated by reference; see ยง 430.3). Specifications in referenced standards that are not clearly mandatory are mandatory. Manufacturer's instructions, such as "instructions for use" referenced in IEC 62301 mean the manufacturer's instructions that come packaged with or appear on the unit, including on a label. It may include an online manual if specifically referenced (by date or version number) either on a label or in the packaged instructions. Instructions that appear on the unit take precedence over instructions available electronically, such as through the internet.

3.2.1. Take all measurements with instruments as specified in section 2.2 of this appendix. Fluorescent lamp ballasts that are designed and marketed for connection to control devices must be tested with all commercially available compatible control devices connected in all possible configurations. For each configuration, a separate measurement of standby power must be made in accordance with section 3.4 of this appendix.

3.2.2. Connect each ballast to the maximum number of lamp(s) as specified in section 2.3 (specifications in 2.3.3.1 are optional) of this appendix. Note: ballast operation with reference lamp(s) is not required.

3.3.1. Establish and maintain test conditions in accordance with section 2.4 of this appendix.

3.4.1. Turn on all of the lamps at full light output.

3.4.2. Send a signal to the ballast instructing it to have zero light output using the appropriate ballast communication protocol or system for the ballast being tested.

3.4.3. Stabilize the ballast prior to measurement using one of the methods as specified in section 5 of IEC 62301.

3.4.4. Measure the standby mode energy consumption in watts using one of the methods as specified in section 5 of IEC 62301.
