
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 10 - CRITERIA AND PROCEDURES FOR DETERMINING ELIGIBILITY FOR ACCESS TO RESTRICTED DATA OR NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION OR AN EMPLOYMENT CLEARANCE
#### Subpart C - Procedures
##### ยง 10.32 Recommendation of the NRC Personnel Security Review Panel.

(a) The Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programs shall designate an NRC Personnel Security Review Panel to conduct a review of the record of the case. The NRC Personnel Security Review Panel shall be comprised of three members, two of whom shall be selected from outside the security field. To qualify as an NRC Personnel Security Review Panel member, the person designated shall have an NRC "Q" access authorization and may be an employee of the NRC, its contractors, agents, or licensees. However, no employee or consultant of the NRC shall serve as an NRC Personnel Security Review Panel member reviewing the case of an employee (including a consultant) or applicant for employment with the NRC; nor shall any employee or consultant of an NRC contractor, agent or licensee serve as an NRC Personnel Security Review Panel member reviewing the case of an employee (including a consultant) or an applicant for employment of that contractor, agent, or licensee. No NRC Personnel Security Review Panel member shall be selected who has knowledge of the case or of any information relevant to the disposition of it, or who for any reason would be unable to issue a fair and unbiased recommendation.

(b) The NRC Personnel Security Review Panel shall consider the matter under review based upon the record supplemented by any brief submitted by the individual or the Hearing Counsel. The NRC Personnel Security Review Panel may request additional briefs as the Panel deems appropriate. When the NRC Personnel Security Review Panel determines that additional evidence or further proceedings are necessary, the record may be returned to the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programs with a recommendation that the case be returned to the Director, Office of Administration, for appropriate action, which may include returning the case to the Hearing Examiner and reconvening the hearing to obtain additional testimony. When additional testimony is taken by the Hearing Examiner, a written transcript of the testimony will be made a part of the record and will be taken by a person possessing an appropriate NRC access authorization and/or employment clearance and, except for portions containing Restricted Data or National Security Information, or other lawfully withholdable information, a copy of the transcript will be furnished the individual without cost.

(c) In conducting the review, the NRC Personnel Security Review Panel shall make its findings and recommendations as to the eligibility or continued eligibility of an individual for an access authorization and/or an employment clearance on the record supplemented by additional testimony or briefs, as has been previously determined by the NRC Personnel Security Review Panel as appropriate.

(d) The NRC Personnel Security Review Panel shall not consider the possible impact of the loss of the individual's services upon the NRC program.

(e) If, after considering all the factors in light of the criteria set forth in this part, the NRC Personnel Security Review Panel is of the opinion that granting or continuing an access authorization and/or an employment clearance to the individual will not endanger the common defense and security and will be clearly consistent with the national interest, the NRC Personnel Security Review Panel shall make a favorable recommendation; otherwise, the NRC Personnel Security Review Panel shall make an adverse recommendation. The NRC Personnel Security Review Panel shall prepare a report of its findings and recommendations and submit the report in writing to the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programs , who shall furnish a copy to the individual. The findings and recommendations must be fully supported by stated reasons.
