
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix R to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring Electrical and Photometric Characteristics of General Service Fluorescent Lamps, Incandescent Reflector Lamps, and General Service Incandescent Lamps

DOE incorporated by reference in ยง 430.3, the entire standard for: IES LM-9-20, IES LM-20-20, IES LM-45-20, IES LM-49-20, IES LM-54-20, IES LM-58-20, IES LM-78-20, ANSI C78.375A-2020, ANSI C78.81-2010, ANSI C78.901-2005, ANSI C78.81-2016, ANSI C78.901-2016, ANSI C82.3, CIE 15:2018, and CIE 13.3; however, only enumerated provisions of IES LM-9-20, IES LM-20-20, IES LM-45-20, IES LM-49-20, IES LM-58-20, and CIE 13.3, are applicable to this appendix, as follows:

(a) Section 3.0 "Nomenclature and Definitions" as referenced in section 2.1 of this appendix.

(b) Section 6.2.2 "Pre-burning" and Section 6.2.4 "Lamp Circuit Switching" as referenced in section 3.2 of this appendix.

(c) Section 4.0 "Ambient and Physical Conditions", Section 5.0 "Electrical Conditions", Section 6.1 "Lamp Orientation", Section 6.5 "Electrical Settings", and Section 6.6 "Electrical Instrumentation" as referenced in section 4.1.1.1 of this appendix.

(d) Section 6.1 "Lamp Orientation", Section 6.2 "Lamp Stabilization", Section 6.3 "Use of the "Peak Lumen" Method", and Section 6.4 "Unusual Conditions" as referenced in section 4.2.1.1 of this appendix.

(e) Section 7.0 "Photometric Test Procedures" as referenced in section 4.2.1.3 of this appendix.

(f) Section 7.6 "Color Measurements" as referenced in sections 4.2.1.5 and 4.2.1.6 of this appendix.

(a) Section 3.0 "Definitions" as referenced in section 2.1 of this appendix.

(b) Section 4.0 "Ambient and Physical Conditions" and Section 5.0 "Electrical and Photometric Test Conditions" as referenced in section 4.1.3 of this appendix.

(c) Section 6.0 "Lamp Test Procedures" as referenced in sections 4.2.3.1 and 6.2.1 of this appendix.

(d) Section 7.0 "Photometric Characterization by Measurement of Intensity Distribution", Section 8.0 "Total Flux Measurement by Integrating Sphere Method", and Section 8.2 "Exclusion of Undirected Light by Using a Luminaire Inside an Integrating Sphere" as referenced in section 4.2.3.3 of this appendix.

(a) Section 3.0 "Nomenclature and Definitions" as referenced in section 2.1 of this appendix.

(b) Section 4.0 "Ambient and Physical Conditions", Section 5.0 "Electrical Conditions", section 6.1 "Lamp Position", Section 6.3 "Electrical Settings", and Section 6.4 "Electrical Instrumentation" as referenced in section 4.1.2 of this appendix.

(c) Section 6.2 "Lamp Stabilization" as referenced in sections 4.2.2.1 and 6.2.1 of this appendix.

(d) Section 7.0 "Photometric Test Procedures" as referenced in section 4.2.2.3 of this appendix.

(e) Section 7.4 "Color Measurements" as referenced in sections 4.2.2.5 and 4.2.2.6 of this appendix.

(a) Section 4.0 "Ambient and Physical Conditions" and Section 5.0 "Electrical Conditions" as referenced in section 6.1 of this appendix.

(b) Section 6.4 "Operating Cycle" as referenced in sections 6.2.2 and 6.3 of this appendix.

(a) Section 3.0 "Definitions and Nomenclature" as referenced in section 2.1 of this appendix.

(b) [Reserved]

(a) Appendix 1 "Terminology" as referenced in section 2.1 of this appendix.

(b) [Reserved]

This appendix specifies the test methods required for determining the electrical and photometric performance characteristics of general service fluorescent lamps (GSFLs), incandescent reflector lamps (IRLs), and general service incandescent lamps (GSILs).

2.1 To the extent that definitions in the referenced IES and CIE standards do not conflict with the DOE definitions, the definitions specified in Section 3.0 of IES LM-9-20, Section 3.0 of IES LM-20-20, Section 3.0 of IES LM-45-20, Section 3.0 of IES LM-58-20, and Appendix 1 of CIE 13.3 apply in this appendix.
