
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix R to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring Electrical and Photometric Characteristics of General Service Fluorescent Lamps, Incandescent Reflector Lamps, and General Service Incandescent Lamps
###### Incandescent Reflector Lamps

4.2.3

4.2.3.1 Season and stabilize lamps in accordance with Section (and corresponding subsections) 6.0 of IES LM-20-20 and with IES LM-54-20.

4.2.3.2 Measure the initial input power (in watts).

4.2.3.3 Measure initial lumen output in accordance with Sections (and corresponding subsections) 7.0 or 8.0 of IES LM-20-20 and with IES LM-78-20. When measuring in accordance with section 8.0, exclude undirected light using the method specified in section 8.2.

4.2.3.4 Calculate initial lamp efficacy by dividing the measured initial lumen output by the measured initial input power.

4.2.3.5 Calculate CRI as specified in CIE 13.3. Conduct the required spectroradiometric measurement and characterization in accordance with the methods set forth in IES LM-58-20.

4.2.3.6 Calculate CCT as specified in CIE 15:2018. Conduct the required spectroradiometric measurement and characterization in accordance with the methods set forth in IES LM-58-20.

Follow sections 1.0 through 4.0 of this appendix to make voluntary representations only for GSFLs that have high frequency reference ballast settings in ANSI C78.81-2016 or ANSI C78.901-2016. Where ANSI C78.81-2010 and ANSI C78.901-2005 are referenced in the preceding sections, use ANSI C78.81-2016 and ANSI C78.901-2016 instead. Operate lamps using high frequency reference ballast settings and without cathode power. Voluntary representations must be in addition to, not instead of, a representation in accordance with sections 1.0 to 4.0 of this appendix for GSFLs. As a best practice, an indication of high frequency operation should be provided with the voluntary representations.
