
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix T to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Water Consumption of Water Closets and Urinals

DOE incorporated by reference in ยง 430.3, the entire standard for ASME A112.19.2-2018; however, only enumerated provisions of that document apply to this appendix, as follows. Treat precatory language in ASME A112.19.2-2018 as mandatory for the purpose of testing.

a. Section 7.1.1 "All tests," including Figures 11 and 12, as specified in section 2.a of this appendix;

b. Section 7.1.2 "Gravity flush tank water closets," as specified in section 2.a of this appendix;

c. Section 7.1.3 "Flushometer tank, electro-hydraulic, or other pressurized flushing device water closets," as specified in section 2.a of this appendix;

d. Section 7.1.4 "Flushometer valve water closets," as specified in section 2.a of this appendix;

e. Section 7.1.5 "Procedures for standardizing the water supply system," including Figures 11 and 12, as specified in section 2.a of this appendix;

f. Section 7.3 "Water consumption test," as specified in section 3.a of this appendix, except sections 7.3.4 and 7.3.5;

f. Section 8.2.1, including Figure 12, as specified in section 2.b of this appendix;

g. Section 8.2.2, as specified in section 2.b of this appendix;

h. Section 8.2.3, as specified in section 2.b of this appendix;

i. Section 8.6 "Water Consumption Test," as specified in section 3.b of this appendix, except sections 8.6.3 and 8.6.4;

j. Table 5 "Static test pressures for water closets, kPa (psi)," as specified in sections 2.a and 3.a of this appendix; and

k. Table 6 "Static test pressures for urinals, kPa (psi)" as specified in sections 2.a and 3.a of this appendix.

In cases where there is a conflict, the language of the test procedure in this appendix takes precedence over ASME A112.19.2-2018.

This appendix sets forth the test requirements used to measure the hydraulic performances of water closets and urinals.

a. When testing a water closet, use the test apparatus and follow the instructions specified in Sections 7.1.1 (including Table 5), 7.1.2, 7.1.3, 7.1.4, and 7.1.5 of ASME A112.19.2-2018). The flushometer valve used in the water consumption test must represent the maximum design flush volume of the water closet. Record each measurement at the resolution of the test apparatus. Round each calculation of water consumption for each tested unit to the same number of significant digits as the previous step.

b. When testing a urinal, use the test apparatus and follow the instructions specified in Sections 8.2.1, 8.2.2, and 8.2.3 (including Table 6) of ASME A112.19.2-2018. The flushometer valve used in the water consumption test must represent the maximum design flush volume of the urinal. Record each measurement at the resolution of the test apparatus. Round each calculation of water consumption for each tested unit to the same number of significant digits as the previous step.

a. Water closets:

(i) Measure the water flush volume for water closets, expressed in gallons per flush (gpf) or liters per flush (Lpf), in accordance with Section 7.3, Water Consumption Test, of ASME A112.19.2-2018. For dual-flush water closets, the measurement of the water flush volume shall be conducted separately for the full-flush and reduced-flush modes and in accordance with the test requirements specified Section 7.3, Water Consumption Test, of ASME A112.19.2-2018. The final measured flush volume for each tested unit is the average of the total flush volumes recorded at each test pressure as specified in Table 5 "Static test pressures for water closets, kPa (psi)," of ASME A112.19.2-2018, based on the average of the individual flush volumes at a given pressure from the three tests.

(ii) Flush volume and tank trim component adjustments: For gravity flush tank water closets, set trim components that can be adjusted to cause an increase in flush volume, including (but not limited to) the flapper valve, fill valve, and tank water level, in accordance with the printed installation instructions supplied by the manufacturer with the unit. If the printed installation instructions for the model to be tested do not specify trim setting adjustments, adjust these trim components to the maximum water use setting so that the maximum flush volume is produced without causing the water closet to malfunction or leak. Set the water level in the tank to the maximum water line designated in the printed installation instructions supplied by the manufacturer or the designated water line on the tank itself, whichever is higher. If the printed installation instructions or the water closet tank do not indicate a water level, adjust the water level to 1+/-0.1 inches below the top of the overflow tube or, for gravity flush tank water closets that do not contain an overflow tube, 1+/-0.1 inches below the top rim of the water-containing vessel for each designated pressure specified in Table 5 of ASME A112.19.2-2018.

b. Urinals-Measure water flush volume for urinals, expressed in gallons per flush (gpf) or liters per flush (Lpf), in accordance with Section 8.6, Water Consumption Test, of ASME A112.19.2-2018. The final measured flush volume for each tested unit is the average of the total flush volumes recorded at each test pressure as specified in Table 6 "Static test pressures for urinals, kPa (psi)," of ASME A112.19.2-2018, based on the average of the individual flush volumes at a given pressure from the three tests.
