
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix U to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Ceiling Fans
###### Very-small-diameter (VSD) ceiling fan

1.21.means a small-diameter ceiling fan that is not a highly-decorative ceiling fan or belt-driven ceiling fan; and has one or more fan heads, each of which has a represented value of blade span, as determined in 10 CFR 429.32(a)(3)(i), of 18 inches or less. Only VSD fans that also meet the definition of an LSSD fan are required to be tested for purposes of determining compliance with energy efficiency standards established by DOE and for other representations of energy efficiency.

The provisions in this appendix apply to ceiling fans except:

(1) Ceiling fans where the plane of rotation of a ceiling fan's blades is not less than or equal to 45 degrees from horizontal, or cannot be adjusted based on the manufacturer's specifications to be less than or equal to 45 degrees from horizontal;

(2) Centrifugal ceiling fans;

(3) Belt-driven ceiling fans that are not high-speed belt-driven ceiling fans; and

(4) Oscillating ceiling fans.

The test apparatus and test measurement used to determine energy performance depend on the ceiling fan's blade span, and in some cases the ceiling fan's blade edge thickness. For each tested ceiling fan, measure the lateral distance from the center of the axis of rotation of the fan blades to the furthest fan blade edge from the center of the axis of rotation. Measure this lateral distance at the resolution of the measurement instrument, using an instrument with a measurement resolution of least 0.25 inches. Multiply the lateral distance by two and then round to the nearest whole inch to determine the blade span. For ceiling fans having a blade span greater than 18 inches and less than or equal to 84 inches, measure the ceiling fan's blade edge thickness. To measure the fan blade edge thickness, use an instrument with a measurement resolution of at least 0.001 inch and measure the thickness of one fan blade's leading edge (in the forward direction) according to the following:

(1) Locate the cross-section perpendicular to the fan blade's radial length that is at least one inch from the tip of the fan blade and for which the blade is thinnest, and

(2) Measure at the thickest point of that cross-section within one inch from the leading edge of the fan blade.

See Figure 1 of this appendix for an instructional schematic on the fan blade edge thickness measurement. Figure 1 depicts a ceiling fan from above. Round the measured blade edge thickness to the nearest 0.01 inch.

3.1. General instructions.

3.1.1. Record measurements at the resolution of the test instrumentation. Round off calculations to the number of significant digits present at the resolution of the test instrumentation, except for blade span, which is rounded to the nearest inch. Round the final ceiling fan efficiency value to the nearest whole number as follows:

3.1.1.1. A fractional number at or above the midpoint between the two consecutive whole numbers shall be rounded up to the higher of the two whole numbers; or

3.1.1.2. A fractional number below the midpoint between the two consecutive whole numbers shall be rounded down to the lower of the two whole numbers.

3.1.2. For multi-head ceiling fans, the effective blade span is the blade span (as specified in section 3) of an individual fan head, if all fan heads are the same size. If the fan heads are of varying sizes, the effective blade span is the blade span (as specified in section 3) of the largest fan head.

3.2. Test apparatus for low-speed small-diameter and high-speed small-diameter ceiling fans: All instruments are to have accuracies within +/-1% of reading, except for the air velocity sensors, which must have accuracies within +/-5% of reading or 2 feet per minute (fpm), whichever is greater. Equipment is to be calibrated at least once a year to compensate for variation over time.
