
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix U to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Ceiling Fans
###### Test conditions to be followed when testing:

3.3.1.

(1) Maintain the room temperature at 70 degrees +/- 5 degrees Fahrenheit and the room humidity at 50% +/- 5% relative humidity during the entire test process.

(2) If present, the ceiling fan light fixture is to be installed but turned off during testing.

(3) If present, any additional accessories or features sold with the ceiling fan that do not relate to the ceiling fan's ability to create airflow by rotation of the fan blades (for example light kit, heater, air ionization, ultraviolet technology) is to be installed but turned off during testing. If such an accessory or feature cannot be turned off, it shall be set to the lowest energy-consuming mode during testing. If the ceiling fan is offered with a default controller, test using the default controller. If multiple controllers are offered, test using the minimally functional controller.

(4) If present, turn off any oscillating function causing the axis of rotation of the fan head(s) to change relative to the ceiling during operation prior to taking air velocity measurements. Turn on any oscillating function prior to taking power measurements.

(5) Test ceiling fans rated for operation with only a single- or multi-phase power supply with single- or multi-phase electricity, respectively. Test ceiling fans capable of operating with single- and multi-phase electricity with single-phase electricity. DOE will allow manufacturers of ceiling fans capable of operating with single- and multi-phase electricity to test such fans with single-phase power and make representations of efficiency associated with both single and multi-phase electricity if a manufacturer desires to do so, but the test results in the multi-phase configuration will not be valid to assess compliance with any amended energy conservation standard. All tested power supply should be at 60 Hz.

(6) The supply voltage shall be:

(i) for ceiling fans tested with single-phase electricity, the supply voltage shall be:

(a) 120 V if the ceiling fan's minimum rated voltage is 120 V or the lowest rated voltage range contains 120 V,

(b) 240 V if the ceiling fan's minimum rated voltage is 240 V or the lowest rated voltage range contains 240 V, or

(c) The ceiling fan's minimum rated voltage (if a voltage range is not given) or the mean of the lowest rated voltage range, in all other cases.

(ii) for ceiling fans tested with multi-phase electricity, the supply voltage shall be:

(a) 240 V if the ceiling fan's minimum rated voltage is 240 V or the lowest rated voltage range contains 240 V, or

(b) The ceiling fan's minimum rated voltage (if a voltage range is not given) or the mean of the lowest rated voltage range, in all other cases.

(iii) The test voltage shall not vary by more than +/-1% during the tests.

(7) Conduct the test with the fan connected to a supply circuit at the rated frequency.

(8) Measure power input at a point that includes all power-consuming components of the ceiling fan (but without any attached light kit energized; or without any additional accessory or feature energized, if possible; and if not, with the additional accessory or feature set at the lowest energy-consuming mode). If the ceiling fan is offered with a default controller, test using the default controller. If multiple controllers are offered, test using the minimally functional controller.
