
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix U to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Ceiling Fans
###### Note:

(2) Connect wires as directed by manufacturer's wiring instructions.Assemble fan prior to the test; lab personnel must follow the instructions provided with the fan by the fan manufacturer. Balance the fan blade assembly in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions to avoid excessive vibration of the motor assembly (at any speed) during operation.

(3) With the ceiling fan installed, adjust the height of the air velocity sensors to ensure the vertical distance between the lowest point on the ceiling fan blades and the air velocity sensors is 43 inches.

(4) A single rotating sensor arm, two rotating sensor arms, or four fixed sensor arms can be used to take air velocity measurements along four axes, labeled A-D. Axes A, B, C, and D are at 0, 90, 180, and 270 degree positions. Axes A-D must be perpendicular to the four walls of the room. See Figure 2 of this appendix.

(5) Minimize the amount of exposed wiring. Store all sensor lead wires under the floor, if possible.

(6) Place the sensors at intervals of 4 +/- 0.0625 inches along a sensor arm, starting with the first sensor at the point where the four axes intersect, aligning the sensors perpendicular to the direction of airflow. Do not touch the actual sensor prior to testing. Use enough sensors to record air delivery within a circle 8 inches larger in diameter than the blade span of the ceiling fan being tested. The experimental set-up is shown in Figure 3 of this appendix.

(7) Table 1 of this appendix shows the appropriate number of sensors needed per each of four axes (including the first sensor at the intersection of the axes) for common fan sizes.

(8) Install an RPM (revolutions per minute) meter, or tachometer, to measure RPM of the ceiling fan blades.

(9) Use an RMS sensor capable of measuring power with an accuracy of +/-1% to measure ceiling fan power consumption. If the ceiling fan operates on multi-phase power input, measure the active (real) power in all phases simultaneously. Measure test voltage within 6" of the connection supplied with the ceiling fan.

(10) Complete any conditioning instructions provided in the ceiling fan's instruction or installation manual must be completed prior to conducting testing.
