
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix U to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Ceiling Fans
###### Step 4b:

For a two-arm rotating setup: Begin recording readings. Starting with Axes A and C, take 100 air velocity readings (100 seconds run-time) for both axes and record these data. For all fans except multi-head fans and fans capable of oscillating, also measure power during the interval that air velocity measurements are taken. Record the average value of the air velocity readings for each sensor in feet per minute (FPM). Determine if the readings meet the low speed definition as defined in section 1.13 of this appendix. If not, restart Step 4b at the next highest speed until the low speed definition is met. Once the low speed definition is met, rotate the two-arm, stabilize the arm, and allow 30 seconds to allow the arm to stop oscillating. Repeat data recording for Axes B and D. Step 4b is complete when the readings for all axes meet the low speed definition at the same speed. Save the data for all axes only for those measurements that meet the low speed definition. Using the measurements applicable to low speed, record the average value of the power measurement in watts (W) (200 readings). Record the average value of the air velocity readings for each sensor in feet per minute (FPM) (200 readings).
