
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix U to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Ceiling Fans
###### e.g.,

(2) When testing at 40 percent speed for large-diameter ceiling fans that can operate over an infinite number of speeds (ceiling fans with VFDs), ensure the average measured RPM is within the greater of 1 percent of the average RPM at high speed or 1 RPM. For example, if the average measured RPM at high speed is 50 RPM, for testing at 40 percent speed, the average measured RPM should be between 19 RPM and 21 RPM. If the average measured RPM falls outside of this tolerance, adjust the ceiling fan speed and repeat the test. Calculate the airflow and measure the active (real) power consumption in all phases simultaneously in accordance with the test requirements specified in Sections 8 and 9, AMCA 230-15, with the following modifications:

3.5.1. Measure active (real) power consumption in all phases simultaneously at a point that includes all power-consuming components of the ceiling fan. If present, any additional accessories or features sold with the ceiling fan that do not relate to the ceiling fan's ability to create airflow by rotation of the fan blades (for example light kit, heater, air ionization, ultraviolet technology) are to be installed but turned off during testing. If the accessory/feature cannot be turned off, it shall be set to the lowest energy-consuming mode during testing. If the ceiling fan is offered with a default controller, test using the default controller. If multiple controllers are offered, test using the minimally functional controller.

3.5.2. Measure active (real) power consumption in all phases simultaneously continuously at the rated voltage that represents normal operation over the time period for which the load differential test is conducted.
