
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix U to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Ceiling Fans
###### i.e.,,i.e.,

(2) Measure standby power consumption after completion of active mode testing and after the active mode functionality has been switched off (the rotation of the ceiling fan blades is no longer energized). The ceiling fan must remain connected to the main power supply and be in the same configuration as in active mode (any ceiling fan light fixture should still be attached). Measure standby power consumption according to Sections 4.3.1, 4.3.2, 4.4, and 5.3.1 through 5.3.2, of IEC 62301 with the following modifications:

3.6.1. Allow 3 minutes between switching off active mode functionality and beginning the standby power test. (No additional time before measurement is required.)

3.6.2. Simultaneously in all phases, measure active (real) power consumption continuously for 100 seconds, and record the average value of the standby power measurement in watts (W).

3.6.3. Determine power consumption according to section 5.3.2 of IEC 62301, or by using the following average reading method. Note that a shorter measurement period may be possible using the sample method in section 5.3.2 of IEC 62301.

(1) Connect the product to the power supply and power measuring instrument.

(2) Select the mode to be measured (which may require a sequence of operations and could require waiting for the product to automatically enter the desired mode) and then monitor the power.

(3) Calculate the average power using either the average power method or the accumulated energy method. For the average power method, where the power measuring instrument can record true average power over an operator selected period, the average power is taken directly from the power measuring instrument. For the accumulated energy method, determine the average power by dividing the measured energy by the time for the monitoring period. Use units of watt-hours and hours for both methods to determine average power in watts.

4.1. Calculation of effective area for small-diameter ceiling fans other than high-speed belt-driven ceiling fans:

Calculate the effective area corresponding to each sensor used in the test method for small-diameter ceiling fans other than high-speed belt-driven ceiling fans (section 3.3 of this appendix) with the following equations:

(1) For sensor 1, the sensor located directly underneath the center of the ceiling fan, the effective width of the circle is 2 inches, and the effective area is:
