
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix W to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Compact Fluorescent Lamps
###### Time to failure

2.15.means the time elapsed between first use and the point at which the compact fluorescent lamp (for a hybrid CFL, the primary light source) ceases to produce measurable lumen output.

3. Active Mode Test Procedures

3.1. General Instructions.

3.1.1. In cases where there is a conflict, the language of the test procedure in this appendix takes precedence over any materials incorporated by reference.

3.1.2. Maintain lamp operating orientation throughout seasoning and testing, including storage and handling between tests.

3.1.3. Season CFLs prior to photometric and electrical testing in accordance with sections 4, 5, 6.1, and 6.2.2.1 of IES LM-54-12 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3). Season the CFL for a minimum of 100 hours in accordance with section 6.2.2.1 of IES LM-54-12. During the 100 hour seasoning period, cycle the CFL (operate the lamps for 180 minutes, 20 minutes off) as specified in section 6.4 of IES LM-65-14 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).

3.1.3.1. Unit operating time during seasoning may be counted toward time to failure, lumen maintenance at 40 percent of lifetime of a compact fluorescent lamp (as defined in § 430.2), and lumen maintenance at 1,000 hours if the required operating cycle and test conditions for time to failure testing per section 3.3.1 of this appendix are satisfied.

3.1.3.2. If a lamp breaks, becomes defective, fails to stabilize, exhibits abnormal behavior (such as swirling), or stops producing light prior to the end of the seasoning period, the lamp must be replaced with a new unit. If a lamp exhibits one of the conditions listed in the previous sentence after the seasoning period, the lamp's measurements must be included in the sample. Record number of lamps replaced, if any.

3.1.4. Conduct all testing with the lamp operating at labeled wattage. This requirement applies to all CFLs, including those that are dimmable or multi-level.

3.1.5. Operate the CFL at the rated input voltage throughout testing. For a CFL with multiple rated input voltages including 120 volts, operate the CFL at 120 volts. If a CFL with multiple rated input voltages is not rated for 120 volts, operate the CFL at the highest rated input voltage.

3.1.6. Test CFLs packaged with ballasted adapters or designed exclusively for use with ballasted adapters as non-integrated CFLs, with no ballasted adapter in the circuit.

3.1.7. Conduct all testing of hybrid CFLs with all supplemental light sources in the lamp turned off, if possible. Before taking measurements, verify that the lamp has stabilized in the operating mode that corresponds to its primary light source.

3.2. Test Procedures for Determining Initial Lamp Efficacy, Lumen Maintenance, CCT, CRI, and Power Factor.

Determine initial lamp efficacy, lumen maintenance at 40 percent of lifetime of a compact fluorescent lamp (as defined in in § 430.2), CCT, and CRI for integrated and non-integrated CFLs. Determine lumen maintenance at 1,000 hours and power factor for integrated CFLs only.

3.2.1. Test Conditions and Setup

3.2.1.1. Test half of the units in the sample in the base up position, and half of the units in the base down position; if the position is restricted by the manufacturer, test the units in the manufacturer-specified position.

3.2.1.2. Establish ambient conditions, power supply, auxiliary equipment, circuit setup, lamp connections, and instrumentation in accordance with the specifications in sections (and corresponding subsections) 4.0, 5.0 and 6.0 of IES LM-66-14 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3), except maintain ambient temperature at 25 +/- 1 &#xB0;C (77 +/- 1.8 &#xB0;F).

3.2.1.3. Non-integrated CFLs must adhere to the reference ballast requirements in section 5.2 of IES LM-66 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).
