
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix X1 to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Dehumidifiers
###### External static pressure.

3.1.2.2.3.1Measure static pressures in each duct using pitot-static tube traverses that conform with the specifications in Section 4.3.1, "Pitot Traverse," of ANSI/AMCA 210 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 430.3), with pitot-static tubes that conform with the specifications in Section 4.2.2, "Pitot-Static Tube," of ANSI/AMCA, except that only two intersecting and perpendicular rows of pitot-static tube traverses shall be used. Record the static pressure within the test duct as measured at the pressure tap in the manifold of the traverses that averages the individual static pressures at each pitot-static tube. Calculate duct pressure losses between the unit under test and the plane of each static pressure measurement in accordance with section 7.5.2, "Pressure Losses," of ANSI/AMCA 210. The external static pressure is the difference between the measured inlet and outlet static pressure measurements, minus the sum of the inlet and outlet duct pressure losses. For any port with no duct attached, use a static pressure of 0.00 in. w.c. with no duct pressure loss in the calculation of external static pressure. During dehumidification mode testing, the external static pressure must equal 0.20 in. w.c. +/- 0.02 in. w.c.
