
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix X1 to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Dehumidifiers
###### Ducting for whole-home dehumidifiers.

3.1.3Cover and seal with tape any port designed for intake of air from outside or unconditioned space, other than for supplying reactivation air for refrigerant-desiccant dehumidifiers. Use only ducting constructed of galvanized mild steel and with a 10-inch diameter. Position inlet and outlet ducts either horizontally or vertically to accommodate the default dehumidifier port orientation. Install all ducts with the axis of the section interfacing with the dehumidifier perpendicular to plane of the collar to which each is attached. If manufacturer-recommended collars do not measure 10 inches in diameter, use transitional pieces to connect the ducts to the collars. The transitional pieces must not contain any converging element that forms an angle with the duct axis greater than 7.5 degrees or a diverging element that forms an angle with the duct axis greater than 3.5 degrees. Install mechanical throttling devices in each outlet duct consistent with Figure 1 and Figure 3 to adjust the external static pressure and in the inlet reactivation air duct for a refrigerant-desiccant dehumidifier. Cover the ducts with thermal insulation having a minimum R value of 6 h-ft- &#xB0;F/Btu (1.1 m- K/W). Seal seams and edges with tape.
