
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 11 - CRITERIA AND PROCEDURES FOR DETERMINING ELIGIBILITY FOR ACCESS TO OR CONTROL OVER SPECIAL NUCLEAR MATERIAL
#### Requirements for Special Nuclear Material Access Authorization
##### ยง 11.15 Application for special nuclear material access authorization.
###### http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html;,MSHD.Resource@nrc.gov;

(a)(1) Application for special nuclear material access authorization, renewal, or change in level must be filed by the licensee on behalf of the applicant with the Director, Division of Facilities and Security, Mail Stop T7-D57, either by mail addressed to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001; by hand delivery to the NRC's offices at 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland; or, where practicable, by electronic submission, for example, via Electronic Information Exchange, or CD-ROM. Electronic submissions must be made in a manner that enables the NRC to receive, read, authenticate, distribute, and archive the submission, and process and retrieve it a single page at a time. Detailed guidance on making electronic submissions can be obtained by visiting the NRC's Web site atby e-mail toor by writing the Office of the Chief Information Officer, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001. The guidance discusses, among other topics, the formats the NRC can accept, the use of electronic signatures, and the treatment of nonpublic information. Applications for affected individuals employed on October 28, 1985, shall be submitted within 60 days of notification of Commission approval of the amended security plan.

(2) Licensees who wish to secure NRC-U or NRC-R special nuclear material access authorizations for individuals in possession of an active NRC Q or L access authorization or other security clearance granted by another Federal agency based on an equivalent investigation shall submit a "Security Acknowledgment" (NRC Form 176) and a "Request for Access Authorization" (NRC Form 237). NRC will process these requests by verifying the data on an NRC-cleared individual, or by contacting the Federal agency that granted the clearance, requesting certification of the security clearance, and determining the investigative basis and level of the clearance. Licensees may directly request the Federal agency that administered the security clearance, if other than NRC, to certify to the NRC that it has on file an active security clearance for an individual and to specify the investigative basis and level of the clearance.

(b) Applications for special nuclear material access authorization for individuals, other than those qualifying under the provisions of ยง 11.15(a)(2), must be made on forms supplied by the Commission, including:

(1) Electronic Questionnaire for Investigations Processing (e-QIP), SF-86-Questionnaire for National Security Positions;

(2) Two completed standard fingerprint cards (FD-258);

(3) Security Acknowledgment (NRC Form 176);

(4) Other related forms where specified in accompanying instruction (NRC-254); and

(5) A statement by the employer, prospective employer, or contractor identifying the job to be assigned to or assumed by the individual and the level of authorization needed, justified by appropriate reference to the licensee's security plan.

(c)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, NRC-U special nuclear material access authorizations must be renewed every five years from the date of issuance. Except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, NRC-R special nuclear material access authorizations must be renewed every ten years from the date of issuance. An application for renewal must be submitted at least 120 days before the expiration of the five-year period for NRC-U and ten-year period for NRC-R, respectively, and must include:

(i) A statement by the licensee that at the time of application for renewal the individual's assigned or assumed job requires an NRC-U or an NRC-R special nuclear material access authorization, justified by appropriate reference to the licensee's security plan;

(ii) The Electronic Questionnaire for Investigations Processing (e-QIP), SF-86-Questionnaire for National Security Positions;

(iii) Two completed standard fingerprint cards (FD-258); and

(iv) Other related forms specified in accompanying NRC instructions (NRC Form 254).

(2) An exception to the time for submission of NRC-U special nuclear material access authorization renewal applications and the paperwork required is provided for individuals who have a current and active DOE-Q access authorization and are subject to DOE Reinvestigation Program requirements. For these individuals, the submission to DOE of the SF-86 pursuant to DOE Reinvestigation Program requirements (generally every five years) will satisfy the NRC renewal submission and paperwork requirements even if less than five years has passed since the date of issuance or renewal of the NRC-U access authorization. Any NRC-U special nuclear material access authorization renewed in response to provisions of this paragraph will not be due for renewal until the date set by DOE for the next reinvestigation of the individual pursuant to DOE's Reinvestigation Program.

(3) An exception to the time for submission of NRC-R special nuclear material access authorization renewal applications and the paperwork required is provided for individuals who have a current and active DOE-L or DOE-Q access authorization and are subject to DOE Reinvestigation Program requirements. For these individuals, the submission to DOE of the SF-86 pursuant to DOE Reinvestigation Program requirements will satisfy the NRC renewal submission and paperwork requirements even if less than ten years have passed since the date of issuance or renewal of the NRC-R access authorization. Any NRC-R special nuclear material access authorization renewed pursuant to this paragraph will not be due for renewal until the date set by DOE for the next reinvestigation of the individual pursuant to DOE's Reinvestigation Program.

(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the period of time for the initial and each subsequent NRC-U renewal application to NRC may not exceed seven years.

(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the period of time for the initial and each subsequent NRC-R renewal application to NRC may not exceed twelve years. Any individual who is subject to the DOE Reinvestigation Program requirements but, for administrative or other reasons, does not submit reinvestigation forms to DOE within seven years of the previous submission, for a NRC-U renewal or twelve years of the previous submission for a NRC-R renewal, shall submit a renewal application to NRC using the forms prescribed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section before the expiration of the seven year period for NRC-U or twelve year period for NRC-R renewal.

(d) If at any time, due to new assignment or assumption of duties, a change in a special nuclear material access authorization level from NRC "R" to "U" is required, the individual shall apply for a change of level of special nuclear material access authorization. The application must include a description of the new duties to be assigned or assumed, justified by appropriate reference to the licensee's security plan.

(e) The Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) bills the NRC for the cost of each background investigation conducted in support of an application for special nuclear material access authorization (application). The combined cost of the DCSA investigation and the NRC's application processing overhead (NRC processing fee) are recovered through a material access authorization fee imposed on applicants for special nuclear material access authorization.
