
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 11 - CRITERIA AND PROCEDURES FOR DETERMINING ELIGIBILITY FOR ACCESS TO OR CONTROL OVER SPECIAL NUCLEAR MATERIAL
#### Requirements for Special Nuclear Material Access Authorization
##### ยง 11.15 Application for special nuclear material access authorization.
###### Licensee_ Access_ Authorization_ Fee.Resource@nrc.gov

(3) The NRC's Material Access Authorization Program (MAAP) is considered reimbursable work representing services provided to an organization for which the NRC is entitled payment. The NRC is authorized to receive and retain fees from licensees for services performed. The NRC's Office of the Chief Financial Officer periodically reviews the fees charged for MAAP and makes recommendations on revising those charges to reflect costs incurred by the NRC in providing those services. The reviews are performed using cost analysis techniques to determine the direct and indirect costs. Based on this review, all MAAP requests for reciprocity will be charged a flat fee rate of $95.00 as referenced in paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section. This flat fee would be aligned with the level of effort that has recently been expended by DCSA to process reciprocity requests, and accounts for inflation as well as recovery of the appropriate cost for conducting this work. Copies of the current NRC material access authorization fee may be obtained by contacting the NRC's Personnel Security Branch, Division of Facilities and Security, Office of Administration by email to:. Any change in the NRC's access authorization fees will be applicable to each access authorization request received on or after the effective date of the DCSA's most recently published investigation billing rates schedule.

(4) Certain applications from individuals having current Federal access authorizations may be processed expeditiously and at a reduced cost because the Commission, at its discretion, may decide to accept the certification of access authorizations and investigative data from other Federal Government agencies that grant personnel access authorizations.

(i) Applications for reciprocity will be processed at the NRC flat fee rate of $95 per request as referenced in the following table:
