
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix Y to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Battery Chargers
###### i.e.

Unit energy consumption (UEC) shall be calculated for a battery charger using one of the two equations (equation (i) or equation (ii)) listed in this section. If a battery charger is tested and its charge duration as determined in section 3.3.2 of this appendix minus 5 hours is greater than the threshold charge time listed in Table 3.3.3 of this appendix ((t- 5) * n > t), equation (ii) shall be used to calculate UEC; otherwise a battery charger's UEC shall be calculated using equation (i).

(a) The power or energy meter must provide true root mean square (r. m. s) measurements of the active input and output measurements, with an uncertainty at full rated load of less than or equal to 0.5% at the 95% confidence level notwithstanding that voltage and current waveforms can include harmonic components. The meter must measure input and output values simultaneously.

(b) All measurement equipment used to conduct the tests must be calibrated within the measurement equipment manufacturer specified calibration period by a standard traceable to International System of Units such that measurements meet the uncertainty requirements specified in section 4.1.1(a) of this appendix.

All portions of the test must be carried out in a room with an air speed immediately surrounding the UUT of &#x2264;0.5 m/s in all directions. Maintain the ambient temperature in the range of 20.0 &#xB0;C to 30.0 &#xB0;C, including all inaccuracies and uncertainties introduced by the temperature measurement equipment, throughout the test. No intentional cooling of the UUT, such as by use of separately powered fans, air conditioners, or heat sinks, is permitted. Test the UUT on a thermally non-conductive surface.

The AC input voltage and frequency to the UPS during testing must be within 3 percent of the highest rated voltage and within 1 percent of the highest rated frequency of the device.

Configure the UPS according to Annex J.2 of IEC 62040-3 Ed. 2.0 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 430.3) with the following additional requirements:
