
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix Y1 to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Battery Chargers
###### Open-placement wireless charger

2.30.2.is an inductive wireless charger that does not incorporate a physical receiver locating feature (e.g., by a physical peg, cradle, locking mechanism, magnet etc.) to repeatably align or orient the position of the receiver with respect to the transmitter.

The values that may be measured or calculated during the conduct of this test procedure have been summarized for easy reference in Table 3.1.1 of this appendix.

Any power measurement equipment utilized for testing must conform to the uncertainty and resolution requirements outlined in Section 4, "General conditions for measurement", as well as Annexes B, "Notes on the measurement of low-power modes", and D, "Determination of uncertainty of measurement", of IEC 62301 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 430.3).

All tests, battery conditioning, and battery rest periods shall be carried out in a room with an air speed immediately surrounding the UUT of &#x2264;0.5 m/s. The ambient temperature shall be maintained at 20 &#xB0;C +/- 5 &#xB0;C throughout the test. There shall be no intentional cooling of the UUT such as by use of separately powered fans, air conditioners, or heat sinks. The UUT shall be conditioned, rested, and tested on a thermally non-conductive surface. When not undergoing active testing, batteries shall be stored at 20 &#xB0;C +/- 5 &#xB0;C.

(a) If the UUT is intended for operation on AC line-voltage input in the United States, it shall be tested at 115 V at 60 Hz. If the UUT is intended for operation on AC line-voltage input but cannot be operated at 115 V at 60 Hz, it shall not be tested.

(b) If a battery charger is powered by a low-voltage DC or AC input and the manufacturer packages the battery charger with an external power supply ("EPS"), test the battery charger using the packaged EPS; if the battery charger does not include a pre-packaged EPS, then test the battery charger with an EPS sold and recommended by the manufacturer; if the manufacturer does not recommend an EPS that it sells, test the battery charger with an EPS that the manufacturer recommends for use in the manufacturer materials. The input reference source shall be 115 V at 60 Hz. If the EPS cannot be operated with AC input voltage at 115 V at 60 Hz, the charger shall not be tested.

(c) If a battery charger is designed for operation only on DC input voltage and if the provisions of section 3.1.4.(b) of this appendix do not apply, test the battery charger with an external power supply that minimally complies with the applicable energy conservation standard and meets the external power supply parameters specified by the battery charger manufacturer. The input voltage shall be within +/-1 percent of the battery charger manufacturer specified voltage.

(d) If the input voltage is AC, the input frequency shall be within +/-1 percent of the specified frequency. The THD of the input voltage shall be &#x2264;2 percent, up to and including the 13th harmonic. The crest factor of the input voltage shall be between 1.34 and 1.49.

(e) If the input voltage is DC, the AC ripple voltage (RMS) shall be:

(1) &#x2264;0.2 V for DC voltages up to 10 V; or

(2) &#x2264;2 percent of the DC voltage for DC voltages over 10 V.

(a) The battery charger system shall be prepared and set up in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions, except where those instructions conflict with the requirements of this test procedure. If no instructions are given, then factory or "default" settings shall be used, or where there are no indications of such settings, the UUT shall be tested in the condition as it would be supplied to an end user.

(b) If the battery charger has user controls to select from two or more charge rates (such as regular or fast charge) or different charge currents, the test shall be conducted at the fastest charge rate that is recommended by the manufacturer for everyday use, or, failing any explicit recommendation, the factory-default charge rate. If the charger has user controls for selecting special charge cycles that are recommended only for occasional use to preserve battery health, such as equalization charge, removing memory, or battery conditioning, these modes are not required to be tested. The settings of the controls shall be listed in the report for each test.

The UUT, including the battery charger and its associated battery, shall be new products of the type and condition that would be sold to a customer. If the battery is lead-acid chemistry and the battery is to be stored for more than 24 hours between its initial acquisition and testing, the battery shall be charged before such storage.

(a) For chargers with integral batteries, the battery packaged with the charger shall be used for testing. For chargers with detachable batteries, the battery or batteries to be used for testing will vary depending on whether there are any batteries packaged with the battery charger.

(1) If batteries are packaged with the charger, batteries for testing shall be selected from the batteries packaged with the battery charger, according to the procedure in section 3.2.3(b) of this appendix.

(2) If no batteries are packaged with the charger, but the instructions specify or recommend batteries for use with the charger, batteries for testing shall be selected from those recommended or specified in the instructions, according to the procedure in section 3.2.3(b) of this appendix.

(3) If no batteries are packaged with the charger and the instructions do not specify or recommend batteries for use with the charger, batteries for testing shall be selected from any that are suitable for use with the charger, according to the procedure in section 3.2.3(b) of this appendix.

(b)(1) From the detachable batteries specified in section 3.2.3.(a) of this appendix, use Table 3.2.1 of this appendix to select the batteries to be used for testing, depending on the type of battery charger being tested. The battery charger types represented by the rows in the table are mutually exclusive. Find the single applicable row for the UUT, and test according to those requirements. Select only the single battery configuration specified for the battery charger type in Table 3.2.1 of this section.

(2) If the battery selection criteria specified in Table 3.2.1 of this appendix results in two or more batteries or configurations of batteries of different chemistries, but with equal voltage and capacity ratings, determine the maintenance mode power, as specified in section 3.3.9 of this appendix, for each of the batteries or configurations of batteries, and select for testing the battery or configuration of batteries with the highest maintenance mode power.

(c) A charger is considered as:

(1) Single-capacity if all associated batteries have the same nameplate battery charge capacity (see definition) and, if it is a batch charger, all configurations of the batteries have the same nameplate battery charge capacity.

(2) Multi-capacity if there are associated batteries or configurations of batteries that have different nameplate battery charge capacities.

(d) The selected battery or batteries will be referred to as the "test battery" and will be used through the remainder of this test procedure.

(a) If the battery charger or product containing the battery charger does not have any additional functions unrelated to battery charging, this section may be skipped.

(b) Any optional functions controlled by the user and not associated with the battery charging process (e.g., the answering machine in a cordless telephone charging base) shall be switched off. If it is not possible to switch such functions off, they shall be set to their lowest power-consuming mode during the test.

(c) If the battery charger takes any physically separate connectors or cables not required for battery charging but associated with its other functionality (such as phone lines, serial or USB connections, Ethernet, cable TV lines, etc.), these connectors or cables shall be left disconnected during the testing.

(d) Any manual on-off switches specifically associated with the battery charging process shall be switched on for the duration of the charge, maintenance, and no-battery mode tests, and switched off for the off mode test.

(a) The technician may need to disassemble the end-use product or battery charger to gain access to the battery terminals for the Battery Discharge Energy Test in section 3.3.8 of this appendix. If the battery terminals are not clearly labeled, the technician shall use a voltmeter to identify the positive and negative terminals. These terminals will be the ones that give the largest voltage difference and are able to deliver significant current (0.2 C or 1/hr) into a load.

(b) All conductors used for contacting the battery must be cleaned and burnished prior to connecting in order to decrease voltage drops and achieve consistent results.

(c) Manufacturer's instructions for disassembly shall be followed, except those instructions that:

(1) Lead to any permanent alteration of the battery charger circuitry or function;

(2) Could alter the energy consumption of the battery charger compared to that experienced by a user during typical use, e.g., due to changes in the airflow through the enclosure of the UUT; or

(3) Conflict requirements of this test procedure.

(d) Care shall be taken by the technician during disassembly to follow appropriate safety precautions. If the functionality of the device or its safety features is compromised, the product shall be discarded after testing.

(e) Some products may include protective circuitry between the battery cells and the remainder of the device. If the manufacturer provides a description for accessing the connections at the output of the protective circuitry, these connections shall be used to discharge the battery and measure the discharge energy. The energy consumed by the protective circuitry during discharge shall not be measured or credited as battery energy.

(f) If any of the following conditions specified in sections 3.2.5.(f)(1) to 3.2.5.(f)(3) of this appendix are applicable, preventing the measurement of the Battery Discharge Energy and the Charging and Maintenance Mode Energy, a manufacturer must submit a petition for a test procedure waiver in accordance with ยง 430.27:

(1) Inability to access the battery terminals;

(2) Access to the battery terminals destroys charger functionality; or

(3) Inability to draw current from the test battery.

(a) If there is no rating for the battery charge capacity on the battery or in the instructions, then the technician shall determine a discharge current that meets the following requirements. The battery shall be fully charged and then discharged at this constant-current rate until it reaches the end-of-discharge voltage specified in Table 3.3.2 of this appendix. The discharge time must be not less than 4.5 hours nor more than 5 hours. In addition, the discharge test (section 3.3.8 of this appendix) (which may not be starting with a fully-charged battery) shall reach the end-of-discharge voltage within 5 hours. The same discharge current shall be used for both the preparations step (section 3.3.4 of this appendix) and the discharge test (section 3.3.8 of this appendix). The test report shall include the discharge current used and the resulting discharge times for both a fully-charged battery and for the discharge test.

(b) For this section, the battery is considered as "fully charged" when either: it has been charged by the UUT until an indicator on the UUT shows that the charge is complete; or it has been charged by a battery analyzer at a current not greater than the discharge current until the battery analyzer indicates that the battery is fully charged.

(c) When there is no capacity rating, a suitable discharge current must generally be determined by trial and error. Since the conditioning step does not require constant-current discharges, the trials themselves may also be counted as part of battery conditioning.

The test sequence to measure the battery charger energy consumption is summarized in Table 3.3.1 of this appendix, and explained in detail in this appendix. Measurements shall be made under test conditions and with the equipment specified in sections 3.1 and 3.2 of this appendix.

The technician shall record:

(a) The manufacturer and model of the battery charger;

(b) The presence and status of any additional functions unrelated to battery charging;

(c) The manufacturer, model, and number of batteries in the test battery;

(d) The nameplate battery voltage of the test battery;

(e) The nameplate battery charge capacity of the test battery; and

(f) The nameplate battery charge energy of the test battery.

(g) The settings of the controls, if battery charger has user controls to select from two or more charge rates.

(a) The charge and maintenance modes test, described in detail in section 3.3.6 of this appendix, shall be 24 hours in length or longer, as determined by the items in sections 3.3.2.(a)(1) to 3.3.2.(a)(3) of this appendix. Proceed in order until a test duration is determined. In case when the battery charger does not enter its true battery maintenance mode, the test shall continue until 5 hours after the true battery maintenance mode has been captured.

(1) If the battery charger has an indicator to show that the battery is fully charged, that indicator shall be used as follows: if the indicator shows that the battery is charged after 19 hours of charging, the test shall be terminated at 24 hours. Conversely, if the full-charge indication is not yet present after 19 hours of charging, the test shall continue until 5 hours after the indication is present.

(2) If there is no indicator, but the manufacturer's instructions indicate that charging this battery or this capacity of battery should be complete within 19 hours, the test shall be for 24 hours. If the instructions indicate that charging may take longer than 19 hours, the test shall be run for the longest estimated charge time plus 5 hours.

(3) If there is no indicator and no time estimate in the instructions, but the charging current is stated on the charger or in the instructions, calculate the test duration as the longer of 24 hours or:

(b) If none of section 3.3.2.(a) applies, the duration of the test shall be 24 hours.

(a) No conditioning is to be done on lithium-ion batteries. The test technician shall proceed directly to battery preparation, section 3.3.4 of this appendix, when testing chargers for these batteries.

(b) Products with integral batteries will have to be disassembled per the instructions in section 3.2.5 of this appendix, and the battery disconnected from the charger for discharging.

(c) Batteries of other chemistries that have not been previously cycled are to be conditioned by performing two charges and two discharges, followed by a charge, as sections 3.3.3.(c)(1) to 3.3.3.(c)(5) of this appendix. No data need be recorded during battery conditioning.

(1) The test battery shall be fully charged for the duration specified in section 3.3.2 of this appendix or longer using the UUT.

(2) The test battery shall then be fully discharged using either:

(i) A battery analyzer at a rate not to exceed 1 C, until its average cell voltage under load reaches the end-of-discharge voltage specified in Table 3.3.2 of this appendix for the relevant battery chemistry; or

(ii) The UUT, until the UUT ceases operation due to low battery voltage.

(3) The test battery shall again be fully charged per step in section 3.3.3(c)(1) of this appendix.

(4) The test battery shall again be fully discharged per step in section 3.3.3(c)(2) of this appendix.

(5) The test battery shall be again fully charged per step in section 3.3.3(c)(1) of this appendix.

(d) Batteries of chemistries, other than lithium-ion, that are known to have been through at least two previous full charge/discharge cycles shall only be charged once per step in section 3.3.3(c)(5) of this appendix.

Following any conditioning prior to beginning the battery charge test (section 3.3.6 of this appendix), the test battery shall be fully discharged to the end of discharge voltage prescribed in Table 3.3.2 of this appendix, or until the UUT circuitry terminates the discharge.

The test battery shall be rested between preparation and the battery charge test. The rest period shall be at least one hour and not exceed 24 hours. For batteries with flooded cells, the electrolyte temperature shall be less than 30 &#xB0;C before charging, even if the rest period must be extended longer than 24 hours.

(a) The Active Charge and Battery Maintenance Modes test measures energy consumed during charge mode and some time spent in the maintenance mode of the UUT. Functions required for battery conditioning that happen only with some user-selected switch or other control shall not be included in this measurement. (The technician shall manually turn off any battery conditioning cycle or setting.) Regularly occurring battery conditioning or maintenance functions that are not controlled by the user will, by default, be incorporated into this measurement.

(b) During the measurement period, input power values to the UUT shall be recorded at least once every minute.

(1) If possible, the technician shall set the data logging system to record the average power during the sample interval. The total energy is computed as the sum of power samples (in watts) multiplied by the sample interval (in hours).

(2) If this setting is not possible, then the power analyzer shall be set to integrate or accumulate the input power over the measurement period and this result shall be used as the total energy.

(c) The technician shall follow these steps:

(1) Ensure that the user-controllable device functionality not associated with battery charging and any battery conditioning cycle or setting are turned off, as instructed in section 3.2.4 of this appendix;

(2) Ensure that the test battery used in this test has been conditioned, prepared, discharged, and rested as described in sections 3.3.3. through 3.3.5. of this appendix;

(3) Connect the data logging equipment to the battery charger;

(4) Record the start time of the measurement period, and begin logging the input power;

(5) Connect the test battery to the battery charger within 3 minutes of beginning logging. For integral battery products, connect the product to a cradle or EPS within 3 minutes of beginning logging;

(6) After the test battery is connected, record the initial time and power (W) of the input current to the UUT. These measurements shall be taken within the first 10 minutes of active charging;

(7) Record the input power for the duration of the "Maintenance Mode Test" period, as determined by section 3.3.2. of this appendix. The actual time that power is connected to the UUT shall be within +/-5 minutes of the specified period; and

(8) Disconnect power to the UUT, terminate data logging, and record the final time.

The test battery shall be rested between charging and discharging. The rest period shall be at least 1 hour and not more than 4 hours, with an exception for flooded cells. For batteries with flooded cells, the electrolyte temperature shall be less than 30 &#xB0;C before charging, even if the rest period must be extended beyond 4 hours.

(a) If multiple batteries were charged simultaneously, the discharge energy (E) is the sum of the discharge energies of all the batteries.

(1) For a multi-port charger, batteries that were charged in separate ports shall be discharged independently.

(2) For a batch charger, batteries that were charged as a group may be discharged individually, as a group, or in sub-groups connected in series and/or parallel. The position of each battery with respect to the other batteries need not be maintained.

(b) During discharge, the battery voltage and discharge current shall be sampled and recorded at least once per minute. The values recorded may be average or instantaneous values.

(c) For this test, the technician shall follow these steps:

(1) Ensure that the test battery has been charged by the UUT and rested according to the procedures prescribed in sections 3.3.6 and 3.3.7 of this appendix.

(2) Set the battery analyzer for a constant discharge rate and the end-of-discharge voltage in Table 3.3.2 of this appendix for the relevant battery chemistry.

(3) Connect the test battery to the analyzer and begin recording the voltage, current, and wattage, if available from the battery analyzer. When the end-of-discharge voltage is reached or the UUT circuitry terminates the discharge, the test battery shall be returned to an open-circuit condition. If current continues to be drawn from the test battery after the end-of-discharge condition is first reached, this additional energy is not to be counted in the battery discharge energy.

(d) If not available from the battery analyzer, the battery discharge energy (in watt-hours) is calculated by multiplying the voltage (in volts), current (in amperes), and sample period (in hours) for each sample, and then summing over all sample periods until the end-of-discharge voltage is reached.

*If the presence of protective circuitry prevents the battery cells from being discharged to the end-of-discharge voltage specified, then discharge battery cells to the lowest possible voltage permitted by the protective circuitry.

After the measurement period is complete, the technician shall determine the average maintenance mode power consumption (P) by examining the power-versus-time data from the charge and maintenance mode test and:

(a) If the maintenance mode power is cyclic or shows periodic pulses, compute the average power over a time period that spans a whole number of cycles and includes at least the last 4 hours.

(b) Otherwise, calculate the average power value over the last 4 hours.

After the measurement period is complete, the technician shall determine the total active charge energy (E) by examining the power-versus-time data from the charge and maintenance mode test and:

(a) First determine when the battery charger enters maintenance mode by examining the power-versus-time data to identify when the input power enters either a steady state or a cyclic state with average power for that period being the same as the maintenance mode power determined in section 3.3.9. of this appendix.

(b) The accumulated energy or the average input power, integrated over the test period from the initial recorded input time up until when the battery charger enters maintenance mode would be the active charge energy, E.

The no-battery mode measurement depends on the configuration of the battery charger, as follows:
