
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix Y1 to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Battery Chargers
###### Eff,Eff

If the percentage difference ofandas described in the equation, is less than 1 percent, the product is at steady state.

(f) If the percentage difference is greater than or equal to 1 percent, the product is not at steady state. Repeat the steps listed in paragraphs (c) to (e) of section 4.3.2 of this appendix until the product is at steady state.

Measure input and output power of the UUT according to Section J.3 of Annex J of IEC 62040-3 Ed. 2.0, or measure the input and output energy of the UUT for efficiency calculations with the following exceptions:

(a) Test the UUT at the following reference test load conditions, in the following order: 100 percent, 75 percent, 50 percent, and 25 percent of the rated output power.

(b) Perform the test at each of the reference test loads by simultaneously measuring the UUT's input and output power in Watts (W), or input and output energy in Watt-Hours (Wh) over a 15 minute test period at a rate of at least 1 Hz. Calculate the efficiency for that reference load using one of the following two equations:

(1)

(2)

Optional Test for determination of UPS architecture. Determine the UPS architecture by performing the tests specified in the definitions of VI, VFD, and VFI (sections 2.28.1 through 2.28.3 of this appendix).

(a) Use the load weightings from Table 4.3.1 to determine the average load adjusted efficiency as follows:

(b) Round the calculated efficiency value to one tenth of a percentage point.

The technician will set up the testing environment according to the test conditions as specified in sections 3.1.2, 3.1.3, and 3.1.4 of this appendix. The unit under test will be configurated according to section 3.2.1 and all other non-battery charger related functions will be turned off according to section 3.2.4.

[Reserved]
