
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix Z to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of External Power Supplies
###### sic

(e) Select all leads used in the test set-up with appropriate wire gauges and lengths to minimize voltage drops across the wires during testing. See Table B.2 - "Commonly used values for wire gages [] and related voltage drops" in IEEE 1515-2000 for further guidance.

(f) Test Load. To load the power supply to produce all active-mode loading conditions, use passive loads, such as rheostats, or active loads, such as electronic loads. Resistive loads need not be measured precisely with an ohmmeter; simply adjust a variable resistor to the point where the ammeter confirms that the desired percentage of nameplate output current is flowing. For electronic loads, adjust the desired output current in constant current mode rather than adjusting the required output power in constant power mode.

(g) Test the external power supply at the end of the wire or cord that connects to an end-use product, regardless of whether the end of the wire or cord is integrated into an end-use product or plugs into and out of an end-use product. If a separate wire or cord is provided by the manufacturer to connect the external power supply to an end-use product, use this wire or cord and perform tests at the end of the cord that connects to an end-use product. An external power supply that is not supplied with a wire or cord must be tested with a wire or an output cord recommended by the manufacturer. If the external power supply is not supplied with a wire or cord and for which the manufacturer does not recommend one, the EPS must be tested with a 3-foot-long output wire or cord with a conductor thickness that is minimally sufficient to carry the maximum required current.

(1) If the connection to an end-use product is removable, there are two options for connecting metering equipment to the output connection of the external power supply:

(i) Cut the cord immediately adjacent to the output connector, or

(ii) Attach leads and measure the efficiency from the output connector itself.

(2) If the connection to an end-use product is not removable, cut the cord immediately adjacent to the powered product and connect metering equipment at that point.

(h) Conduct the tests on the sets of output wires that constitute the output busses. If the product has more than two output wires, including those wires that are necessary for controlling the product, the manufacturer must supply a connection diagram or test fixture that will allow the testing laboratory to put the UUT into active mode. Figure 1 of this section provides one illustration of how to set up a single-voltage external power supply for testing; however, the actual test setup may vary pursuant to the type of external power supply being tested and the requirements of this appendix.

(i) Except as provided in section 4(j) of this appendix, external power supplies must be tested in their final, completed configuration in order to represent their measured efficiency on product labels or specification sheets. Although the same procedure may be used to test the efficiency of a bare circuit board power supply prior to its incorporation into a finished housing and the attachment of its DC output cord, the efficiency of the bare circuit board power supply may not be used to characterize the efficiency of the final product (once enclosed in a case and fitted with a DC output cord). For example, a power supply manufacturer or component manufacturer may wish to assess the efficiency of a design that it intends to provide to an OEM for incorporation into a finished external power supply, but these results may not be used to represent the efficiency of the finished external power supply.

(j) If a product serves one or more other major functions in addition to converting household electric current into DC current or lower-voltage AC current, components of the product that serve other functions may be disconnected before testing so that test measurements do not include power used by other functions and as long as disconnecting such components do not affect the ability of the product to convert household electric current into DC current or lower-voltage AC current. For example, consider an EPS that also acts as a surge protector that offers outlets supplying AC household electric current and one or more USB outputs supplying DC current. If power is provided to the AC outlets through a surge protection circuit, but power to the USB outlet(s) is not, then the surge protection circuit may be disconnected from AC power during testing. Similarly, if a lighted manual on-off switch disconnects power only to the AC outlets, but not the USB outputs, then the manual on-off switch may be turned off and power to the light disconnected during testing. If a disconnection is performed by a technician, the disconnection must be able to be replicated by a third-party test facility.

(a) Single-Voltage External Power Supply

(1) Standby Mode and Active-Mode Measurement.

(i) Place in the "on" position any built-in switch in the UUT controlling power flow to the AC input and note the existence of such a switch in the final test report.

(ii) Operate the UUT at 100 percent of nameplate output current for at least 30 minutes immediately prior to conducting efficiency measurements. After this warm-up period, monitor AC input power for a period of 5 minutes to assess the stability of the UUT. If the power level does not drift by more than 5 percent from the maximum value observed, the UUT is considered stable. If the UUT is stable, record the measurements obtained at the end of this 5-minute period. Measure subsequent loading conditions under the same 5-minute stability parameters. Note that only one warm-up period of 30 minutes is required for each UUT at the beginning of the test procedure. If the AC input power is not stable over a 5-minute period, follow the guidelines established by Section 5.3.3 of IEC 62301 for measuring average power or accumulated energy over time for both input and output.

(iii) Test the UUT at the nameplate output voltage(s) at the loading conditions listed in Table 1, derated per the proportional allocation method presented in section 5(a)(1)(iv) of this appendix. Conduct efficiency measurements in sequence from Loading Condition 1 to Loading Condition 4 as indicated in Table 1 of this section. For Loading Condition 5, place the UUT in no-load mode, disconnect any additional signal connections to the UUT, and measure input power.

(A) If testing of additional, optional loading conditions is desired, conduct that testing in accordance with this test procedure and subsequent to completing the sequence described in section 5(a)(1)(iii) of this appendix.

(B) Where the external power supply lists both an instantaneous and continuous output current, test the external power supply at the continuous condition only.

(C) If an external power supply cannot sustain output at one or more of the Loading Conditions 1-4 as specified in Table 1 of this section, test the external power supply only at the loading conditions for which it can sustain output.

(iv) Use the following proportional allocation method to provide consistent loading conditions for single-voltage external power supplies with multiple-output busses. For additional explanation (provided for guidance only), please refer to section 6.1.1 of the California Energy Commission's "Generalized Test Protocol for Calculating the Energy Efficiency of Internal Ac-Dc Power Supplies Revision 6.7," March 2014.

(A) Consider a power supply with N output busses, each with the same nameplate output voltages V, * * *, V, corresponding output current ratings I, * * *, I, and a nameplate output power P. Calculate the derating factor D by dividing the power supply maximum output power P by the sum of the maximum output powers of the individual output busses, equal to the product of port nameplate output voltage and current IV, as follows:

(B) If D ≥1, then loading every port to its nameplate output current does not exceed the overall maximum output power for the power supply. In this case, load each output bus to the percentages of its nameplate output current listed in Table 1 of this section. However, if D <1, it is an indication that loading each port to its nameplate output current will exceed the overall maximum output power for the power supply. In this case, and at each loading condition, load each output bus to the appropriate percentage of its nameplate output current as listed in Table 1, multiplied by the derating factor D.

(v) Test switch-selectable single-voltage external power supplies twice-once at the highest nameplate output voltage and once at the lowest.

(vi) Efficiency calculation. Calculate and record efficiency at each loading point by dividing the UUT's measured active output power at a given loading condition by the active AC input power measured at that loading condition.

(A) Calculate and record average efficiency of the UUT as the arithmetic mean of the efficiency values calculated at Loading Conditions 1, 2, 3, and 4 in Table 1 of this section.

(B) If, when tested, a UUT cannot sustain output current at one or more of the loading conditions as specified in Table 1, the average active-mode efficiency is calculated as the average of the loading conditions for which it can sustain output.
