
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix Z to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of External Power Supplies
###### USB Type-C

means the reversible 24-pin physical USB connector system that supports USB-PD and allows for the transmission of data and power between compatible USB products.

(a) Any power measurements recorded, as well as any power measurement equipment utilized for testing, shall conform to the uncertainty and resolution specifications in Section 4.4.1, "Power measurement uncertainty," as well as Annexes B, "Notes on the measurement of low power modes," and D, "Determination of uncertainty of measurement," of IEC 62301.

(b) Carry out tests in a room that has an air speed close to the UUT of &#x2264;0.5 m/s. Maintain ambient temperature at 20 +/- 5 &#xB0;C throughout the test. Do not intentionally cool the UUT, for example, by use of separately powered fans, air conditioners, or heat sinks. Test the UUT on a thermally non-conductive surface. Products intended for outdoor use may be tested at additional temperatures, provided those are in addition to the conditions specified and are noted in a separate section on the test report.

(c) If the UUT is intended for operation on AC line-voltage input in the United States, test it at 115 V at 60 Hz. If the UUT is intended for operation on AC line-voltage input but cannot be operated at 115 V at 60 Hz, do not test it. Ensure the input voltage is within +/-1 percent of the above specified voltage and the input frequency is within +/-1 percent of the specified frequency.

(d) The input voltage source must be capable of delivering at least 10 times the nameplate input power of the UUT as is specified in IEEE 1515-2000 (Referenced for guidance only, see ยง 430.4). Regardless of the AC source type, the THD of the supply voltage when supplying the UUT in the specified mode must not exceed 2 percent, up to and including the 13th harmonic. The peak value of the test voltage must be within 1.34 and 1.49 multiplied by its RMS value.
