
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix Z to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of External Power Supplies
###### i.e.,

(C) If the UUT can only sustain one output current at any of the output busses, test it at the loading condition that allows for the maximum output power on that bus (the highest output current possible at the highest output voltage on that bus).

(vi) Power consumption calculation. The power consumption of Loading Condition 5 (no-load) is equal to the active AC input power (W) at that loading condition.

(2) Off-Mode Measurement-If the UUT incorporates manual on-off switches, place the UUT in off-mode and measure and record its power consumption at Loading Condition 5 in Table 3 of this section. The measurement of the off-mode energy consumption must conform to the requirements specified in section 6(a)(1) of this appendix, except that all manual on-off switches must be placed in the "off" position for the off-mode measurement. The UUT is considered stable if, over 5 minutes with samples taken at least once every second, the AC input power does not drift from the maximum value observed by more than 1 percent or 50 milliwatts, whichever is greater. Measure the off-mode power consumption of a single-voltage adaptive external power supply twice-once at the highest nameplate output voltage and once at the lowest.

(b) Multiple-Voltage Adaptive External Power Supply.

(1) Standby Mode and Active-Mode Measurement.

(i) Place in the "on" position any built-in switch in the UUT controlling power flow to the AC input and note the existence of such a switch in the final test report.

(ii) Operate the UUT at 100 percent of nameplate output current for at least 30 minutes immediately prior to conducting efficiency measurements. After this warm-up period, monitor AC input power for a period of 5 minutes to assess the stability of the UUT. If the power level does not drift by more than 1 percent from the maximum value observed, the UUT is considered stable. If the UUT is stable, record the measurements obtained at the end of this 5-minute period. Measure subsequent loading conditions under the same 5-minute stability parameters. Note that only one warm-up period of 30 minutes is required for each UUT at the beginning of the test procedure. If the AC input power is not stable over a 5-minute period, follow the guidelines established by Section 5.3.3 of IEC 62301 for measuring average power or accumulated energy over time for both input and output.

(iii) Test the UUT at the nameplate output voltage(s) at the loading conditions listed in Table 4 of this section, derated per the proportional allocation method presented in section 6(b)(1)(iv) of this appendix. Active or passive loads used for efficiency testing of the UUT must maintain the required current loading set point for each output voltage within an accuracy of +/-0.5 percent. Adaptive external power supplies must be tested twice-once at the highest nameplate output voltage and once at the lowest nameplate output voltage as described in the following sections.

(A) At the highest nameplate output voltage, test adaptive external power supplies in sequence from Loading Condition 1 to Loading Condition 4, as indicated in Table 4 of this section. For Loading Condition 5, place the UUT in no-load mode, disconnect any additional signal connections, and measure the input power.

(B) At the lowest nameplate output voltage, with the exception of USB-PD EPSs, test all other adaptive external power supplies, in sequence from Loading Condition 1 to Loading Condition 4, as indicated in Table 4 of this section. For USB-PD adaptive external power supplies, at the lowest nameplate output voltage, test the external power supply such that for Loading Conditions 1, 2, 3, and 4, all adaptive ports are loaded to 2 amperes, 1.5 amperes, 1 ampere, and 0.5 amperes, respectively. All non-adaptive ports will continue to be loaded as indicated in Table 4 of this section. For Loading Condition 5, test all adaptive external power supplies by placing the UUT in no-load mode, disconnecting any additional signal connections, and measuring the input power.

(C) If testing of additional, optional loading conditions is desired, conduct that testing in accordance with this test procedure and subsequent to completing the sequence described in section 6(b)(1)(iii) of this appendix.

(D) Where the external power supply lists both an instantaneous and continuous output current, test the external power supply at the continuous condition only.

(E) If an adaptive external power supply is operating as a multiple-voltage external power supply at only the highest nameplate output voltage or lowest nameplate output voltage, test this external power supply as a multiple-voltage adaptive external power supply at both the highest nameplate output voltage and the lowest nameplate output voltage.

(F) If an external power supply has both adaptive and non-adaptive ports, and these ports operate simultaneously at multiple voltages, ensure that testing is performed with all ports active at both the highest and lowest nameplate output voltage. For example, if an external power supply has a USB-PD adaptive output bus that operates at 5 volts and 20 volts and a second non-adaptive output bus that operates at 9 volts, test this EPS at the highest nameplate output voltage with both the adaptive and non-adaptive ports respectively loaded at 20 volts and 9 volts; likewise, test it at the lowest nameplate output voltage with both the adaptive and non-adaptive ports respectively loaded at 5 volts and 9 volts.

(G) If an external power supply cannot sustain output at one or more of the Loading Conditions 1-4 as specified in Table 4 of this section, test the external power supply only at the loading conditions for which it can sustain output.

(iv) Use the following proportional allocation method to provide consistent loading conditions for multiple-voltage adaptive external power supplies. For additional explanation, please refer to section 6.1.1 of the California Energy Commission's "Proposed Test Protocol for Calculating the Energy Efficiency of Internal Ac-Dc Power Supplies Revision 6.7," March 2014.

(A) Consider a multiple-voltage power supply with N output busses, and nameplate output voltages V, * * *, V, corresponding output current ratings I, * * *, I, and a maximum output power P as specified on the manufacturer's label on the power supply housing, or, if absent from the housing, as specified in the documentation provided with the unit by the manufacturer. Calculate the derating factor D by dividing the power supply maximum output power P by the sum of the maximum output powers of the individual output busses, equal to the product of bus nameplate output voltage and current IV, as follows:

For USB-PD adaptive external power supplies, at the lowest nameplate output voltage, limit the contribution from each port to 10W when calculating the derating factor.

(B) If D ≥1, then loading every bus to its nameplate output current does not exceed the overall maximum output power for the power supply. In this case, load each output bus to the percentages of its nameplate output current listed in Table 4 of this section. However, if D <1, it is an indication that loading each bus to its nameplate output current will exceed the overall maximum output power for the power supply. In this case, at each loading condition, load each output bus to the appropriate percentage of its nameplate output current listed in Table 4 of this section, multiplied by the derating factor D.

(v) Minimum output current requirements. Depending on their application, some multiple-voltage adaptive external power supplies may require a minimum output current for each output bus of the power supply for correct operation. In these cases, ensure that the load current for each output at Loading Condition 4 in Table 4 of this section is greater than the minimum output current requirement. Thus, if the test method's calculated load current for a given voltage bus is smaller than the minimum output current requirement, use the minimum output current to load the bus. Record this load current in any test report.

(vi) Efficiency calculation. Calculate and record the efficiency at each loading point by dividing the UUT's measured active output power at that loading condition by the active AC input power measured at that loading condition.

(A) Calculate and record average efficiency of the UUT as the arithmetic mean of the efficiency values calculated at Loading Conditions 1, 2, 3, and 4 in Table 4 of this section.

(B) If, when tested, a UUT cannot sustain the output current at one or more of the loading conditions as specified in Table 4, the average active-mode efficiency is calculated as the average of the loading conditions for which it can sustain output.
