
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix BB to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Input Power, Lumen Output, Lamp Efficacy, Correlated Color Temperature (CCT), Color Rendering Index (CRI), Power Factor, Time to Failure, and Standby Mode Power of Integrated Light-Emitting Diode (LED) Lamps
###### 4.5. Measure Interval Lumen Output.

Measure interval lumen output according to section 3 of this appendix.

4.5.1. Record interval lumen output and elapsed operating time as described in section 4.2 of IES TM-28 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).

4.5.1.1. For test duration values greater than or equal to 3,000 hours and less than 6,000 hours, measure lumen maintenance of the integrated LED lamp at an interval in accordance with section 4.2.2 of IES TM-28.

4.5.1.2. For test duration values greater than or equal to 6,000 hours, measure lumen maintenance at an interval in accordance with section 4.2.1 of IES TM-28.

4.6.1. Calculate the lumen maintenance of the lamp at each interval by dividing the interval lumen output "x" by the initial lumen output "x". Measure initial and interval lumen output in accordance with sections 4.2 and 4.5 of this appendix, respectively.

4.6.2. For lumen maintenance values less than 0.7, including lamp failures that result in complete loss of light output, time to failure is equal to the previously recorded lumen output measurement (at a shorter test duration) where the lumen maintenance is greater than or equal to 0.7.

4.6.3. For lumen maintenance values equal to 0.7, time to failure is equal to the test duration.

4.6.4. For lumen maintenance values greater than 0.7, use the following method:

4.6.4.1. For test duration values less than 3,000 hours, do not project time to failure. Time to failure equals the test duration.

4.6.4.2. For test duration values greater than or equal to 3,000 hours but less than 6,000 hours, time to failure is equal to the lesser of the projected time to failure calculated according to section 4.6.4.2.1 of this appendix or the test duration multiplied by the limiting multiplier calculated in section 4.6.4.2.2 of this appendix.

4.6.4.2.1. Project time to failure using the projection method described in section 5.1.4 of IES TM-28 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3). Project time to failure for each individual LED lamp. Do not use data obtained prior to a test duration value of 1,000 hours.

4.6.4.2.2. Calculate the limiting multiplier from the following equation:

4.6.4.3. For test duration values greater than 6,000 hours, time to failure is equal to the lesser of the projected time to failure calculated according to section 4.6.4.3.1 or the test duration multiplied by six.

4.6.4.3.1. Project time to failure using the projection method described in section 5.1.4 of IES TM-28 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3). Project time to failure for each individual LED lamp. Data used for the time to failure projection method must be as specified in section 5.1.3 of IES TM-28.

Measure standby mode power consumption for integrated LED lamps capable of operating in standby mode. The standby mode test method in this section 5 may be completed before or after the active mode test method for determining lumen output, input power, CCT, CRI, power factor, and lamp efficacy in section 3 of this appendix. The standby mode test method in this section 5 must be completed before the active mode test method for determining time to failure in section 4 of this appendix. In cases where there is a conflict, the language of the test procedure in this appendix takes precedence over IES LM-79 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3) and IEC 62301 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).

5.1.1. Establish the ambient conditions, power supply, electrical settings, and instrumentation in accordance with the specifications in sections 2.0, 3.0, 7.0, and 8.0 of IES LM-79 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3), respectively. Maintain the ambient temperature at 25 &#xB0;C +/- 1 &#xB0;C.

5.1.2. Position a lamp in either the base-up and base-down orientation throughout testing. An equal number of lamps in the sample must be tested in the base-up and base-down orientations.

5.1.3. Operate the integrated LED lamp at the rated voltage throughout testing. For an integrated LED lamp with multiple rated voltages, operate the integrated LED lamp at 120 volts. If an integrated LED lamp with multiple rated voltages is not rated for 120 volts, operate the integrated LED lamp at the highest rated input voltage.

5.2.1. The test conditions and setup described in section 3.1 of this appendix apply to this section.

5.2.2. Connect the integrated LED lamp to the manufacturer-specified wireless control network (if applicable) and configure the integrated LED lamp in standby mode by sending a signal to the integrated LED lamp instructing it to have zero light output. Lamp must remain connected to the network throughout the duration of the test.

5.2.3. Stabilize the integrated LED lamp as specified in section 5 of IEC 62301 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3) prior to measurement.

5.2.4. Measure the standby mode power in watts as specified in section 5 of IEC 62301.
