
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix BB to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Input Power, Lumen Output, Lamp Efficacy, Correlated Color Temperature (CCT), Color Rendering Index (CRI), Power Factor, Time to Failure, and Standby Mode Power of Integrated Light-Emitting Diode (LED) Lamps
###### Test Duration.

4.3.Operate the integrated LED lamp for a period of time (the test duration) after the initial lumen output measurement and before, during, and including the final lumen output measurement.

4.3.1. There is no minimum test duration requirement for the integrated LED lamp. The test duration is selected by the manufacturer. See section 4.6 of this appendix for instruction on the maximum time to failure.

4.3.2. The test duration only includes time when the integrated LED lamp is energized and operating.

4.4.1. Electrical settings must be as described in section 5.1 of IES LM-84 (incorporated by reference; see ยง 430.3).

4.4.2. LED lamps must be handled and cleaned as described in section 4.1 of IES LM-84.

4.4.3. Vibration around each lamp must be as described in section 4.3 of IES LM-84.

4.4.4. Ambient temperature conditions must be as described in section 4.4 of IES LM-84. Maintain the ambient temperature at 25 &#xB0;C +/- 5 &#xB0;C or at a manufacturer-selected temperature higher than 25 &#xB0;C with the same +/-5 &#xB0;C tolerance.

4.4.5. Humidity in the testing environment must be as described in section 4.5 of IES LM-84.

4.4.6. Air movement around each lamp must be as described in section 4.6 of IES LM-84.

4.4.7. Position a lamp in either the base-up and base-down orientation throughout testing. An equal number of lamps in the sample must be tested in the base-up and base-down orientations, except that, if the manufacturer restricts the position, test all of the units in the sample in the manufacturer-specified position.

4.4.8. Operate the lamp at the rated input voltage as described in section 3.1.3 of this appendix for the entire test duration.

4.4.9. Operate the lamp at the maximum input power as described in section 3.1.4 of this appendix for the entire test duration.

4.4.10. Line voltage waveshape must be as described in section 5.2 of IES LM-84.

4.4.11. Monitor and regulate rated input voltage as described in section 5.4 of IES LM-84.

4.4.12. Wiring of test racks must be as specified in section 5.5 of IES LM-84.

4.4.13. Operate the integrated LED lamp continuously.
