
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix BB to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Input Power, Lumen Output, Lamp Efficacy, Correlated Color Temperature (CCT), Color Rendering Index (CRI), Power Factor, Time to Failure, and Standby Mode Power of Integrated Light-Emitting Diode (LED) Lamps
###### Time to failure

2.6.means the time elapsed between the initial lumen output measurement and the point at which the lamp reaches 70 percent lumen maintenance as measured in section 4 of this appendix.

In cases where there is a conflict, the language of the test procedure in this appendix takes precedence over IES LM-79-08 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).

3.1.1. Establish the ambient conditions, power supply, electrical settings, and instrumentation in accordance with the specifications in sections 2.0, 3.0, 7.0, and 8.0 of IES LM-79-08 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3), respectively.

3.1.2. Position an equal number of integrated LED lamps in the base-up and base-down orientations throughout testing; if the position is restricted by the manufacturer, test units in the manufacturer-specified position.

3.1.3. Operate the integrated LED lamp at the rated voltage throughout testing. For an integrated LED lamp with multiple rated voltages including 120 volts, operate the lamp at 120 volts. If an integrated LED lamp with multiple rated voltages is not rated for 120 volts, operate the lamp at the highest rated input voltage. Additional tests may be conducted at other rated voltages.

3.1.4. Operate the lamp at the maximum input power. If multiple modes occur at the same maximum input power (such as variable CCT or CRI), the manufacturer can select any of these modes for testing; however, all measurements described in sections 3 and 4 of this appendix must be taken at the same selected mode. The test report must indicate which mode was selected for testing and include detail such that another laboratory could operate the lamp in the same mode.

3.2. Test Method, Measurements, and Calculations

3.2.1. The test conditions and setup described in section 3.1 of this appendix apply to this section 3.2.

3.2.2. Stabilize the integrated LED lamp prior to measurement as specified in section 5.0 of IES LM-79-08 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3). Calculate the stabilization variation as [(maximum-minimum)/minimum] of at least three readings of the input power and lumen output over a period of 30 minutes, taken 15 minutes apart.

3.2.3. Measure the input power in watts as specified in section 8.0 of IES LM-79-08.

3.2.4. Measure the input voltage in volts as specified in section 8.0 of IES LM-79-08.

3.2.5. Measure the input current in amps as specified in section 8.0 of IES LM-79-08.

3.2.6. Measure lumen output as specified in section 9.1 and 9.2 of IES LM-79-08. Do not use goniophotometers.

3.2.7. Determine CCT according to the method specified in section 12.0 of IES LM-79-08 with the exclusion of section 12.2 and 12.5 of IES LM-79-08. Do not use goniophotometers.

3.2.8. Determine CRI according to the method specified in section 12.0 of IES LM-79-08 with the exclusion of section 12.2 and 12.5 of IES LM-79-08. Do not use goniophotometers.

3.2.9. Determine lamp efficacy by dividing measured initial lumen output by the measured input power.

3.2.10. Determine power factor for AC-input lamps by dividing measured input power by the product of the measured input voltage and measured input current.

In cases where there is a conflict, the language of the test procedure in this appendix takes precedence over IES LM-84 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3) and IES TM-28 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).

4.1.1. Handle, transport, and store the integrated LED lamp as described in section 7.2 of IES LM-84 (incorporated by reference; see § 430.3).

4.1.2. Mark and track the integrated LED lamp as specified in section 7.3 of IES LM-84.

4.1.3. Measure elapsed operating time and calibrate all equipment as described in section 7.5 of IES LM-84.

4.1.4. Check the integrated LED lamps regularly for failure as specified in section 7.8 of IES LM-84.
