
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix DD to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption and Energy Efficiency of General Service Lamps That Are Not General Service Incandescent Lamps, Compact Fluorescent Lamps, or Integrated LED Lamps
###### Power factor

means the measured initial input power (watts) divided by the product of the input voltage (volts) and the input current (amps) measured at the same time as the initial input power.

3. Active Mode Test Procedures

3.1. Take measurements at full light output.

3.2. Do not use a goniophotometer.

3.3. For single base OLED and non-integrated LED lamps, position a lamp in either the base-up and base-down orientation throughout testing. Test an equal number of lamps in the sample in the base-up and base-down orientations, except that, if the manufacturer restricts the orientation, test all of the units in the sample in the manufacturer-specified orientation. For double base OLED and non-integrated LED lamps, test all units in the horizontal orientation except that, if the manufacturer restricts the orientation, test all of the units in the sample in the manufacturer-specified orientation.

3.4. Operate the lamp at the rated voltage throughout testing. For lamps with multiple rated voltages including 120 volts, operate the lamp at 120 volts. If a lamp is not rated for 120 volts, operate the lamp at the highest rated input voltage. For non-integrated LED lamps, operate the lamp at the manufacturer-declared input voltage and current.

3.5. Operate the lamp at the maximum input power. If multiple modes occur at the same maximum input power (such as variable CCT or CRI), the manufacturer may select any of these modes for testing; however, all measurements must be taken at the same selected mode. The manufacturer must indicate in the test report which mode was selected for testing and include detail such that another laboratory could operate the lamp in the same mode.

3.6. To measure initial lumen output, input power, input voltage, and input current use the test procedures in the table in this section.

3.7. Determine initial lamp efficacy by dividing the measured initial lumen output (lumens) by the measured initial input power (watts).

3.8. Determine power factor by dividing the measured initial input power (watts) by the product of the measured input voltage (volts) and measured input current (amps).

4. Standby Mode Test Procedure

4.1. Measure standby mode power only for lamps that are capable of standby mode operation.

4.2. Maintain lamp orientation as specified in section 3.3 of this appendix.

4.3. Connect the lamp to the manufacturer-specified wireless control network (if applicable) and configure the lamp in standby mode by sending a signal to the lamp instructing it to have zero light output. Lamp must remain connected to the network throughout testing.

4.4. Operate the lamp at the rated voltage throughout testing. For lamps with multiple rated voltages including 120 volts, operate the lamp at 120 volts. If a lamp is not rated for 120 volts, operate the lamp at the highest rated input voltage.

4.5. Stabilize the lamp prior to measurement as specified in section 5 of IEC 62301-DD (incorporated by reference; see ยง 430.3).

4.6. Measure the standby mode power in watts as specified in section 5 of IEC 62301-DD (incorporated by reference; see ยง 430.3).
