
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix EE to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method For Measuring the Energy Consumption of Consumer Boilers
###### Modulating gas burner adjustment at reduced input rate.

7.4For gas-fired boilers equipped with modulating-type controls, adjust the controls to operate the unit at the nameplate minimum input rate. If the modulating control is of a non-automatic type, adjust the control to the setting recommended in the I&O manual. In the absence of such recommendation, the midpoint setting of the non-automatic control shall be used as the setting for determining the reduced fuel input rate. Start the boiler by turning the safety control valve to the "ON" position. Use a supply water temperature that will allow for continuous operation without shutoff by the control. If necessary to achieve such continuous operation, supply water may be increased above 120 &#xB0;F; in such cases, gradually increase the supply water temperature to determine what minimum supply water temperature, with a 20 &#xB0;F temperature rise across the boiler, will be needed to adjust for the minimum input rate at the reduced input rate control setting. Monitor regulated gas pressure out of the modulating control valve (or entering the burner) to determine when no further reduction of gas pressure results. The flow rate of water through the boiler shall be adjusted to achieve a 20 &#xB0;F temperature rise.
