
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix EE to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method For Measuring the Energy Consumption of Consumer Boilers
###### Cool-down test for gas- and oil-fueled boilers without stack dampers.

8.6After steady-state testing has been completed, turn the main burner(s) "OFF" and measure the flue gas temperature at 3.75 minutes (temperature designated as T(t)) and 22.5 minutes (temperature designated as T(t)) after the burner shut-off using the thermocouple grid described in section 7.6 of ASHRAE 103-2017.

a. During this off-period, for units that do not have pump delay after shut-off, do not allow any water to circulate through the hot water boilers.

b. For units that have pump delay on shut-off, except those having pump controls sensing water temperature, the unit control must stop the pump. Measure and record the time between burner shut-off and pump shut-off (t) to the nearest second.

c. For units having pump delay controls that sense water temperature, operate the pump for 15 minutes and record tas 15 minutes. While the pump is operating, maintain the inlet water temperature and flow rate at the same values as used during the steady-state test, as specified in sections 9.1 and 8.4.2.3 of ASHRAE 103-2017.

d. For boilers that employ post-purge, measure the length of the post-purge period with a stopwatch. Record the time from burner "OFF" to combustion blower "OFF" (electrically de-energized) as t. Measure the flue gas temperature by means of the thermocouple grid described in section 7.6 of ASHRAE 103-2017 at the end of the post-purge period t(T(t)) and at (3.75 + t) minutes (T(t)) and (22.5 + t) minutes (T(t)) after the main burner shuts off. If tis prescribed by the I&O manual or measured to be greater than 3 minutes, also measure the flue gas temperature at the midpoint of the post-purge period t/2 (T(t/2)). If the measured tis less than or equal to 30 seconds, record tas 0 and conduct the cool-down test as if there is no post-purge.

8.7 [Reserved]
