
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix EE to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method For Measuring the Energy Consumption of Consumer Boilers
###### Optional test procedures for condensing boilers, measurement of condensate during the establishment of steady-state conditions.

8.5For units with step-modulating or two-stage controls, conduct the test at both the maximum and reduced inputs. In lieu of collecting the condensate immediately after the steady state conditions have been reached as required by section 9.2 of ASHRAE 103-2017, condensate may be collected during the establishment of steady state conditions as defined by section 9.1.2.1 of ASHRAE 103-2017. Perform condensate collection for at least 30 minutes. Measure condensate mass immediately at the end of the collection period to prevent evaporation loss from the sample. Record fuel input for the 30-minute condensate collection test period. Observe and record fuel higher heating value (HHV), temperature, and pressures necessary for determining fuel energy input (Q). Measure the fuel quantity and HHV with errors no greater than 1%. The humidity for the room air shall at no time exceed 80%. Determine the mass of condensate for the establishment of steady state conditions (M) in pounds by subtracting the tare container weight from the total container and condensate weight measured at the end of the 30-minute condensate collection test period.
