
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 431 - ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAM FOR CERTAIN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Electric Motors
###### Appendix B to Subpart B of Part 431 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Efficiency of Electric Motors
####### Synchronous Electric Motor

means an electric motor that:

(a) Is not a dedicated-purpose pool pump motor as defined at ยง 431.483 or is not an air-over electric motor;

(b) Is a synchronous electric motor;

(c) Is rated for continuous duty (MG 1) operation or for duty type S1 (IEC);

(d) Operates on polyphase or single-phase alternating current 60-hertz (Hz) sinusoidal line power; or is used with an inverter that operates on polyphase or single-phase alternating current 60-hertz (Hz) sinusoidal line power;

(e) Is rated 600 volts or less;

(f) Produces at least 0.25 hp (0.18 kW) but not greater than 750 hp (559 kW).

2.1. Test Procedures for Electric Motors that meet the criteria listed at ยง 431.25(g), and electric motors above 500 horsepower that are capable of operating without an inverter. Air-over electric motors must be tested in accordance with Section 2.2. Inverter-only electric motors must be tested in accordance with 2.4.

Efficiency and losses must be determined in accordance with NEMA MG 1-2016, Paragraph 12.58.1, "Determination of Motor Efficiency and Losses," or one of the following testing methods:

2.1.1. CSA C390-10 (see section 0.1 of this appendix)

2.1.2. IEC 60034-2-1:2014, Method 2-1-1B (see section 0.4(b) of this appendix). The supply voltage shall be in accordance with Section 7.2 of IEC 60034-1:2010. The measured resistance at the end of the thermal test shall be determined in a similar way to the extrapolation procedure described in Section 8.6.2.3.3 of IEC 60034-1:2010, using the shortest possible time instead of the time interval specified in Table 5 to IEC 60034-1:2010, and extrapolating to zero. The measuring instruments for electrical quantities shall have the equivalent of an accuracy class of 0,2 in case of a direct test and 0,5 in case of an indirect test in accordance with Section 5.2 of IEC 60051-1:2016, or

2.1.3. IEEE 112-2017, Test Method B (see section 0.7(b) of this appendix).

2.2. Test Procedures for Air-Over Electric Motors

Except noted otherwise in section 2.2.1 and 2.2.2 of this appendix, efficiency and losses of air-over electric motors must be determined in accordance with NEMA MG 1-2016 (excluding Paragraph 12.58.1).

2.2.1. The provisions in Paragraph 34.4.1.a.1 of NEMA MG 1-2016 related to the determination of the target temperature for polyphase motors must be replaced by a single target temperature of 75 &#xB0;C for all insulation classes.

2.2.2. The industry standards listed in Paragraph 34.1 of NEMA MG 1-2016, "Applicable Motor Efficiency Test Methods" must correspond to the versions identified in section 0 of this appendix, specifically IEEE 112-2017, IEEE 114-2010, CSA C390-10, CSA C747-09, and IEC 60034-2-1:2014. In addition, when testing in accordance with IEC 60034-2-1:2014, the additional testing instructions in section 2.1.2 of this appendix apply.

2.3. Test Procedures for SNEMs capable of operating without an inverter. Air-over SNEMs must be tested in accordance with section 2.2. of this appendix. Inverter-only SNEMs must be tested in accordance with section 2.4. of this appendix.

2.3.1. The efficiencies and losses of single-phase SNEMs that are not air-over electric motors and are capable of operating without an inverter, are determined using one of the following methods:

2.3.1.1. IEEE 114-2010 (see section 0.8 of this appendix);

2.3.1.2. CSA C747-09 (see section 0.2 of this appendix), or

2.3.1.3. IEC 60034-2-1:2014 Method 2-1-1A (see section 0.4(a) of this appendix),. The supply voltage shall be in accordance with Section 7.2 of IEC 60034-1:2010. The measured resistance at the end of the thermal test shall be determined in a similar way to the extrapolation procedure described in Section 8.6.2.3.3 of IEC 60034-1:2010, using the shortest possible time instead of the time interval specified in Table 5 of IEC 60034-1:2010, and extrapolating to zero. The measuring instruments for electrical quantities shall have the equivalent of an accuracy class of 0,2 in case of a direct test and 0,5 in case of an indirect test in accordance with Section 5.2 of IEC 60051-1:2016.
