
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 431 - ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAM FOR CERTAIN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Electric Motors
###### Appendix B to Subpart B of Part 431 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Efficiency of Electric Motors
####### i.e.,

2.4.2.1. The inverter shall be set up according to the manufacturer's instructional and operational manual included with the product. Manufacturers shall also record switching frequency in Hz, max frequency in Hz, Max output voltage in V, motor control method (V/f ratio, sensor less vector, etc.), load profile setting (constant torque, variable torque, etc.), and saving energy mode (if used). Deviation from the resulting settings, such as switching frequency or load torque curves for the purpose of optimizing test results shall not be permitted.

2.4.2.2. If there are no inverters specified in the manufacturer catalogs or offered for sale with the electric motor, test with a two-level voltage source inverter. No additional components influencing output voltage or output current shall be installed between the inverter and the motor, except those required for the measuring instruments. For motors with a rated speed up to 3 600 min-1, the switching frequency shall not be higher than 5 kHz. For motors with a rated speed above 3 600 min-1, the switching frequency shall not be higher than 10 kHz. Record the manufacturer, brand and model number of the inverter used for the test.

2.4.3. The efficiencies and losses of electric motors (inclusive of the inverter) that are inverter-only and include an inverter are determined in accordance with IEC 61800-9-2:2017.
