
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 431 - ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAM FOR CERTAIN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Electric Motors
###### Appendix B to Subpart B of Part 431 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Efficiency of Electric Motors
####### Additional IEC 60034-2-1:2014 Method 2-1-1A Torque Measurement Instructions.

2.3.1.3.1.If using IEC 60034-2-1:2014 Method 2-1-1A to measure motor performance, follow the instructions in section 2.3.1.3.2. of this appendix, instead of Section 6.1.2.2 of IEC 60034-2-1:2014;

2.3.1.3.2. Couple the machine under test to a load machine. Measure torque using an in-line, shaft-coupled, rotating torque transducer or stationary, stator reaction torque transducer. Operate the machine under test at the rated load until thermal equilibrium is achieved (rate of change 1 K or less per half hour). Record U, I, Pel, n, T, &#x3B8;c.

2.3.2. The efficiencies and losses of polyphase electric motors considered with rated horsepower less than 1 that are not air-over electric motors, and are capable of operating without an inverter, are determined using one of the following methods:

2.3.2.1. IEEE 112-2017 Test Method A (see section 0.7(a) of this appendix);

2.3.2.2. CSA C747-09 (see section 0.2 of this appendix); or

2.3.2.3. IEC 60034-2-1:2014 Method 2-1-1A (see section 0.4(a) of this appendix). The supply voltage shall be in accordance with Section 7.2 of IEC 60034-1:2010. The measured resistance at the end of the thermal test shall be determined in a similar way to the extrapolation procedure described in Section 8.6.2.3.3 of IEC 60034-1:2010 using the shortest possible time instead of the time interval specified in Table 5 of IEC 60034-1:2010, and extrapolating to zero. The measuring instruments for electrical quantities shall have the equivalent of an accuracy class of 0,2 in case of a direct test and 0,5 in case of an indirect test in accordance with Section 5.2 of IEC 60051-1:2016.
