
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 431 - ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAM FOR CERTAIN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Electric Motors
###### Appendix B to Subpart B of Part 431 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Efficiency of Electric Motors
####### Additional IEC 60034-2-1:2014 Method 2-1-1A Torque Measurement Instructions.

2.3.2.3.1.If using IEC 60034-2-1:2014 Method 2-1-1A to measure motor performance, follow the instructions in section 2.3.2.3.2. of this appendix, instead of Section 6.1.2.2 of IEC 60034-2-1:2014;

2.3.2.3.2. Couple the machine under test to load machine. Measure torque using an in-line shaft-coupled, rotating torque transducer or stationary, stator reaction torque transducer. Operate the machine under test at the rated load until thermal equilibrium is achieved (rate of change 1 K or less per half hour). Record U, I, Pel, n, T, &#x3B8;c.

2.3.3. The efficiencies and losses of polyphase SNEMs with rated horsepower equal to or greater than 1 that are not air-over electric motors, and are capable of operating without an inverter, are determined using one of the following methods:

2.3.3.1. IEEE 112-2017 Test Method B (see section 0.7(b) of this appendix);

2.3.3.2. CSA C390-10 (see section 0.1 of this appendix); or

2.3.3.3. IEC 60034-2-1:2014 Method 2-1-1B (see section 0.4(b) of this appendix). The supply voltage shall be in accordance with Section 7.2 of IEC 60034-1:2010. The measured resistance at the end of the thermal test shall be determined in a similar way to the extrapolation procedure described in Section 8.6.2.3.3 of IEC 60034-1:2010 using the shortest possible time instead of the time interval specified in Table 5 of IEC 60034-1:2010, and extrapolating to zero. The measuring instruments for electrical quantities shall have the equivalent of an accuracy class of 0,2 in case of a direct test and 0,5 in case of an indirect test in accordance with Section 5.2 of IEC 60051-1:2016.

2.4. Test Procedures for Electric Motors that are Synchronous Motors and Inverter-only Electric Motors

Section 2.4.1 of this appendix applies to electric motors that are synchronous motors that do not require an inverter to operate. Sections 2.4.2. and 2.4.3. of this appendix apply to electric motors that are synchronous motors and are inverter-only; and to induction electric motors that are inverter-only electric motors.

2.4.1. The efficiencies and losses of electric motors that are synchronous motors that do not require an inverter to operate, are determined in accordance with IEC 60034-2-1:2014, Section 3 "Terms and definitions," Section 4 "Symbols and abbreviations," Section 5 "Basic requirements," and Section 7.1. "Preferred Testing Methods."

2.4.2. The efficiencies and losses of electric motors (inclusive of the inverter) that are that are inverter-only and do not include an inverter, are determined in accordance with IEC 61800-9-2:2017. Test must be conducted using an inverter that is listed as recommended in the manufacturer's catalog or that is offered for sale with the electric motor. If more than one inverter is available in manufacturer's catalogs or if more than one inverter is offered for sale with the electric motor, test using the least efficient inverter. Record the manufacturer, brand and model number of the inverter used for the test. If there are no inverters specified in the manufacturer catalogs or offered for sale with the electric motor, testing must be conducted using an inverter that meets the criteria described in section 2.4.2.2. of this appendix.
