
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 431 - ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAM FOR CERTAIN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Electric Motors
###### Appendix C to Subpart B of Part 431 - Compliance Certification
####### Submit paper form by Certified Mail to:

U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, Building Technologies (EE-2J), Forrestal Building, 1000 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20585-0121.

This Compliance Certification reports on and certifies compliance with requirements contained in 10 CFR Part 431 (Energy Conservation Program for Certain Commercial and Industrial Equipment) and Part C of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (Pub. L. 94-163), and amendments thereto. It is signed by a responsible official of the above named company. Attached and incorporated as part of this Compliance Certification is a Listing of Electric Motor Efficiencies. For each rating of electric motor* for which the Listing specifies the nominal full load efficiency of a basic model, the company distributes no less efficient basic model with that rating and all basic models with that rating comply with the applicable energy efficiency standard.

* For this purpose, the term "rating" means one of the combinations of an electric motor's horsepower (or standard kilowatt equivalent), number of poles, motor type, and open or enclosed construction, with respect to which ยง 431.25 of 10 CFR Part 431 prescribes nominal full load efficiency standards.

Person to Contact for Further Information:

If any part of this Compliance Certification, including the Attachment, was prepared by a third party organization under the provisions of 10 CFR 431.36, the company official authorizing third party representations:

Third Party Organization Officially Acting as Representative:

All required determinations on which this Compliance Certification is based were made in conformance with the applicable requirements in 10 CFR Part 431, subpart B. All information reported in this Compliance Certification is true, accurate, and complete. The company is aware of the penalties associated with violations of the Act and the regulations thereunder, and is also aware of the provisions contained in 18 U.S.C. 1001, which prohibits knowingly making false statements to the Federal Government.

Motor Type (i.e., general purpose electric motor (subtype I), fire pump electric motor, general purpose electric motor (subtype II), NEMA Design B general purpose electric motor)
