
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 431 - ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAM FOR CERTAIN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart E - Commercial Packaged Boilers
###### Appendix A to Subpart E of Part 431 - Uniform Test Method for the Measurement of Thermal Efficiency and Combustion Efficiency of Commercial Packaged Boilers
####### Definitions.

1.

For purposes of this appendix, the Department of Energy incorporates by reference the definitions established in section 3 of the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) and Air-Conditioning, Heating, and Refrigeration Institute (AHRI) Standard 1500, "2015 Standard for Performance Rating of Commercial Space Heating Boilers," beginning with 3.1 and ending with 3.35 (incorporated by reference, see § 431.85; hereafter "ANSI/AHRI Standard 1500-2015"), excluding the introductory text to section 3, the introductory text to section 3.2, "Boiler"; 3.2.4, "Heating Boiler"; 3.2.7, "Packaged Boiler"; 3.6, "Combustion Efficiency"; 3.12, "Efficiency, Combustion"; 3.13, "Efficiency, Thermal"; 3.20, "Gross Output"; 3.23, "Input Rating"; 3.24, "Net Rating"; 3.26, "Published Rating"; 3.26.1, "Standard Rating"; 3.27, "Rating Conditions"; 3.27.1, "Standard Rating Conditions"; and 3.31, "Thermal Efficiency." In cases where there is a conflict, the language of the test procedure in this appendix takes precedence over ANSI/AHRI Standard 1500-2015.

1.1. In all incorporated sections of ANSI/AHRI Standard 1500-2015, references to the manufacturer's "specifications," "recommendations," "directions," or "requests" mean the manufacturer's instructions in the installation and operation manual shipped with the commercial packaged boiler being tested or in supplemental instructions provided by the manufacturer pursuant to § 429.60(b)(4) of this chapter. For parameters or considerations not specified in this appendix, refer to the manual shipped with the commercial packaged boiler. Should the manual shipped with the commercial packaged boiler not provide the necessary information, refer to the supplemental instructions for the basic model pursuant to § 429.60(b)(4) of this chapter. The supplemental instructions provided pursuant to § 429.60(b)(4) of this chapter do not replace or alter any requirements in this appendix nor do they override the manual shipped with the commercial packaged boiler. In cases where these supplemental instructions conflict with any instructions or provisions provided in the manual shipped with the commercial packaged boiler, use the manual shipped with the commercial packaged boiler.

1.2. Unless otherwise noted, in all incorporated sections of ANSI/AHRI Standard 1500-2015, the term "boiler" means a commercial packaged boiler as defined in § 431.82.

1.3. Unless otherwise noted, in all incorporated sections of ANSI/AHRI Standard 1500-2015, the term "input rating" means "rated input" as defined in § 431.82.
