
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 431 - ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAM FOR CERTAIN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart E - Commercial Packaged Boilers
###### Appendix A to Subpart E of Part 431 - Uniform Test Method for the Measurement of Thermal Efficiency and Combustion Efficiency of Commercial Packaged Boilers
####### Test Setup and Apparatus.

2.1.4.Set up the commercial packaged boiler for thermal efficiency testing according to the provisions of Section C2 (except section C2.1) of Appendix C of ANSI/AHRI Standard 1500-2015 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 431.85).

2.1.4.1. For tests of oil-fired commercial packaged boilers, determine the weight of fuel consumed using one of the methods specified in the following sections 2.1.4.1.1. or 2.1.4.1.2. of this appendix:

2.1.4.1.1. If using a scale, determine the weight of fuel consumed as the difference between the weight of the oil vessel before and after each measurement period, as specified in sections 2.1.4.1.3.1. or 2.1.4.1.3.2. of this appendix, determined using a scale meeting the accuracy requirements of Table C1 of Appendix C of ANSI/AHRI Standard 1500-2015.

2.1.4.1.2. If using a flow meter, first determine the volume of fuel consumed as the total volume over the applicable measurement period as specified in 2.1.4.1.3.1. or 2.1.4.1.3.2. of this appendix and as measured by a flow meter meeting the accuracy requirements of Table C1 of Appendix C of ANSI/AHRI Standard 1500-2015 upstream of the oil inlet port of the commercial packaged boiler. Then determine the weight of fuel consumed by multiplying the total volume of fuel over the applicable measurement period by the density of oil as determined pursuant to C3.2.1.1.3. of Appendix C of ANSI/AHRI Standard 1500-2015.

2.1.4.1.3. The applicable measurement period for the purposes of determining fuel input rate must be as specified in section 2.1.4.1.3.1. of this appendix for the "Warm-Up Period" or section 2.1.4.1.3.2. of this appendix for the "Test Period."

2.1.4.1.3.1. For the purposes of confirming steady-state operation during the "Warm-Up Period," the measurement period must be 15 minutes and tin Equation C2 in Section C7.2.3.1 of Appendix C of ANSI/AHRI Standard 1500-2015 must be 0.25 hours to determine fuel input rate.

2.1.4.1.3.2. For the purposes of determining thermal efficiency during the "Test Period," the measurement period and tare as specified in sections 2.3.4 and 2.3.5 of this appendix.

2.1.4.2 For tests of gas-fired commercial packaged boilers, install a volumetric gas meter meeting the accuracy requirements of Table C1 of Appendix C of ANSI/AHRI Standard 1500-2015 upstream of the gas inlet port of the commercial packaged boiler. Record the accumulated gas volume consumed for each applicable measurement period. Use Equation C7.2.3.2. of Appendix C of ANSI/AHRI Standard 1500-2015 to calculate fuel input rate.

2.1.4.2.1. The applicable measurement period for the purposes of determining fuel input rate must be as specified in section 2.1.4.2.1.1. of this appendix for the "Warm-Up Period" and 2.1.4.2.1.2. of this appendix for the "Test Period."

2.1.4.2.1.1. For the purposes of confirming steady-state operation during the "Warm-Up Period," the measurement period must be 15 minutes and tin Equation C2 in Section C7.2.3.1 of Appendix C of ANSI/AHRI Standard 1500-2015 must be 0.25 hours to determine fuel input rate.

2.1.4.2.1.2. For the purposes of determining thermal efficiency during the "Test Period," the measurement period and tare as specified in sections 2.3.4 and 2.3.5 of this appendix.

2.1.4.3 In addition to the provisions of Section C2.2.1.2 of ANSI/AHRI Standard 1500-2015, vent gases may alternatively be discharged vertically into a straight stack section without elbows. R-7 minimum insulation must extend 6 stack diameters above the flue collar, the thermocouple grid must be located at a vertical distance of 3 stack diameters above the flue collar, and the sampling tubes for flue gases must be installed within 1 stack diameter beyond the thermocouple grid. If dilution air is introduced into the flue gases before the plane of the thermocouple and flue gas sampling points, utilize an alternate plane of thermocouple grid and flue gas sampling point located downstream from the heat exchanger and upstream from the point of dilution air introduction.
