
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 431 - ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAM FOR CERTAIN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart F - Commercial Air Conditioners and Heat Pumps
###### Test Procedures
####### ยง 431.96 Uniform test method for the measurement of energy efficiency of commercial air conditioners and heat pumps.
######## Testing and calculations.

(b)(1) Determine the energy efficiency and capacity of each category of covered equipment by conducting the test procedure(s) listed in table 1 to this paragraph (b) along with any additional testing provisions set forth in paragraphs (c) through (g) of this section and appendices A through G1 to this subpart, that apply to the energy efficiency descriptor for that equipment, category, and cooling capacity. The omitted sections of the test procedures listed in table 1 must not be used. For equipment with multiple appendices listed in table 1, consult the notes at the beginning of those appendices to determine the applicable appendix to use for testing.

(2) After June 24, 2016, any representations made with respect to the energy use or efficiency of packaged terminal air conditioners and heat pumps (PTACs and PTHPs) must be made in accordance with the results of testing pursuant to this section. Manufacturers conducting tests of PTACs and PTHPs after July 30, 2015 and prior to June 24, 2016, must conduct such test in accordance with either table 1 to this section or ยง 431.96 as it appeared at 10 CFR part 431, subpart F, in the 10 CFR parts 200 to 499 edition revised as of January 1, 2014. Any representations made with respect to the energy use or efficiency of such packaged terminal air conditioners and heat pumps must be in accordance with whichever version is selected.
