
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 431 - ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAM FOR CERTAIN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart G - Commercial Water Heaters, Hot Water Supply Boilers and Unfired Hot Water Storage Tanks
###### Appendix E to Subpart G of Part 431 - Uniform Test Method for the Measurement of Energy Efficiency of Commercial Heat Pump Water Heaters
####### 4.

2. Use the water piping instructions described in section 7.2 of ANSI/ASHRAE 118.1-2012 and the special instructions described in section 7.7.6 of ANSI/ASHRAE 118.1-2012. Insulate all the pipes used for connections with material having a thermal resistance of not less than 4 h&#xB7; &#xB0;F&#xB7;ft/Btu for a total piping length of not less than 4 feet from the water heater connection ports.

4.3. Install the thermocouples, including the room thermocouples, as per the instructions in sections 7.3.1, 7.3.2, and 7.3.3 (as applicable) of ANSI/ASHRAE 118.1-2012.

4.4. Section 7.6 of ANSI/ASHRAE 118.1-2012 must be used if the manufacturer neither submits nor specifies a water pump applicable for the unit for laboratory testing.

4.5. Install the temperature sensors at the locations specified in Figure 5a, 5b, 5c, 6, 7, or 8 of ANSI/ASHRAE 118.1-2012, as applicable as per section 4.1 of this appendix. The sensor shall be installed in such a manner that the sensing portion of the device is positioned within the water flow and as close as possible to the center line of the pipe. Follow the instructions provided in sections 7.7.7.1 and 7.7.7.2 of ANSI/ASHRAE 118.1-2012 to install the temperature and flow-sensing instruments.

4.6. Use the following evaporator side rating conditions as applicable for each category of CHPWHs. These conditions are also mentioned in Table 5.1 of this appendix:

4.6.1. For air-source CHPWHs, maintain the evaporator air entering dry-bulb temperature at 80.6 &#xB0;F +/- 1 &#xB0;F and wet-bulb temperature at 71.2 &#xB0;F +/- 1 &#xB0;F throughout the conduct of the test.

4.6.2. For direct geo-exchange CHPWHs, maintain the evaporator refrigerant temperature at 32 &#xB0;F +/- 1 &#xB0;F.

4.6.3. For indoor water-source CHPWHs, maintain the evaporator entering water temperature at 68 &#xB0;F +/- 1 &#xB0;F.

4.6.4. For ground water-source CHPWHs, maintain the evaporator entering water temperature at 50 &#xB0;F +/- 1 &#xB0;F.

4.6.5. For ground-source closed-loop CHPWHs, maintain the evaporator entering water temperature at 32 &#xB0;F +/- 1 &#xB0;F.

4.6.5.1. For ground-source closed-loop CHPWHs, the evaporator water must be mixed with 15-percent methanol by-weight to allow the solution to achieve the rating conditions required in section 4.6.5.

4.7. The CHPWH being tested must be installed as per the instructions specified in sections 4.1 to 4.6 (as applicable) of this appendix. For all other installation requirements, use section 7.7.4 of ANSI/ASHRAE 118.1-2012 to resolve any issues related to installation (other than what is specified in this test procedure) of the equipment for testing. Do not make any alterations to the equipment except as specified in this appendix for installation, testing, and the attachment of required test apparatus and instruments.
