
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 431 - ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAM FOR CERTAIN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart G - Commercial Water Heaters, Hot Water Supply Boilers and Unfired Hot Water Storage Tanks
###### Appendix E to Subpart G of Part 431 - Uniform Test Method for the Measurement of Energy Efficiency of Commercial Heat Pump Water Heaters
####### 4.

8. Use Table 3 of ANSI/ASHRAE 118.1-2012 for measurement tolerances of various parameters.

4.9. If the CHPWH is equipped with a thermostat that is used to control the throttling valve of the equipment, then use the provisions in section 7.7.7.3 of ANSI/ASHRAE 118.1-2012 to set up the thermostat.

4.10. For CHPWHs equipped with an integral storage tank, supplemental heat inputs such as electric resistance elements must be disabled as per section 7.7.8 of ANSI/ASHRAE 118.1-2012.

4.11. Install instruments to measure the electricity supply to the equipment as specified in section 7.5 of ANSI/ASHRAE 118.1-2012.

Test all CHPWHs that are not equipped with an integral storage tank as per the provisions described in ANSI/ASHRAE 118.1-2012 for "Type IV" equipment as defined in section 4.4 of ANSI/ASHRAE 118.1-2012. Test all CHPWHs that are equipped with an integral storage tank as per the provisions described in ANSI/ASHRAE 118.1-2012 for "Type V" equipment as defined in section 4.5 of ANSI/ASHRAE 118.1-2012. Tests for all CHPWHs must follow the steps described below.

5.1. Supply the CHPWH unit with electricity at the voltage specified by the manufacturer. Follow the provisions in section 8.2.1 of ANSI/ASHRAE 118.1-2012 to maintain the electricity supply at the required level.

5.1.1. For models with multiple voltages specified by the manufacturer, use the minimum voltage specified by the manufacturer to conduct the test. Maintain the voltage as per the limits specified in section 8.2.1 of ANSI/ASHRAE 118.1-2012. The test may be repeated at other voltages at the manufacturer's discretion.

5.2. Set the condenser supply water temperature and outlet water temperature per the following provisions and as set forth in Table 5.1 of this section:

5.2.1. For air-source CHPWHs:

5.2.1.1. Set the supply water temperature to 70 &#xB0;F +/- 1 &#xB0;F. The water pressure must not exceed the maximum working pressure rating for the equipment under test.

5.2.1.2. Use the provisions in section 8.7.1 of ANSI/ASHRAE 118.1-2012 to set the tank thermostat for CHPWHs equipped with an integral storage tank.

5.2.1.3. Initiate operation at the rated pump flow rate and measure the outlet water temperature. If the outlet water temperature is maintained at 120 &#xB0;F +/- 5 &#xB0;F with no variation in excess of 2 &#xB0;F over a three-minute period, as required by section 8.7.2 of ANSI/ASHRAE 118.1-2012, skip to section 5.3 of this appendix.

5.2.1.4. If the outlet water temperature condition as specified in section 8.7.2 of ANSI/ASHRAE 118.1-2012 is not achieved, adjust the water flow rate over the range of the pump's capacity. If, after varying the water flow rate, the outlet water temperature is maintained at 120 &#xB0;F +/- 5 &#xB0;F with no variation in excess of 2 &#xB0;F over a three-minute period, as required by section 8.7.2 of ANSI/ASHRAE 118.1-2012, skip to section 5.3 of this appendix.

5.2.1.5. If, after adjusting the water flow rate within the range that is achievable by the pump, the outlet water temperature condition as specified in section 8.7.2 of ANSI/ASHRAE 118.1-2012 is still not achieved, then change the supply water temperature to 110 &#xB0;F +/- 1 &#xB0;F and repeat the instructions from sections 5.2.1.2 and 5.2.1.4 of this appendix.

5.2.1. 6. If the outlet water temperature condition cannot be met, then a test procedure waiver is necessary to specify an alternative set of test conditions.

5.2.2. For direct geo-exchange, indoor water-source, ground-source closed-loop, and ground water-source CHPWHs use the following steps:

5.2.2.1. Set the condenser supply water temperature to 110 &#xB0;F +/- 1 &#xB0;F. The water pressure must not exceed the maximum working pressure rating for the equipment under test.

5.2.2.2. Use the provisions in section 8.7.1 of ANSI/ASHRAE 118.1-2012 to set the tank thermostat for CHPWHs equipped with an integral storage tank.

5.2.2.3. Follow the steps specified in section 8.7.2 of ANSI/ASHRAE 118.1-2012 to obtain an outlet water temperature of 120 &#xB0;F +/- 5 &#xB0;F with no variation in excess of 2 &#xB0;F over a three-minute period.

5.3. Conduct the test as per section 9.1.1, "Full Input Rating," of ANSI/ASHRAE 118.1-2012. The flow rate, "FR," referred to in section 9.1.1 of ANSI/ASHRAE 118.1-2012 is the flow rate of water through the CHPWH expressed in gallons per minute obtained after following the steps in section 5.2 of this appendix. Use the evaporator side rating conditions specified in section 4.6 of this appendix to conduct the test as per section 9.1.1 of ANSI/ASHRAE 118.1-2012.

5.4. Calculate the COPof the CHPWH according to section 10.3.1 of the ANSI/ASHRAE 118.1-2012 for the "Full Capacity Test Method." For all calculations, time differences must be expressed in minutes.
