
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 431 - ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAM FOR CERTAIN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart H - Automatic Commercial Ice Makers
###### Test Procedures
####### ยง 431.134 Uniform test methods for the measurement of harvest rate, energy consumption, and water consumption of automatic commercial ice makers.
######## Portable automatic commercial ice makers.

(j)Sections 5.4, 5.6, 6.2, and 6.3 of ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 29-2015 do not apply. Ensure that the ice storage bin is empty prior to the initial potable water reservoir fill. Fill an external container with water to be supplied to the portable automatic commercial ice maker water reservoir. Establish an initial water temperature of 70 &#xB0;F +/- 1.0 &#xB0;F. Verify the initial water temperature by inserting a temperature sensor into approximately the geometric center of the water in the external container. Immediately after establishing the initial water temperature, fill the ice maker water reservoir to the maximum level of potable water as specified by the manufacturer. After the potable water reservoir is filled, operate the portable automatic commercial ice maker to produce ice into the ice storage bin until the bin is one-half full. One-half full for the purposes of testing portable automatic commercial ice makers means that half of the vertical dimension of the ice storage bin, based on the maximum ice fill level within the ice storage bin, is filled with ice. Once the ice storage bin is one-half full, conduct testing according to section 7 of ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 29-2015. The potable water use is equal to the sum of the weight of ice and any corresponding melt water collected for the capacity test as specified in section 7.2 of ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 29-2015.
