
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 431 - ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAM FOR CERTAIN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart K - Distribution Transformers
###### Appendix A to Subpart K of Part 431 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Distribution Transformers
####### Losses from Auxiliary Devices.

4.5.3.1.2

Measured losses attributable to auxiliary devices (e.g., circuit breakers, fuses, switches) installed in the transformer, if any, that are not part of the winding and core assembly, may be excluded from load losses measured during testing. To exclude these losses, either (1) measure transformer losses without the auxiliary devices by removing or by-passing them, or (2) measure transformer losses with the auxiliary devices connected, determine the losses associated with the auxiliary devices, and deduct these losses from the load losses measured during testing.

(a) Corrections for phase angle errors are not required if the instrumentation is calibrated over the entire range of power factors and phase angle errors. Otherwise, determine whether to correct for phase angle errors from the magnitude of the normalized per unit correction, &#x3B2;, obtained by using equation 4-3 as follows:

(b) The correction must be applied if &#x3B2;is outside the limits of +/-0.01. If &#x3B2;is within the limits of +/-0.01, the correction is permitted but not required.

(c) If the correction for phase angle errors is to be applied, first examine the total system phase angle (&#x3B2;-&#x3B2;+ &#x3B2;). Where the total system phase angle is equal to or less than +/-12 milliradians (+/-41 minutes), use either equation 4-4 or 4-5 to correct the measured load loss power for phase angle errors, and where the total system phase angle exceeds +/-12 milliradians (+/-41 minutes) use equation 4-5, as follows:

(d) The symbols in this section (4.5.3.2) have the following meanings:

(e) The instrumentation phase angle errors used in the correction equations must be specific for the test conditions involved.

(a) When the measurement of load loss is made at a temperature Tthat is different from the reference temperature, use the procedure summarized in the equations 4-6 to 4-10 to correct the measured load loss to the reference temperature. The symbols used in these equations are defined at the end of this section.

(b) Calculate the ohmic loss (P) by using equation 4-6 as follows:



(c) Obtain the stray loss by subtracting the calculated ohmic loss from the measured load loss, by using equation 4-7 as follows:

(d) Correct the ohmic and stray losses to the reference temperature for the load loss by using equations 4-8 and 4-9, respectively, as follows:

(e) Add the ohmic and stray losses, corrected to the reference temperature, to give the load loss, P, at the reference temperature, by using equation 4-10 as follows:

(f) The symbols in this section (4.5.3.3) have the following meanings:

This section presents the equations to use in determining the efficiency value of the transformer at the required reference conditions and at the specified loading level. The details of measurements are described in sections 3.0 and 4.0. For a transformer that has a configuration of windings which allows for more than one nominal rated voltage, determine its efficiency either at the voltage at which the highest losses occur or at each voltage at which the transformer is rated to operate.
