
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 431 - ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAM FOR CERTAIN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart O - Commercial Prerinse Spray Valves
###### Test Procedures
####### ยง 431.264 Uniform test method to measure flow rate and spray force of commercial prerinse spray valves.
######## Testing and calculations for a unit with a single spray setting,Flow rate.

(b)-(1)(i) Test each unit in accordance with the requirements of Sections 6.1 through 6.9 (Apparatus) (except 6.4 and 6.7), 9.1 through 9.4 (Preparation of Apparatus), and 10.1 through 10.2.5 (Procedure) of ASTM F2324, (incorporated by reference, see ยง 431.263). Precatory language in ASTM F2324 is to be treated as mandatory for the purpose of testing. In Section 9.1 of ASTM F2324, the second instance of "prerinse spray valve" refers to the spring-style deck-mounted prerinse unit defined in Section 6.8. In lieu of using manufacturer installation instructions or packaging, always connect the commercial prerinse spray valve to the flex tubing for testing. Normalize the weight of the water to calculate flow rate using Equation 1 to this paragraph, where Wis the weight normalized to a 1 minute time period, Wis the weight of the water in the carboy at the conclusion of the flow rate test, and tis the total recorded time of the flow rate test.

(ii) Perform calculations in accordance with Section 11.3.1 (Calculation and Report) of ASTM F2324. Record the water temperature ( &#xB0;F) and dynamic water pressure (psi) once at the start for each run of the test. Record the time (min), the normalized weight of water in the carboy (lb) and the resulting flow rate (gpm) once at the end of each run of the test. Record flow rate measurements of time (min) and weight (lb) at the resolutions of the test instrumentation. Perform three runs on each unit, as specified in Section 10.2.5 of ASTM F2324, but disregard any references to Annex A1. Then, for each unit, calculate the mean of the three flow rate values determined from each run. Round the final value for flow rate to two decimal places and record that value.
