
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 14 - ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS UNDER FEDERAL TORT CLAIMS ACT
#### Subpart B - Filing Procedures and Requirements
##### ยง 14.11 Who may file a claim.

(a) A claim for damage to or loss of property may be presented by the owner of the property interest which is the subject of the claim, his or her duly authorized agent, or his or her legal representative.

(b) A claim for personal injury may be presented by the injured person, his or her duly authorized agent, or his or her legal representative.

(c) A claim based on death may be presented by the executor or administrator of the decedent's estate, or by any other person legally entitled to assert the claim under applicable State law.

(d) A claim for loss wholly compensated by an insurer with the rights of a subrogee may be presented by the insurer. A claim for loss partially compensated by an insurer with the rights of a subrogee may be presented by the insurer or the insured individually, to the extent of their respective interests, or jointly. Whenever an insurer presents a claim asserting the rights of a subrogee, the insurer shall present with the claim appropriate evidence that the insurer has the rights of a subrogee.

(e) If a claim is presented by an agent or legal representative that person shall:

(1) Present the claim in the name of the claimant;

(2) Sign the claim;

(3) Show the title or legal capacity of the person signing the claim; and

(4) Include with the claim evidence of his or her authority to present a claim on behalf of the claimant as agent, executor, administrator, parent, guardian, or other representative.
