
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 14 - ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS UNDER FEDERAL TORT CLAIMS ACT
#### Subpart B - Filing Procedures and Requirements
##### ยง 14.23 Evidence and information to be submitted.
###### Personal injury.

(b)In support of a claim for personal injury, including pain and suffering, the claimant may be required to submit the following evidence or information:

(1) A written report by the attending physician or dentist setting forth the nature and extent of the injury, nature and extent of treatment, any degree of temporary or permanent disability and prognosis, period of hospitalization, and any diminished earning capacity. In addition, the claimant may be required to submit to a physical or mental examination by a physician employed by the NRC or another Federal agency. The claimant may request in writing a copy of the report of the examining physician if the claimant has:

(i) Furnished the report referred to in paragraph (a)(1) of this section on request; and

(ii) Made or agrees to make available to the NRC all other reports of the claimant's physical or mental condition which have been or are made by any physician.

(2) Itemized bills for medical, dental, and hospital expenses incurred, or itemized receipts of payment for these expenses.

(3) If the prognosis reveals the necessity for future treatment, a statement of expected expenses for the treatment.

(4) If a claim is made for loss of time from employment, a written statement from his or her employer showing actual time lost from employment, whether he or she is a full- or part-time employee, and wages or salary actually lost.

(5) If a claim is made for loss of income and the claimant is self-employed, documentary evidence showing the amount of earnings actually lost.

(6) Any other evidence or information which may have a bearing on either the responsibility of the United States for the personal injury or the damages claimed.
