
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 431 - ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAM FOR CERTAIN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart R - Walk-in Coolers and Walk-in Freezers
###### Test Procedures
####### § 431.305 Walk-in cooler and walk-in freezer labeling requirements.

(a) Panel nameplate-(1) Required information. The permanent nameplate of a walk-in cooler or walk-in freezer panel for which standards are prescribed in § 431.306 must be marked clearly with the following information:

(i) The panel brand or manufacturer; and

(ii) One of the following statements, as appropriate:

(A) "This panel is designed and certified for use in walk-in cooler applications."

(B) "This panel is designed and certified for use in walk-in freezer applications."

(C) "This panel is designed and certified for use in walk-in cooler and walk-in freezer applications."

(2) Display of required information. All orientation, spacing, type sizes, typefaces, and line widths to display this required information must be the same as or similar to the display of the other performance data included on the panel's permanent nameplate. The permanent nameplate must be visible unless the panel is assembled into a completed walk-in.

(b) Door nameplate-(1) Required information. The permanent nameplate of a walk-in cooler or walk-in freezer door for which standards are prescribed in § 431.306 must be marked clearly with the following information:

(i) The door brand or manufacturer; and

(ii) One of the following statements, as appropriate:

(A) "This door is designed and certified for use in walk-in cooler applications."

(B) "This door is designed and certified for use in walk-in freezer applications."

(C) "This door is designed and certified for use in walk-in cooler and walk-in freezer applications."

(2) Display of required information. All orientation, spacing, type sizes, typefaces, and line widths to display this required information must be the same as or similar to the display of the other performance data included on the door's permanent nameplate. The permanent nameplate must be visible unless the door is assembled into a completed walk-in.

(c) Refrigeration system nameplate-(1) Required information. The permanent nameplate of a walk-in cooler or walk-in freezer refrigeration system for which standards are prescribed in § 431.306 must be marked clearly with the following information:

(i) The refrigeration system brand or manufacturer;

(ii) The refrigeration system model number;

(iii) The date of manufacture of the refrigeration system (if the date of manufacture is embedded in the unit's serial number, then the manufacturer of the refrigeration system must retain any relevant records to discern the date from the serial number);

(iv) If the refrigeration system is a dedicated condensing refrigeration system, and is not designated for outdoor use, the statement, "Indoor use only" (for a matched pair this must appear on the condensing unit); and

(v) One of the following statements, as appropriate:

(A) "This refrigeration system is designed and certified for use in walk-in cooler applications."

(B) "This refrigeration system is designed and certified for use in walk-in freezer applications."

(C) "This refrigeration system is designed and certified for use in walk-in cooler and walk-in freezer applications."

(2) Process cooling refrigeration systems. The permanent nameplate of a process cooling refrigeration system (as defined in § 431.302) must be marked clearly with the statement, "This refrigeration system is designed for use exclusively in walk-in cooler and walk-in freezer process cooling refrigeration applications."

(3) Display of required information. All orientation, spacing, type sizes, typefaces, and line widths to display this required information must be the same as or similar to the display of the other performance data included on the refrigeration system's permanent nameplate. The model number must be in one of the following forms: "Model ______" or "Model number ______" or "Model No. ______." The permanent nameplate must be visible unless the refrigeration system is assembled into a completed walk-in.

(d) A manufacturer may not mark the nameplate of a component with the required information if the manufacturer has not submitted a certification of compliance for the relevant model.

(e) Disclosure of efficiency information in marketing materials. Each catalog that lists the component and all materials used to market the component must include:

(1) For panels-The R-value in the form "R-value____."

(2) For doors-The energy consumption in the form "EC____kWh/day."

(3) For those refrigeration system for which standards are prescribed-The AWEF in the form "AWEF ____."

(4) The information that must appear on a walk-in cooler or walk-in freezer component's permanent nameplate pursuant to paragraphs (a)-(c) of this section must also be prominently displayed in each catalog that lists the component and all materials used to market the component.
