
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 431 - ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAM FOR CERTAIN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart R - Walk-in Coolers and Walk-in Freezers
###### Appendix A to Subpart R of Part 431 - Uniform Test Method for the Measurement of Energy Consumption of the Components of Envelopes of Walk-In Coolers and Walk-In Freezers
####### 4.1

Display Panels

(a) Calculate the U-factor of the display panel in accordance with section 5.3 of this appendix, Btu/h-ft- &#xB0;F.

(b) Calculate the display panel surface area, as defined in section 3.4 of this appendix, A, ft, with standard geometric formulas or engineering software.

(c) Calculate the temperature differential, ΔT, &#xB0;F, for the display panel, as follows:

(d) Calculate the conduction load through the display panel, Q, Btu/h, as follows:

(e) Select Energy Efficiency Ratio (EER), as follows:

(1) For coolers, use EER = 12.4 Btu/W-h

(2) For freezers, use EER = 6.3 Btu/W-h

(f) Calculate the total daily energy consumption, E, kWh/day, as follows:

4.2 [Reserved]

4.3 [Reserved]

(a) Calculate the U-factor of the door in accordance with section 5.3 of this appendix, Btu/h-ft- &#xB0;F

(b) Calculate the surface area, as defined in section 3.4 of this appendix, of the display door, A, ft, with standard geometric formulas or engineering software.

(c) Calculate the temperature differential, ΔT, &#xB0;F, for the display door as follows:

(d) Calculate the conduction load through the display doors, Q, Btu/h, as follows:

Electrical components associated with display doors could include, but are not limited to: heater wire (for anti-sweat or anti-freeze application); lights (including display door lighting systems); control system units; and sensors.

(a) Select the required value for percent time off (PTO) for each type of electricity consuming device, PTO(%)

(1) For lights without timers, control system or other demand-based control, PTO = 25 percent. For lighting with timers, control system or other demand-based control, PTO = 50 percent.

(2) For anti-sweat heaters on coolers (if included): Without timers, control system or other demand-based control, PTO = 0 percent. With timers, control system or other demand-based control, PTO = 75 percent. For anti-sweat heaters on freezers (if included): Without timers, control system or other auto-shut-off systems, PTO = 0 percent. With timers, control system or other demand-based control, PTO = 50 percent.

(3) For all other electricity consuming devices: Without timers, control system, or other auto-shut-off systems, PTO = 0 percent. If it can be demonstrated that the device is controlled by a preinstalled timer, control system or other auto-shut-off system, PTO = 25 percent.

(b) Calculate the power usage for each type of electricity consuming device, P, kWh/day, as follows:

(c) Calculate the total electrical energy consumption for interior and exterior power, P(kWh/day) and P(kWh/day), respectively, as follows:

(d) Calculate the total electrical energy consumption, P, (kWh/day), as follows:

(a) Select Energy Efficiency Ratio (EER), as follows:

(1) For coolers, use EER = 12.4 Btu/Wh

(2) For freezers, use EER = 6.3 Btu/Wh

(b) Calculate the additional refrigeration energy consumption due to thermal output from electrical components sited inside the display door, C, kWh/day, as follows:

(a) Select Energy Efficiency Ratio (EER), as follows:

(1) For coolers, use EER = 12.4 Btu/W-h

(2) For freezers, use EER = 6.3 Btu/W-h

(b) Calculate the total daily energy consumption due to conduction thermal load, E, kWh/day, as follows:

(c) Calculate the total energy, E, kWh/day,

(a) Calculate the surface area, as defined in section 3.4 of this appendix, of the non-display door, A, ft, with standard geometric formulas or with engineering software.

(b) Calculate the temperature differential of the non-display door, ΔT, &#xB0;F, as follows:

(c) Calculate the conduction load through the non-display door: Q, Btu/h,

Electrical components associated with a walk-in non-display door comprise any components that are on the non-display door and that directly consume electrical energy. This includes, but is not limited to, heater wire (for anti-sweat or anti-freeze application), control system units, and sensors.

(a) Select the required value for percent time off for each type of electricity consuming device, PTO(%)

(1) For lighting without timers, control system or other demand-based control, PTO = 25 percent. For lighting with timers, control system or other demand-based control, PTO = 50 percent.

(2) For anti-sweat heaters on coolers (if included): Without timers, control system or other demand-based control, PTO = 0 percent. With timers, control system or other demand-based control, PTO = 75 percent. For anti-sweat heaters on freezers (if included): Without timers, control system or other auto-shut-off systems, PTO = 0 percent. With timers, control system or other demand-based control, PTO = 50 percent.

(3) For all other electricity consuming devices: Without timers, control system, or other auto-shut-off systems, PTO = 0 percent. If it can be demonstrated that the device is controlled by a preinstalled timer, control system or other auto-shut-off system, PTO = 25 percent.

(b) Calculate the power usage for each type of electricity consuming device, P, kWh/day, as follows:

(c) Calculate the total electrical energy consumption for interior and exterior power, P(kWh/day) and P(kWh/day), respectively, as follows:

(d) Calculate the total electrical energy consumption, P, kWh/day, as follows:

(a) Select Energy Efficiency Ratio (EER), as follows:

(1) For coolers, use EER = 12.4 Btu/Wh

(2) For freezers, use EER = 6.3 Btu/Wh

(b) Calculate the additional refrigeration energy consumption due to thermal output from electrical components associated with the non-display door, C, kWh/day, as follows:

(a) Select Energy Efficiency Ratio (EER), as follows:

(1) For coolers, use EER = 12.4 Btu/W-h

(2) For freezers, use EER = 6.3 Btu/W-h

(b) Calculate the total daily energy consumption due to thermal load, E, kWh/day, as follows:

(c) Calculate the total energy, E, kWh/day, as follows:

5.1-5.2 [Reserved]

(a) Follow the procedure in NFRC 100, (incorporated by reference; see § 431.303), exactly, with these exceptions:

(1) The average surface heat transfer coefficient on the cold-side of the apparatus shall be 30 Watts per square-meter-Kelvin (W/m*K) +/-5%. The average surface heat transfer coefficient on the warm-side of the apparatus shall be 7.7 Watts per square-meter-Kelvin (W/m*K) +/-5%.

(2) Cold-side conditions:

(i) Air temperature of 35 &#xB0;F (1.7 &#xB0;C) for cooler doors and -10 &#xB0;F (-23.3 &#xB0;C) for freezer doors

(ii) Mean inside radiant temperature must be the same as shown in section 5.3(a)(2)(i), above.

(3) Warm-side conditions

(i) Air temperature of 75 &#xB0;F (23.9 &#xB0;C)

(ii) Mean outside radiant temperature must be the same as section 5.3(a)(3)(i), above.

(4) Direct solar irradiance = 0 W/m(Btu/h-ft).

(b) Required Test Measurements

(i) Display Doors and Display Panels

1. Thermal Transmittance: U

(ii) Non-Display Door

1. Thermal Transmittance: U
