
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 431 - ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAM FOR CERTAIN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart S - Metal Halide Lamp Ballasts and Fixtures
###### Test Procedures
####### ยง 431.324 Uniform test method for the measurement of energy efficiency and standby mode energy consumption of metal halide lamp ballasts.
######## Test conditions and setup.

(2)(i) The power supply, ballast conditions, lamp position, and instrumentation must all conform to the requirements specified in Section 4.0 of ANSI C82.6-2015 (R2020) (incorporated by reference; see ยง 431.323).

(ii) Airflow in the room for the testing period must be &#x2264;0.5 meters/second.

(iii) Test circuits must be in accordance with the circuit connections specified in Section 6.3 of ANSI C82.6-2015 (R2020).

(iv) For ballasts designed to operate lamps rated less than 150 W that have 120 V as an available input voltage, testing must be performed at 120 V. For ballasts designed to operate lamps rated less than 150 W that do not have 120 V as an available voltage, testing must be performed at the highest available input voltage. For ballasts designed to operate lamps rated greater than or equal to 150 W that have 277 V as an available input voltage, testing must be conducted at 277 V. For ballasts designed to operate lamps rated greater than or equal to 150 W that do not have 277 V as an available input voltage, testing must be conducted at the highest available input voltage.

(v) Operate dimming ballasts at maximum input power.

(vi) Select the metal halide lamp for testing as follows:
