
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 431 - ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAM FOR CERTAIN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart T - Compressors
###### Appendix A to Subpart T of Part 431 - Uniform Test Method for Certain Air Compressors
####### e.g.,

A.6. Any temperature measurement equipment used in a calculation of another variable (actual volume flow rate) must also meet all accuracy and measurement requirements of section 5.3 of ISO 1217:2009(E) (incorporated by reference, see ยง 431.343).

A.7. Where ISO 1217:2009(E) refers to "corrected volume flow rate," the term is deemed synonymous with the term "actual volume flow rate," as defined in section 3.4.1 of ISO 1217:2009(E) (incorporated by reference, see ยง 431.343).

B.1. For both fixed-speed and variable-speed compressors, conduct testing in accordance with the test conditions, unit configuration, and specifications of ISO 1217:2009(E), Section 6.2 paragraphs (g) and (h) and Annex C, sections C.1.1, C.2.2, C.2.3, C.2.4, C.4.1, C.4.2.1, C.4.2.3, and C.4.3.2 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 431.343).

B.2. The power supply must:

(1) Maintain the voltage greater than or equal to 95 percent and less than or equal to 110 percent of the rated value of the motor,

(2) Maintain the frequency within +/-5 percent of the rated value of the motor,

(3) Maintain the voltage unbalance of the power supply within +/-3 percent of the rated values of the motor, and

(4) Maintain total harmonic distortion below 12 percent throughout the test.

B.3. Ambient Conditions. The ambient air temperature must be greater than or equal to 68 &#xB0;F and less than or equal to 90 &#xB0;F for the duration of testing. There are no ambient condition requirements for inlet pressure or relative humidity.

B.4. All equipment indicated in Table 1 of this appendix must be present and installed for all tests specified in this appendix. If the compressor is distributed in commerce without an item from Table 1 of this appendix, the manufacturer must provide an appropriate item to be installed for the test. Additional ancillary equipment may be installed for the test, if distributed in commerce with the compressor, but this additional ancillary equipment is not required. If any of the equipment listed in Table 2 of this appendix is distributed in commerce with units of the compressor basic model, it must be present and installed for all tests specified in this appendix.

B.5. The inlet of the compressor under test must be open to the atmosphere and take in ambient air for all tests specified in this appendix.
