
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 431 - ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAM FOR CERTAIN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart T - Compressors
###### Appendix A to Subpart T of Part 431 - Uniform Test Method for Certain Air Compressors
####### i.e.,,i.e.,,i.e.,,i.e.,,i.e.,

A.3. Calculations and Rounding. Perform all calculations using raw measured values. Round the final result for package isentropic efficiency to the thousandth (0.001), for package specific power in kilowatts per 100 cubic feet per minute to the nearest hundredth (0.01), for pressure ratio at full-load operating pressure to the nearest tenth (0.1), for full-load actual volume flow rate in cubic feet per minute to the nearest tenth (0.1), and for full-load operating pressure in pounds per square inch gauge (psig) to the nearest integer (1). All terms and quantities refer to values determined in accordance with the procedures set forth in this appendix for the tested unit.

Determine the full-load operating pressure and full-load actual volume flow rate (referenced throughout this appendix) in accordance with the procedures prescribed in section III of this appendix.

Use this test method to test fixed-speed air compressors and variable-speed air compressors.

C.1. Test unit at full-load operating pressure and full-load volume flow rate according to the requirements established in sections I, II.A, and II.B of this appendix. Measure volume flow rate and calculate actual volume flow rate in accordance with section C.4.2.1 of Annex C of ISO 1217:2009(E) (incorporated by reference, see ยง 431.343) with no corrections made for shaft speed. Measure discharge gauge pressure and packaged compressor power input. Measured discharge gauge pressure and calculated actual volume flow rate must be within the deviation limits for discharge pressure and volume flow rate specified in Tables C.1 and C.2 of Annex C of ISO 1217:2009(E) (incorporated by reference, see ยง 431.343), where full-load operating pressure and full-load actual volume flow rate (as determined in section III of this appendix) are the targeted values.
