
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 431 - ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAM FOR CERTAIN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart U - Enforcement for Electric Motors
###### ยง 431.387 Hearings and appeals.

(a) Under sections 333(d) and 345 of the Act, before issuing an order assessing a civil penalty against any person, the Secretary must provide to such a person a notice of the proposed penalty. Such notice must inform the person that such person can choose (in writing within 30 days after receipt of the notice) to have the procedures of paragraph (c) of this section (in lieu of those in paragraph (b) of this section) apply with respect to such assessment.

(b)(1) Unless a person elects, within 30 calendar days after receipt of a notice under paragraph (a) of this section, to have paragraph (c) of this section apply with respect to the civil penalty under paragraph (a), the Secretary will assess the penalty, by order, after providing an opportunity for an agency hearing under 5 U.S.C. 554, before an administrative law judge appointed under 5 U.S.C. 3105, and making a determination of violation on the record. Such assessment order will include the administrative law judge's findings and the basis for such assessment.

(2) Any person against whom the Secretary assesses a penalty under this paragraph may, within 60 calendar days after the date of the order assessing such penalty, initiate action in the United States Court of Appeals for the appropriate judicial circuit for judicial review of such order in accordance with 5 U.S.C. chapter 7. The court will have jurisdiction to enter a judgment affirming, modifying, or setting aside in whole or in part, the order of the Secretary, or the court may remand the proceeding to the Secretary for such further action as the court may direct.

(c)(1) In the case of any civil penalty with respect to which the procedures of this paragraph have been elected, the Secretary will promptly assess such penalty, by order, after the date of the receipt of the notice under paragraph (a) of this section of the proposed penalty.

(2) If the person has not paid the civil penalty within 60 calendar days after the assessment has been made under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Secretary will institute an action in the appropriate District Court of the United States for an order affirming the assessment of the civil penalty. The court will have authority to review de novo the law and the facts involved and jurisdiction to enter a judgment enforcing, modifying, and enforcing as so modified, or setting aside in whole or in part, such assessment.

(3) Any election to have this paragraph apply can only be revoked with the consent of the Secretary.

(d) If any person fails to pay an assessment of a civil penalty after it has become a final and unappealable order under paragraph (b) of this section, or after the appropriate District Court has entered final judgment in favor of the Secretary under paragraph (c) of this section, the Secretary will institute an action to recover the amount of such penalty in any appropriate District Court of the United States. In such action, the validity and appropriateness of such final assessment order or judgment will not be subject to review.

(e)(1) In accordance with the provisions of sections 333(d)(5)(A) and 345 of the Act and notwithstanding the provisions of title 28, United States Code, or Section 502(c) of the Department of Energy Organization Act, the General Counsel of the Department of Energy (or any attorney or attorneys within DOE designated by the Secretary) will represent the Secretary, and will supervise, conduct, and argue any civil litigation to which paragraph (c) of this section applies (including any related collection action under paragraph (d) of this section) in a court of the United States or in any other court, except the Supreme Court of the United States. However, the Secretary or the General Counsel will consult with the Attorney General concerning such litigation and the Attorney General will provide, on request, such assistance in the conduct of such litigation as may be appropriate.

(2) In accordance with the provisions of sections 333(d)(5)(B) and 345 of the Act, and subject to the provisions of Section 502(c) of the Department of Energy Organization Act, the Secretary will be represented by the Attorney General, or the Solicitor General, as appropriate, in actions under this section, except to the extent provided in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.

(3) In accordance with the provisions of Section 333(d)(5)(c) and 345 of the Act, Section 402(d) of the Department of Energy Organization Act will not apply with respect to the function of the Secretary under this section.
