
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 431 - ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAM FOR CERTAIN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart U - Enforcement for Electric Motors
###### Appendix A to Subpart U of Part 431 - Sampling Plan for Enforcement Testing of Electric Motors

Step 1. The first sample size (n) must be five or more units.

Step 2. Compute the mean (Xof the measured energy performance of the nunits in the first sample as follows:

Step 3. Compute the sample standard deviation (S) of the measured full-load efficiency of the nunits in the first sample as follows:

Step 4. Compute the standard error (SE(X)) of the mean full-load efficiency of the first sample as follows:

Step 5. Compute the lower control limit (LCL) for the mean of the first sample using RE as the desired mean as follows:

Step 6. Compare the mean of the first sample (X) with the lower control limit (LCL) to determine one of the following:

(i) If the mean of the first sample is below the lower control limit, then the basic model is in non-compliance and testing is at an end.

(ii) If the mean is equal to or greater than the lower control limit, no final determination of compliance or non-compliance can be made; proceed to Step 7.

Step 7. Determine the recommended sample size (n) as follows:

Given the value of n, determine one of the following:

(i) If the value of n is less than or equal to nand if the mean energy efficiency of the first sample (X) is equal to or greater than the lower control limit (LCL), the basic model is in compliance and testing is at an end.

(ii) If the value of n is greater than n1, the basic model is in non-compliance. The size of a second sample nis determined to be the smallest integer equal to or greater than the difference n-n. If the value of nso calculated is greater than 20-n1, set nequal to 20-n.

Step 8. Compute the combined (X) mean of the measured energy performance of the nand nunits of the combined first and second samples as follows:

Step 9. Compute the standard error (SE(X)) of the mean full-load efficiency of the nand nunits in the combined first and second samples as follows:

Step 10. Set the lower control limit (LCL) to,

(i) If the mean of the combined sample (X) is less than the lower control limit (LCL), the basic model is in non-compliance and testing is at an end.

(ii) If the mean of the combined sample (X) is equal to or greater than the lower control limit (LCL), the basic model is in compliance and testing is at an end.

If a determination of non-compliance is made in Steps 6, 7 or 10, of this appendix A, the manufacturer may request that additional testing be conducted, in accordance with the following procedures.

Step A. The manufacturer requests that an additional number, n, of units be tested, with nchosen such that n+ n+ ndoes not exceed 20.

Step B. Compute the mean full-load efficiency, standard error, and lower control limit of the new combined sample in accordance with the procedures prescribed in Steps 8, 9, and 10, of this appendix A.

Step C. Compare the mean performance of the new combined sample to the lower control limit (LCL) to determine one of the following:

(a) If the new combined sample mean is equal to or greater than the lower control limit, the basic model is in compliance and testing is at an end.

(b) If the new combined sample mean is less than the lower control limit and the value of n+ n+ nis less than 20, the manufacturer may request that additional units be tested. The total of all units tested may not exceed 20. Steps A, B, and C are then repeated.

(c) Otherwise, the basic model is determined to be in non-compliance.
