
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 431 - ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAM FOR CERTAIN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart V - General Provisions
###### ยง 431.401 Petitions for waiver and interim waiver.
####### Notification to other manufacturers.

(c)(1) Each petitioner for interim waiver must, upon publication of a grant of an interim waiver in thenotify in writing all known manufacturers of domestically marketed basic models of the same equipment class (as specified in the relevant subpart of 10 CFR part 431), and of other equipment classes known to the petitioner to use the technology or have the characteristic at issue in the waiver. The notice must include a statement that DOE has published the interim waiver and petition for waiver in theand the date the petition for waiver was published. The notice must also include a statement that DOE will receive and consider timely written comments on the petition for waiver. Within five working days, each petitioner must file with DOE a statement certifying the names and addresses of each person to whom a notice of the petition for waiver has been sent.

(2) If a petitioner does not request an interim waiver and notification has not been provided pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, each petitioner, after filing a petition for waiver with DOE, and after the petition for waiver has been published in themust, within five working days of such publication, notify in writing all known manufacturers of domestically marketed basic models of the same equipment class (as listed in the relevant subpart of 10 CFR part 431), and of other equipment classes known to the petitioner to use the technology or have the characteristic at issue in the waiver. The notice must include a statement that DOE has published the petition in theand the date the petition for waiver was published. Within five working days of the publication of the petition in theeach petitioner must file with DOE a statement certifying the names and addresses of each person to whom a notice of the petition for waiver has been sent.
