
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 431 - ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAM FOR CERTAIN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart X - Small Electric Motors
###### Energy Conservation Standards
####### ยง 431.447 Department of Energy recognition of nationally recognized certification programs.
######## Evaluation criteria.

(b)For a certification program to be classified by the Department as nationally recognized, it must meet the following criteria:

(1) It must have satisfactory standards and procedures for conducting and administering a certification system, including periodic follow up activities to assure that basic models of small electric motors continue to conform to the efficiency levels for which they were certified, and for granting a certificate of conformity.

(2) It must be independent of small electric motor manufacturers, importers, distributors, private labelers or vendors. It cannot be affiliated with, have financial ties with, be controlled by, or be under common control with any such entity.

(3) It must be qualified to operate a certification system in a highly competent manner.

(4) It must be expert in the content and application of the test procedures and methodologies in IEEE 112-2017 Test Method A, IEEE 112-2017 Test Method B, IEEE 114-2010, IEC 60034-2-1:2014 Method 2-1-1A, IEC 60034-2-1:2014 Method 2-1-1B, CSA C390-10, or CSA C747-09 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 431.443) or similar procedures and methodologies for determining the energy efficiency of small electric motors. It must have satisfactory criteria and procedures for the selection and sampling of electric motors tested for energy efficiency.
