
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 431 - ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAM FOR CERTAIN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart X - Small Electric Motors
###### Energy Conservation Standards
####### ยง 431.447 Department of Energy recognition of nationally recognized certification programs.
######## Expertise in small electric motor test procedures.

(4)The petition should set forth the program's experience, as applicable, with the test procedures and methodologies in, IEEE 112-2017 Test Method A, IEEE 112-2017 Test Method B, IEEE 114-2010, IEC 60034-2-1:2014 Method 2-1-1A, IEC 60034-2-1:2014 Method 2-1-1B, CSA C390-10, and CSA C747-09 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 431.443) and with similar procedures and methodologies. This part of the petition should include items such as, but not limited to, a description of prior projects and qualifications of staff members. Of particular relevance would be documentary evidence that establishes experience in applying guidelines contained in the ISO/IEC Guide 25, General Requirements for the Competence of Calibration and Testing Laboratories to energy efficiency testing for electric motors.

(5) The ISO/IEC Guides referenced in paragraphs (c)(3) and (c)(4) of this section are not incorporated by reference, but are for information and guidance only. International Organization for Standardization (ISO), 1, ch. de la Voie-Creuse, CP 56, CH-1211 Geneva 20, Switzerland/International Electrotechnical Commission, 3, rue de Varemb&#xE9;, P.O. Box 131, CH-1211 Geneva 20, Switzerland.
