
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 431 - ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAM FOR CERTAIN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart Y - Pumps
###### Appendix A to Subpart Y of Part 431 - Uniform Test Method for the Measurement of Energy Consumption of Pumps
####### General.

A.To determine the constant load pump energy index (PEI) for bare pumps and pumps sold with electric motors or the variable load pump energy index (PEI) for pumps sold with electric motors and continuous or non-continuous controls, perform testing in accordance with HI 40.6-2014, except section 40.6.5.3, "Test report;" section A.7, "Testing at temperatures exceeding 30 &#xB0;C (86 &#xB0;F);" and appendix B, "Reporting of test results;" (incorporated by reference, see ยง 431.463) with the modifications and additions as noted throughout the provisions below. Where HI 40.6-2014 refers to "pump," the term refers to the "bare pump," as defined in ยง 431.462. Also, for the purposes of applying this appendix, the term "volume per unit time," as defined in section 40.6.2, "Terms and definitions," of HI 40.6-2014 shall be deemed to be synonymous with the term "flow rate" used throughout that standard and this appendix. In addition, the specifications of section 40.6.4.1 of HI 40.6-2014 do not apply to ST pumps and the performance of ST bare pumps considers the bowl performance only.

A.1 Scope. Section II of this appendix is applicable to all pumps and describes how to calculate the pump energy index (section II.A) based on the pump energy rating for the minimally compliant reference pump (PER; section II.B) and the constant load pump energy rating (PER) or variable load pump energy rating (PER) determined in accordance with one of sections III through VII of this appendix, based on the configuration in which the pump is distributed in commerce and the applicable testing method specified in sections III through VII and as described in Table 1 of this appendix.

A.2 Section III of this appendix addresses the test procedure applicable to bare pumps. This test procedure also applies to pumps sold with drivers other than motors and pumps sold with single-phase induction motors.
