
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 431 - ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAM FOR CERTAIN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart Y - Pumps
###### Appendix B to Subpart Y of Part 431 - Uniform Test Method for the Measurement of Energy Efficiency of Dedicated-Purpose Pool Pumps
####### e.g.,

B.1.2 Instruments for measuring distance (height above the reference plane or water level) must be accurate to and have a resolution of at least +/-0.1 inch.

B.2 Calibration. Calibration requirements for instrumentation are specified in appendix D of HI 40.6-2014-B (incorporated by reference, see ยง 431.463). Historical calibration data may be used to justify time periods up to three times longer than those specified in table D.1 of HI 40.6-2014-B provided the supporting historical data shows maintenance of calibration of the given instrument up to the selected extended calibration interval on at least two unique occasions, based on the interval specified in HI 40.6-2014-B.

C.1 Pump Specifications. Conduct testing at full impeller diameter in accordance with the test conditions, stabilization requirements, and specifications of HI 40.6-2014-B section 40.6.3, "Pump efficiency testing"; section 40.6.4, "Considerations when determining the efficiency of a pump"; section 40.6.5.4 (including appendix A), "Test arrangements"; and section 40.6.5.5, "Test conditions" (incorporated by reference, see ยง 431.463).

C.2 Power Supply Requirements. The following conditions also apply to the mains power supplied to the DPPP motor or controls, if any:

(1) Maintain the voltage within +/-5 percent of the rated value of the motor,

(2) Maintain the frequency within +/-1 percent of the rated value of the motor,

(3) Maintain the voltage unbalance of the power supply within +/-3 percent of the value with which the motor was rated, and

(4) Maintain total harmonic distortion below 12 percent throughout the test.

C.3 Test Conditions. Testing must be carried out with water that is between 50 and 107 &#xB0;F with less than or equal to 15 nephelometric turbidity units (NTU).

C.4 Tolerances. For waterfall pumps, multi-speed self-priming and non-self-priming pool filter pumps, and variable-speed self-priming and non-self-priming pool filter pumps all measured load points must be within +/-2.5 percent of the specified head value and comply with any specified flow values or thresholds. For all other dedicated-purpose pool pumps, all measured load points must be within the greater of +/-2.5 percent of the specified flow rate values or +/-0.5 gpm and comply with any specified head values or thresholds.

D.1 Damping Devices. Use of damping devices, as described in section 40.6.3.2.2 of HI 40.6-2014-B (incorporated by reference, see ยง 431.463), are only permitted to integrate up to the data collection interval used during testing.

D.2 Stabilization. Record data at any tested load point only under stabilized conditions, as defined in HI 40.6-2014-B section 40.6.5.5.1 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 431.463), where a minimum of two measurements are used to determine stabilization.

D.3 Test Points. Measure the flow rate in gpm, pump total head in ft, the driver power input in W, and the speed of rotation in rpm at each load point specified in Table 1 of this appendix for each DPPP variety and speed configuration:

E.1 Determination of Weighted Energy Factor. Determine the WEF as a ratio of the measured flow and driver power input to the dedicated-purpose pool pump in accordance with the following equation:

E.2 Weights. When determining WEF, apply the weights specified in Table 2 of this appendix for the applicable load points, DPPP varieties, and speed configurations:

E.3 Determination of Horsepower and True Power Factor Metrics
