
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 431 - ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAM FOR CERTAIN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart Y - Pumps
###### Appendix D to Subpart Y of Part 431 - Uniform Test Method for the Measurement of Energy Consumption of Circulator Pumps

DOE incorporated by reference in ยง 431.463 the entire standard for HI 40.6-2021 and for HI 41.5-2022. However, not all provisions of HI 40.6-2021 and HI 41.5-2022 apply to this appendix. If there is any conflict between any industry standard and this appendix, follow the language of the test procedure in this appendix, disregarding the conflicting industry standard language.

0.1 Specifically, the following provisions of HI 40.6-2021 are not applicable:

0.2 Specifically, only the following provisions of HI 41.5-2022 are applicable:

To determine the circulator energy index (CEI), testing shall be performed in accordance with HI 40.6-2021, including Appendix E "Testing Circulator Pumps," with the exceptions noted in section 0.1 of this appendix and the modifications and additions as noted throughout the following provisions. For the purposes of applying this appendix, the term "pump power output," as defined in section 40.6.2, "Terms and definitions," of HI 40.6-2021 shall be deemed to be synonymous with the term "hydraulic horsepower" used throughout that standard and this appendix.

2.1 This appendix is applicable to all circulator pumps and describes how to calculate the circulator energy index (CEI; section F) based on the pump energy rating for the minimally compliant reference circulator pump (CER) and the circulator energy rating (CER) determined in accordance with one of the test methods listed in Table I of this appendix based on a control variety with which the circulator pump is distributed in commerce.

2.2 If a given circulator pump model is distributed in commerce with multiple control varieties available, the manufacturer may select a control variety (or varieties) among those available with which to test the circulator pump, including the test method for circulator pumps at full speed or circulator pumps without external input signal, manual, pressure, or temperature controls).

For the purposes of measuring flow rate, head, driver power input, and pump power output, the equipment specified in HI 40.6-2021 Appendix C must be used and must comply with the stated accuracy requirements in HI 40.6-2021 Table 40.6.3.2.3. When more than one instrument is used to measure a given parameter, the combined accuracy, calculated as the root sum of squares of individual instrument accuracies, must meet the specified accuracy requirements.

4.1 Pump specifications. Conduct testing in accordance with the test conditions, stabilization requirements, and specifications of HI 40.6-2021 section 40.6.3, "Pump efficiency testing"; section 40.6.4, "Considerations when determining the efficiency of a pump," including section 40.6.4.4, "Determination of pump overall efficiency"; section 40.6.5.4 (including Appendix A), "Test arrangements"; and section 40.6.5.5, "Test conditions."

4.2 Twin head circulator pump. To test twin head circulator pumps, one of the two impeller assemblies should be incorporated into an adequate, single impeller volute and casing. An adequate, single impeller volute and casing means a volute and casing for which any physical and functional characteristics that affect energy consumption and energy efficiency are essentially identical to their corresponding characteristics for a single impeller in the twin head circulator pump volute and casing.

4.3 Circulator-less-volute. To determine the CEI for a circulator-less-volute, test each circulator-less-volute with each volute for which the circulator-less-volute is offered for sale or advertised to be paired for that circulator pump model according to the testing and calculations described in the applicable test method listed in Table 1 of this appendix, depending on the variety of control with which the circulator pump model is distributed in commerce. Alternatively, each circulator-less-volute may be tested with the most consumptive volute with which is it offered for sale or advertised to be paired for that circulator pump model.

5.1 Stabilization. Record data at any test point only under stabilized conditions, as defined in HI 40.6-2021 section 40.6.5.5.1.

5.2 Testing BEP at maximum speed for the circulator pump. Determine the BEP of the circulator pump at maximum speed as specified in Appendix E of HI 40.6-2021 including sections 40.6.5.5.1 and 40.6.6 as modified. Determine the BEP flow rate at maximum speed as the flow rate at the operating point of maximum overall efficiency on the circulator pump curve, as determined in accordance with section 40.6.6.3 of HI 40.6-2021 as modified by Appendix E, where overall efficiency is the ratio of the circulator pump power output divided by the driver power input, as specified in Table 40.6.2.1 of HI 40.6-2021. For the purposes of this test procedure, all references to "driver power input" in this appendix or HI 40.6-2021 shall refer to the input power to the controls, or to the motor if no controls are present.

5.3 Rounding. All terms and quantities refer to values determined in accordance with the procedures set forth in this appendix for the rated circulator pump. Perform all calculations using raw measured values without rounding. Round CER to three significant figures. Round CEI to the hundredths decimal place. Round rated hydraulic horsepower to the less precise of the following two values: three significant figures; the fourth decimal place when expressed in units of horsepower.

Determine CEI using the following equation:

7.1 To determine flow and head at BEP; pump power output (hydraulic horsepower) and driver power input at load points used in the calculation of CEI, including the rated hydraulic horsepower; and any other reported performance parameters, conduct testing according to section 1 of this appendix.

7.2 Determine the rated hydraulic horsepower as the pump power output measured at BEP and full impeller diameter for the rated pump.
