
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 431 - ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAM FOR CERTAIN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart Y - Pumps
###### Appendix C to Subpart Y of Part 431 - Uniform Test Method for the Measurement of Energy Efficiency of Dedicated-Purpose Pool Pumps
####### i.e.,

(2) The pump draws water from the water tank with a riser pipe that extends below the water level a distance of at least 3 times the riser pipe diameter (3 pipe diameters);

(3) The suction inlet of the pump is at least 5 pipe diameters from any obstructions, 90&#xB0; bends, valves, or fittings; and

(4) The riser pipe is of the same pipe diameter as the pump suction inlet.

F.1.1.1 The vertical lift (VL) must be normalized to 5.0 feet at an atmospheric pressure of 14.7 psia and a water density of 62.4 lb/ftin accordance with the following equation:

F.1.2 The equipment accuracy requirements specified in section B, "Measurement Equipment," of this appendix also apply to this section F, as applicable.

F.1.2.1 All measurements of head (gauge pressure), flow, and water temperature must be taken at the pump suction inlet and all head measurements must be normalized back to the centerline of the pump impeller shaft in accordance with section A.3.1.3.1 of HI 40.6-2014-B (incorporated by reference, see ยง 431.463).

F.1.3 All tests must be conducted with clear water that meets the requirements adopted in section C.3 of this appendix.

F.1.4 In section C.3.4, "Self-priming capability test method," of NSF/ANSI 50-2015 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 431.463), "the elapsed time to steady discharge gauge reading or full discharge flow" is determined when the changes in head and flow, respectively, are within the tolerance values specified in table 40.6.3.2.2, "Permissible amplitude of fluctuation as a percentage of mean value of quantity being measured at any test point," of HI 40.6-2014-B (incorporated by reference, see ยง 431.463). The measured priming time (MPT) is determined as the point in time when the stabilized load point is first achieved, not when stabilization is determined. In addition, the true priming time (TPT) is equivalent to the MPT.

F.1.5 The maximum true priming time for each test run must not exceed 10.0 minutes. Disregard section C.3.5 of NSF/ANSI 50-2015 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 431.463).

G.1 Replacement Dedicated-Purpose Pool Pump Motors. To determine the WEF for replacement DPPP motors, test each replacement DPPP motor paired with each dedicated-purpose pool pump bare pump for which the replacement DPPP motor is advertised to be paired, as stated in the manufacturer's literature for that replacement DPPP motor model, according to the testing and calculations described in sections A, B, C, D, and E of this appendix. Alternatively, each replacement DPPP motor may be tested with the most consumptive dedicated-purpose pool pump bare pump for which it is advertised to be paired, as stated in the manufacturer's literature for that replacement DPPP motor model. If a replacement DPPP motor is not advertised to be paired with any specific dedicated-purpose pool pump bare pumps, test with the most consumptive dedicated-purpose pool pump bare pump available.
