
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 434 - ENERGY CODE FOR NEW FEDERAL COMMERCIAL AND MULTI-FAMILY HIGH RISE RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
##### Subpart A - Administration and Enforcement - General
###### ยง 434.101 Scope.

101.1 This part provides design requirements for the building envelope, electrical distribution systems and equipment for electric power, lighting, heating, ventilating, air conditioning, service water heating and energy management. It applies to new Federal multi-family high rise residential buildings and new Federal commercial buildings, for which design for construction began before January 3, 2007.

101.1.1 (a) Except as provided by section 101.2, the provisions of this part apply if an agency is constructing:

(1) A building that has never been in service;

(2) An addition for which design for construction began before January 3, 2007, that adds new space with provision for a heating or cooling system, or both, or for a hot water system; or

(3) A substantial renovation of a building for which design for construction began before January 3, 2007, involving replacement of a heating or cooling system, or both, or hot water system, that is either in service or has been in service.

101.2 The provisions of this part do not apply to:

101.2.1 Buildings, or portions thereof separated from the remainder of the building, that have a peak energy usage for space conditioning, service water heating, and lighting of less than 3.5 Btu/(h-ftof gross floor area.

101.2.2 Buildings of less than 100 square feet of gross floor area.

101.2.3 Heating, cooling, ventilating, or service hot water requirements for those spaces where processes occur for purposes other than occupant comfort and sanitation, and which impose thermal loads in excess of 5% of the loads that would otherwise be required for occupant comfort and sanitation without the process;

101.2.4 Envelope requirements for those spaces where heating or cooling requirements are excepted in subsection 101.2.3 of this section.

101.2.5 Lighting for tasks not listed or encompassed by areas or activities listed in Tables 401.3.2b, 401.3.2c and 401.3.2d.

101.2.6 Buildings that are composed entirely of spaces listed in subsections 101.2.4 and 101.2.5.

101.2.7 Individual components of a building under renovation, if the building components are not in the scope of a renovation as defined by the agency.
