
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 434 - ENERGY CODE FOR NEW FEDERAL COMMERCIAL AND MULTI-FAMILY HIGH RISE RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
##### Subpart D - Building Design Requirements - Electric Systems and Equipment
###### ยง 434.401 Electrical power and lighting systems.
####### Building interiors.

401.3.2The total connected interior lighting power for a building, including adjustments in accordance with subsection 401.3.3, shall not exceed the total interior lighting power allowance explained in this paragraph. Using Table 401.3.2a, multiply the interior lighting power allowance value by the gross lighted area of the most appropriate building or space activity. For multi-use buildings, using Table 401.3.2a, select the interior power allowance value for each activity using the column for the gross lighted area of the whole building and multiply it by the associated gross area for that activity. The interior lighting power allowance is the sum of all the wattages for each area/activity. Using Table 401.3.2b, c, or d, multiply the interior lighting power allowance values of each individual area/activity by the area of the space and by the area factor from Figure 401.3.2e, based on the most appropriate area/activity provided. The interior lighting power allowance is the sum of the wattages for each individual space. When over 20% of the building's tasks or interior areas are undefined, the most appropriate value for that building from Table 401.3.2a shall be used for the undefined spaces. Exceptions are as follows:

(a) Lighting power that is an essential technical element for the function performed in theatrical, stage, broadcasting, and similar uses.

(b) Specialized medical, dental, and research lighting.

(c) Display lighting for exhibits in galleries, museums, and monuments.

(d) Lighting solely for indoor plant growth (between the hours of 10:00 pm and 6:00 am).

(e) Emergency lighting that is automatically off during normal building operation.

(f) High-risk security areas.

(g) Spaces specifically designed for the primary use by the physically impaired or aged.

(h) Lighting in dwelling units.

401.3.2.1 Trade-offs of the interior lighting power budgets among interior spaces shall be allowed provided the total connected lighting power within the building does not exceed the interior lighting power allowance. Trade-offs between interior lighting power allowances and exterior lighting power allowances shall not be allowed.
