
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 434 - ENERGY CODE FOR NEW FEDERAL COMMERCIAL AND MULTI-FAMILY HIGH RISE RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
##### Subpart D - Building Design Requirements - Electric Systems and Equipment
###### ยง 434.401 Electrical power and lighting systems.
####### Check Metering.

401.1.1Single-tenant buildings with a service over 250 kVA and tenant spaces with a connected load over 100 kVA in multiple-tenant buildings shall have provisions for check metering of electrical consumption. The electrical power feeders for which provision for check metering is required shall be subdivided as follows:

401.1.1.1 Lighting and receptacle outlets

401.1.1.2 HVAC systems and equipment

401.1.1.3 Service water heating (SWH), elevators, and special occupant equipment or systems of more than 20 kW.

401.1.1.4 Exception to 401.1.1.1 through 401.1.1.3: 10 percent or less of the loads on a feeder may be from another usage or category.

401.1.2 Tenant-shared HVAC and service hot water systems in multiple tenant buildings shall have provision to be separately check metered.

401.1.3 Subdivided feeders shall contain provisions for portable or permanent check metering. The minimum acceptable arrangement for compliance shall provide a safe method for access by qualified persons to the enclosures through which feeder conductors pass and provide sufficient space to attach clamp-on or split core current transformers. These enclosures may be separate compartments or combined spaces with electrical cabinets serving another function. Dedicated enclosures so furnished shall be identified as to measuring function available.
