
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 434 - ENERGY CODE FOR NEW FEDERAL COMMERCIAL AND MULTI-FAMILY HIGH RISE RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
##### Subpart D - Building Design Requirements - Electric Systems and Equipment
###### ยง 434.401 Electrical power and lighting systems.
####### Lighting Power Control Credits.

401.3.3The interior connected lighting power determined in accordance with ยง 434.401.3.2 can be decreased for luminaries that are automatically controlled for occupancy, daylight, lumen maintenance, or programmable timing. The adjusted interior connected lighting power shall be determined by subtracting the sum of all lighting power control credits from the interior connected lighting power. Using Table 401.3.3, the lighting power control credit equals the power adjustment factor times the connected lighting power of the controlled lighting. The lighting power adjustment shall be applied with the following limitations:

(a) It is limited to the specific area controlled by the automatic control device.

(b) Only one lighting power adjustment may be used for each building space or luminaire, and 50 percent or more of the controlled luminaire shall be within the applicable space.

(c) Controls shall be installed in series with the lights and in series with all manual switching devices.

(d) When sufficient daylight is available, daylight sensing controls shall be capable of reducing electrical power consumption for lighting (continuously or in steps) to 50 percent or less of maximum power consumption.

(e) Daylight sensing controls shall control all luminaires to which the adjustment is applied and that direct a minimum of 50 percent of their light output into the daylight zone.

(f) Programmable timing controls shall be able to program different schedules for occupied and unoccupied days, be readily accessible for temporary override with automatic return to the original schedule, and keep time during power outages for at least four hours.
