
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 434 - ENERGY CODE FOR NEW FEDERAL COMMERCIAL AND MULTI-FAMILY HIGH RISE RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
##### Subpart D - Building Design Requirements - Electric Systems and Equipment
###### ยง 434.401 Electrical power and lighting systems.
####### Number of Manual Controls.

401.3.4.2Spaces enclosed by walls or ceiling-high partitions shall have a minimum of one manual control (on/off switch) for lighting in that space. Additional manual controls shall be provided for each task location or for each group of task locations within an area of 450 ftor less. For spaces with only one lighting fixture or with a single ballast, one manual control is required. Exceptions are as follows:

401.3.4.2.1 Continuous lighting for security;

401.3.4.2.2 Systems in which occupancy sensors, local programmable timers, or three-level (including OFF) step controls or preset dimming controls are substituted for manual controls at the rate of one for every two required manual controls, providing at least one control is installed for every 1500 watts of power.

401.3.4.2.3 Systems in which four-level (including OFF) step controls or preset dimming controls or automatic or continuous dimming controls are substituted for manual controls at a rate of one for every three required manual controls, providing at least one control is installed for every 1500 watts of power.

401.3.4.2.4 Spaces that must be used as a whole, such as public lobbies, retail stores, warehouses, and storerooms.
