
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 434 - ENERGY CODE FOR NEW FEDERAL COMMERCIAL AND MULTI-FAMILY HIGH RISE RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
##### Subpart D - Building Design Requirements - Electric Systems and Equipment
###### ยง 434.402 Building envelope assemblies and materials.
####### Thermal Performance Calculations.

402.1.2The overall thermal transmittance of the building envelope shall be calculated in accordance with Equation 402.1.2:

The thermal transmittance of each component of the building envelope shall be determined with due consideration of all major series and parallel heat flow paths through the elements of the component and film coefficients and shall account for any compression of insulation. The thermal transmittance of opaque elements of assemblies shall be determined using a series path procedure with corrections for the presence of parallel paths within an element of the envelope assembly (such as wall cavities with parallel paths through insulation and studs). The thermal performance of adjacent ground in below-grade applications shall be excluded from all thermal calculations.

402.1.2.1 Envelope Assemblies Containing Metal Framing. The thermal transmittance of the envelope assembly containing metal framing shall be determined from one of three methods:

(a) Laboratory or field test measurements based on RS-5, RS-6, RS-7, or RS-8 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 434.701).

(b) The zone method described in Chapter 22 of RS-4 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 434.701) and the formulas on page 22.10.

(c) For metal roof trusses or metal studs covered by Tables 402.1.2.1a and b, the total resistance of the series path shall be calculated in accordance with the following Equations:
