
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 434 - ENERGY CODE FOR NEW FEDERAL COMMERCIAL AND MULTI-FAMILY HIGH RISE RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
##### Subpart D - Building Design Requirements - Electric Systems and Equipment
###### ยง 434.402 Building envelope assemblies and materials.
####### Fenestration Assemblies.

402.1.2.4Determine the overall thermal transmittance of fenestration assemblies in accordance with RS-18 and RS-19 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 434.701) or by calculation. Calculation of the overall thermal transmittance of fenestration assemblies shall consider the center-of-glass, edge-of-glass, and frame components.

(a) The following equation 402.1.2.4a shall be used.

(b) Values of Ushall be based on one of the following methods:

(1) Results from laboratory test of center-of-glass, edge-of-glass, and frame assemblies tested as a unit at winter conditions. One of the procedures in Section 8.3.2 of RS-1 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 434.701) shall be used.

(2) Overall generic product C (commercial) in Table 13, Chapter 27, of the RS-4 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 434.701). The generic product C in Table 13, Chapter 27, is based on a product of 24 ft. Larger units will produce lower U-values and thus it is recommended to use the calculation procedure detailed in Equation 402.1.2.4a.

(3) Calculations based on the actual area for center-of-glass, edge-of-glass, and frame assemblies and on the thermal transmittance of components derived from 402.1.2.4a, 402.1.2.4b or a combination of the two.
