
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 434 - ENERGY CODE FOR NEW FEDERAL COMMERCIAL AND MULTI-FAMILY HIGH RISE RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
##### Subpart D - Building Design Requirements - Electric Systems and Equipment
###### § 434.402 Building envelope assemblies and materials.
####### Roofs; Floors and Walls Adjacent to Unconditioned Spaces.

402.3.1The area weighted average thermal transmittance of roofs and also of floors and walls adjacent to unconditioned spaces shall not exceed the criteria in Table 402.3.1a. Exceptions are as follows: Skylights for which daylight credit is taken may be excluded from the calculations of the roof assembly Uif all of the following conditions are met:

(a) The opaque roof thermal transmittance is less than the criteria in Table 402.3.1b.

(b) Skylight areas, including framing, as a percentage of the roof area do not exceed the values specified in Table 402.3.1b. The maximum skylight area from Table 402.3.1b may be increased by 50% if a shading device is used that blocks over 50% of the solar gain during the peak cooling design condition. For shell buildings, the permitted skylight area shall be based on a light level of 30 foot candles and a lighting power density (LPD) of less than 1.0 w/ft. For speculative buildings, the permitted skylight area shall be based on the unit lighting power allowance from Table 401.3.2a and an illuminance level as follows: for LPD <1.0, use 30 footcandles; for 1.0 <LPD <2.5, use 50 footcandles; and for LPD ≥2.5, use 70 footcandles.

(c) All electric lighting fixtures within daylighted zones under skylights are controlled by automatic daylighting controls.

(d) The Uof the skylight assembly including framing does not exceed____________Btu/(h&#xB7;ft&#xB7;&#xB0;F) [Use 0.70 for &#x2264;8000 HDD65 and 0.45 for >8000 HDD65 or both if the jurisdiction includes cities that are both below and above 8000 HDD65.]

(e) Skylight curb U-value does not exceed 0.21 Btu/(h&#xB7;ft&#xB7;&#xB0;F).

(f) The infiltration coefficient of the skylights does not exceed 0.05 cfm/ft.
