
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 434 - ENERGY CODE FOR NEW FEDERAL COMMERCIAL AND MULTI-FAMILY HIGH RISE RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
##### Subpart D - Building Design Requirements - Electric Systems and Equipment
###### ยง 434.402 Building envelope assemblies and materials.
####### Moisture Migration.

402.2.2.5The building envelope shall be designed to limit moisture migration that leads to deterioration in insulation or equipment performance as determined by the following construction practices:

(a) A vapor retarder shall be installed to retard, or slow down the rate of water vapor diffusion through the building envelope. The position of the vapor retarder shall be determined taking into account local climate and indoor humidity levels. The methodologies presented in Chapter 20 of RS-4 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 434.701) shall be used to determine temperature and water vapor profiles through the envelope systems to assess the potential for condensation within the envelope and to determine the position of the vapor retarder within the envelope system.

(b) The vapor retarder shall be installed over the entire building envelope.

(c) The perm rating requirements of the vapor retarder shall be determined using the methodologies contained in Chapter 20 of RS-4, (incorporated by reference, see ยง 434.701) and shall take into account local climate and indoor humidity level. The vapor retarder shall have a performance rating of 1 perm or less.
