
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 434 - ENERGY CODE FOR NEW FEDERAL COMMERCIAL AND MULTI-FAMILY HIGH RISE RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
##### Subpart D - Building Design Requirements - Electric Systems and Equipment
###### ยง 434.403 Building mechanical systems and equipment.
####### Ventilation controls for variable or high occupancy areas.

403.2.4.1Systems with design outside air capacities greater than 3,000 cfm serving areas having an average design occupancy density exceeding 100 people per 1,000 ftshall include means to automatically reduce outside air intake to the minimum values required by RS-41 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 434.701) during unoccupied or low-occupancy periods. Outside air shall not be reduced below 0.14 cfm/ft. Outside air intake shall be controlled by one or more of the following:

(a) A clearly labeled, readily accessible bypass timer that may be used by occupants or operating personnel to temporarily increase minimum outside air flow up to design levels.

(b) A carbon dioxide (CO) control system having sensors located in the spaces served, or in the return air from the spaces served, capable of maintaining space COconcentrations below levels recommended by the manufacturer, but no fewer than one sensor per 25,000 ftof occupied space shall be provided.

(c) An automatic timeclock that can be programmed to maintain minimum outside air intake levels commensurate with scheduled occupancy levels.

(d) Spaces equipped with occupancy sensors.
