
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 434 - ENERGY CODE FOR NEW FEDERAL COMMERCIAL AND MULTI-FAMILY HIGH RISE RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
##### Subpart D - Building Design Requirements - Electric Systems and Equipment
###### ยง 434.403 Building mechanical systems and equipment.
####### Simultaneous Heating and Cooling.

403.2.6.6Zone thermostatic and humidistatic controls shall be capable of operating in sequence the supply of heating and cooling energy to the zone. Such controls shall prevent: Reheating; recooling; mixing or simultaneous supply of air that has been previously mechanically heated and air that has been previously cooled, either by mechanical refrigeration or by economizer systems; and other simultaneous operation of heating and cooling systems to the same zone. Exceptions are as follows:

(a) Variable-air-volume systems that, during periods of occupancy, are designed to reduce the air supply to each zone to a minimum before heating, recooling, or mixing takes place. This minimum volume shall be no greater than the larger of 30% of the peak supply volume, the minimum required to meet minimum ventilation requirements of the Federal agency. (0.4 cfm/ftof zone conditioned floor area, and 300 cfm).

(b) Zones where special pressurization relationships or cross-contamination requirements are such that variable-air-volume systems are impractical, such as isolation rooms, operating areas of hospitals and clean rooms.

(c) At least 75% of the energy for reheating or for providing warm air in mixing systems is provided from a site-recovered or site-solar energy source.

(d) Zones where specified humidity levels are required to satisfy process needs, such as computer rooms and museums.

(e) Zones with a peak supply air quantity of 300 cfm or less.
