
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 434 - ENERGY CODE FOR NEW FEDERAL COMMERCIAL AND MULTI-FAMILY HIGH RISE RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
##### Subpart D - Building Design Requirements - Electric Systems and Equipment
###### § 434.403 Building mechanical systems and equipment.
####### Duct and Plenum Construction.

403.2.9.3All air-handling ductwork and plenums shall be constructed and erected in accordance with RS-34, RS-35, and RS-36 (incorporated by reference, see § 434.701). Where supply ductwork and plenums designed to operate at static pressures from 0.25 in. wc to 2 in. wc, inclusive, are located outside of the conditioned space or in return plenums, joints shall be sealed in accordance with Seal Class C as defined in RS-34 (incorporated by reference, see § 434.701). Pressure sensitive tape shall not be used as the primary sealant where such ducts are designed to operate at static pressures of 1 in. wc, or greater.

403.2.9.3.1 Ductwork designed to operate at static pressures in excess of 3 in. wc shall be leak-tested in accordance with Section 5 of RS-35, (incorporated by reference, see § 434.701), or equivalent. Test reports shall be provided in accordance with Section 6 of RS-35, (incorporated by reference, see § 434.701)m or equivalent. The tested duct leakage class at a test pressure equal to the design duct pressure class rating shall be equal to or less than leakage Class 6 as defined in Section 4.1 of RS-35 (incorporated by reference, see § 434.701). Representative sections totaling at least 25% of the total installed duct area for the designated pressure class shall be tested.
