
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 434 - ENERGY CODE FOR NEW FEDERAL COMMERCIAL AND MULTI-FAMILY HIGH RISE RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
##### Subpart D - Building Design Requirements - Electric Systems and Equipment
###### ยง 434.403 Building mechanical systems and equipment.
####### Shutoff Dampers.

403.2.7.2Outdoor air supply and exhaust systems shall be provided with motorized or gravity dampers or other means of automatic volume shutoff or reduction. Exceptions are as follows:

(a) Systems serving areas expected to operate continuously.

(b) Individual systems which have a design airflow rate or 3000 cfm or less.

(c) Gravity and other non-electrical ventilation systems controlled by readily accessible, manual damper controls.

(d) Where restricted by health and life safety codes.

403.2.7.3 Zone Isolation systems that serve zones that can be expected to operate nonsimultaneously for more than 750 hours per year shall include isolation devices and controls to shut off or set back the supply of heating and cooling to each zone independently. Isolation is not required for zones expected to operate continuously or expected to be inoperative only when all other zones are inoperative. For buildings where occupancy patterns are not known at the time of system design, such as speculative buildings, the designer may predesignate isolation areas. The grouping of zones on one floor into a single isolation area shall be permitted when the total conditioned floor area does not exceed 25,000 ftper group.
