
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 434 - ENERGY CODE FOR NEW FEDERAL COMMERCIAL AND MULTI-FAMILY HIGH RISE RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
##### Subpart D - Building Design Requirements - Electric Systems and Equipment
###### ยง 434.403 Building mechanical systems and equipment.
####### Economizer Controls.

403.2.8

403.2.8.1 Each fan system shall be designed and capable of being controlled to take advantage of favorable weather conditions to reduce mechanical cooling requirements. The system shall include either: A temperature or enthalpy air economizer system that is capable of automatically modulating outside air and return air dampers to provide up to 85% of the design supply air quantity as outside air, or a water economizer system that is capable of cooling supply air by direct and/or indirect evaporation and is capable of providing 100% of the expected system cooling load at outside air temperatures of 50 &#xB0;F dry-bulb/45 &#xB0;F wet-bulb and below. Exceptions are as follows:

(a) Individual fan-cooling units with a supply capacity of less than 3000 cfm or a total cooling capacity less than 90,000 Btu/h.

(b) Systems with air-cooled or evaporatively cooled condensers that include extensive filtering equipment provided in order to meet the requirements of RS-41 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 434.701).

(c) Systems with air-cooled or evaporatively cooled condensers where the design engineer certifies to the building official that use of outdoor air cooling affects the operation of other systems, such as humidification, dehumidification, and supermarket refrigeration systems, so as to increase overall energy usage.

(d) Systems that serve envelope-dominated spaces whose sensible cooling load at design conditions, excluding transmission and infiltration loads, is less than or equal to transmission and infiltration losses at an outdoor temperature of 60 &#xB0;F.

(e) Systems serving residential spaces and hotel or motel rooms.

(f) Systems for which at least 75% of the annual energy used for mechanical cooling is provided from a site-recovered or site-solar energy source.

(g) The zone(s) served by the system each have operable openings (windows, doors, etc.) with an openable area greater than 5% of the conditioned floor area. This applies only to spaces open to and within 20 ft of the operable openings. Automatic controls shall be provided that lock out system mechanical cooling to these zones when outdoor air temperatures are less than 60 &#xB0;F.

403.2.8.2 Economizer systems shall be capable of providing partial cooling even when additional mechanical cooling is required to meet the remainder of the cooling load. Exceptions are as follows:

(a) Direct-expansion systems may include controls to reduce the quantity of outdoor air as required to prevent coil frosting at the lowest step of compressor unloading. Individual direct-expansion units that have a cooling capacity of 180,000 Btu/h or less may use economizer controls that preclude economizer operation whenever mechanical cooling is required simultaneously.

(b) Systems in climates with less than 750 average operating hours per year between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. when the ambient dry-bulb temperatures are between 55 &#xB0;F and 69 &#xB0;F inclusive.

403.2.8.3 System design and economizer controls shall be such that economizer operation does not increase the building heating energy use during normal operation.
