
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 434 - ENERGY CODE FOR NEW FEDERAL COMMERCIAL AND MULTI-FAMILY HIGH RISE RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
##### Subpart D - Building Design Requirements - Electric Systems and Equipment
###### ยง 434.404 Building service systems and equipment.
####### Testing Electric and Oil Storage Water Heaters for Standby Loss.

404.1.1

(a) When testing an electric storage water heater, the procedures of Z21.10.3-1990 (RS-39, incorporated by reference, see ยง 434.701), Section 2.9, shall be used. The electrical supply voltage shall be maintained with +/-1% of the center of the voltage range specified on the water heater nameplate. Also, when needed for calculations, the thermal efficiency (E) shall be 98%. When testing an oil-fired water heater, the procedures of Z21.10.3-1990 (RS-39 incorporated by reference, see ยง 434.701), Sections 2.8 and 2.9, shall be used.

(b) The following modifications shall be made: A vertical length of flue pipe shall be connected to the flue gas outlet of sufficient height to establish the minimum draft specified in the manufacturer's installation instructions. All measurements of oil consumption shall be taken by instruments with an accuracy of +/-1% or better. The burner rate shall be adjusted to achieve an hourly Btu input rate within +/-2% of the manufacturer's specified input rate with the COreading as specified by the manufacturer with smoke no greater than 1 and the fuel pump pressure within +/-1% of the manufacturer's specification.
