
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 434 - ENERGY CODE FOR NEW FEDERAL COMMERCIAL AND MULTI-FAMILY HIGH RISE RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
##### Subpart E - Building Energy Cost Compliance Alternative
###### ยง 434.520 Speculative buildings.

520.1 Lighting. The interior lighting power allowance (ILPA) for calculating the Energy Cost Budget shall be determined from Table 401.3.2a. The Design Energy Consumption may be based on an assumed adjusted lighting power for future lighting improvements.

520.2 The assumption about future lighting power used to calculate the Design Energy Consumption must be documented so that the future installed lighting systems may be in compliance with these standards. Documentation must be provided to enable future lighting systems to use either the Prescriptive method or the Systems Performance method of subsection 401.3.

520.3 Documentation for future lighting systems that use subsection 401.3 shall be stated as a maximum adjusted lighting power for the tenant spaces. The adjusted lighting power allowance for tenant spaces shall account for the lighting power provided for the common areas of the building.

520.4 Documentation for future lighting systems that use subsection 401.3 shall be stated as a required lighting adjustment. The required lighting adjustment is the whole building lighting power assumed in order to calculate the Design Energy Consumption minus the ILPA value from Table 401.3.2c that was used to calculate the Energy Cost Budget. When the required lighting adjustment is less than zero, a complete lighting design must be developed for one or more representative tenant spaces, demonstrating acceptable lighting within the limits of the assumed lighting power allowance.

520.5 HVAC Systems and Equipment. If the HVAC system is not completely specified in the plans, the Design Energy Consumption shall be based on reasonable assumptions about the construction of future HVAC systems and equipment. These assumptions shall be documented so that future HVAC systems and equipment may be in compliance with these standards.
