
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 434 - ENERGY CODE FOR NEW FEDERAL COMMERCIAL AND MULTI-FAMILY HIGH RISE RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
##### Subpart F - Building Energy Compliance Alternative
###### ยง 434.607 Life cycle cost analysis criteria.

607.1 The following life cycle cost criteria applies to the fuel selection requirements of this subpart and to option life cycle cost analyses performed to evaluate energy conservation design alternatives. The fuel source(s) selection shall be made in accordance with the requirements of subpart A of 10 CFR part 436. When performing optional life cycle cost analyses of energy conservation opportunities the designer may use the life cycle cost procedures of subpart A of 10 CFR part 436 or OMB Circular 1-94 or an equivalent procedure that meets the assumptions listed below:

607.1.1 The economic life of the Prototype Building and Proposed Design shall be 25 years. Anticipated replacements or renovations of energy related features and systems in the Prototype or Reference Building and Proposed Design during this period shall be included in their respective life cycle cost calculations.

607.1.2 The designer shall follow established professional cost estimating practices when determining the costs and benefits associated with the energy related features of the Prototype or Reference Building and Proposed Design.

607.1.3 All costs shall be expressed in current dollars. General inflation shall be disregarded. Differential escalation of prices (prices estimated to rise faster or slower than general inflation) for energy used in the life cycle cost calculations shall be those in effect at the time of the latest "Annual Energy Outlook" (DOE/EIA-0383) as published by the Department of Energy's Energy Information Administration.

607.1.4 The economic effects of taxes, depreciation and other factors not consistent with the practices of subpart A of 10 CFR part 436 shall not be included in the life cycle cost calculation.
