
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 15 - DEBT COLLECTION PROCEDURES
#### Subpart E - Referral of a Claim
##### ยง 15.61 Prompt referral.

(a) The NRC shall promptly refer debts that are subject to aggressive collection activity (as described in subpart B of this part) and that cannot be compromised, or debts on which collection activity cannot be suspended or terminated, to DOJ for litigation. Debts for which the principal amount exceeds $1,000,000, or such other amount as the Attorney General may direct, exclusive of interest and penalties, must be referred to the Civil Division or other division responsible for litigating such debts at DOJ, Washington, DC. Debts for which the principal amount is $1,000,000 or less, or such other amount as the Attorney General may direct, exclusive of interest or penalties, must be referred to the DOJ's Nationwide Central Intake Facility, as required by the CCLR instructions. Debts will be referred as early as possible, consistent with the NRC's aggressive collection activity and well within the one year of the NRC's final determination of the fact and the amount of the debt.

(b) DOJ has exclusive jurisdiction over the debts referred to in paragraph (a) of this section. The NRC shall terminate the use of any administrative collection activities to collect a debt when the debt is referred to DOJ. The NRC shall advise the DOJ of the collection activities it used and the results. The NRC shall refrain from having any contact with the debtor and shall direct all inquiries to DOJ. The NRC shall immediately notify DOJ of any payments credited to the debtor's account after the account has been referred to DOJ. DOJ shall notify NRC in a timely manner of any payments it receives from the debtor.
