
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 436 - FEDERAL ENERGY MANAGEMENT AND PLANNING PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Methods and Procedures for Energy Savings Performance Contracting
###### ยง 436.32 Qualified contractors lists.

(a) DOE shall prepare a list, to be updated annually, or more often as necessary, of firms qualified to provide energy cost savings performance services and grouped by technology. The list shall be prepared from statements of qualifications by or about firms engaged in providing energy savings performance contract services on questionnaires obtained from DOE. Such statements shall, at a minimum, include prior experience and capabilities of firms to perform the proposed energy cost savings services by technology and financial and performance information. DOE shall issue a notice annually, for publication in the Commerce Business Daily, inviting submission of new statements of qualifications and requiring listed firms to update their statements of qualifications for changes in the information previously provided.

(b) On the basis of statements of qualifications received under paragraph (a) of this section and any other relevant information, DOE shall select a firm for inclusion on the qualified list if-

(1) It has provided energy savings performance contract services or services that save energy or reduce utility costs for not less than two clients, and the firm possesses the appropriate project experience to successfully implement the technologies which it proposes to provide;

(2) Previous project clients provide ratings which are "fair" or better;

(3) The firm or any principal of the firm has neither been insolvent nor declared bankruptcy within the last five years;

(4) The firm or any principal of the firm is not on the list of parties excluded from procurement programs under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4; and

(5) There is no other adverse information which warrants the conclusion that the firm is not qualified to perform energy savings performance contracts.

(c) DOE may remove a firm from DOE's list of qualified contractors after notice and an opportunity for comment if-

(1) There is a failure to update its statement of qualifications;

(2) There is credible information warranting disqualification; or

(3) There is other good cause.

(d) A Federal agency shall use DOE's list unless it elects to develop its own list of qualified firms consistent with the procedures in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.

(e) A firm not designated by DOE or a Federal agency pursuant to the procedures in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section as qualified to provide energy cost savings performance services shall receive a written decision and may request a debriefing.

(f) Any firm receiving an adverse final decision under this section shall apply to the Board of Contract Appeals of the General Services Administration in order to exhaust administrative remedies.
