
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 436 - FEDERAL ENERGY MANAGEMENT AND PLANNING PROGRAMS
##### Subpart F - Guidelines for General Operations Plans
###### ยง 436.103 Program goal setting.

(a) In developing and revising plans for a projected 10-year plan each agency shall establish and maintain energy conservation goals in accordance with the requirements of this section.

(b) Agencies shall establish three types of conservation goals:

(1) Energy consumption goals, by fuel type by functional category (see appendix B).

(2) Energy efficiency goals by fuel type by functional category (see appendix B).

(3) Fuel switching goals for shifting energy use from oil and natural gas to other fuels in more plentiful supply from domestic sources (see appendix B).

(c) General operations energy conservation goals shall be established by each Federal agency with the broad purpose of achieving reductions in total energy consumption and increased efficiency without serious mission degradation or unmitigated negative environmental impacts. Within the broad framework, each agency should seek first to reduce energy consumption per unit of output in each applicable functional category. In evaluating energy efficiency, each agency should select and use standards of measurement which are consistent throughout the planning period. Particular attention should be given to increased energy use efficiency in nonrenewable fuel consumption. The second focus of attention should be on initiatives which shift energy use from oil and natural gas to other fuels in more plentiful supply from domestic sources.
