
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 436 - FEDERAL ENERGY MANAGEMENT AND PLANNING PROGRAMS
##### Subpart F - Guidelines for General Operations Plans
###### ยง 436.106 Reporting requirements.

(a) By July 1 of each year each Federal agency shall submit an "Annual Report on Energy Management" based on fiscal year data to the Secretary of DOE. The general operations portion of this report will encompass all agency energy use not reported in the buildings portion and shall include:

(1) A summary evaluation of progress toward the achievement of energy consumption, energy efficiency, and fuel switching goals established by the agency in its plans;

(2) Energy consumption reported by functional categories. Reports must include General Transportation and one or more of the following functional categories: industrial or production, services, operational training and readiness, and other. Agencies may report in subcategories of their own choosing. The following information is to be reported for the usage of each fuel type in physical units for each selected functional category:

(i) Total energy consumption goal;

(ii) Total energy consumed;

(iii) Total energy use avoidance;

(iv) Variance between actual consumption and consumption goal;

(v) Cost saved;

(vi) Status of planned investments, and if different from the investment program upon which existing goals are based, the expected impact on meeting goals; and

(vii) Summary of any other benefits realized.

(3) The energy efficiencies as calculated in accordance with appendix B of this subpart, or by an equivalent method, for the appropriate functional categories identified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The following information is to be reported for the energy efficiency for each fuel type by functional category:

(i) Energy efficiency goal;

(ii) Efficiency for the reporting period;

(iii) Summary of any other benefits realized.

(4) A summary of fuel switching progress including:

(i) Description and cost of investments in fuel switching;

(ii) Avoidance in use of oil-based fuels and natural gas;

(iii) Increased use of solar, wood, gasohol and other renewable energy sources;

(iv) Increased use of coal and coal derivatives, and

(v) Use of all other alternative fuels.

(b) Each agency's annual report shall be developed in accordance with a format to be provided by DOE and will include agency revisions to 10-year plans.

(c) Agencies whose annual total energy consumption exceeds one hundred billion Btu's, shall, in addition to the annual report required under paragraph (a) of this section, submit quarterly reports of the energy usage information specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(d) Agencies who consume energy in operations in foreign countries will include data on foreign operations if foreign consumption is greater than 10% of that consumed by the agency in the United States, its territories and possessions. If an agency's estimated foreign consumption is less than 10% of its total domestic energy use, reporting of foreign consumption is optional. Reports should be annotated if foreign consumption is not included.
