
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 436 - FEDERAL ENERGY MANAGEMENT AND PLANNING PROGRAMS
##### Subpart F - Guidelines for General Operations Plans
###### ยง 436.108 Waivers.

(a) Any Federal agency may submit a written request to the Under Secretary for a waiver from the procedures and requirements of this subpart. The request for a waiver must identify the specific requirements and procedures of this subpart from which a waiver is sought and provide a detailed explanation, including appropriate information or documentation, as to why a waiver should be granted.

(b) A request for a waiver under this section must be submitted at least 60 days prior to the due date for the required submission.

(c) A written response to a request for a waiver will be issued by the Under Secretary no later than 30 days from receipt of the request. Such a response will either (1) grant the request with any conditions determined to be necessary to further the purposes of this subpart, (2) deny the request based on a determination that the reasons given in the request for a waiver do not establish a need that takes precedence over the futherance of the purposes of this subpart, or (3) deny the request based on the failure to submit adequate information upon which to grant a waiver.

(d) A requested waiver may be submitted by the Under Secretary to the "656" Committee for its review and recommendation. The agency official that submitted the request may attend any scheduled meeting of the "656" Committee at which the request is planned to be discussed. The determination to approve or disapprove a request for a waiver shall be made by the Under Secretary.

(e) Status of the requests for a waiver, the Under Secretary's decisions, and "656" Committee recommendations, will be published, as appropriate, in the DOE annual report to the President, entitled "Energy Management in the Federal Government."
