
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 436 - FEDERAL ENERGY MANAGEMENT AND PLANNING PROGRAMS
##### Subpart F - Guidelines for General Operations Plans
###### ยง 436.104 Energy conservation measures and standards.

(a) Each agency shall consider for inclusion in its plan the measures identified in appendix C of this subpart.

(b) The following questions should be considered in the evaluation of each measure:

(1) Does this measure provide an incentive or disincentive?

(2) What is the estimate of savings by fuel type?

(3) What are the direct and indirect impacts of this measure?

(4) Is this measure to be mandatory throughout the agency?

(5) If not mandatory, under what circumstances will it be implemented, and who will be responsible for determining specific applicability?

(6) Who will be the direct participants in the implementation of this measure?

(7) What incentives (if any) are to be provided for the participants?

(8) When will this measure be implemented?

(9) Will this measure be implemented in a single step or will it be phased in? If it will be phased in, over what period of time?

(10) Will performance of the measure be evaluated and reported?

(11) By what criterion will performance be determined?

(12) Who will prepare performance reports?

(13) What is the reporting chain?

(14) What is the reporting period?

(c) Each agency will take all necessary steps to implement the energy conservation standards for general operations listed in appendix A (reserved).
