
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 436 - FEDERAL ENERGY MANAGEMENT AND PLANNING PROGRAMS
##### Subpart F - Guidelines for General Operations Plans
###### ยง 436.105 Emergency conservation plan.

(a) Each agency shall establish an emergency conservation plan, a summary of which shall be included in the general operations plan, for assuaging the impact of a sudden disruption in the supply of oil-based fuels, natural gas or electricity. Priorities for temporarily reducing missions, production, services, and other programmatic or functional activities shall be developed in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. Planning for emergencies is to address both buildings and general operations. Provisions shall be made for testing emergency actions to ascertain that they are effective.

(b) Federal agencies shall prepare emergency conservation plans for 10 percent, fifteen percent, and 20 percent reduction compared to the previous fiscal year in gasoline, other oil-based fuels, natural gas, or electricity for periods of up to 12 months. In developing these plans, agencies shall consider the potential for emergency reductions in energy use in buildings and facilities which the agency owns, leases, or has under contract and by employees through increased use of car and van pooling, preferential parking for multipassenger vehicles, and greater use of mass transit. Agencies may formulate whatever additional scenarios they consider necessary to plan for various energy emergencies.

(c) In general, Federal agencies' priorities shall go to those activities which directly support the agencies' primary missions. Secondary mission activities which must be curtailed or deferred will be reported to DOE as mission impacts. The description of mission impacts shall include estimates of the associated resources and time required to mitigate the effects of the reduction in energy. Other factors or assumptions to be used in energy conservation emergency planning are as follows:

(1) Agencies will be given 15-30 days notice to implement any given plan.

(2) Substitution of fuels in plentiful supply for fuels in short supply is authorized, if the substitution can be completed within a 3-month period and the cost is within the approval authority of the executive branch.

(3) All costs and increases in manpower or other resources associated with activities or projects to assuage mission impacts will be clearly defined in respective agency plans. One-time costs will be identified separately.

(4) Confronting the emergency situation will be considered a priority effort and all projects and increases in operating budgets within the approval authority of the executive branch will be expeditiously considered and approved if justified.

(d) Summary plans for agency-wide emergency conservation management shall be provided to DOE pursuant to ยง 436.102(b)(2)(vi). Such summaries shall include:

(1) Agency-wide impacts of energy reductions as determined in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.

(2) Actions to be taken agency-wide to alleviate the energy shortfalls as they occur.

(3) An assessment of agency services or production that may need to be curtailed or limited after corrective actions have been taken.

(4) A summation of control and feedback mechanisms for managing an energy emergency situation.
