
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 436 - FEDERAL ENERGY MANAGEMENT AND PLANNING PROGRAMS
##### Appendix B to Part 436 - Goal Setting Methodology

In establishing and updating agency goals for energy conservation, the following methodology or an equivalent method should be utilized:

(a) For overall energy consumption-

(1) An analysis shall be made to determine what factors have the most significant impact upon the amount of each fuel type used by the agency in performing functions in support of its overall mission. Consideration is to be given, but not limited to, the following factors: Number of people using energy; number of vehicles using gasoline; amounts of other equipment using energy; tempo of operations (one, two, or three shifts); the type of operations (degree of equipment or labor intensity); equipment fuel limitations; environmental conditions (tropical versus arctic, etc.); budget levels for fuel, operations, maintenance, and equipment acquisition; and phase-out schedule (of older equipment or plants which may be inefficient). After identifying these factors, a further analysis shall be made to identify any projected workload changes in the quality or quantity of these factors on a yearly basis up to 1990.

(2) Based upon the analysis in (a)(1) and an evaluation of available information on past energy usage, a baseline of energy use by fuel type by functional category shall be established beginning with FY 1975. In addition to "General Transportation," other functional categories should be selected to enhance energy management. Total fuel use for a particular activity may be allocated to the functional category for which the preponderance of fuel is used. Figure B-1 is an example of one such baseline.

This example shows an increase in energy use, for a specific fuel type, during the period 1975-1981, with a further increase from 1981 to 1984 and a leveling off and no growth from 1984-1990. A justification, based on factors as discussed above, shall accompany each baseline.

(3) Thereafter, analyses should be made of the measures available for reducing the energy consumption profiles without adverse impact on mission accomplishment. Finding viable opportunities for reducing energy use, increasing energy efficiency and switching energy sources, will require consultation with specialists in the fields of operations, maintenance, engineering, design, and economics, and consideration of the measures identified in appendix C. The DOE Federal Energy Management Programs Office can, upon request, provide information on where such resources can be located. Once these measures are identified, they are to be incorporated into a time-phased investment program, (using where appropriate, the life cycle costing factors and methodology in subpart A of this part). If investment and other costs for implementing a measure are insignificant, a Federal agency may presume that a measure is cost-effective without further analysis. An estimate must then be made as to the lead time required to implement the program and realize energy reductions.

Figure B-2 shows a summarized investment program, which should be accompanied by a detailed description of the measures, projects, and programs making up the total planned investments for each year. This summary need not be by function or fuel type.

These analyses should enable the agency to project an energy consumption goal, with the assumption that funds for executing the planned projects will be approved. Figure B-3 shows a new energy use profile, with planned initiatives and related investments taken into consideration, and the resulting goal entitled "Energy Use With A Plan" superimposed on Figure B-1. Included are the anticipated effects on consumption cause by improvements in energy efficiency and fuel switching.

A comparison of these projections will show the energy use avoidance resulting from the investment program as depicted in Figure B-2. Using the prices of fuel contained in appendix C to subpart A, the dollars saved can be projected against the dollars invested. Life cycle costing methodology pursuant to subpart A, will be used to determine priorities for submitting individual initiatives into the appropriate budget year.

(b) For energy efficiencies-Energy efficiency baselines and goals for each fuel type shall be calculated using the same consumption factors and similar methodology to that outlined in paragraph (a). Energy consumption by fuel type shall be linked to mission through the functional categories listed in ยง 436.106(a)(2). This will identify a rate which will indicate energy efficiency trends. This linkage may be accomplished through the following algorithm:
