
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 436 - FEDERAL ENERGY MANAGEMENT AND PLANNING PROGRAMS
##### Appendix C to Part 436 - General Operations Energy Conservation Measures

(a) The following individual measures or set of measures must be considered for inclusion in each agency 10-year energy management plan:

(1) Federal Employee Ridesharing Programs-Includes the use of vanpooling and carpooling and complies with existing orders and regulations governing parking for vanpools and carpools.

(2) Fleet Profile Change-Includes energy considerations in equipment selection and assignment.

(3) Fleet Mileage Efficiency-Includes agency plans to implement existing orders, goals, and laws related to vehicle fuel economy.

(4) Driver Training-Includes development of appropriate programs for training operators of U.S. Government vehicles in energy conservation.

(5) Maintenance Procedures Improvement-Includes activities to insure proper vehicle maintenance to optimize energy conservation.

(6) Operating Procedures Improvement-Includes use of cooperative passenger shuttle and courier services on an interagency or other basis within each metropolitan area.

(7) Mass Transit-Includes employee use of existing services for business-related activities and commuting.

(8) Public Education to Promote Vanpooling and Carpooling-Includes activities to support the EPCA requirement to establish "responsible public education programs to promote vanpooling and carpooling arrangements" through their employee awareness programs.

(9) Elimination of Free or Subsidized Employee Parking-Includes elimination of free or subsidized employee parking on Federal installations in accordance with OMB Cir. A-118, August 13, 1979.

(10) Two-Wheeled Vehicle Programs-Includes activities to encourage the substitution of bicycles, mopeds, etc. for automobiles for commuting and operational purposes. These may include the establishment of weather-protected secure storage facilities, shower and locker facilities, and restricted routes for these vehicles on Federal property. Cooperative programs with local civil authorities may also be included.

(11) Consolidation of Facilities and Process Activities-Includes such measures as physical consolidation of operations to minimize intra-operational travel and may include facility closure or conversion. Alternative work patterns, availability of transportation, energy source availability, and technical and financial feasibility are among the considerations that should be evaluated.

(12) Agency Procurement Programs-Includes activities to ensure that energy conservation opportunities are fully exploited with respect to the agency's procurement programs including procurements relating to operations and maintenance activities; e.g., (a) giving preference to fuel-efficient products whenever practicable, and (b) ensuring that agency's contractors having a preponderance of cost-type contracts pursue a comprehensive energy conservation program.

(13) Energy Conservation Awareness Programs-Includes programs aimed toward gaining and perpetuating employee awareness and participation in energy conservation measures on the job and in their personal activities.

(14) Communication-Includes substitution of communications for physical travel.

(15) Dress Code-Includes measures to allow employees greater freedom in their choice of wearing apparel to promote greater participation in conservation.

(16) Land Use-Includes energy considerations to be employed in new site selection, such as colocation.

(17) Automatic Data Processing (ADP)-Includes all energy aspects of ADP operation and equipment selection.

(18) Aircraft Operations-Includes energy-conserving measures developed for both military and Federal administrative and research and development aircraft operations.

(19) GOCO Facilities and Industrial Plants Operated by Federal Employees-Includes development of energy conservation plans at these facilities and plants which contain measures such as energy efficient periodic maintenance.

(20) Energy Conserving Capital Plant and Equipment Modification-Includes development of energy conservation and life cycle cost parameter measures for replacement of capital plant and equipment.

(21) Process Improvements-Includes measures to improve energy conservation in industrial process operations. These may include consideration of equipment replacement or modification, as well as scheduling and other operational changes.

(22) Improved Steam Maintenance and Management-Includes measures to improve energy efficiency of steam systems. These may include improved maintenance, installation of energy-conserving devices, and the operational use of substitutes for live steam where feasible.

(23) Improvements in Waste Heat Recovery-Includes measures utilizing waste heat for other purposes.

(24) Improvement in Boiler Operations-Includes energy-conserving retrofit measures for boiler operations.

(25) Improved Insulation-Includes measures addressing the addition or replacement of insulation on pipes, storage tanks, and in other appropriate areas.

(26) Scheduling by Major Electric Power Users-Includes measures to shift major electrical power demands to non-peak hours, to the maximum extent possible.

(27) Alternative Fuels-Includes measures to alter equipment such as generators to use lower quality fuels and to fill new requirements with those that use alternative fuels. The use of gasohol in stationary gasoline-powered equipment should be considered, in particular.

(28) Cogeneration-Includes measures to make full use of cogeneration in preference to single-power generation.

(29) Mobility Training and Operational Readiness-Includes measures which can reduce energy demands through the use of simulators, communications, computers for planning, etc.

(30) Energy Conservation Inspection or Instruction Teams-Includes measures which formulate and perpetuate the review of energy conservation through inspections to determine where specific improvements can be made and then followed by an instruction and training program.

(31) Intra-agency and Interagency Information Exchange Program-Includes measures providing a free exchange of energy conservation ideas and experiences between elements of an agency and between other agencies in the same geographic area.

(32) Recycled Waste-Includes measures to recycle waste materials such as paper products, glass, aluminum, concrete and brick, garbage, asphalt road materials or any material which requires a petroleum base.

(33) Fuel Conversion-Includes measures to accomplish conversion from petroleum based fuels and natural gas to coal and other alternative fuels for appropriate equipment.

(34) Operational Lighting-Includes measures to reduce energy consumption for lighting in operational areas and GOCO plants by: switching off by means of automatic controls; maximizing the use of daylight by floor planning; keeping window and light fixtures clean and replacing fixtures when they begin to deteriorate, rather than when they fail altogether; providing automatic dimmer controls to reduce lighting when daylight increases; and cleaning the work area during daylight, if possible, rather than at night.

(35) Lighting Fixtures-Includes measures to increase energy efficiency of lighting. The following reveals the relative efficiencies of common lamp types.

(36) Industrial Buildings Heating-Includes measures to improve the energy conservation of industrial buildings such as: fixing holes in roofs, walls and windows; fitting flexible doors, fitting controls to heating systems; use of "economizer units" which circulate hot air back down from roof level to ground level; use of controlled ventilation; insulation of walls and roof; use of "optimisers" or optimum start controls in heating systems, so that the heating switch-on is dictated by actual temperature conditions rather than simply by time.

(37) Hull Cleaning and Antifouling Coating-Includes measures to reduce energy consumption through periodic cleaning of hulls and propellers or through the use of antifouling coatings.

(38) [Reserved]

(39) Building Temperature Restrictions on Thermostat Setting for Heating, Cooling and Hot Water-Includes enforcement of suggested restriction levels: 65 degrees for heating, 78 degrees for cooling, and 105 degrees or ban for hot water.

(40) Such other measures as DOE may from time-to-time add to this appendix, or as the Federal agency concerned may find to be energy-saving or efficient.
