
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 455 - GRANT PROGRAMS FOR SCHOOLS AND HOSPITALS AND BUILDINGS OWNED BY UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT AND PUBLIC CARE INSTITUTIONS
##### Subpart C - Allocation of Appropriations Among the States
###### ยง 455.32 Reallocation of funds.

(a) If a State Plan has not been approved and implemented by a State by the close of the period for which allocated funds are available as set forth in the notice issued by DOE pursuant to ยง 455.30(c), funds allocated to that State for technical assistance and energy conservation measures will be reallocated among all States for the next grant program cycle, if available.

(b) Funds which have been allocated to States in a grant program cycle but which have not been obligated to eligible State, school, or hospital grant applicants by the end of that cycle shall be reallocated by DOE among all States in the next grant program cycle.

(c) Funds which become available due to deobligations resulting from funds returned by grantees due to cost underruns or scope-of-work reductions on completed projects shall be reallocated by DOE among all States in the next grant program cycle.

(d) Funds which become available because of declined grants to schools and hospitals within a State may be reobligated to other eligible applicants in the State until the December 31 following the close of the cycle for which the funds were allocated to the State. Such funds which have not been reobligated by that deadline shall be reallocated by DOE among all States in the next grant program cycle.

(e) Funds which become available because of declined or deobligated financial assistance provided through coordinating agencies to schools and hospitals within a State may be reobligated to other eligible applicants in the State until the December 31 following the close of the cycle for which the funds were allocated to the coordinating agency. Such funds which have not been reobligated by that deadline shall be reallocated by DOE among all States in the next grant program cycle.

(f) Funds granted to States for technical assistance, program assistance, and marketing pursuant to ยง 455.144 are subject to reallocation by DOE among all the States in the next program cycle if such funds are not committed by the State to their intended purposes by means of grants, contracts, or other legally binding obligations, or redirected to schools and hospitals grant applications pursuant to ยง 455.144(d), by the December 31 following the close of the cycle for which the funds were allocated to the State.
