
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 455 - GRANT PROGRAMS FOR SCHOOLS AND HOSPITALS AND BUILDINGS OWNED BY UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT AND PUBLIC CARE INSTITUTIONS
##### Subpart M - Grant Awards
###### ยง 455.140 Approval of applications from institutions and coordinating agencies for technical assistance and energy conservation measures.

(a) DOE shall review and approve applications submitted by a State in accordance with ยง 455.133 if DOE determines that the applications meet the objectives of the Act, and comply with the applicable State Plan and the requirements of this part. DOE may disapprove all or any portion of an application to the extent funds are not available to carry out a program or measure (or portion thereof) contained in the application, or for such other reason as DOE may deem appropriate.

(b) DOE shall notify a State and the applicant of the final approval or disapproval of an application at the earliest practicable date after the DOE receipt of the application, and, in the event of disapproval, shall include a statement of the reasons therefor.

(c) An application which has been disapproved for reasons other than lack of funds may be amended to correct the cause of its disapproval and resubmitted in the same manner as the original application at any time within the same grant program cycle. Such an application will be considered to the extent funds have not already been designated for applicants by the ranking process at the time of resubmittal. However, nothing in this provision shall obligate either the State or DOE to take final action regarding a resubmitted application within the grant program cycle. An application not acted upon may be resubmitted in a subsequent grant program cycle.

(d) DOE shall not provide supplemental funds to cover cost overruns or other additional costs beyond those provided for in the original grant award for technical assistance projects and shall fund only one technical assistance project per building.

(e) DOE shall not provide supplemental funds to cover cost overruns or other additional costs beyond those provided for in the original grant award for energy conservation measures funded under a grant in a given grant program cycle. DOE shall not provide funds to cover energy conservation measures intended to replace energy conservation measures funded in an earlier grant cycle unless the State has funds remaining after all applications for new energy conservation measures have been evaluated and submitted to DOE for funding.

(f) If provided for in the State Plan, an applicant may reapply for a technical assistance program or an energy conservation measure grant which was included in a prior grant application but which was not implemented and for which no funds were expended.

(g) An applicant may apply for, and DOE may make, grant awards in another grant program cycle for additional energy conservation measures which relate to a building which previously received grants for other energy conservation measures.

(h) Funds which become available to a grantee after the installation of all approved measures, due to cost underruns in the installed measures, may be used by the grantee for additional measures if such measures are approved in writing by the State and DOE.

(i) DOE may fund costs incurred by an applicant for technical assistance and energy conservation measure projects after the date of the grant application, so long as that date is no earlier than the close of the preceding grant program cycle. Such costs may be funded when, in the judgment of DOE, the applicant has complied with program requirements and the costs incurred are allowable under applicable cost principles and the approved project budget. The applicant bears the responsibility for the entire project cost unless the application is approved by DOE in accordance with this part.

(j) In addition to the prior approval requirements for project changes as specified in the DOE Financial Assistance Rules (10 CFR part 600), a grantee shall request prior written approval from DOE before:

(1) Transferring DOE or matching amounts between buildings included in an approved application when the State ranks applications on a building-by-building basis or

(2) Transferring DOE or matching amounts between energy conservation measures included in an approved application when the State ranks on a measure-by-measure basis.
