
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 19 - NOTICES, INSTRUCTIONS AND REPORTS TO WORKERS: INSPECTION AND INVESTIGATIONS
#### § 19.13 Notifications and reports to individuals.

(a) Radiation exposure data for an individual, and the results of any measurements, analyses, and calculations of radioactive material deposited or retained in the body of an individual, shall be reported to the individual as specified in this section. The information reported shall include data and results obtained pursuant to Commission regulations, orders or license conditions, as shown in records maintained by the licensee pursuant to Commission regulations. Each notification and report shall: be in writing; include appropriate identifying data such as the name of the licensee, the name of the individual, the individual's social security number; include the individual's exposure information; and contain the following statement:

(b) Each licensee shall make dose information available to workers as shown in records maintained by the licensee under the provisions of 10 CFR 20.2106. The licensee shall provide an annual report to each individual monitored under 10 CFR 20.1502 of the dose received in that monitoring year if:

(1) The individual's occupational dose exceeds 1 mSv (100 mrem) TEDE or 1 mSv (100 mrem) to any individual organ or tissue; or

(2) The individual requests his or her annual dose report.

(c)(1) At the request of a worker formerly engaged in licensed activities controlled by the licensee, each licensee shall furnish to the worker a report of the worker's exposure to radiation and/or to radioactive material:

(i) As shown in records maintained by the licensee pursuant to § 20.2106 for each year the worker was required to be monitored under the provisions of § 20.1502; and

(ii) For each year the worker was required to be monitored under the monitoring requirements in effect prior to January 1, 1994.

(2) This report must be furnished within 30 days from the time the request is made or within 30 days after the exposure of the individual has been determined by the licensee, whichever is later. This report must cover the period of time that the worker's activities involved exposure to radiation from radioactive material licensed by the Commission and must include the dates and locations of licensed activities in which the worker participated during this period.

(d) When a licensee is required by §§ 20.2202, 20.2203 or 20.2204 of this chapter to report to the Commission any exposure of an individual to radiation or radioactive material, the licensee shall also provide the individual a report on his or her exposure data included in the report to the Commission. This report must be transmitted no later than the transmittal to the Commission.

(e) At the request of a worker who is terminating employment with the licensee that involved exposure to radiation or radioactive materials, during the current calendar quarter or the current year, each licensee shall provide at termination to each worker, or to the worker's designee, a written report regarding the radiation dose received by that worker from operations of the licensee during the current year or fraction thereof. If the most recent individual monitoring results are not available at that time, a written estimate of the dose must be provided together with a clear indication that this is an estimate.
