
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 490 - ALTERNATIVE FUEL TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM
##### Subpart I - Alternative Compliance
###### § 490.804 Eligible reductions in petroleum consumption.
####### Rollover of excess petroleum reductions.

(c)(1) Upon approval by DOE, petroleum fuel use reductions achieved by a fleet in excess of the amount required for alternative compliance in a previous model year may be applied towards the petroleum fuel use reduction requirement under § 490.803(a) in a model year for which a waiver is granted and for which the fleet experiences a shortfall.

(2)(i) A fleet seeking to roll over for future use the petroleum fuel use reductions that it achieved in excess of the amount required for alternative compliance in a particular model year must make a written request to DOE as part of the fleet's annual report required under § 490.807 for the model year in which the excess reductions were achieved.

(ii) Following receipt of a request under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, DOE will notify the requesting fleet of the amount of excess petroleum fuel use reductions that DOE has approved for rollover and potential application towards the petroleum fuel use reduction requirement in a future model year.

(iii) A fleet seeking to apply excess petroleum fuel use reductions rolled over pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section in a model year for which a waiver is granted and for which the fleet experiences a shortfall in achieving the petroleum fuel use reduction requirement under § 490.803(a) must make a written request to DOE as part of the fleet's annual report required under § 490.807. The written request must specify the amount of the rollover reductions (in GGE) the fleet wishes to have applied and the total balance of rollover reductions (in GGE) the fleet possesses.

(3)(i) In considering a written request to apply rollover reductions under paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section, DOE may seek from the fleet additional information about the fleet and its operations.

(ii) Upon approving a request to apply rollover reductions, DOE will apply the approved rollover reductions only to the extent that other reductions in petroleum consumption through any of the means set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section were not reasonably achievable.

(4) Excess petroleum reductions are not tradable.
