
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Alternate Fuels
#### PART 501 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES AND SANCTIONS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 501.7 General filing requirements.
####### Request for confidential treatment.

(11)(i) If any person filing a document with DOE or OFE claims that some or all of the information contained in the document is exempt from the mandatory public disclosure requirements of the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552); is information referred to in 18 U.S.C. 1905; or is otherwise exempt by law from public disclosure, and if such person requests DOE or OFE not to disclose such information, such person shall make a filing in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section. The person shall indicate in the original document that it is confidential or contains confidential information and may file a statement specifying the justification for non-disclosure of the information for which confidential treatment is claimed. If the person states that the information comes within the exception in 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4) for trade secrets and commercial or financial information, such person shall include a statement specifying why such information is privileged or confidential. If a document is not so filed, OFE may assume that there is no objection to public disclosure of the document in its entirety, unless the person subsequently files a claim of confidentiality prior to public disclosure of the document.

(ii) DOE or OFE retains the right to make its own determination with regard to any claim of confidentiality. Notice of the decision by DOE or OFE to deny such claim, in whole or in part, and an opportunity to respond or take other appropriate action to avoid release shall be given to a person claiming confidentiality of information no less than seven (7) days prior to its public disclosure.

(iii) The above provisions in paragraphs (a)(11) (i) and (ii) of this section do not apply to information submitted on OFE forms that contain their own instructions concerning the treatment of confidential information.
