
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Alternate Fuels
#### PART 501 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES AND SANCTIONS
##### Subpart C - Written Comments, Public Hearings and Conferences During Administrative Proceedings
###### ยง 501.34 Public hearing.
####### Hearing record.

(k)OFE will have a verbatim transcript made of the public hearing. The hearing record shall remain open for a period of fourteen (14) days following the public hearing, unless extended by OFE, during which time the participants at the hearing may submit additional written statements which will be made part of the administrative record and will be served by the Presiding Officer upon those parties listed on the service list. OFE may also request additional information, data or analysis following the hearing in order to resolve disputed issues in the record. If OFE receives or obtains any relevant information or evidence that is placed in the record after the close of the public hearing or comment period, it will so notify all participants, and allow an additional fourteen (14) days for submission of evidence in rebuttal. In addition, OFE may, in its discretion, re-open the hearing at the request of a party or participant, to permit further rebuttal of evidence or statements submitted to OFE and made part of the hearing record after the close of the hearing. The transcript, together with any written comments submitted in the course of the proceeding, will be made part of the record available for public inspection and copying at the OFE Public Information Office, as provided in ยง 501.12.
