
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Alternate Fuels
#### PART 501 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES AND SANCTIONS
##### Subpart E - Prohibition Rules and Orders
###### ยง 501.51 Prohibitions by order - electing powerplants.
####### Notice of order and public participation.

(b)(1) OFE may hold a conference with the proposed order recipient prior to issuing the proposed order.

(2) Pursuant to section 701 of FUA, prior to the issuance of a final order to an electing powerplant, OFE shall publish a proposed order in thetogether with a statement of the reasons for the order. In the case of a proposed order that would prohibit the use of petroleum or natural gas as a primary energy source, the finding required by former section 301(b)(1) of the Act shall be published with such proposed order.

(3) OFE shall provide a period for the submission of written comments of at least three months after the date of the proposed order. During this period, the recipient of the proposed order and any other interested person must submit any evidence that they have determined at that time to support their respective positions as to each of the findings that OFE is required to make under section 301(b) of the Act. A proposed order recipient may submit additional new evidence at any time prior to the close of the public comment period which follows publication of the Tentative Staff Analysis or prior to the close of the record of any public hearing, whichever occurs later. A request by the proposed order recipient for an extension of the three-month period may be granted at OFE's discretion.

(4) Subsequent to the end of the comment period, OFE will issue a notice of whether OFE intends to proceed with the prohibition order proceeding.

(5) An owner or operator of a facility that may be subject to an order may demonstrate prior to issuance of a final prohibition order that the facility would qualify for an exemption if the prohibition had been established by rule. OFE will not delay the issuance of a final prohibition order or stay the effective date of such an order for the purpose of determining whether a proposed order recipient qualifies for a particular exemption unless the demonstration or qualification is submitted prior to or during the second three-month comment period, commencing after issuance of a notice of intention to proceed, or unless materials submitted after the period (i) could not have been submitted during the period through the exercise of due diligence, (ii) address material changes in fact or law occurring after the close of the period, or (iii) consist of amplification or rebuttal occasioned by the subsequent course of the proceeding. A request by the proposed order recipient for an extension of this time period may be granted at OFE's discretion.

(6) Subsequent to the end of the second three (3) month period, OFE will, if it intends to issue a final prohibition order, prepare and issue a Notice of Availability of a Tentative Staff Analysis. Interested persons wishing a hearing must request a hearing within forty-five (45) day after issuance of the Notice of Availability of the Tentative Staff Analysis. During this forty-five (45) days period, interested persons may also submit written comments on the Tentative Staff Analysis.

(7) If a hearing has been requested, OFE shall provide interested persons with an opportunity to present oral data, views and arguments at a public hearing held in accordance with subpart C of this part. The hearing will consider the findings which OFE must make in order to issue a final prohibition order and any exemption for which the proposed order recipient submitted its demonstration in accordance with paragraph (b)(5) of this section.

(8) Upon request by the recipient of the proposed prohibition order, the combined public comment periods provided for in this section may be reduced to a minimum of forty-five (45) days from the time of publication of the proposed order.

(9) OFE may terminate a prohibition order proceeding at any time prior to the date upon which a final order shall become effective. Should OFE terminate the proceeding, it will notify the proposed order recipient, and publish a notice in the
