
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Alternate Fuels
#### PART 501 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES AND SANCTIONS
##### Subpart E - Prohibition Rules and Orders
###### ยง 501.51 Prohibitions by order - electing powerplants.
####### Decision to issue a final order.

(c)(1) OFE will base its determination to issue an order on consideration of the whole record or those parts thereof cited by a party and supported by and in accordance with reliable, probative and substantial evidence.

(2) OFE shall include in the final order a written statement of the pertinent facts, a statement of the basis upon which the final order is issued, a recitation of the conclusions regarding the required findings and qualifications for exemptions. The final order shall state the effective date of the prohibition contained therein. If it is demonstrated that the facility would have been granted a temporary exemption, the effective date of the prohibition contained in the final order shall be delayed until such time as the temporary exemption would have terminated. If it is demonstrated that a facility will need a period of time to comply with the final order, the effective date of the prohibition contained in the final order may be delayed, in OFE's discretion, so as to allow an order recipient to comply with the final order.

(3) OFE will enclose with a copy of the final order, where appropriate, a schedule of steps that should be taken by a stated date (a compliance schedule) to ensure that the affected facility will be able to comply with the prohibitions stated in the order by the effective date of the prohibition contained in the final order. The compliance schedule may require the affected person to take steps with regard to a unit 60 days after service of the final order.

(4) A copy of the final order and a summary of the basis therefore will be published in theThe order will become effective 60 days after publication in the
