
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Alternate Fuels
#### PART 501 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES AND SANCTIONS
##### Subpart E - Prohibition Rules and Orders
###### § 501.52 Prohibitions by order - certifying powerplants.
####### Notice of order and participation.

(b)(1) OFE may hold a conference with the proposed order recipient, at the recipient's election, prior to issuing the proposed order. The conference may resolve any questions regarding the certification required by section 301 of the Act, as amended, and §§ 504.5, 504.6, and 504.8, and OFE's review and concurrence therein.

(2) Pursuant to section 701(b) of FUA, prior to the issuance of a final order to a certifying powerplant owner or operator, OFE must publish in thea proposed prohibition order stating the reasons for such order. OFE will review all of the information submitted by a proposed order recipient within 60 days after receipt by OFE. If the certification is complete, OFE will, within 30 days after the end of the 60 day review period, publish in thea Notice of Acceptance of certification together with a proposed prohibition order stating therein the reasons for such order. This commences the prohibition order proceeding. If OFE does not believe it is able to concur in the certification, OFE shall notify the proposed order recipient and shall publish a Notice of Proposed Non-Concurrence in thewithin 30 days after the end of the 60 day review period. If OFE finds that the certification with compliance schedule is incomplete, OFE will notify the proposed prohibition order recipient as to the deficiencies, and provide an additional period of 30 days for the certification to be amended and resubmitted. If a complete certification is not submitted within this period, the proceeding shall be terminated in accordance with § 501.52(b)(5). OFE will notify the proposed order recipient and other parties to the proceeding of the termination and publish a notice in theOFE, on its own motion, may extend any period of time by publishing a notice to that effect in the
