
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Alternate Fuels
#### PART 501 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES AND SANCTIONS
##### Subpart F - Exemptions and Certifications
###### ยง 501.61 Certification contents.

(a) A self-certification filed under section 201(d) of FUA should include the following information:

(1) Owner's name and address.

(2) Operator's name and address.

(3) Plant location and address.

(4) Plant configuration (combined cycle, simple cycle, topping cycle, etc.)

(5) Design capacity in megawatts (MW).

(6) Fuel(s) to be used by the new facility.

(7) Name of utility purchasing electricity from the proposed facility and percent of total output to be sold.

(8) Date unit is expected to be placed in service.

(9) Certification by an officer of the company or his designated representative certifying that the proposed facility:

(i) Has sufficient inherent design characteristics to permit the addition of equipment (including all necessary pollution devices) necessary to render such electric powerplant capable of using coal or another alternate fuel as its primary energy source; and

(ii) Is not physically, structurally, or technologically precluded from using coal or another alternate fuel as its primary energy source.

(b) A self-certification filed pursuant to ยง 501.61(a) shall be effective to establish compliance with the requirement of section 201(a) of FUA as of the date filed.

(c) OFE will publish a notice in thewithin fifteen days reciting that the certification has been filed. Publication of this notice does not serve to commence a public comment period.

(d) OFE will notify the owner or operator within 60 days if supporting documentation is needed to verify the certification.
