
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Alternate Fuels
#### PART 501 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES AND SANCTIONS
##### Subpart E - Prohibition Rules and Orders
###### § 501.52 Prohibitions by order - certifying powerplants.
####### et seq.

(3) The publication of the Notice of Acceptance or Notice of Proposed Non-Concurrence commences a period of 45 days during which interested persons may submit written comments or request a public hearing. During this period, the recipient of the proposed order and any other interested person may submit any evidence that they have available relating to the proposed order, the certification or the concurrence that OFE must make. A proposed order recipient may submit additional new evidence at any time prior to the close of the public comment period which follows the commencement of the proceeding or prior to the close of the record of any public hearing, whichever occurs later. A request for an extension of the 45 day period may be granted at OFE's discretion. In the case of a Notice of Acceptance, as set forth in § 504.9, no final prohibition order can be issued until any necessary environmental review pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, 42 U.S.C 4321(NEPA) has been completed. Upon completion of the NEPA review and unless OFE determines on the basis of the record of the proceeding that the certification fails to meet the requirements of §§ 504.5, 504.6, and 504.8, OFE shall publish a final prohibition order, together with the information required by paragraph (c) of this section. In the case of a Notice of Proposed Non-Concurrence, at the end of the 45 day comment period, OFE will notify the proposed order recipient and parties to the proceeding and publish a final Notice of Non-Concurrence in theif OFE determines it cannot concur in the certification based upon additional information submitted during the proceeding. If, at the end of the 45 day period, OFE believes it can concur in the certification, OFE will notify the proposed order recipient and parties to the proceeding and publish a Notice of Acceptance followed by a new 45 day comment period.

(4) If a hearing has been requested, OFE shall provide interested persons with an opportunity to present oral data, views and arguments at a public hearing held in accordance with subpart C of this part. The hearing may consider, among other matters, the sufficiency of the certification of the owner or operator of the powerplant required by section 301 of FUA, as amended, and §§ 504.5, 504.6, and 504.8 of these regulations.

(5) OFE may terminate a prohibition order proceeding at any time prior to the date upon which a final prohibition order is issued whenever OFE believes, from any information contained in the record of the proceeding, that the certification does not meet the requirements of section 301 of the Act, as amended, or §§ 504.5, 504.6, and 504.8 of these regulations. If OFE terminates the proceeding or publishes a final Notice of Non-Concurrence, or the proposed order recipient fails to submit a complete certification, OFE will notify the proposed order recipient and other parties to the proceeding and publish a notice in theIn such event, the proposed order recipient may submit a new certification under any provision of section 301 of the Act, as amended, at a later date. Specifically, a Notice of Non-Concurrence under either section 301(b) or 301(c) shall not affect a proposed order recipient's ability to make a certification under the other subsection.
