
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Alternate Fuels
#### PART 501 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES AND SANCTIONS
##### Subpart F - Exemptions and Certifications
###### ยง 501.63 Notice of the commencement of an administrative proceeding on an exemption petition.

(a)(1) When a petition is accepted, OFE will publish in thea Notice of Acceptance, or, in the case of a certification exemption, a Notice of Acceptance and Availability of Certification, signifying that an exemption proceeding has commenced. The notice will include a summary of the exemption petition, and publication will commence a public comment period of no less than forty-five (45) days during which interested parties may file written comments concerning the petition. In the case of a certification exemption, interested persons may request a public hearing during this period, pursuant to ยง 501.33.

(2) OFE will notify the appropriate State agency having apparent primary authority to permit or regulate the construction or operation of a powerplant that an exemption proceeding has commenced and will consult with this agency to the maximum extent practicable. Copies of all accepted petitions also will be forwarded to EPA, as provided in ยง 501.14(a).

(b) In processing an exemption petition, OFE shall comply with the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA), the Council on Environmental Quality's implementing regulations, and the DOE guidelines implementing those regulations (45 FR 20694, Mar. 28, 1980). Compliance with NEPA may involve the preparation of (1) an environmental impact statement (EIS) evaluating the grant or denial of an exemption petition, (2) an environmental assessment (EA), or (3) a memorandum to the file finding that the grant of the requested petition would not be considered a major federal action significantly affecting the quality of the human environment. If an EIS is required, OFE will publish in thea Notice of Intent (NOI) to prepare an EIS as soon as practicable after commencement of the proceeding. A public meeting may be held pursuant to 40 CFR 1501.7 to solicit comments or suggestions on the structure and content of the EIS.
