
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Alternate Fuels
#### PART 501 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES AND SANCTIONS
##### Subpart F - Exemptions and Certifications
###### ยง 501.66 OFE evaluation of the record, decision and order.

(a) The administrative record in a proceeding under this part will consist of the proposed prohibition order and/or petition and related documents, all relevant evidence presented at the public hearing, all written comments, and any other information in the possession of OFE and made a part of the public record of the proceeding. OFE will base its determination to issue a rule or order on consideration of the whole record, or those parts thereof cited by a party and supported by reliable, probative, and substantial evidence.

(b) OFE may investigate and corroborate any statement in any petition, document, or public comments submitted to it. OFE also may use any relevant facts it possesses in its evaluation and may request submissions from third persons relevant to the petition or other documents. OFE also may request additional information, data, or analyses following a public hearing, if any, if this information is necessary to resolve disputed issues in the record. Any relevant information received by OFE following the hearing that is not declared to be confidential under ยง 501.7(a)(11) shall be made part of the public record with opportunity provided for rebuttal.

(c) OFE will notify all participants if, after the close of any public hearing or comment period, it receives or obtains any relevant information or evidence. Participants may respond to such information or evidence in writing within fourteen (14) days of such notification. If OFE finds that the additional information or evidence relates to material issues of disputed fact and may significantly influence the outcome of the proceeding, OFE shall reopen the hearing on the issue or issues to which the additional information or evidence relates.
