
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Alternate Fuels
#### PART 501 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES AND SANCTIONS
##### Subpart F - Exemptions and Certifications
###### ยง 501.68 Decision and order.

(a)(1) OFE shall issue an order either granting or denying the petition for an exemption or permit within six (6) months after the end of the period for public comment and hearing applicable to any petition.

(2) OFE may extend the six (6) month period for decision to a date certain by publishing notice in theand stating the reasons for such extension.

(3) OFE will publish a final EIS at least thirty (30) days prior to take issuance of the final order in all cases where an EIS is required.

(b)(1) OFE shall serve a copy of the order granting or denying a petition for exemption to the petitioner and all persons on the service list in cases involving a public hearing.

(2) OFE shall publish any order granting or denying a petition under this subpart in thetogether with a statement of the reasons for the grant or denial.

(c)(1) Any order granting or denying a petition for exemption shall be based upon consideration of the whole record or those parts thereof cited by a party and supported by, and in accordance with, reliable, probative and substantive evidence.

(2) The denial of a petition for exemption shall be without prejudice to the petitioner's right to submit an amended petition. OFE may, however, reject the amended petition if it is not materially different from the denied petition.

(d) OFE may design any terms and conditions included in any temporary exemption issued or extended under section 211 of FUA, to ensure, among other things, that upon expiration of the exemption the persons and powerplant covered by the exemption will comply with the applicable prohibitions under FUA. For purposes of the provision, the subsequent grant of a permanent exemption to the subject unit shall be deemed compliance with applicable prohibitions.
