
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Alternate Fuels
#### PART 503 - NEW FACILITIES
##### Subpart B - General Requirements for Exemptions
###### ยง 503.6 Cost calculations for new powerplants and installations.
####### Economically dispatch the new powerplant.

(B)The cash outlays for operations, maintenance, and fuel expenses of all powerplants being dispatched (where oil and natural gas are priced according to the procedures of appendix II) are the corresponding expenses for the purpose of the cost calculation. The dispatch analysis area must be that area with which the firm currently dispatches, anticipates dispatching, and will be interconnected. It must also include all anticipated exchanges of energy with other utilities or powerpools. The outlays for operations, maintenance, and fuel may also be estimated using a methodology that incorporates the benefits of economically dispatching units and provides consistent treatment in the alternate fuel and oil or natural gas cases being compared.

(C) Use a dispatch analysis to project the energy produced by the powerplant for a representative (not atypical) year of operation when consuming an alternate fuel. Compute the cash outlays for operations, maintenance, and fuel expenses for the powerplant based upon the level of energy production estimated for the representative year. The dispatch analysis and fuel expenses for the cost calculation must include oil and natural gas priced according to the procedures of appendix II.

(ii) When computing the annual cash outlays for operations and maintenance expense (OM) and fuel expense (FL) for an installation, specify the firing rates and the length of time each firing rate will be maintained.

(4) The discount rate (k) for analyses is 2.9 percent or that which is computed as specified in appendix I. The method of computing the inflation index (IX) is shown in appendix II to part 504. OFE will modify these specified rates from time to time as required by changed conditions after public notice and an opportunity to comment. However, the relevant set of specified rates for a specific petition for exemption will be the set in effect at the time the petition is submitted or the set in effect at the time a decision is rendered, whichever set is more favorable to the petitioner.

(5)(i) The guidelines for the useful life (N) of all powerplants except nuclear will be thirty-five (35) years. The guidelines for the useful life of a nuclear powerplant will be forty (40) years. The guidelines for the useful life of major fuel burning installations will be forty (40) years. Other useful life projections may be used if they are more appropriate than these guidelines; however, the source or derivation of these projections must be contained in the evidential summary. The summary should include a discussion of engineering, economic historical or other evidence.

(ii) If the units being compared have different useful lives, the petitioner will have to modify his calculation so that the two cash flows being compared have the length of the shorter useful life. To do this, (A) use the shorter of the two useful lives in Equations 2 and 5 for both units, and (B) multiply capital investment (I) of the unit with the longer life (computed with Equation 3) by the following adjustment factor (A):

(6) All Federal investment tax credits (ITC) and depreciation (PR) values are those used for Federal income tax purposes and must be applied consistently throughout the analysis and in a manner consistent with the Federal tax laws. All investment tax credits allowed under Federal tax law must be reflected in the computations. The petitioner must use the method of depreciation which results in the greatest present value of the cash flow due to the tax and depreciation effect. The marginal income tax rate (t) is the firm's anticipated marginal Federal income tax rate in year i. The relevant investment tax credits, depreciation methodology, and marginal Federal income tax rates for a specific exemption petition will be those prescribed by Federal law in effect (or those tax parameters which are known with certainty will be in effect) at the time a decision is rendered. (However, if an investment tax credit expires in a certain year under the law which is in effect at the time the petition is submitted, the petitioner must assume that it will in fact expire in that year.)

(7) If powerplants are being compared, the design capacities or the maximum sustained energy per unit of time that could be produced must be the same. If installations are being compared, the maximum sustained energy per unit of time that could be produced must be the same.

(8) All estimated cash outlays must be computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied.

(9) The scope of the estimates of relevant costs (as discussed above) of units being compared must be the same.

(10) All allowances for uncertainty and risk in the cost estimates must be explicit.

(11) All cash outlays must be net of any government subsidies or grants.
