
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Alternate Fuels
#### PART 503 - NEW FACILITIES
##### Subpart B - General Requirements for Exemptions
###### ยง 503.6 Cost calculations for new powerplants and installations.
####### Cost calculation-general cost test.,i.e.,

(b)(1) A petitioner may be eligible for a permanent exemption if he can demonstrate that the cost of using an alternate fuel from the first year of operation substantially exceeds the cost of using imported petroleum. Unless the best practicable cost estimates as prescribed below will not materially change during the first ten years of operation of the unit (given the best information available at the time the petition is filed), the petitioner must also demonstrate that the cost of using an alternate fuel beginning at any time within the first ten years of operation and using imported petroleum or natural gas until such time (delayed use of alternate fuel) would substantially exceed the cost of using only imported petroleum.

(2) The petitioner would only be eligible for a temporary exemption if the computed costs of delayed alternate fuel use, commencing at the start of the second through eleventh years of operation, do not always substantially exceed the cost of using only imported petroleum. The length of the temporary exemption would be the minimum period from the start of operation in which the cost of using alternate fuel substantially exceeds the cost of using imported petroleum.

(3) To conduct the general cost test, calculate the difference (DELTA) between the cost of using an alternate fuel (COST(ALTERNATE)) and the cost of using imported petroleum (COST(OIL)) using Equations 1 through 3 below and the comparison procedures in paragraph (b)(5) of this section.

(4) The terms in Equations 2 and 3 are defined as follows:

(5) The step-by-step procedure that follows shows the comparison that the petitioner must make.

(i) Compute the cost of using an alternate fuel (COST(ALTERNATE)) unit throughout the useful life of the unit using Equations 2 and 3.

(ii) Compute the cost of using oil or natural gas (COST(OIL)) throughout the useful life of the unit using Equations 2 and 3.

(iii) Using Equation 1, compute the difference (DELTA) between COST (ALTERNATE) and COST (OIL). If the difference (DELTA) is less than or equal to zero, a petitioner is not eligible for a permanent or temporary exemption using the general cost test and need not complete the remainder of the general cost test calculation. However, he still may be eligible for a temporary exemption using the special cost test (paragraph (c) of this section). If the difference (DELTA) is greater than zero and if the best practicable cost estimates will not materially change during the first ten years of operation (given the best information available at the time the petition is filed), the petitioner has completed the test and is eligible for a permanent exemption. However, if the best practicable cost estimate will materially change during the first ten years, the petitioner must complete the remainder of the general cost test-the delayed use calculations which follow.

(iv) Recompute COST (ALTERNATE) with Equations 2 and 3, assuming that an alternate fuel is not used as the primary energy source until the start of the second year of operation and that imported petroleum or natural gas is used for the first year of operation. All cash outlays should reflect postponed use of alternate fuel.

(v) Successively recompute COST (ALTERNATE) with Equations 2 and 3, assuming that the alternate fuel use is postponed until the start of the third year, fourth year, and so on, through the beginning of the eleventh year of operation (with imported petroleum or natural gas used in the years preceding alternate fuel use).

(vi) Compute the difference (DELTA) between each of the ten COST(ALTERNATE)s calculated in paragraph (b)(5) (iv) and (v) of this section and the COST(OIL) calculated in paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section.
