
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Alternate Fuels
#### PART 503 - NEW FACILITIES
##### Subpart B - General Requirements for Exemptions
###### ยง 503.6 Cost calculations for new powerplants and installations.
####### Cost calculations-special cost test.

(c)(1) A petitioner may be eligible for a temporary exemption if he demonstrates that the cost of using an alternate fuel will substantially exceed the cost of using imported petroleum or (natural gas) over the period of the proposed exemption. The period of the proposed temporary exemption may not exceed ten years.

(2) To conduct the test, calculate the difference (DELTA) between the cost of using an alternate fuel (COST (ALTERNATE)) and the cost of using imported petroleum (COST (OIL)) using Equations 4 and 5 below, Equation 3 (paragraph (b)(3) of this section), and the comparison procedures in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.

Capital investment (I) is calculated with Equation 3 (paragraph (b)(3) of this section).

(3) The terms in Equation 5 are the same as those in Equation 2 with the addition of P, the length of the proposed temporary exemption in years. (See paragraph (b)(4) of this section for other terms.)

(4) The step-by-step procedure that follows shows the comparisons which must be made.

(i) Using Equation 5, compute the cost of using an alternate fuel (COST(ALTERNATE)) assuming the length of the proposed exemption is one year.

(ii) Likewise, compute the cost of using imported petroleum or natural gas (COST(OIL)) assuming the length of the proposed exemption is one year.

(iii) Compute the difference (DELTA) between COST (ALTERNATE) and COST (OIL) using Equation 4.

(iv) Repeat the calculations made in (i), (ii), and (iii) above, assuming the length of the proposed exemption is two years, three years, four years, and so on, up through the period of the proposed exemption.

(v) A petitioner is eligible for a temporary exemption for the period beginning at the start of the first year of operation and terminating at the beginning of the first year in which a DELTA is zero or less.
