
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Alternate Fuels
#### PART 504 - EXISTING POWERPLANTS
##### ยง 504.6 Prohibitions by order (case-by-case).
###### Substantial reduction in rated capacity.

(e)In the case of electing and certifying powerplants, OFP will make this determination on the basis of the following factors. A certifying powerplant should present information to support its certification regarding these factors in order for OFP to make its review for concurrence.

(1) OFP regards a unit's derating of 25 percent or more, as a result of converting a unit from oil or gas to an alternate fuel, as substantial.

(2) OFP will presume that a derating of less than 10 percent, as a result of converting a unit from oil or gas to an alternate fuel, is not substantial unless convincing evidence to the contrary is submitted in rebuttal.

(3) OFP will assess units for which a derating is claimed of 10 percent or more, but less than 25 percent, on a case-by-case.

(4) In assessing whether a unit's derating is not substantial, OFP will consider the impact of a reduction in rated capacity of the unit taking into consideration all necessary appurtenances such as air pollution control equipment required to burn an alternate fuel in compliance with environmental requirements expected to be applicable at the date the prohibitions contained in the final prohibition order become effective. However, the potential order recipient may raise in rebuttal the impact of derating on the site at which the unit is located and on the system as well as on the unit itself, if under paragraph (e)(2), or case-by-case, if under paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
