
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter E - Alternate Fuels
#### PART 504 - EXISTING POWERPLANTS
##### § 504.8 Prohibitions against excessive use of petroleum or natural gas in mixtures - certifying powerplants.

(a) In the case of certifying powerplants, OFP may prohibit the use of petroleum or natural gas in such powerplant in amounts exceeding the minimum amount necessary to maintain reliability of operation consistent with maintaining the reasonable fuel efficiency of the mixture. This authority is contained in section 301(c) of the Act, as amended. The owner or operator of the powerplant may certify at any time to OFP that it is technically capable and financially feasible for the unit to use a mixture of petroleum or natural gas and coal or another alternate fuel as a primary energy source. In assessing whether the unit is technically capable of using a mixture of petroleum or natural gas and coal or another alternate fuel as a primary energy source, for purposes of this section, the extent of any physical modification necessary to convert the unit and any concomitant reduction in rated capacity are not relevant factors. So long as a unit as proposed to be modified would be technically capable of using the mixture as a primary energy source under § 504.6(c), this certification requirement shall be deemed met. The criteria for certification of financial feasibility are found at § 504.6(f). In addition, the powerplant's owner or operator must submit a prohibition compliance schedule, which meets the requirements of § 504.5(d).

(b) If OFP concurs with the certification, a prohibition order against the unit's excessive use of petroleum or natural gas in the mixture will be issued following the procedure outlined in § 501.52 of these regulations.

(c) The petitioner may seek to amend its certification in order to take into account changes in relevant facts and circumstances by following the procedure contained in § 501.52(d).
