
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter G - Natural Gas (Economic Regulatory Administration)
#### PART 590 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES WITH RESPECT TO THE IMPORT AND EXPORT OF NATURAL GAS
##### Subpart B - Applications for Authorization To Import or Export Natural Gas
###### ยง 590.205 Notice of applications.

(a) Upon receipt of an application, the FE shall publish a notice of application in theThe notice shall summarize the proposal. Except in emergency circumstances, generally the notice shall provide a time limit of not less than thirty (30) days from the notice's date of publication in thefor persons to file protests, comments, or a motion to intervene or notice of intervention, as applicable. The notice may also request comments on specific issues or matters of fact, law, or policy raised by the application.

(b) The notice of application shall advise the parties of their right to request additional procedures, including the opportunity to file written comments and to request that a conference, oral presentation, or trial-type hearing be convened. Failure to request additional procedures at this time shall be deemed a waiver of any right to additional procedures should the Assistant Secretary decide to grant the application and authorize the import or export by issuing a final opinion and order in accordance with ยง 590.316.

(c) Where negotiations between the DOE, including FE, and a foreign government have resulted in a formal policy agreement or statement affecting a particular import or export proceeding, FE shall include in the notice of application a description of the terms or policy positions of that agreement or statement to the extent they apply to the proceeding, and invite comment. A formal policy agreement or statement affecting a particular import or export proceeding that is arrived at after publication of the notice of application shall be placed on the record in that proceeding and the parties given an opportunity to comment thereon.
