
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter G - Natural Gas (Economic Regulatory Administration)
#### PART 590 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES WITH RESPECT TO THE IMPORT AND EXPORT OF NATURAL GAS
##### Subpart C - Procedures
###### ยง 590.307 Depositions.

(a) Upon motion filed by a party, the Assistant Secretary or presiding official may authorize the taking of testimony of any witness by deposition. Unless otherwise directed in the authorization issued, a witness being deposed may be examined regarding any matter which is relevant to the issues involved in the pending proceeding.

(b) Parties authorized to take a deposition shall provide written notice to the witness and all other parties at least ten (10) days in advance of the deposition unless such advance notice is waived by mutual agreement of the parties.

(c) The requesting motion and notice shall state the name and mailing address of the witness, delineate the subject matters on which the witness is expected to testify, state the reason why the deposition should be taken, indicate the time and place of the deposition, and provide the name and mailing address of the person taking the deposition.

(d) A witness whose testimony is taken by deposition shall be sworn in or shall affirm concerning the matter about which the witness has been called to testify before any questions are asked or testimony given. A witness deposed shall be entitled to witness fees as provided in ยง 590.315(c).

(e) The moving party shall file the entire deposition with FE after it has been subscribed and certified. No portion of the deposition shall constitute a part of the record in the proceedings unless received in evidence, in whole or in part, by the Assistant Secretary or presiding official.
