
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter G - Natural Gas (Economic Regulatory Administration)
#### PART 590 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES WITH RESPECT TO THE IMPORT AND EXPORT OF NATURAL GAS
##### Subpart C - Procedures
###### ยง 590.304 Protests and answers.

(a) Any person objecting to an application filed under ยง 590.201 of this part or to any action taken by FE under this part may file a protest. No particular form is required. The protest shall identify the person filing the protest, the application or action being objected to, and provide a concise statement of the reasons for the protest.

(b) The filing of a protest, without also filing a motion to intervene or a notice of intervention, shall not make the person filing the protest a party to the proceeding.

(c) A protest shall be made part of the official FE docket file in the proceeding and shall be considered as a statement of position of the person filing the protest, but not as establishing the validity of any assertion upon which the decision would be based.

(d) Protests shall be served on the applicant and all parties by the person filing the protest. If the person filing the protest is unable to provide service on any person identified as a party to the proceeding after a good faith effort, then FE shall effect service. However, when the parties are not known, service requirements may be met by serving a copy on the applicant and on FE as provided in ยง 590.107(b).

(e) Protests may be filed at any time following the filing of an application, but no later than the date fixed for filing protests in the applicable FE notice or order, unless a later date is permitted by the Assistant Secretary for good cause shown.

(f) Any party may file an answer to a protest but such answer must be filed within fifteen (15) days after the protest was filed, unless a later date is permitted by the Assistant Secretary for good cause shown.
