
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter H - Assistance Regulations
#### PART 600 - FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE RULES
##### Subpart A - General
###### § 600.5 Selection of award instrument.

(a) If DOE has administrative discretion in the selection of the award instrument, the DOE decision as to whether the relationship is principally one of procurement or financial assistance shall be made pursuant to the Federal Grant and Cooperative Agreement Act as codified at 31 U.S.C. 6301-6306. A grant or cooperative agreement shall be the appropriate instrument, in accordance with this part, when the principal purpose of the relationship is the transfer of money or property to accomplish a public purpose of support or stimulation authorized by Federal statute. In selecting the type of financial assistance instrument, DOE shall limit involvement between itself and the recipient in the performance of a project to the minimum necessary to achieve DOE program objectives.

(b) When it is anticipated that substantial involvement will be necessary between DOE and the recipient during performance of the contemplated activity, the award instrument shall be a cooperative agreement rather than a grant. Every cooperative agreement shall explicitly state the substantial involvement anticipated between DOE and the recipient during the performance of the project. Substantial involvement exists if:

(1) Responsibility for the management, control, or direction of the project is shared by DOE and the recipient; or

(2) Responsibility for the performance of the project is shared by DOE and the recipient.

(c) Providing technical assistance or guidance of a programmatic nature to a recipient does not constitute substantial involvement if:

(1) the recipient is not required to follow such guidance;

(2) the technical assistance or guidance is not expected to result in continuing DOE involvement in the performance of the project; or

(3) The technical assistance or guidance pertains solely to the administrative requirements of the award.

(d) In cooperative agreements, DOE has the right to intervene in the conduct or performance of project activities for programmatic reasons. Intervention includes the interruption or modification of the conduct or performance of project activities. Suspension or termination of the cooperative agreement under §§ 600.162, 600.243 and 600.352 does not constitute intervention in the conduct or performance of project activities.
