
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter H - Assistance Regulations
#### PART 600 - FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE RULES
##### Subpart B - Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements With Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit Organizations
###### Post-Award Requirements
####### § 600.124 Program income.

(a) The standards set forth in this section shall be used to account for program income related to projects financed in whole or in part with DOE funds.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, program income earned during the project period shall be retained by the recipient and, in accordance with program regulations or the terms and conditions of the award, shall be used in one or more of the following ways.

(1) Added to funds committed to the project and used to further eligible project objectives.

(2) Used to finance the non-DOE share of the project.

(3) Deducted from the total project allowable cost in determining the net allowable costs on which the share of costs is based.

(c) When DOE authorizes the disposition of program income as described in paragraphs (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section, program income in excess of any limits stipulated shall be used in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(d) In the event that the program regulations or the terms and conditions of the award do not specify how program income is to be used, paragraph (b)(3) of this section shall apply automatically to all projects or programs except research. For awards that support research, paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall apply automatically unless the award indicates another alternative in the terms and conditions, the recipient is subject to special award conditions, as indicated in § 600.114, or the recipient is a commercial organization.

(e) Unless program regulations or the terms and conditions of the award provide otherwise, recipients shall have no obligation to the Federal Government regarding program income earned after the end of the project period.

(f) Unless program regulations or the terms and conditions of the award provide otherwise, costs incident to the generation of program income may be deducted from gross income to determine program income, provided these costs have not been charged to the award.

(g) Proceeds from the sale of property shall be handled in accordance with the requirements of the Property Standards (See §§ 600.130 through 600.137).

(h) Unless program regulations or the terms and condition of the award provide otherwise, recipients shall have no obligation to the Federal Government with respect to program income earned from license fees and royalties for copyrighted material, patents, patent applications, trademarks, and inventions produced under an award. However, Patent and Trademark Amendments (35 U.S.C. Chapter 18) apply to inventions made under an experimental, developmental, or research award.
