
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter H - Assistance Regulations
#### PART 600 - FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE RULES
##### Subpart B - Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements With Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit Organizations
###### Post-Award Requirements
####### § 600.125 Revision of budget and program plans.

(a) The budget plan is the financial expression of the project or program as approved during the award process. It includes the sum of the Federal and non-Federal share when there are cost sharing requirements. It shall be related to performance for program evaluation purposes whenever appropriate.

(b) Recipients are required to report deviations from budget and program plans, and request prior approvals for budget and program plan revisions, in accordance with this section.

(c) For nonconstruction awards, recipients shall request prior approvals from the DOE for one or more of the following program or budget related reasons.

(1) Change in the scope or the objective of the project or program (even if there is no associated budget revision requiring prior written approval).

(2) Change in a key person specified in the application or award document.

(3) The absence for more than three months, or a 25 percent reduction in time devoted to the project, by the approved project director or principal investigator.

(4) The need for additional Federal funding.

(5) If required by program regulations, the transfer of amounts budgeted for indirect costs to absorb increases in direct costs, or vice versa.

(6) The inclusion, unless waived by program regulations or the terms and conditions of award, of costs that require prior approval in accordance with OMB Circular A-21, "Cost Principles for Institutions of Higher Education," OMB Circular A-122, "Cost Principles for Non-Profit Organizations," or 45 CFR part 74 Appendix E, "Principles for Determining Costs Applicable to Research and Development under Grants and Contracts with Hospitals," or 48 CFR part 31, "Contract Cost Principles and Procedures," as applicable.

(7) The transfer of funds allotted for training allowances (direct payment to trainees) to other categories of expense.

(8) Unless described in the application and funded in the approved awards, the subaward, transfer or contracting out of any work under an award. This provision does not apply to the purchase of supplies, material, equipment or general support services.

(d) No other prior approval requirements for specific items may be imposed unless a deviation has been approved in accordance with § 600.4.

(e) Except for requirements listed in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(4) of this section, program regulations may waive cost-related and administrative prior written approvals required by this subpart and its Appendices. Such waivers may include authorizing recipients to do any one or more of the following.

(1) Incur pre-award costs 90 calendar days prior to award without prior approval or more than 90 calendar days with the prior approval of DOE. All pre-award costs are incurred at the recipient's risk (i.e., DOE is under no obligation to reimburse such costs if for any reason the recipient does not receive an award or if the award is less than anticipated and inadequate to cover such costs).

(2) Initiate a one-time extension of the expiration date of the final budget period of the project of up to 12 months unless one or more of the following conditions apply.

(i) The terms and conditions of award prohibit the extension.

(ii) The extension requires additional Federal funds.

(iii) The extension involves any change in the approved objectives or scope of the project.

(iv) The extension is being exercised merely for the purpose of using unobligated balances. For one-time extensions, the recipient must notify the DOE in writing with the supporting reasons and revised expiration date at least 10 days before the expiration date specified in the award.

(3) Carry forward unobligated balances to subsequent funding periods.

(4) For awards that support research, unless the terms and conditions of award provide otherwise, the prior approval requirements described in paragraph (e) of this section are automatically waived (i.e., recipients need not obtain such prior approvals) unless one of the conditions included in § 600.125(e)(2) applies.

(5) For continuation awards within a multiple year project in support of research, prior to receipt of continuation funding, preaward expenditures by recipients are not subject to the limitation or approval requirements of § 600.125(e)(1). Nevertheless, incurrence by the recipient does not impose any obligation on DOE if a continuation award is not subsequently made, or if an award is made for a lesser amount than the recipient expected.

(f) Program regulations may restrict the transfer of funds among direct cost categories or programs, functions and activities for awards in which DOE's share of the project exceeds $100,000 and the cumulative amount of such transfers exceeds or is expected to exceed 10 percent of the total budget as last approved by DOE. However, no program regulation shall permit a transfer that would cause any Federal appropriation or part thereof to be used for purposes other than those consistent with the original intent of the appropriation.

(g) All other changes to nonconstruction budgets, except for the changes described in paragraph (j) of this section, do not require prior approval.

(h) For construction awards, recipients shall request prior written approval promptly from the Contracting Officer for budget revisions whenever paragraph (h) (1), (2) or (3) of this section apply.

(1) The revision results from changes in the scope or the objective of the project or program.

(2) The need arises for additional Federal funds to complete the project.

(3) A revision is desired which involves specific costs for which prior written approval requirements may be imposed consistent with applicable OMB cost principles listed in § 600.127.

(i) Except in accordance with the deviation procedures in 600.4 or as may be provided for in program regulations, no other prior approval requirements for specific items will be imposed by DOE.

(j) When DOE makes an award that provides support for both construction and nonconstruction work, DOE may require the recipient to request prior approval from DOE before making any fund or budget transfers between the two types of work supported.

(k) For both construction and nonconstruction awards, recipients shall notify DOE in writing promptly whenever the amount of Federal authorized funds is expected to exceed the needs of the recipient for the project period by more than $5000 or five percent of the Federal award, whichever is greater. This notification shall not be required if an application for additional funding is submitted for a continuation award.

(l) Requests for budget revisions may be made by letter.

(m) Within 30 calendar days from the date of receipt of the request for budget revisions, DOE shall review the request and notify the recipient whether the budget revisions have been approved. If the revision is still under consideration at the end of 30 calendar days, DOE shall inform the recipient in writing of the date when the recipient may expect the decision.

(n) DOE approval or disapproval of a request for a budget or project revision shall be in writing and signed by a DOE Contracting Officer.

(o) A request by a subrecipient for prior approval shall be addressed in writing to the recipient. The recipient shall promptly review such request and shall approve or disapprove the request in writing within 30 days from the date of the recipient's request for the revision. A recipient shall not approve any budget or project revision which is inconsistent with the purpose or terms and conditions of the DOE award. If the revision requested by the subrecipient would result in a change to the recipient's approved budget or approved project which requires DOE prior approval, the recipient shall obtain DOE approval before approving such revision.
