
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter H - Assistance Regulations
#### PART 600 - FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE RULES
##### Subpart B - Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements With Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit Organizations
###### Post-Award Requirements
####### ยง 600.133 Federally-owned and exempt property.
######## Exempt property.

(b)When statutory authority exists, DOE may vest title to property acquired with Federal funds in the recipient without further obligation to the Federal Government and under conditions DOE considers appropriate. For example, under 31 U.S.C. 6306, DOE may so vest title to tangible personal property under a grant or cooperative agreement for basic or applied research in a nonprofit institution of higher education or in a nonprofit organization whose primary purpose is conducting scientific research. Such property is "exempt property." Program regulations or the terms and conditions of award may establish provisions for vesting title to exempt property. Should such conditions not be established and the recipient has no need for the equipment, the recipient shall request disposition instructions from DOE. If DOE does not issue disposition instructions within 120 calendar days of receipt of the request, title to the property shall vest in the recipient without further obligation to the Federal Government. If, at the end of the project, DOE fails to issue disposition instructions within 120 calendar days of the receipt of a final inventory, title to the property shall vest in the recipient without further obligation to the Federal Government.
