
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter H - Assistance Regulations
#### PART 600 - FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE RULES
##### Subpart D - Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements With For-Profit Organizations
###### Post-Award Requirements
####### ยง 600.313 Cost sharing or matching.
######## Valuing and documenting contributions,Valuing recipient's property or services of recipient's employees.

(b)-(1)Values are established in accordance with the applicable cost principles in ยง 600.317, which means that amounts chargeable to the project are determined on the basis of costs incurred. For real property or equipment used on the project, the cost principles authorize depreciation or use charges. The full value of the item may be applied when the item will be consumed in the performance of the award or fully depreciated by the end of the award. In cases where the full value of a donated capital asset is to be applied as cost sharing or matching, that full value must be the lesser or the following:

(i) The certified value of the remaining life of the property recorded in the recipient's accounting records at the time of donation; or

(ii) The current fair market value. If there is sufficient justification, the contracting officer may approve the use of the current fair market value of the donated property, even if it exceeds the certified value at the time of donation to the project. The contracting officer may accept the use of any reasonable basis for determining the fair market value of the property.
