
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter H - Assistance Regulations
#### PART 600 - FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE RULES
##### Subpart D - Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements With For-Profit Organizations
###### Post-Award Requirements
####### ยง 600.321 Real property and equipment.
######## Disposition.

(f)(1) If an item of real property or equipment is no longer needed for Federally sponsored projects, the recipient has the following options:

(i) If the property is equipment with a current per unit fair market value of less than $5,000, it may be retained, sold, or otherwise disposed of with no further obligation to DOE.

(ii) If the property that is no longer needed is equipment (rather than real property), the recipient may wish to replace it with an item that is needed currently for the project by trading in or selling to offset the costs of the replacement equipment, subject to the approval of the contracting officer.

(iii) The recipient may elect to retain title, without further obligation to the Federal Government, by compensating the Federal Government for that percentage of the current fair market value of the real property or equipment that is attributable to the Federal participation in the project.

(iv) If the recipient does not elect to retain title to real property or equipment or does not request approval to use equipment as trade-in or offset for replacement equipment, the recipient must request disposition instructions from the responsible agency.

(2) If a recipient requests disposition instructions, the contracting officer must:

(i) For equipment (but not real property), consult with the DOE Project Director to determine whether the condition and nature of the equipment warrant excess screening within DOE. If screening is warranted, the equipment will be made available for reutilization within DOE through the Energy Asset Disposal System (EADS). If no DOE requirement is identified within a 30-day period, EADS automatically reports the availability of the equipment to the General Services Administration, to determine whether a requirement for the equipment exists in other Federal agencies.

(ii) For either real property or equipment, issue instructions to the recipient for disposition of the property no later than 120 calendar days after the recipient's request. The contracting officer's options for disposition are to direct the recipient to:

(A) Transfer title to the real property or equipment to the Federal Government or to an eligible third party provided that, in such cases, the recipient is entitled to compensation for its attributable percentage of the current fair market value of the real property or equipment, plus any reasonable shipping or interim storage costs incurred.

(B) Sell the real property or equipment and pay the Federal Government for that percentage of the current fair market value of the property that is attributable to the Federal participation in the project (after deducting actual and reasonable selling and fix-up expenses, if any, from the sale proceeds). If the recipient is authorized or required to sell the real property or equipment, the recipient must use competitive procedures that result in the highest practicable return.

(3) If the responsible agency fails to issue disposition instructions within 120 calendar days of the recipient's request, the recipient must dispose of the real property or equipment through the option described in paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(B) of this section.
