
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter H - Assistance Regulations
#### PART 600 - FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE RULES
##### Subpart D - Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements With For-Profit Organizations
###### After-the-Award Requirements
####### § 600.361 Closeout procedures.

(a) Recipients must submit, within 90 calendar days after the date of completion of the award, all reports required by the terms and conditions of the award. DOE may approve extensions when requested by the recipient.

(b) The following provisions must apply to the closeout:

(1) Unless DOE authorizes an extension, a recipient must liquidate all obligations incurred under the award not later than 90 calendar days after the funding period or the date of completion of the award as specified in the terms and conditions of the award or in agency implementing instructions.

(2) DOE must make prompt, final payments to a recipient for allowable reimbursable costs under the award being closed out.

(3) The recipient must promptly refund any unobligated balances of cash that DOE has advanced or paid and that are not authorized to be retained by the recipient for use in other projects. OMB Circular A-129 governs unreturned amounts that become delinquent debts.

(4) When authorized by the terms and conditions of the award, the contracting officer must make a settlement for any upward or downward adjustments to the Federal share of costs after closeout reports are received.

(5) The recipient must account for any real property and equipment acquired with Federal funds or received from the Federal Government in accordance with §§ 600.321 through 600.325.

(6) If a final audit is required and has not been performed prior to the closeout of an award, DOE retains the right to recover an appropriate amount after fully considering the recommendations on disallowed costs resulting from the final audit.
