
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter H - Assistance Regulations
#### PART 600 - FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE RULES
##### Subpart D - Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements With For-Profit Organizations
###### Appendix A to Subpart D of Part 600 - Patent and Data Provisions
####### g

(1) Data delivered to the Government without either the limited rights or restricted rights notice as authorized by paragraph () of this clause, or the copyright notice required by paragraph (c) of this clause, shall be deemed to have been furnished with unlimited rights, and the Government assumes no liability for the disclosure, use, or reproduction of such data. However, to the extent the data has not been disclosed without restriction outside the Government, the Recipient may request, within 6 months (or a longer time approved by the Contracting Officer for good cause shown) after delivery of such data, permission to have notices placed on qualifying data at the Recipient's expense, and the Contracting Officer may agree to do so if the Recipient-

(i) Identifies the data to which the omitted notice is to be applied;

(ii) Demonstrates that the omission of the notice was inadvertent;

(iii) Establishes that the use of the proposed notice is authorized; and

(iv) Acknowledges that the Government has no liability with respect to the disclosure, use, or reproduction of any such data made prior to the addition of the notice or resulting from the omission of the notice.

(2) The Contracting Officer may also:

(i) Permit correction at the Recipient's expense of incorrect notices if the Recipient identifies the data on which correction of the notice is to be made, and demonstrates that the correct notice is authorized; or

(ii) Correct any incorrect notices.

(1) The Recipient may, with the concurrence of DOE, claim and mark as protected data, any data first produced in the performance of this award that would have been treated as a trade secret if developed at private expense. Any such claimed "protected data" will be clearly marked with the following Protected Rights Notice, and will be treated in accordance with such Notice, subject to the provisions of paragraphs (e) and (f) of this clause.

These protected data were produced under agreement no. ______ with the U.S. Department of Energy and may not be published, disseminated, or disclosed to others outside the Government until () The period of protection of such data is fully negotiable, but cannot exceed the applicable statutorily authorized maximum), unless express written authorization is obtained from the recipient. Upon expiration of the period of protection set forth in this Notice, the Government shall have unlimited rights in this data. This Notice shall be marked on any reproduction of this data, in whole or in part.

(2) Any such marked Protected Data may be disclosed under obligations of confidentiality for the following purposes:

(a) For evaluation purposes under the restriction that the "Protected Data" be retained in confidence and not be further disclosed; or

(b) To subcontractors or other team members performing work under the Government's (insert name of program or other applicable activity) program of which this award is a part, for information or use in connection with the work performed under their activity, and under the restriction that the Protected Data be retained in confidence and not be further disclosed.

(3) The obligations of confidentiality and restrictions on publication and dissemination shall end for any Protected Data.

(a) At the end of the protected period;

(b) If the data becomes publicly known or available from other sources without a breach of the obligation of confidentiality with respect to the Protected Data;

(c) If the same data is independently developed by someone who did not have access to the Protected Data and such data is made available without obligations of confidentiality; or

(d) If the Recipient disseminates or authorizes another to disseminate such data without obligations of confidentiality.

(4) However, the Recipient agrees that the following types of data are not considered to be protected and shall be provided to the Government when required by this award without any claim that the data are Protected Data. The parties agree that notwithstanding the following lists of types of data, nothing precludes the Government from seeking delivery of additional data in accordance with this award, or from making publicly available additional non-protected data, nor does the following list constitute any admission by the Government that technical data not on the list is Protected Data. (It is expected that this paragraph will specify certain types of mutually agreed upon data that will be available to the public and will not be asserted by the recipient/contractor as limited rights or protected data).

(5) The Government's sole obligation with respect to any protected data shall be as set forth in this paragraph (g).

When data other than that listed in subparagraphs (b)(1)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this clause are specified to be delivered under this agreement and such data qualify as either limited rights data or restricted computer software, the Recipient, if the Recipient desires to continue protection of such data, shall withhold such data and not furnish them to the Government under this agreement. As a condition to this withholding the Recipient shall identify the data being withheld and furnish form, fit, and function data in lieu thereof.

The Recipient has the responsibility to obtain from its subrecipients/contractors all data and rights therein necessary to fulfill the Recipient's obligations to the Government under this agreement. If a subrecipient/contractor refuses to accept terms affording the Government such rights, the Recipient shall promptly bring such refusal to the attention of the Contracting Officer and not proceed with subaward/contract award without further authorization.

In addition to the data specified elsewhere in this agreement to be delivered, the Contracting Officer may, at anytime during agreement performance or within a period of 3 years after acceptance of all items to be delivered under this agreement, order any data first produced or specifically used in the performance of this agreement. This clause is applicable to all data ordered under this subparagraph. Nothing contained in this subparagraph shall require the Recipient to deliver any data the withholding of which is authorized by this clause or data which are specifically identified in this agreement as not subject to this clause. When data are to be delivered under this subparagraph, the Recipient will be compensated for converting the data into the prescribed form, for reproduction, and for delivery.

(k) The Recipient agrees, except as may be otherwise specified in this agreement for specific data items listed as not subject to this paragraph, that the Contracting Officer or an authorized representative may, up to three years after acceptance of all items to be delivered under this contract, inspect at the Recipient's facility any data withheld pursuant to paragraph (h) of this clause, for purposes of verifying the Recipient's assertion pertaining to the limited rights or restricted rights status of the data or for evaluating work performance. Where the Recipient whose data are to be inspected demonstrates to the Contracting Officer that there would be a possible conflict of interest if the inspection were made by a particular representative, the Contracting Officer shall designate an alternate inspector.

As prescribed in 600.325(e)(2), the following Alternate I and/or II may be inserted in the clause in the award instrument.

(h)(2) Notwithstanding subparagraph (h)(1) of this clause, the agreement may identify and specify the delivery of limited rights data, or the Contracting Officer may require by written request the delivery of limited rights data that has been withheld or would otherwise be withholdable. If delivery of such data is so required, the Recipient may affix the following "Limited Rights Notice" to the data and the Government will thereafter treat the data, in accordance with such Notice:

(a) These data are submitted with limited rights under Government agreement No. ________ (and subaward/contract No. ________, if appropriate). These data may be reproduced and used by the Government with the express limitation that they will not, without written permission of the Recipient, be used for purposes of manufacture nor disclosed outside the Government; except that the Government may disclose these data outside the Government for the following purposes, if any, provided that the Government makes such disclosure subject to prohibition against further use and disclosure:

(1) Use (except for manufacture) by Federal support services contractors within the scope of their contracts;

(2) This "limited rights data" may be disclosed for evaluation purposes under the restriction that the "limited rights data" be retained in confidence and not be further disclosed;

(3) This "limited rights data" may be disclosed to other contractors participating in the Government's program of which this Recipient is a part for information or use (except for manufacture) in connection with the work performed under their awards and under the restriction that the "limited rights data" be retained in confidence and not be further disclosed;

(4) This "limited rights data" may be used by the Government or others on its behalf for emergency repair or overhaul work under the restriction that the "limited rights data" be retained in confidence and not be further disclosed; and

(5) Release to a foreign government, or instrumentality thereof, as the interests of the United States Government may require, for information or evaluation, or for emergency repair or overhaul work by such government. This Notice shall be marked on any reproduction of this data in whole or in part.

(b) This Notice shall be marked on any reproduction of these data, in whole or in part.

(h)(3)(i) Notwithstanding subparagraph (h)(1) of this clause, the agreement may identify and specify the delivery of restricted computer software, or the Contracting Officer may require by written request the delivery of restricted computer software that has been withheld or would otherwise be withholdable. If delivery of such computer software is so required, the Recipient may affix the following "Restricted Rights Notice" to the computer software and the Government will thereafter treat the computer software, subject to paragraphs (d) and (e) of this clause, in accordance with the Notice:

(a) This computer software is submitted with restricted rights under Government Agreement No. ________ (and subaward/contract ________, if appropriate). It may not be used, reproduced, or disclosed by the Government except as provided in paragraph (c) of this Notice or as otherwise expressly stated in the agreement.

(b) This computer software may be-

(1) Used or copied for use in or with the computer or computers for which it was acquired, including use at any Government installation to which such computer or computers may be transferred;

(2) Used or copies for use in a backup computer if any computer for which it was acquired is inoperative;

(3) Reproduced for safekeeping (archives) or backup purposes;

(4) Modified, adapted, or combined with other computer software, provided that the modified, combined, or adapted portions of the derivative software are made subject to the same restricted rights;

(5) Disclosed to and reproduced for use by Federal support service Contractors in accordance with subparagraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this clause, provided the Government makes such disclosure or reproduction subject to these restricted rights; and

(6) Used or copies for use in or transferred to a replacement computer.

(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if this computer software is published copyrighted computer software, it is licensed to the Government, without disclosure prohibitions, with the minimum rights set forth in paragraph (b) of this clause.

(d) Any other rights or limitations regarding the use, duplication, or disclosure of this computer software are to be expressly stated in, or incorporated in, the agreement.

(e) This Notice shall be marked on any reproduction of this computer software, in whole or in part.

(ii) Where it is impractical to include the Restricted Rights Notice on restricted computer software, the following short-form Notice may be used in lieu thereof:

Use, reproduction, or disclosure is subject to restrictions set forth in Agreement No. ________ (and subaward/contract ________, if appropriate) with ________ (name of Recipient and subrecipient/contractor).

(iii) If restricted computer software is delivered with the copyright notice of 17 U.S.C. 401, it will be presumed to be published copyrighted computer software licensed to the Government without disclosure prohibitions, with the minimum rights set forth in paragraph (b) of this clause, unless the Recipient includes the following statement with such copyright notice: "Unpublished-rights reserved under the Copyright Laws of the United States."
