
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter H - Assistance Regulations
#### PART 602 - EPIDEMIOLOGY AND OTHER HEALTH STUDIES FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
##### ยง 602.7 Solicitation.

(a) The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance number for 10 CFR part 602 is 81.108 and its solicitation control number is EOHSFAP 10 CFR part 602.

(b) An application for a new or renewal award under this solicitation may be submitted at any time to DOE at the address specified in paragraph (c) of this section. New or renewal applications shall receive consideration for funding generally within 6 months but, in any event, no later than 12 months from the date of receipt by DOE.

(c) Except as otherwise provided in a notice of availability, applicants may obtain application forms, described in 602.8(b) of this part, and additional information from the Office of Domestic and International Health Studies, AU-13, U.S. Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20585, 301-903-2340, and shall submit applications to the same address.

(d) DOE will publish program notices in theregarding the availability of epidemiology and other health studies financial assistance. DOE may also use other means of communication, as appropriate, such as the publication of notices of availability in trade and professional journals and news media.

(1) Each notice of availability shall cite this part and shall include:

(i) The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance number and solicitation control number of the program;

(ii) The amount of money available or estimated to be available for award;

(iii) The name of the responsible DOE program official to contact for additional information and an address where application forms may be obtained;

(iv) The address for submission of applications; and

(v) Any evaluation criteria in addition to those set forth in ยง 602.9 of this part.

(2) The notice of availability may also include any other relevant information helpful to applicants such as:

(i) Program objectives;

(ii) A project agenda or potential area of project initiatives;

(iii) Problem areas requiring additional effort; and

(iv) Any other information that identifies areas in which grants or cooperative agreements may be made.

(e) DOE is under no obligation to pay for any costs associated with the preparation or submission of applications.

(f) DOE reserves the right to fund, in whole or in part, any, all, or none of the applications submitted.

(g) To be considered for a renewal award under this part, an incumbent recipient shall submit a continuation or renewal application, as provided in ยง 602.8 (c) and (h) of this part.
