
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter H - Assistance Regulations
#### PART 602 - EPIDEMIOLOGY AND OTHER HEALTH STUDIES FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
##### ยง 602.16 National security.

Activities under the Epidemiology and Other Health Studies Financial Assistance Program are not expected to involve classified information (i.e., Restricted Data, Formerly Restricted Data, National Security Information). However, if in the opinion of the recipient or DOE such involvement becomes expected prior to the closeout of the award, the recipient or DOE shall notify the other in writing immediately. If the recipient believes any information developed or acquired may be classified, the recipient shall not provide the potentially classified information to anyone, including DOE officials with whom the recipient normally communicates, except the Director, Office of Classification, and shall protect such information as if it were classified until notified by DOE that a determination has been made that it does not require such handling. Correspondence that includes the specific information in question shall be sent by registered mail to the U.S. Department of Energy, Attn: Director, Office of Classification, AU-60, P.O. Box A, Germantown, MD 20875. If the information is determined to be classified, the recipient may wish to discontinue the project, in which case the recipient and DOE shall terminate the award by mutual agreement. If the award is to be terminated, all material deemed by DOE to be classified shall be forwarded to DOE in a manner specified by DOE for proper disposition. If the recipient and DOE wish to continue the award, even though classified information is involved, the recipient shall be requested to obtain both personnel and facility security clearances through the Office of Headquarters Security Operations awards or from the cognizant field office for awards obtained through DOE field organizations. Costs associated with handling and protecting any such classified information shall be negotiated at the time that the determination to proceed is made.
