
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter H - Assistance Regulations
#### PART 602 - EPIDEMIOLOGY AND OTHER HEALTH STUDIES FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
##### ยง 602.8 Application requirements.

(a) An original and seven copies of the application for initial support must be submitted, except that State and local governments and Indian tribal governments shall not be required to submit more than the original and two copies of the application.

(b) Each new or renewal application in response to this part must include:

(1) An application face page, DOE Form 4650.2 (approved by OMB under OMB Control No. 1910-1400). However, the face page of an application submitted by a State or local government or an Indian tribal government shall be the face page of Standard Form 424 (approved by OMB under OMB Control Number 0348-0043).

(2) A detailed description of the proposed project, including its objectives, its relationship to DOE's program, its impact on the environment, if any, and the applicant's plan for carrying it out.

(3) Detailed information about the background and experience of the recipients of funds or, as appropriate, the principal investigator(s) (including references to publications), the facilities and experience of the applicant, and the cost-sharing arrangements, if any.

(4) A detailed budget for the entire proposed period of support with written justification sufficient to evaluate the itemized list of costs provided on the entire project. Applicants should note the following when preparing budgets:

(i) Numerical details on items of cost provided by State and local government and Indian tribal government applicants shall be on Standard Form 424A, "Budget Information for Non-Construction Programs" (approved under OMB Control No. 0348-0044). All other applicants shall use budget forms ERF 4620.1 (approved by OMB under Control No. 1910-1400).

(ii) DOE may, subsequent to receipt of an application, request additional budgetary information from an applicant when necessary for clarification or make informed pre-award determinations under 2 CFR part 200 as amended by 2 CFR part 910.

(5) Any pre-award assurances required pursuant to 10 CFR parts 600 and 602.

(c) Applications for a renewal award must be submitted with an original and seven copies, except that State and local governments and Indian tribal government applicants are required to submit only an original and two copies (Approved by OMB under OMB Control Numbers 0348-00050348-0009)

(d) The application must be signed by an official who is authorized to act for the applicant organization and to commit the applicant to comply with the terms and conditions of the award, if one is issued, or if unaffiliated, by the individual applicant. (See ยง 602.17(a)(1) for requirements on continuation awards.)

(e) DOE may return an application that does not include all information and documentation required by statute, this part, 10 CFR part 600, or the notice of availability, when the nature of the omission precludes review of the application.

(f) During the review of a complete application, DOE may request the submission of additional information only if the information is essential to evaluate the application.

(g) In addition to including the information described in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, an application for a renewal award must be submitted no later than 6 months before the expiration of the project period and must be on the same forms as required for initial applications. The renewal application must outline and justify a program and budget for the proposed project period, showing in detail the estimated cost of the proposed project, together with an indication of the amount of cost sharing, if any. The application shall also describe and explain the reasons for any change in the scope or objectives of the proposed project and shall compare and explain any difference between the estimates in the proposed budget and actual costs experienced as of the date of the application.

(h) DOE is not required to return an application to the applicant.

(i) Renewal applications must include a separate section that describes the results of work accomplished through the date of the renewal application and how such results relate to the activities proposed to be undertaken in the renewal period.
