
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter H - Assistance Regulations
#### PART 602 - EPIDEMIOLOGY AND OTHER HEALTH STUDIES FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
##### ยง 602.17 Continuation funding and reporting requirements.
###### Progress Reports.

(1)After issuance of an initial award, recipients must submit a satisfactory progress report to receive a continuation award for the remainder of the project period. The original and two copies of the required report must be submitted to the Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security program manager 90 days prior to the anticipated continuation funding date. The report should include results of work to date and emphasize findings and their significance to the field, and any real or anticipated problems. The report also should contain the following information: On the first page, provide the project title, principal investigator/project director name, period of time the report covers, name and address of recipient organization, DOE award number, the amount of unexpended funds, if any, that are anticipated to be left at the end of the current budget period. If the amount exceeds 10 percent of the funds available for the budget period, provide information as to why the excess funds are anticipated to be available and how they will be used in the next budget period. The report should state whether the aims have changed from the original application, and if they have, provide revised aims. A completed budget page must be submitted with the continuation progress report when a change to anticipated future costs will exceed 25 percent of the original recommended future budget.
