
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter H - Assistance Regulations
#### PART 602 - EPIDEMIOLOGY AND OTHER HEALTH STUDIES FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
##### ยง 602.19 Records and data.

(a) In some cases, DOE will require submission of certain project records or data to facilitate mission-related activities. Recipients, therefore, must take adequate steps to ensure proper management, control, and preservation of all project records and data.

(b) Awardees must ensure that all project data is adequately documented. Documentation shall:

(1) Reference software used to compile, manage, and analyze data;

(2) Define all technical characteristics necessary for reading or processing the records;

(3) Define file and record content and codes;

(4) Describe update cycles or conditions and rules for adding or deleting information; and

(5) Detail instrument calibration effects, sampling and analysis, space and time coverage, quality control measures, data algorithms and reduction methods, and other activities relevant to data collection and assembly.

(c) Recipients agree to comply with designated DOE records and data management requirements, including providing electronic data in prescribed formats and retention of specified records and data for eventual transfer to the Comprehensive Epidemiologic Data Resource or to another repository, as directed by DOE. Recipients will provide, as part of the final report, a description of records and data compiled during the project along with a plan for its preservation or disposition.

(d) Recipients agree to make project records and data available as soon as possible when requested by DOE.
