
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter H - Assistance Regulations
#### PART 603 - TECHNOLOGY INVESTMENT AGREEMENTS
##### Subpart F - Award Terms Affecting Participants' Financial, Property, and Purchasing Systems
###### Financial Matters
####### ยง 603.625 Cost principles or standards applicable to for-profit participants.

(a) So as not to require any firm to needlessly change its cost accounting system, an expenditure-based TIA is to apply the Government cost principles in 48 CFR part 31 to for-profit participants that currently perform under expenditure-based Federal procurement contracts or assistance awards (other than a TIA) and therefore have existing systems for identifying allowable costs under those principles. If there are programmatic or business reasons to do otherwise, the contracting officer may grant an exception from this requirement and use alternative standards as long as the alternative satisfies the conditions described in paragraph (b) of this section; if an exception is granted the reasons must be documented in the award file.

(b) For other for-profit participants, the contracting officer may establish alternative standards in the agreement as long as that alternative provides, as a minimum, that Federal funds and funds counted as recipients' cost sharing will be used only for costs that:

(1) A reasonable and prudent person would incur in carrying out the RD&D project contemplated by the agreement. Generally, elements of cost that appropriately are charged are those identified with RD&D activities under the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (see Statement of Financial Accounting Standards Number 2, "Accounting for Research and Development Costs," October 1974). Moreover, costs must be allocated to DOE and other projects in accordance with the relative benefits the projects receive. Costs charged to DOE projects must be given consistent treatment with costs allocated to the participants' other RD&D activities (e.g., activities supported by the participants themselves or by non-Federal sponsors).

(2) Are consistent with the purposes stated in the governing Congressional authorizations and appropriations. The contracting officer is responsible for ensuring that provisions in the award document address any requirements that result from authorizations and appropriations.
