
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter H - Assistance Regulations
#### PART 603 - TECHNOLOGY INVESTMENT AGREEMENTS
##### Subpart G - Award Terms Related to Other Administrative Matters
###### Intellectual Property
####### ยง 603.845 Data rights requirements.

(a) If the TIA is a cooperative agreement, the requirements at 10 CFR 600.325(d), Rights in data-general rule, apply. The "Rights in Data-General" provision in Appendix A to Subpart D of 10 CFR 600 normally applies. This provision provides the Government with unlimited rights in data first produced in the performance of the agreement, except as provided in paragraph (c) Copyright. However, in certain circumstances, the "Rights in Data-Programs Covered Under Special Protected Data Statutes" provision in Appendix A may apply.

(b) If the TIA is an assistance transaction other than a cooperative agreement, the requirements at 10 CFR 600.325(e), Rights in data-programs covered under special protected data statutes, normally apply. The "Rights in Data-Programs Covered Under Special Data Statutes" provision in Appendix A to Subpart D of 10 CFR 600 may be modified to accommodate particular circumstances (e.g., access to or expanded use rights in protected data among consortium or team members), or to list data or categories of data that the recipient must make available to the public. In unique cases, the contracting officer may negotiate special data rights requirements that vary from those in 10 CFR 600.325. Modifications to the standard data provisions must be approved by intellectual property counsel.
