
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter H - Assistance Regulations
#### PART 603 - TECHNOLOGY INVESTMENT AGREEMENTS
##### Subpart H - Executing the Award
###### Reporting Information About the Award
####### § 603.1020 File documents.

The award file should include an analysis which:

(a) Briefly describes the program and details the specific commercial benefits that should result from the project supported by the TIA. If the recipient is a consortium that is not formally incorporated, a copy of the signed articles of collaboration should be attached.

(b) Describes the process that led to the award of the TIA, including how DOE solicited and evaluated proposals and selected the one supported through the TIA.

(c) Explains the basis for the decision that a TIA was the most appropriate instrument, in accordance with the factors in Subpart B of this part. The explanation must include the answers to the relevant questions in § 603.225(a) through (d).

(d) Explains how the recipient's cost sharing contributions was valued in accordance with §§ 603.530 through 603.555. For a fixed-support TIA, the file must document the analysis required (see § 603.560) to set the fixed level of Federal support; the documentation must explain how the recipient's minimum cost share was determined and how the expenditures required to achieve the project outcomes were estimated.

(e) Documents the results of the negotiation, addressing all significant issues in the TIA's provisions.
