
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter H - Assistance Regulations
#### PART 603 - TECHNOLOGY INVESTMENT AGREEMENTS
##### Appendix A to Part 603 - Applicable Federal Statutes, Executive Orders, and Government-wide Regulations
###### et seq.

2. Prohibitions on discrimination on the basis of age, in the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6101,) as implemented by DOE regulations at 10 CFR part 1040. They apply to all financial assistance and require flow down to subrecipients.

3. Prohibitions on discrimination on the basis of handicap, in section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794) as implemented by DOE regulations at 10 CFR part 1041. They apply to all financial assistance and require flow down to subrecipients.

4. Preferences for use of U.S.-flag air carriers in the International Air Transportation Fair Competitive Practices Act of 1974 (49 U.S.C. 40118), which apply to uses of U.S. Government funds.

Additional assurance requirements may apply in certain circumstances, as follows:

1. If construction work is to be done under a TIA or its subawards, it is subject to the prohibitions in Executive Order 11246 on discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin.

2. If the RD&D involves human subjects or animals, it is subject to the requirements codified by the Department of Health and Human Services at 45 CFR part 46 and implemented by DOE at 10 CFR part 745 and rules on animal acquisition, transport, care, handling and use in 9 CFR parts 1 through 4, Department of Agriculture rules and rules of the Department of Interior at 50 CFR parts 10 through 24 and Commerce at 50 CFR parts 217 through 277, respectively. See item a. or b., respectively, under the heading "Live organisms" included on the DOE "National Policy Assurances To Be Incorporated As Award Terms" on the Applicant and Recipient Page.

3. If the RD&D involves actions that may affect the environment, it is subject to the National Environmental Policy Act, and may also be subject to national policy requirements for flood-prone areas, coastal zones, coastal barriers, wild and scenic rivers, and underground sources of drinking water.
