
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter H - Assistance Regulations
#### PART 605 - THE OFFICE OF SCIENCE FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
##### ยง 605.9 Application requirements.
###### et seq.

(2) Necessitate the preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321(1976)); or

(3) Are to be initiated at a particular site or location and require unusual measures to limit the possibility of adverse exposure or hazard to the general public, are subject to the provisions of Executive Order 12372 and 10 CFR part 1005.

(f) DOE may return an application which does not include all information and documentation required by statute, this part, 2 CFR part 200 as amended by 2 CFR part 910 or the notice of availability, when the nature of the omission precludes review of the application.

(g) During the review of the complete application, DOE may request the submission of additional information only if the information is essential to evaluate the application.

(h) In addition to including the information described in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, an application for a renewal award must be submitted no later than six months prior to the scheduled expiration of the project period and must be on the same forms and include the same type of information as that required for initial applications. The renewal application must outline and justify a program and budget for the proposed project period, showing in detail the estimated cost of the proposed project, together with an indication of the amount of funds needed and the amount of cost sharing, if any. The application also shall describe and explain the reasons for any change in the scope or objectives of the proposed project, and shall compare and explain any difference between the estimates in the proposed budget and actual costs experienced as of the date of the application.

(i) DOE is not required to return to the applicant an application which is not selected or funded.

(j) Renewal applications must include a separate section that describes the results of work accomplished through the date of the renewal application and how such results relate to the activities proposed to be undertaken in the renewal period.
