
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter H - Assistance Regulations
#### PART 605 - THE OFFICE OF SCIENCE FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
##### ยง 605.9 Application requirements.

(a) An original and seven copies of the application for initial support must be submitted except that State governments, local governments, or Indian tribal governments shall not be required to submit more than the original and two copies of the application.

(b) Each new or renewal application in response to this part must include:

(1) An application face page, DOE Form 4650.2 (approved by OMB under OMB Control No. 1910-1400). However, the facesheet of the application for State and local governments and Indian tribal government applicants shall be the facesheet of Standard Form (SF) 424 (approved by OMB under OMB Control Number 0348-0043).

(2) A detailed description of the proposed project, including the objectives of the project, in relationship to DOE's program and the applicant's plan for carrying it out;

(3) Detailed information about the background and experience of the principal investigator(s) (including references to publications), the facilities and experience of the applicant, and the cost-sharing arrangements, if any.

(4) A detailed budget for the entire proposed period of support with written justification sufficient to evaluate the itemized list of costs provided on the entire project.

(i) Numerical details on items of cost provided by State and local government and Indian tribal government applicants shall be on Standard Form 424A, Budget Information for Non-Construction Programs (approved under OMB Control No. 0348-0044). All other applicants shall use budget form ERF 4620.1 (approved by OMB under Control No. 1910-1400).

(ii) DOE may, subsequent to receipt of an application, request additional budgetary information from an applicant when necessary for clarification or to make informed preaward determinations under 2 CFR part 200 as amended by 2 CFR part 910.

(5) Any preaward assurances required pursuant to 2 CFR part 200 as amended by 2 CFR part 910.

(c) Applications for a renewal award must be submitted in an original and seven copies, except that State governments, local governments, or Indian tribes are required to submit only an original and two copies. (Approved by OMB under OMB Control Numbers 0348-0005-0348-0009)

(d) The application must be signed by an official who is authorized to act for the applicant organization and to commit the applicant to comply with the terms and conditions of the award, if one is issued, or if unaffiliated, by the individual applicant. (See ยง 605.19(a)(1) for requirements on continuation awards.)

(e) All applications which involve research, development, or demonstration activities when such activities:

(1) Have a unique geographic focus and are directly relevant to the governmental responsibilities of a State or local government within the geographic area;
