
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter H - Assistance Regulations
#### PART 605 - THE OFFICE OF SCIENCE FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
##### ยง 605.19 Continuation funding and reporting requirements.
###### Progress reports.

(1)After issuance of an initial award and if future support is recommended, recipients must submit a satisfactory progress report in order to receive continuation awards for the remainder of the project period. The original and two copies of the required report (generally not to exceed two pages per project or task) must be submitted to the SC program manager 90 days prior to the anticipated continuation funding date and contain the following information: on the first page, provide the project title, principal investigator/project director name, period of time report covers, name and address of recipient organization, DOE award number, the amount of unexpended funds, if any, that are anticipated to be left at the end of the current budget period, and if the amount exceeds 10 percent of the funds available for the budget period, provide information as to why the excess funds are anticipated to be available and how they will be used in the next budget period. Report should state whether aims have changed from original application and if they have, provided revised aims. Include results of work to date. Emphasize findings and their significance to the field, and any real or anticipated problems. A completed budget page must be submitted with the continuation progress report when a change to anticipated future costs will exceed 25 percent of the original recommended future budget.
