
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter H - Assistance Regulations
#### PART 609 - LOAN GUARANTEES FOR PROJECTS THAT EMPLOY INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGIES
##### ยง 609.2 Definitions and interpretation.
###### Interpretations.

(b)This part shall be interpreted using the following guidelines.

(1) The word "discretion" when used with reference to DOE, including the Secretary, means "sole discretion."

(2) Defined terms in the singular shall include the plural and vice versa, and the masculine, feminine, or neuter gender shall include all genders.

(3) The word "or" is not exclusive.

(4) References to laws by name or popular name are references to the version of such law appearing in the United States Code and include any amendment, supplement, or modification of such law, and all regulations, rulings, and other laws promulgated thereunder.

(5) References to information or documents required or allowed to be submitted to DOE mean information or documents that are marked as provided in 10 CFR 600.15(b). A document or information that is not marked as provided in 10 CFR 600.15(b) will not be considered as having been submitted to or received by DOE.

(6) A reference to a Person includes such Person's successors and permitted assigns.

(7) The words "include," "includes," and "including" are not limiting and mean include, includes and including "without limitation" and "without limitation by specification."

(8) The words "hereof," "herein," and "hereunder" and words of similar import refer this part as a whole and not to any particular provision of this part.
