
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter H - Assistance Regulations
#### PART 609 - LOAN GUARANTEES FOR PROJECTS THAT EMPLOY INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGIES
##### ยง 609.6 Term sheets and conditional commitments.

(a) DOE, after negotiation of a Term Sheet with an Applicant, may offer such Term Sheet to an Applicant or such other Person that is an affiliate of the Applicant and that is acceptable to DOE. DOE's offer of a Term Sheet shall be in writing and signed by the Contracting Officer. DOE's negotiation of a Term Sheet imposes no obligation on the Secretary to offer a Term Sheet to the Applicant.

(b) DOE shall terminate its negotiations of a Term Sheet if it has not offered a Term Sheet in respect of an Eligible Project within four years after the date of the written notification set forth in ยง 609.5(c), unless extended in writing in the discretion of the Contracting Officer.

(c) If and when the offeree specified in a Term Sheet satisfies all terms and conditions for acceptance of the Term Sheet, including written acceptance thereof and payment of all fees specified in ยง 609.11(f) and therein to be paid at or prior to acceptance of the Term Sheet, the Term Sheet shall become a Conditional Commitment. Each Conditional Commitment shall include an expiration date no more than two years from the date it is issued, unless extended in writing in the discretion of the Contracting Officer. When and if all of the terms and conditions specified in the Conditional Commitment have been met, DOE and the Applicant may enter into a Loan Guarantee Agreement.

(d) If, subsequent to execution of a Conditional Commitment, the financing arrangements of the Borrower, or in respect of an Eligible Project, change from those described in the Conditional Commitment, the Applicant shall promptly provide updated financing information in writing to DOE. All such updated information shall be deemed to be information submitted in connection with an Application and shall be subject to ยง 609.4(b). Based on such updated information, DOE may take one or more of the following actions:

(1) Determine that such changes are not material to the Borrower, the Eligible Project or DOE;

(2) Amend the Conditional Commitment accordingly;

(3) Postpone the expected closing date of the associated Loan Guarantee Agreement; or

(4) Terminate the Conditional Commitment.
