
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter H - Assistance Regulations
#### PART 609 - LOAN GUARANTEES FOR PROJECTS THAT EMPLOY INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGIES
##### ยง 609.11 Fees and charges.

(a) Unless explicitly authorized by statute, no funds obtained from the Federal Government, or from a loan or other instrument guaranteed by the Federal Government, may be used to pay for the Credit Subsidy Cost, the Application Fee, the Facility Fee, the Guarantee Fee, the maintenance fee, and any other fees charged by or paid to DOE relating to the Act or any Guarantee thereunder. An applicant may, at any time, use non-Federal monies to pay the Credit Subsidy Cost or DOE fees.

(b) DOE may charge Applicants a non-refundable Facility Fee, with a portion being payable on or prior to the date on which the Applicant executes the Commitment Letter and the remainder being payable on or prior to the closing date for the Loan Guarantee Agreement.

(c) In order to encourage and supplement private lending activity DOE may collect from Borrowers for deposit in the United States Treasury a non-refundable Risk-Based Charge which, together with the interest rate on the Guaranteed Obligation that LPO determines to be appropriate, will take into account the prevailing rate of interest in the private sector for similar loans and risks. The Risk-Based Charge shall be paid at such times and in such manner as may be determined by DOE, but no less frequently than once each year, commencing with payment of a pro-rated payment on the date the Guarantee is issued. The amount of the Risk-Based Charge will be specified in the Loan Guarantee Agreement.

(d) DOE may collect a maintenance fee to cover DOE's administrative expenses, other than extraordinary expenses, incurred in servicing and monitoring a Loan Guarantee Agreement. The maintenance fee shall accrue from the date of execution of the Loan Guarantee Agreement through the date of payment in full of the related Guaranteed Obligations. If DOE determines to collect a maintenance fee, it shall be paid by the Borrower each year (or portion thereof) in advance in the amount specified in the applicable Loan Guarantee Agreement.
