
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter H - Assistance Regulations
#### PART 611 - ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY VEHICLES MANUFACTURER ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Direct Loan Program
###### ยง 611.106 Environmental requirements.
####### In general.

(a)(1)Environmental review of the proposed projects under this part will be conducted in accordance with applicable statutes, regulations, and Executive Orders.

(2) The applicant must submit a comprehensive environmental report. The comprehensive environmental report shall consist of the specific reports and related material set forth in paragraphs (d) through (f) of this section.

(3) The regulations of the Council on Environmental Quality implementing NEPA require DOE to provide public notice of the availability of project specific environmental documents such as environmental impact statements, environmental assessments, findings of no significant impact, records of decision etc., to the affected public. See 40 CFR 1506.6(b). The comprehensive environmental report will provide substantial basis for any required environmental impact statement or environmental assessment and findings of no significant impact, pursuant to the procedures set forth in 10 CFR 1021.215. DOE may also make a determination as to whether a categorical exclusion is available with regard to an Application.

(b) The detail of each specific report must be commensurate with the complexity of the proposal and its potential for environmental impact. Each topic in each specific report shall be addressed or its omission justified, unless the specific report description indicates that the data is not required for that type of project. If material required for one specific report is provided in another specific report or in another exhibit, it may be incorporated by reference. If any specific report topic is required for a particular project but is not provided at the time the application is filed, the comprehensive environmental report shall explain why it is missing and when the applicant anticipates it will be filed.

(c) As appropriate, each specific report shall:

(1) Address conditions or resources that might be directly or indirectly affected by the project;

(2) Identify significant environmental effects expected to occur as a result of the project;

(3) Identify the effects of construction, operation (including maintenance and malfunctions), and termination of the project, as well as cumulative effects resulting from existing or reasonably foreseeable projects;

(4) Identify measures proposed to enhance the environment or to avoid, mitigate, or compensate for adverse effects of the project; and

(5) Provide a list of publications, reports, and other literature or communications that were cited or relied upon to prepare each report.

(d) Specific Report 1-Project impact and description. This report must describe the environmental impacts of the project, facilities associated with the project, special construction and operation procedures, construction timetables, future plans for related construction, compliance with regulations and codes, and permits that must be obtained.

(e) Specific Report 2-Socioeconomics. This report must identify and quantify the impacts of constructing and operating the proposed project on factors affecting towns and counties in the vicinity of the project. The report must:

(1) Describe the socioeconomic impact area;

(2) Evaluate the impact of any substantial immigration of people on governmental facilities and services and plans to reduce the impact on the local infrastructure;

(3) Describe on-site manpower requirements and payroll during construction and operation, including the number of construction personnel who currently reside within the impact area, would commute daily to the site from outside the impact area, or would relocate temporarily within the impact area;

(4) Determine whether existing housing within the impact area is sufficient to meet the needs of the additional population;

(5) Describe the number and types of residences and businesses that would be displaced by the project, procedures to be used to acquire these properties, and types and amounts of relocation assistance payments; and

(6) Conduct a fiscal impact analysis evaluating incremental local government expenditures in relation to incremental local government revenues that would result from construction of the project. Incremental expenditures include, but are not limited to, school operating costs, road maintenance and repair, public safety, and public utility costs.

(f) Specific Report 3-Alternatives. This report must describe alternatives to the project and compare the environmental impacts of such alternatives to those of the proposal. The discussion must demonstrate how environmental benefits and costs were weighed against economic benefits and costs, and technological and procedural constraints. The potential for each alternative to meet project deadlines and the environmental consequences of each alternative shall be discussed. The report must discuss the "no action" alternative and the potential for accomplishing the proposed objectives through the use of other means. The report must provide an analysis of the relative environmental benefits and costs for each alternative.
