
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter H - Assistance Regulations
#### PART 611 - ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY VEHICLES MANUFACTURER ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
##### Subpart B - Direct Loan Program
###### ยง 611.107 Loan terms.

(a) All loans provided under this part shall be due and payable in full at the earlier of:

(1) the projected life, in years, of the Eligible facility that is built or installed as a result of the Eligible Project carried out using funds from the loan, as determined by the Secretary; or

(2) Twenty-five (25) years after the date the loan is closed.

(b) Loans provided under the Part must bear a rate of interest that is equal to the rate determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, taking into consideration current market yields outstanding marketable obligations of the United States of comparable maturity. This rate will be determined separately for each drawdown of the loan.

(c) A loan provided under this part may be subject to a deferral in repayment of principal for not more than 5 years after the date on which the Eligible facility that is built or installed as a result of the Eligible Project first begins operations, as determined by the Secretary.

(d)(1) The performance of all of the Borrower's obligations under the Loan Documents shall be secured by, and shall have the priority in, such Security as provided for within the terms and conditions of the Loan Documents.

(2) Accordingly, the rule states that the Secretary must have a first lien or security interest in all property acquired with loan funds. This requirement may be waived only by the Secretary on a non-delegable basis. DOE must also have a lien on any other property of the applicant pledged to secure the loan.

(3) In the event of default, if recoveries from the property and revenues pledged to the repayment of the loan are insufficient to fully repay all principal and interest on the loan, then the Federal Government will have recourse to the assets and revenues of the Borrower to the same extent as senior unsecured general obligations of the Borrower.

(e) The Borrower will be required to pay at the time of the closing of the loan a fee equal to 10 basis points of the principal amount of the loan.
