
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 707 - WORKPLACE SUBSTANCE ABUSE PROGRAMS AT DOE SITES
#### Subpart B - Procedures
##### ยง 707.14 Action pursuant to a determination of illegal drug use.

(a) When an applicant for employment has been tested and determined to have used an illegal drug, processing for employment will be terminated and the applicant will be so notified.

(b)(1) When an employee who is in a testing designated position has been tested and determined to have used an illegal drug, the contractor shall immediately remove that employee from the testing designated position; if such employee also holds, or is an applicant for, an access authorization, then the contractor shall immediately notify DOE security officials for appropriate adjudication. If this is the first determination of use of illegal drugs by that employee (for example, the employee has not previously signed a DOE drug certification, and has not previously tested positive for use of illegal drugs), the employee may be offered a reasonable opportunity for rehabilitation, consistent with the contractor's policies. If rehabilitation is offered, the employee will be placed in a non-testing designated position, which does not require a security clearance, provided there is such an acceptable position in which the individual can be placed during rehabilitation; if there is no acceptable non-testing designated position, the employee will be placed on sick, annual, or other leave status, for a reasonable period sufficient to permit rehabilitation. However, the employee will not be protected from disciplinary action which may result from violations of work rules other than a positive test result for illegal drugs.

(2) Following a determination by the site occupational medical department, after counseling or rehabilitation, that the employee can safely return to duty, the contractor may offer the employee reinstatement, in the same or a comparable position to the one held prior to the removal, consistent with the contractor's policies and the requirements of 10 CFR part 710. Failure to take the opportunity for rehabilitation, if it has been made available, for the use of illegal drugs, will require significant disciplinary action up to and including removal from employment under the DOE contract, in accordance with the contractor's policies. Any employee who is twice determined to have used illegal drugs shall in all cases be removed from employment under the DOE contract. Also, if an employee who has signed a DOE drug certification violates the terms of the certification, DOE shall conduct a timely review of the circumstances of such violation, and the individual's continued eligibility for a DOE access authorization shall be determined under the provisions of 10 CFR part 710, "Criteria and Procedures for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Matter or Significant Quantities of Special Nuclear Material."

(c) An employee who has been removed from a testing designated position because of the use of illegal drugs may not be returned to such position until that employee has:

(1) Successfully completed counseling or a program of rehabilitation;

(2) Undergone a urine drug test with a negative result; and

(3) Been evaluated by the site occupational medical department, which has determined that the individual is capable of safely returning to duty.

(d) An individual who is not an employee of a contractor who has been denied unescorted access because of the use of illegal drugs may not have the unescorted access reinstated until that individual has:

(1) Provided evidence of successful completion of counseling or a program of rehabilitation;

(2) Undergone a urine drug test with a negative result; and

(3) Been evaluated by the site occupational medical department, which has determined that the individual is capable of being permitted unescorted access to a reactor control area.

(e) If a DOE access authorization is involved, DOE must be notified of a contractor's intent to return to a testing designated position an employee removed from such duty for use of illegal drugs. Positions identified in ยง 707.7(b)(1) of this part will require DOE approval prior to return to a testing designated position.

(f) An individual who has been notified of a positive test result may request a retest of the same sample at the same or another certified laboratory. The individual shall bear the costs of transportation and/or testing of the specimen. The contractor will inform employees of their right to request a retest under the provisions of this paragraph.

(g) After an employee determined to have used illegal drugs has been returned to duty, the employee shall be subject to unannounced drug testing, at intervals, for a period of 12 months.
