
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 707 - WORKPLACE SUBSTANCE ABUSE PROGRAMS AT DOE SITES
#### Subpart B - Procedures
##### ยง 707.7 Random drug testing requirements and identification of testing designated positions.

(a)(1) Each workplace substance abuse program will provide for random testing for evidence of the use of illegal drugs of employees in testing designated positions identified in this section.

(2) Programs developed under this part for positions identified in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section shall provide for random tests at a rate equal to 30 percent of the total number of employees in testing designated positions for each 12-month period. Employees in the positions identified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and individuals identified in paragraph (c) of this section will be subject to random testing at a rate equal to 100 percent of the total number of employees or individuals, as applicable, identified, and those identified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (c) may be subject to additional drug tests.

(b) The testing designated positions subject to random drug testing are:

(1) Positions determined to be covered by the Human Reliability Program (HRP), codified at 10 CFR part 712. HRP employees will be subject to the drug testing standards of this part and any additional requirements of the HRP rule.

(2) Positions identified by the contractor which entail duties where failure of an employee adequately to discharge his or her position could significantly harm the environment, public health or safety, or national security, such as:

(i) Pilots;

(ii) Firefighters;

(iii) Protective force personnel, exclusive of those covered in paragraph (b)(1) and (c) of this section, in positions involving use of firearms where the duties also require potential contact with, or proximity to, the public at large;

(iv) Personnel directly engaged in construction, maintenance, or operation of nuclear reactors;

(v) Personnel directly engaged in production, use, storage, transportation, or disposal of hazardous materials sufficient to cause significant harm to the environment or public health and safety; or

(vi) All other personnel in positions that require an access authorization (security clearance), other than those identified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (c) of this section.

(3) Other positions determined by the DOE, after consultation with the contractor, to have the potential to significantly affect the environment, public health and safety, or national security.

(c) Each contractor shall require random testing of any individual, whether or not an employee, who is allowed unescorted access to the control areas of the following DOE reactors: Advanced Test Reactor (ATR) and High Flux Isotope Reactor (HFIR). A confirmed positive test shall result in such an individual being denied unescorted access. If such an individual is not an employee of the contractor, that individual may be granted unescorted access only after the individual meets the conditions established in ยง 707.14(d) of this part. If, after restoration of unescorted access, such an individual is determined to have used illegal drugs for a second time, unescorted access shall be denied for a period of not less than three (3) years. Such an individual thereafter shall be granted unescorted access only upon a determination by the Head of DOE Field Element that a grant of unescorted access to the individual presents no unacceptable safety or security risk. If such an individual is an employee, that individual is subject to the other requirements of this part, including appropriate disciplinary measures.

(d) A position otherwise subject to testing under this part may be exempted from such testing if it is within the scope of another comparable Federal drug testing program, as determined by DOE, after consultation with the contractor, to avoid unnecessary multiple tests.
