
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 709 - COUNTERINTELLIGENCE EVALUATION PROGRAM
#### Subpart B - CI Evaluation Protocols and Protection of National Security
##### ยง 709.17 Final disposition of CI evaluation findings and recommendations.

(a) Following completion of a CI evaluation, the Director of the Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence must recommend, in writing, to the appropriate Program Manager that the covered person's access be approved or retained, or denied or revoked.

(b) If the Program Manager agrees with the recommendation, the Program Manager notifies the covered person that the covered person's access has been approved or retained, or denied or revoked.

(c) If the Program Manager disagrees with the recommendation of the Director, Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence, the matter is referred to the Secretary for a final decision.

(d) If the Program Manager denies or revokes a DOE employee's access, DOE may reassign the employee or realign the employee's duties within the local commuting area or take other actions consistent with the denial of access.

(e) If the Program Manager revokes the access of a covered person assigned or detailed to DOE, DOE may remove the assignee or detailee from access to the information that justified the CI evaluation and return the assignee or detailee to the agency of origin.

(f) Covered persons whose access is denied or revoked may request reconsideration by the head of the relevant DOE element.

(g) For cases involving a question of loyalty to the United States, the Director of the Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence may refer the matter to the FBI as required by section 145d of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954. For cases indicating that classified information is being, or may have been, disclosed in an unauthorized manner to a foreign power or an agent of a foreign power, DOE is required by 50 U.S.C. 402a(e) to refer the matter to the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
