
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 709 - COUNTERINTELLIGENCE EVALUATION PROGRAM
#### Subpart D - Polygraph Examination and Examiner Standards
##### ยง 709.31 DOE standards for polygraph examiners and polygraph examinations.

(a) DOE adheres to the procedures and standards established by the Department of Defense Polygraph Institute (DODPI). DOE administers only DODPI approved testing formats.

(b) A polygraph examiner may administer no more than five polygraph examinations in any twenty-four hour period. This does not include those instances in which a covered person voluntarily terminates an examination prior to the actual testing phase.

(c) The polygraph examiner must be certified to conduct polygraph examinations under this part by the DOE Psychophysiological Detection of Deception/Polygraph Program Quality Control Official.

(d) To be certified under paragraph (c) of this section, an examiner must have the following minimum qualifications:

(1) The examiner must be an experienced CI or criminal investigator with extensive additional training in using computerized instrumentation in Psychophysiological Detection of Deception and in psychology, physiology, interviewing, and interrogation.

(2) The examiner must have a favorably adjudicated single-scope background investigation, complete a CI-scope polygraph examination, and must hold a "Q" access authorization, which is necessary for access to Secret Restricted Data and Top Secret National Security Information. In addition, he or she must have been granted SCI access approval.

(3) The examiner must receive basic Forensic Psychophysiological Detection of Deception training from the DODPI.
