
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 712 - HUMAN RELIABILITY PROGRAM
#### Subpart A - Establishment of and Procedures for the Human Reliability Program
##### Procedures
###### ยง 712.20 Request for reconsideration or certification review hearing.

(a) An individual who receives notification of the Manager's decision to revoke his or her HRP certification under ยง 712.19 may choose one of the following options:

(1) Submit a written request to the Manager for reconsideration of the decision to revoke certification. The request must include the individual's response to the information that gave rise to the concern. The request must be sent by certified mail to the Manager within 20 working days after the individual received notice of the Manager's decision; or

(2) Submit a written request to the Manager for a certification review hearing. The request for a hearing must be sent by certified mail to the Manager within 20 working days after the individual receives notice of the Manager's decision.

(b) If an individual requests reconsideration by the Manager but not a certification review hearing, the Manager must, within 20 working days after receipt of the individual's request, send by certified mail (return receipt requested) a final agency decision to the individual.

(c) If an individual requests a certification review hearing, the Manager must forward the request to the Office of Hearings and Appeals.

(d) If an individual takes no action within 20 working days after receipt of the Manager's decision, the Manager's decision will become a final agency decision.
