
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 712 - HUMAN RELIABILITY PROGRAM
#### Subpart A - Establishment of and Procedures for the Human Reliability Program
##### Procedures
###### § 712.19 Actions related to removal, revocation and/or reinstatement.
####### Temporary removal.

(a)The HRP management official shall direct the temporary removal of an HRP-certified individual when the management official:

(1) Identifies, during the course of the management evaluation, a safety or security concern that warrants such removal based on one or more of the types of behaviors and conditions identified in § 712.13(c);

(2) Receives a supervisor's written notice of the immediate removal of an HRP-certified individual; or

(3) Receives a recommendation from the Designated Physician, the Designated Psychologist, or the SOMD to medically remove an HRP-certified individual consistent with § 712.14(h).

(b) The temporary removal of an HRP-certified individual from HRP duties pending a determination of the individual's reliability is an interim, precautionary action and does not constitute a determination that the individual is not fit to perform his or her required duties. Removal is not, in itself, cause for loss of pay, benefits, or other changes in employment status. Immediately upon directing a temporary removal, the HRP management official must notify the supervisor to take appropriate actions consistent with an immediate removal. Within five (5) business days of placing the individual on a temporary removal, the HRP management official must notify the individual in writing that s/he is temporarily removed.

(c) If temporary removal is based on derogatory information that is a security concern, the HRP management official must notify the HRP certifying official and the applicable DOE personnel security office.

(d) If temporary removal is based on a medical concern, the HRP management official must obtain a recommendation from the Designated Physician, Designated Psychologist, or the SOMD consistent with § 712.14(h).

(e) If the HRP management official determines, after conducting an evaluation of the circumstances or information that led to the temporary removal, that an individual who has been temporarily removed continues to meet the requirements for certification, the HRP management official must:

(1) Direct that the supervisor reinstate the individual and provide written explanation of the reasons and factual bases for the action;

(2) Notify the individual; and

(3) Notify the HRP certifying official.

(f) If the HRP management official determines that an individual who has been temporarily removed does not meet the HRP requirements for certification, the HRP management official must prepare a case chronology that explains why the individual does not meet the requirement for certification and forward it to the HRP certifying official. The HRP management official's determination that an individual does not meet certification requirement must be based on one or more of the types of behaviors and conditions identified in § 712.13(c). The HRP certifying official must review the case chronology from the HRP management official and take one of the following actions:

(1) Direct that the supervisor reinstate the individual, with any applicable medical restrictions, provide written explanation of the reasons and factual bases for the action, and notify the individual;

(2) Direct continuation of the temporary removal pending completion of specified actions (e.g., medical assessment, treatment) to resolve the concerns about the individual's reliability; or

(3) Recommend to the Manager the revocation of the individual's certification and provide the case chronology to the Manager. If the HRP certifying official is the Manager, he or she should take actions consistent with paragraph (g)(2) of this section.

(g) The Manager, on receiving the HRP management official's case chronology and the HRP certifying official's recommendation (if any), must take one of the following actions:

(1) Direct that the supervisor reinstate the individual, provide written explanation of the reasons and factual bases for the action, and notify the individual;

(2) Direct revocation of the individual's HRP certification, in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section; or

(3) Direct continuation of the temporary removal pending completion of specified actions (e.g., medical assessment, treatment) to resolve the concerns about the individual's reliability.

(h) Notification of Manager's initial decision: If the action is revocation, the Manager must direct the HRP management official to prepare an evaluative report. The appropriate DOE or NNSA counsel must review the evaluative report for legal sufficiency. Upon completion of the evaluative report, the Manager must send a letter by certified mail (return receipt requested) or hand deliver it with record of delivery to the individual whose certification is revoked notifying him or her of the reasons for the revocation and the options for review. The evaluative report must be appended to the letter. The Manager may withhold such a report, or portions thereof, to the extent that he or she determines that the report, or portions thereof, may be exempt from access by the employee under the Privacy Act or the Freedom of Information Act.

(i) If an individual is directed by the Manager or HRP certifying official to take specified actions to resolve HRP concerns pursuant to paragraph (f)(2) or (g)(3) of this section he or she must be reevaluated after those actions have been completed, and the Manager must direct either:

(1) Reinstatement of the individual; or

(2) Revocation of the individual's HRP certification. In the case of revocation, the HRP management official will be directed to prepare an evaluative report.
