
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 712 - HUMAN RELIABILITY PROGRAM
#### Subpart B - Medical Standards
##### ยง 712.34 Site Occupational Medical Director.

(a) The SOMD must nominate a physician to serve as the Designated Physician and a clinical psychologist to serve as the Designated Psychologist. The nominations must be sent through the Manager to the Associate Under Secretary for Environment, Health, Safety and Security or his or her designee. Each nomination must describe the nominee's relevant training, experience, and licensure, and include a curriculum vitae and a copy of the nominee's current state or district license.

(b) The SOMD must submit a renomination report biennially through the Manager to the Associate Under Secretary for Environment, Health, Safety and Security or his or her designee. This report must be submitted at least 60 days before the second anniversary of the initial designation or of the last redesignation, whichever applies. The report must include:

(1) A statement evaluating the performance of the Designated Physician and Designated Psychologist during the previous designation period; and

(2) A copy of the valid, unrestricted state or district license of the Designated Physician and Designated Psychologist.

(c) The SOMD must submit, annually, to the Associate Under Secretary for Environment, Health, Safety and Security or his or her designee through the Manager, a written report summarizing HRP medical activity during the previous year. The SOMD must comply with any DOE directives specifying the form or contents of the annual report.

(d) The SOMD must investigate any reports of performance issues regarding a Designated Physician or Designated Psychologist, and the SOMD may suspend either official from HRP-related duties. If the SOMD suspends either official, the SOMD must notify the Associate Under Secretary for Environment, Health, Safety and Security or his or her designee and provide supporting documentation and reasons for the action.
