
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 719 - CONTRACTOR LEGAL MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS
#### Subpart B - Legal Management Plan, Staffing and Resource Plan and Annual Legal Budget
##### ยง 719.12 What information must be included in the Legal Management Plan?

The Legal Management Plan must include the following items:

(a) A description of the contractor's in-house counsel resources at the time the Legal Management Plan is submitted, including areas of expertise and an explanation of the types of matters expected to be handled in-house.

(b) A description of the legal matters that may necessitate engagement of retained legal counsel.

(c) A description of the factors the contractor will consider in determining whether to handle a particular matter utilizing retained legal counsel.

(d) An outline of the factors the contractor must consider in selecting retained legal counsel, including:

(1) Cost;

(2) Past performance of previously retained counsel;

(3) Particular expertise in a specific area of the law;

(4) Familiarity with the Department's activity at the particular site and the prevalent issues associated with facility history and current operations;

(5) Location of retained legal counsel relative to:

(i) The site involved in the matter,

(ii) Any forum in which the matter will be processed, and

(iii) The location where a significant portion of the work will be performed;

(6) Experience as an advocate in alternative dispute resolution procedures such as mediation;

(7) Actual or potential conflicts of interest; and

(8) The means and rate of compensation (e.g., hourly billing, fixed fee, blended fees).

(e) A description of the system that the contractor will use to review each matter in litigation to determine whether and when alternative dispute resolution is appropriate.

(f) A description of the role of in-house counsel in cost management.

(g) A description of the contractor's process for review and approval of invoices for legal costs.

(h) A description of the contractor's strategy for interaction with, and supervision of, retained legal counsel.

(i) A description of the procedures the contractor will employ in order to seek timely approval from Department Counsel to settle any legal matters as required by ยง 719.34 of this part;

(j) A description of the contractor's strategy for keeping Department Counsel apprised of all legal matters covered by this part (e.g., regularly scheduled meetings and written communications).
