
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 20 - STANDARDS FOR PROTECTION AGAINST RADIATION
#### Subpart L - Records
##### § 20.2103 Records of surveys.

(a) Each licensee shall maintain records showing the results of surveys and calibrations required by §§ 20.1501 and 20.1906(b). The licensee shall retain these records for 3 years after the record is made.

(b) The licensee shall retain each of the following records until the Commission terminates each pertinent license requiring the record:

(1) Records of the results of surveys to determine the dose from external sources and used, in the absence of or in combination with individual monitoring data, in the assessment of individual dose equivalents. This includes those records of results of surveys to determine the dose from external sources and used, in the absence of or in combination with individual monitoring data, in the assessment of individual dose equivalents required under the standards for protection against radiation in effect prior to January 1, 1994; and

(2) Records of the results of measurements and calculations used to determine individual intakes of radioactive material and used in the assessment of internal dose. This includes those records of the results of measurements and calculations used to determine individual intakes of radioactive material and used in the assessment of internal dose required under the standards for protection against radiation in effect prior to January 1, 1994; and

(3) Records showing the results of air sampling, surveys, and bioassays required pursuant to § 20.1703(c)(1) and (2). This includes those records showing the results of air sampling, surveys, and bioassays required under the standards for protection against radiation in effect prior to January 1, 1994; and

(4) Records of the results of measurements and calculations used to evaluate the release of radioactive effluents to the environment. This includes those records of the results of measurements and calculations used to evaluate the release of radioactive effluents to the environment required under the standards for protection against radiation in effect prior to January 1, 1994.
