
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 719 - CONTRACTOR LEGAL MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS
#### Subpart C - Engagement Letter
##### ยง 719.21 What are the required elements of an engagement letter?

(a) The engagement letter must require retained legal counsel to assist the contractor in complying with this part and any supplemental guidance distributed under this part.

(b) At a minimum, the engagement letter must include the following:

(1) A process for review and documented approval of all billing by a contractor representative including the timing and scope of billing reviews.

(2) A statement that provision of records to the Government is not intended to constitute a waiver of any applicable legal privilege, protection, or immunity with respect to disclosure of these records to third parties. An exemption for specific records may be obtained where contractors can demonstrate that a particular situation may provide grounds for a waiver.

(3) A requirement that the contractor, the Department, and the Government Accountability Office have the right, upon request, and at reasonable times and locations to inspect, copy, and audit all records documenting billable fees and costs.

(4) A statement that all records must be retained for a period of six (6) years and three (3) months after the final payment or after final case disposition, whichever is later.

(5) Identification of all attorneys and staff who are assigned to the matter and the rate and basis of their compensation (i.e., hourly rates, fixed fees, contingency arrangement) and a process for obtaining approval of temporary adjustments in staffing levels or identified attorneys.

(6) An initial assessment of the matter by retained legal counsel, along with a commitment to provide updates as necessary.

(7) A description of billing procedures, including frequency of billing and billing statement format.

(8) A statement setting forth an agreement that the retained legal counsel will prepare a Staffing and Resource Plan in accordance with the requirements of ยง 719.15.

(9) A statement setting forth an agreement to consider alternative dispute resolution at the earliest possible stage and thereafter as appropriate where litigation is involved.

(10) A statement setting forth an agreement that retained legal counsel must comply with the cost guidelines in subpart E of this part.

(11) A statement setting forth an agreement that retained legal counsel will provide a certification concerning the costs submitted for reimbursement. The certification that must be included in bills or invoices submitted by retained legal counsel must appear as follows: "Under penalty of law, [the representative] acknowledges the expectation that the bill will be paid by the contractor and that the contractor will be reimbursed by the Federal Government through the U.S. Department of Energy, and, based on personal knowledge and a good faith belief, certifies that the bill is truthful and accurate, and that the services and charges set forth herein comply with the terms of engagement and the policies set forth in the Department of Energy's regulation and guidance on contractor legal management requirements, and that the costs and charges set forth herein are appropriate and related to the representation of the client." The certification must be signed and dated by a representative of the retained legal counsel. Invoices must contain all elements (e.g., date of service, description of service, name of attorney, etc.) set forth in the model bill format in Appendix A to this part.

(12) A statement setting forth agreement to identify and address promptly any professional conflicts of interest.

(c) There may be additional requirements for an engagement letter based on the needs of the contractor or the Departmental element requiring the services of the Department retained legal counsel.
