
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 760 - DOMESTIC URANIUM PROGRAM
#### ยง 760.1 Uranium leases on lands controlled by DOE. (Domestic Uranium Program Circular No. 760.1, formerly (AEC) Domestic Uranium Program Circular 8, 10 CFR 60.8).
##### Solicitation of bids.

(e)Announcements of the availability of invitations to bid for a lease will be publicly posted and published. Copies of such announcements will also be mailed to parties who submit to DOE's Grand Junction, Colorado, Office subsequent to publication in theof this (DOE) Domestic Uranium Program Circular 760.1, written requests that their names be placed on a mailing list for receipt of such announcements. The invitations containing information for preparation and submission of bids will be available at the Grand Junction Office, and will be mailed only on specific written request, following announcement of their availability. Invitations will specify the land to be leased, the basis on which bids are to be submitted, the amount of the monetary deposit which must be transmitted with the bid, the place and time the bids will be publicly opened, the term, royalty and other payments, performance requirements, and other payments, performance requirements, and other conditions which will become a part of the lease. In addition, data which have been assembled pertaining to the lands to be leased will be available for public inspection at the Grand Junction Office; copies will also be available for purchase.
