
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 765 - REIMBURSEMENT FOR COSTS OF REMEDIAL ACTION AT ACTIVE URANIUM AND THORIUM PROCESSING SITES
#### Subpart A - General
##### § 765.2 Scope and applicability.

(a) This part establishes policies, criteria, and procedures governing reimbursement of certain costs of remedial action incurred by licensees at active uranium or thorium processing sites as a result of byproduct material generated as an incident of sales to the United States.

(b) Costs of remedial action at active uranium or thorium processing sites are borne by persons licensed under section 62 or 81 of the Atomic Energy Act (42 U.S.C. 2092, 2111), either by NRC or an Agreement State pursuant to a counterpart to section 62 or 81 of the Atomic Energy Act, under State law, subject to the exceptions and limitations specified in this part.

(c) The Department shall, subject to the provisions specified in this part, reimburse a licensee, of an active uranium or thorium processing site for the portion of the costs of remedial action as are determined by the Department to be attributable to byproduct material generated as an incident of sales to the United States and either incurred by the licensee not later than December 31, 2007, or incurred by the licensee in accordance with a plan for subsequent remedial action approved by the Department.

(d) Costs of remedial action are reimbursable under Title X for decontamination, decommissioning, reclamation, and other remedial action, provided that claims for reimbursement are supported by reasonable documentation as specified in subpart C of this part.

(e) Except as authorized by § 765.32, the total amount of reimbursement paid to any licensee of an active uranium processing site shall not exceed $6.25 multiplied by the number of Federal-related dry short tons of byproduct material. This total amount shall be adjusted for inflation pursuant to section 765.12.

(f) The total amount of reimbursement paid to all active uranium processing site licensees shall not exceed $350 million. This total amount shall be adjusted for inflation by applying the CPI-U, as provided by § 765.12.

(g) The total amount of reimbursement paid to the licensee of the active thorium processing site shall not exceed $365 million, as adjusted for inflation by applying the CPI-U as provided by § 765.12.

(h) Reimbursement of licensees for costs of remedial action will only be made for costs that are supported by reasonable documentation as required by § 765.20 and claimed for reimbursement by a licensee in accordance with the procedures established by subpart C of this part.

(i) The $715 million aggregate amount authorized to be appropriated under section 1003(a) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 2296a-2(a)) shall be adjusted for inflation by applying the CPI-U as provided by § 765.12, and shall be provided from the Fund.
