
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 765 - REIMBURSEMENT FOR COSTS OF REMEDIAL ACTION AT ACTIVE URANIUM AND THORIUM PROCESSING SITES
#### Subpart C - Procedures for Submitting and Processing Reimbursement Claims
##### § 765.21 Procedures for processing reimbursement claims.

(a) The Department will conduct a preliminary review of each claim within 60 days after the claim submission deadline announced in theNotice specified in § 765.20(g) to determine the completeness of each claim. Payments from the Fund to active uranium or thorium processing site licensees for approved costs of remedial action will be made simultaneously by the Department within 1 year of the claim submission deadline.

(b) After completing the preliminary review specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the Department may audit, or require the licensee to audit, any documentation used in support of such claim, request the licensee to provide additional information, or request the licensee to provide other clarification determined by the Department to be necessary to complete its evaluation of the claim. In addition, the Department reserves the right to conduct an inspection of the site to verify any information provided by the licensee in a claim for reimbursement, or in support thereof. Any information requested by the Department, if provided, must be submitted by the claimant within 60 days of receipt of the request unless the Department specifies in writing that additional time is provided.

(c) At any time during the review of a claim, the Department may request an informal conference with a licensee to obtain further information or clarification on any unresolved issue pertaining to the claim. While the licensee is not required to provide additional clarification requested by the Department, a failure to do so may result in the denial of that portion of the claim for which information is requested.

(d) Based upon the claim submitted and any additional information received by the Department, including any audit or site inspection if conducted, the Department shall complete a final review of all relevant information prior to making a reimbursement decision. When the Department determines it is not clear that an activity for which reimbursement is claimed was necessary to comply with UMTRCA or where appropriate, with applicable Agreement State requirements, the Department may consult with the appropriate regulatory authorities.

(e) A written decision regarding the Department's determination to approve, approve in part, or deny a claim will be provided to the licensee within 10 days of completion of the claim review. Within 45 days after the Department's issuance of a written decision to deny the claim due to inadequate documentation, the licensee may request the Department to reconsider its decision if the licensee provides reasonable documentation in accordance with § 765.20. If a licensee chooses not to submit the documentation, the licensee has the right to file a formal appeal to a claim denial in accordance with § 765.22. If a licensee chooses to submit the documentation, the Department will consider whether the documentation results in the Department's reversal of the initial decision to deny the claim and will inform the licensee of the Department's subsequent decision. The licensee may appeal that decision in accordance with § 765.22.

(f) If the Department determines that insufficient funds are available at any time to provide for complete payment of all outstanding approved claims, reimbursements of approved claims will be made on a prorated basis. A prorated payment of all outstanding approved claims for reimbursement, or any unpaid portion thereof, shall be made on the basis of the total amount of all outstanding approved claims, regardless of when the claims were submitted or approved.

(g) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (f) of this section, or any other provisions of this part, any requirement for the payment or obligation of funds by the Department established by this part shall be subject to the availability of appropriated funds, and no provision herein shall be interpreted to require obligation or payment of funds in violation of the Anti-Deficiency Act (31 U.S.C. 1341).
