
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 765 - REIMBURSEMENT FOR COSTS OF REMEDIAL ACTION AT ACTIVE URANIUM AND THORIUM PROCESSING SITES
#### Subpart B - Reimbursement Criteria
##### ยง 765.11 Reimbursable costs.

(a) Costs for which a licensee may be reimbursed must be for remedial action that a licensee demonstrates is attributable to byproduct material generated as an incident of sales to the United States, as determined by the Department. These costs are equal to the total costs of remedial action at a site multiplied by the Federal reimbursement ratio established for the site. These costs must be incurred in the performance of activities, prior to or after enactment of UMTRCA, and required by a plan, portion thereof, or other written authorization, approved by NRC or by an Agreement State. Costs of remedial action shall be reimbursable only if approved by the Department in accordance with the provisions of this part.

(b) In addition, costs of remedial action incurred by a licensee after December 31, 2007 must be in accordance with a plan for subsequent remedial action approved by the Department as specified in ยง 765.30.

(c) Total reimbursement of costs of remedial action incurred at an active processing site that are otherwise reimbursable pursuant to the provisions of this part shall be limited as follows:

(1) Reimbursement of costs of remedial action to active uranium processing site licensees shall not exceed $6.25, as adjusted for inflation, multiplied by the number of Federal-related dry short tons of byproduct material.

(2) Aggregate reimbursement of costs of remedial action incurred at all active uranium processing sites shall not exceed $350 million. This aggregate amount shall be adjusted for inflation pursuant to ยง 765.12; and

(3) Reimbursement of costs of remedial action at the active thorium processing site shall be limited to costs incurred for offsite disposal and shall not exceed $365 million. This amount shall be adjusted for inflation pursuant to ยง 765.12.

(d) Notwithstanding the Title X requirement that byproduct material must be located at an active processing site on October 24, 1992, byproduct material moved from the Edgemont Mill in Edgemont, South Dakota, to a disposal site as a result of remedial action, shall be eligible for reimbursement in accordance with all applicable requirements of this part.
