
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 765 - REIMBURSEMENT FOR COSTS OF REMEDIAL ACTION AT ACTIVE URANIUM AND THORIUM PROCESSING SITES
#### Subpart C - Procedures for Submitting and Processing Reimbursement Claims
##### ยง 765.20 Procedures for submitting reimbursement claims.

(a) All costs of remedial action for which reimbursement is claimed must be supported by reasonable documentation as specified in this subpart. The Department reserves the right to deny any claim for reimbursement, in whole or in part, that is not submitted in accordance with the requirements of this subpart.

(b) The licensee shall provide a copy of the approved site reclamation plan or other written authorization from NRC or an Agreement State upon which claims for reimbursement are based, with the initial claim submitted. Any revision or modification made to the plan or other written authorization, which is approved by NRC or an Agreement State, shall be included by the licensee in the next claim submitted to the Department following that revision or modification. This reclamation plan or other written authorization, as modified or revised, shall serve as the basis for the Department's evaluation of all claims for reimbursement submitted by a licensee.

(c) Each submitted claim shall provide a summary of all costs of remedial action for which reimbursement is claimed. This summary shall identify the costs of remedial action associated with each major activity or requirement established by the site's reclamation plan or other written authorization. In addition, each claim shall provide a summary of the documentation relied upon by the licensee in support of each cost category for which reimbursement is claimed.

(d) Documentation used to support a reimbursement claim must demonstrate that the costs of remedial action for which reimbursement is claimed were incurred specifically for activities specified in the site's reclamation plan, or otherwise authorized by NRC or an Agreement State. Summary documentation used in support of a claim must be cross-referenced to the relevant page and activity of the licensee's reclamation plan, or other written authorization approved by NRC or an Agreement State.

(1) Documentation prepared contemporaneous to the time the cost was incurred should be used when available. The documentation should identify the date or time period for which the cost was incurred, the activity for which the cost was incurred, and the reclamation plan provision or other written authorization to which the cost relates. Where available, each claim should be supported by receipts, invoices, pay records, or other documents that substantiate that each specific cost for which reimbursement is claimed was incurred for work that was necessary to comply with UMTRCA or applicable Agreement State requirements.

(2) Documentation not prepared contemporaneous to the time the cost was incurred, or not directly related to activities specified in the reclamation plan or other written authorization, may be used in support of a claim for reimbursement provided that the licensee determines the documentation is the only means available to document costs for which reimbursement is sought.

(e) The Department may audit, or require the licensee to audit, any documentation used to support a claim on a case-by-case basis and may approve, approve in part, or deny reimbursement of any claim in accordance with the requirements of this part. Documentation relied upon by a licensee in support of a claim for reimbursement shall be made available to the Department and retained by the licensee until 4 years after final payment of a claim is made by the Department.

(f) Each licensee should utilize generally accepted accounting principles consistently throughout the claim. These accounting principles, underlying assumptions, and any other information necessary for the Department to evaluate the claim shall be set forth in each claim.

(g) Following each annual appropriation by Congress, the Department will issue aNotice announcing:

(1) A claim submission deadline for that fiscal year;

(2) Availability of funds for reimbursement of costs of remedial action;

(3) Whether the Department anticipates that approved claims for that fiscal year may be subject to prorated payment;

(4) Any changes in the Federal reimbursement ratio or maximum reimbursement ceiling for any active uranium or thorium processing site;

(5) Any revision in the per dry short ton limit on reimbursement for all active uranium processing sites; and

(6) Any other relevant information.

(h) A licensee shall certify, with respect to any claim submitted by it for reimbursement, that the work was completed as described in an approved reclamation plan or other authorization. In addition, the licensee shall certify that all costs for which reimbursement is claimed, all documentation relied upon in support of its costs, and all statements or representations made in the claim are complete, accurate, and true. The certification shall be signed by an officer or other official of the licensee with knowledge of the contents of the claim and authority to represent the licensee in making the certification. Any knowingly false or frivolous statements or representations may subject the individual to penalties under the False Claims Act, sections 3729 through 3731 of title 31 United States Code, or any other applicable statutory authority; and criminal penalties under sections 286, 287, 1001 and 1002 of title 18, United States Code, or any other applicable statutory authority.

(i) All claims for reimbursement submitted to the Department shall be sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested. The Department reserves all rights under applicable law to recover any funds paid to licensees which an audit finds to not meet the requirements of this part.
