
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 766 - URANIUM ENRICHMENT DECONTAMINATION AND DECOMMISSIONING FUND; PROCEDURES FOR SPECIAL ASSESSMENT OF DOMESTIC UTILITIES
#### Subpart B - Procedures for Special Assessment
##### ยง 766.103 Special Assessment invoices.

(a) DOE shall issue annually a Special Assessment invoice to each domestic utility. This invoice will specify itemized quantities of enrichment services by reactor. In each Special Assessment invoice, DOE shall require payment, on or before 30 days from the date of each invoice, of that utility's prorated share of the Baseline Total Annual Special Assessment, as adjusted for inflation using the most recently published monthly CPI-U data.

(b) DOE shall enclose with the Fiscal Year 1993 Special Assessment invoice a sealed, business confidential, summary SWU transaction statement including:

(1) TESS information which documents, by reactor, the basis of the utility's assessment;

(2) A list of domestic utilities subject to the Special Assessment;

(3) The total number of SWUs purchased from DOE by all domestic utilities for all purposes prior to October 24, 1992.

(4) The total number of SWUs purchased from DOE for all purposes prior to October 24, 1992, including SWUs purchased or produced for defense purposes; and

(5) Such other information as may be appropriate.

(c) With regard to any fiscal year after Fiscal Year 1993, DOE shall enclose a summary SWU transaction statement with Special Assessment invoices that will include updated information regarding adjustments to Special Assessments resulting from the reconciliation and appeals process under Section 766.104.

(d) The date of each Annual Special Assessment invoicing will be set on or about October 1 with payment due 30 calendar days from the date of invoice starting with the Fiscal Year 1995 Special Assessment.
