
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 766 - URANIUM ENRICHMENT DECONTAMINATION AND DECOMMISSIONING FUND; PROCEDURES FOR SPECIAL ASSESSMENT OF DOMESTIC UTILITIES
#### Subpart B - Procedures for Special Assessment
##### ยง 766.104 Reconciliation, adjustments and appeals.

(a) A domestic utility requesting an adjustment shall, within 30 days from the date of a Special Assessment invoice, file a notice requesting an adjustment. Such notice shall include an explanation of the basis for the adjustment and any supporting documents, and may include a request for a meeting with DOE to discuss its invoice. If more time is needed to gather probative information, DOE will consider utility requests for up to 90 days additional time, providing that the initial notice requesting an adjustment was timely filed. The notice shall be filed at the address set forth in the Special Assessment invoice, and filing of this notice is complete only upon receipt by DOE. Domestic utilities are considered to have met the filing requirements upon DOE's receipt of the notice requesting an adjustment without regard to DOE's acceptance of supporting documentation. The filing of a notice for an adjustment shall not stay the obligation to pay.

(b) DOE may request additional information from domestic utilities and may acquire data from other sources.

(c) After reviewing a notice submitted under paragraph (a) of this section and other relevant information, and after making any necessary adjustment to its records in light of reliable and adequately probative records submitted in connection with the request for adjustment or otherwise obtained by DOE, DOE shall make a written determination granting or denying the requested adjustment. As appropriate, DOE shall modify the application of TESS data for any discrepancies or further transactions raised during the reconciliation process.

(d) Any domestic utility that wishes to dispute a written determination under paragraph (c) of this section shall have the right to file an appeal with the Office of Hearings and Appeals, U.S. Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Avenue S.W., Washington, DC 20585. Except for the Fiscal Year 1993 Special Assessment, any appeal must be filed on or before 30 days from the date of the written determination and should contain information of the type described in 10 CFR part 1003, subpart C. With regard to a written determination under paragraph (c) of this section concerning a Fiscal Year 1993 Special Assessment, a domestic utility must file an appeal on or before 30 days from the effective date of this paragraph or from the date of such written determination, whichever is later. The decision of the Office of Hearings and Appeals shall be the final decision of DOE. Upon completion of the reconciliation process, all records of SWU transactions shall be finalized and shall become the basis of subsequent Special Assessment invoices. These records shall be revised to reflect any decisions from the Office of Hearings and Appeals and any applicable court rulings.

(e) Refunds of Special Assessments shall be provided in cases where DOE has determined, as a result of reconciliation, that an overpayment has been made by a domestic utility, and that the domestic utility has no further current obligation to DOE.
