
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 780 - PATENT COMPENSATION BOARD REGULATIONS
#### Subpart E - Application for Royalties and Awards Under Section 157 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 and Compensation Under Section 173 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 and the Invention Secrecy Act (35 U.S.C. 183)
##### ยง 780.51 Form and content.

(a) Each application shall contain a statement of the applicant's interest in the patent, patent application, invention or discovery and identify any other claimants of whom the applicant has knowledge.

(b) Each application must contain a concise statement of all of the essential facts upon which it is based. No particular form of statement is required, but it will facilitate consideration of the application if the following specific data accompany the application:

(1) In the case of an issued patent, a copy of the patent.

(2) In the case of a patent application, a copy of the application and of all Patent and Trademark Office actions and responses thereto.

(3) In the case of an invention or discovery as to which a report has been filed with the Department pursuant to subsection c of section 151 of the Act, a copy of such report.

(4) In the case of an award, the date relied upon as the date of invention.

(5) In all cases, a statement of the extent to which the invention or discovery was developed through federally financed research or with other Federal support.

(6) In all cases, the degree of the utility, novelty, and importance of the invention or discovery.

(7) In all cases, a statement of the actual use by the Federal Government or others of such invention or discovery, to the extent known to the applicant.

(8) In all cases, the cost of developing the invention or discovery and acquiring the patent or patent application.

(9) The royalty fee proposed, the proposed terms and conditions of a license agreement, or the amount sought as compensation or award, as well as the basis used in calculating such fee, compensation or award and whether a lump sum or periodic payments are sought.

(10) In an application for just compensation pursuant to section 173 of the Act, the ownership of the invention that is the subject matter of the patent application at the time the Department communicated the restricted data shall be set forth, and any restricted data contained in the application shall be specifically identified.

(11) In an application for compensation under the authority provided in the Invention Secrecy Act (35 U.S.C. 183), for the damage caused by imposition of a secrecy order on a patent application and/or for the use of the invention by the Government, the date of the secrecy order, the date of the notice that the patent application is in condition for allowance, and, if known to the applicant, the date of the first use of the invention by the Government.
