
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 782 - CLAIMS FOR PATENT AND COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT
#### Subpart B - Requirements and Procedures
##### ยง 782.5 Contents of communication initiating claim.
###### Additional information for patent infringement claims.

(b)In addition to the information listed in paragraph (a) of this section the following material and information generally is necessary in the course of processing a claim of patent infringement. Claimants are encouraged to furnish this information at the time of filing a claim to permit rapid processing and resolution of the claim.

(1) A copy of the asserted patents and identification of all claims of the patents alleged to be infringed.

(2) Identification of all procurements known to claimant that involve the accused items or processes, including the identity of the vendors or contractors and the Government acquisition activity or activities.

(3) A detailed identification and description of the accused articles or processes, particularly where the articles or processes relate to components or subcomponents of the item acquired, and an element-by-element comparison of representative claims with the accused articles or processes. If available, the identification and description should include documentation and drawings to illustrate the accused articles or processes in sufficient detail to enable verification that the claims of the asserted patents read on the accused articles or processes.

(4) Names and addresses of all past and present licensees under the patents and copies of all license agreements and releases involving the patents.

(5) A brief description of all litigation in which the patents have been or are now involved, and their present status.

(6) A list of all persons to whom notices of infringement have been sent, including all departments and agencies of the Government, and a statement of the status or ultimate disposition of each.

(7) A description of Government employment or military service, if any, by the inventors or patent owner.

(8) A list of all contracts between the Government and inventors, patent owner, or anyone in privity with them that were in effect at the time of conception or actual reduction to practice of the inventions covered by the patents.

(9) Evidence of title to the asserted patents or other right to make the claim.

(10) If it is available to claimant, a copy of the Patent Office file of each patent.

(11) Pertinent prior art of which the claimant has become aware after issuance of the asserted patents.

In addition to the foregoing, if claimant can provide a statement that the investigation may be limited to the specifically identified accused articles or processes, or to a specific acquisition (e.g. identified contracts), it may speed disposition of the claim.
