
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 781 - DOE PATENT LICENSING REGULATIONS
#### Procedures
##### ยง 781.65 Appeals.

(a) Standing. The following parties have the right to appeal under this part:

(1) Pursuant to 37 CFR 404.11:

(i) A person whose application for a license has been denied;

(ii) A licensee whose license has been modified or terminated, in whole or in part;

(iii) A person who timely filed a written objection in response to the notice required by 37 CFR 404.7(a)(1)(i) or (b)(1)(i) and who can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Federal agency that such person may be damaged by the agency action; or

(2) A management and operating contractor appealing an agency decision to grant a copyright license to a third party pursuant to the Rights in Data-Technology Transfer clause for DOE management and operating contracts per 48 CFR part 970.

(b) Notice of Appeal. Appeal under paragraph (a) of this section shall be initiated by filing a Notice of Appeal with the Secretary, ATTN: Deputy General Counsel for Technology Transfer and Procurement ("Deputy General Counsel"), within thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of a written notice by the Department of Energy of an action set forth in paragraph (a) of this section. The Notice of Appeal shall specify the portion of the decision from which the appeal is taken. A statement of fact and argument in the form of a brief in support of the appeal shall be submitted with the Notice of Appeal or within thirty (30) days thereafter.

(c) Procedure. Appeals under this section shall be conducted pursuant to rules of procedure provided by the Deputy General Counsel.

(d) Within sixty (60) days of receiving appellant's brief pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section or such other time period set by the Deputy General Counsel, the Office of the Assistant General Counsel for Technology Transfer and Intellectual Property shall submit to the Deputy General Counsel a response brief and shall timely serve a copy of the response brief to appellant.

(e) The Deputy General Counsel shall consider the facts and arguments submitted in appellant's brief submitted under paragraph (b) of this section, as well as those presented by the Assistant General Counsel for Technology Transfer and Intellectual Property. An appeal by a licensee under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section may include a hearing, upon request of the licensee, to address a dispute over any relevant fact. Such request for a hearing must be received by the Deputy General Counsel within thirty (30) days of appellant's receipt of the response brief.

(f) The Deputy General Counsel shall issue a written decision, which shall constitute the final action of the Department on the matter.

(g) The parties may agree to Alternate Dispute Resolution in lieu of an appeal.

(h) Appeals Arising Under National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) Management and Operating Contracts. For appeals pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section arising under management and operating contracts administered by NNSA for NNSA facilities, the NNSA Deputy General Counsel for Procurement shall be designated as the appeal authority (Deputy General Counsel) pursuant to paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section.
