
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 783 - WAIVER OF PATENT RIGHTS
#### ยง 783.1 Waiver.

The Department of Energy, hereinafter "DOE", waives its rights under section 152 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (66 Stat. 944) with respect to inventions and discoveries resulting from the use of the following materials and services:

(a) Source materials, special nuclear materials, and heavy water distributed by DOE in accordance with the "Schedules of Base Charges for Materials Sold of Leased by DOE for Use in Private Atomic Energy Development and Base Prices Which DOE Will Pay for Certain Products From Private Reactors."

(b) Radioactive and stable isotopes, irradiation services (this waiver does not include inventions or discoveries made by DOE or DOE contractor personnel in the course of or in connection with the performance of an irradiation service), and radioactive material resulting from the performance of an irradiation service sold or distributed by DOE in accordance with the prices and charges established by:

(1) Oak Ridge National Laboratory Inventory and Price List of electromagnetically enriched and other stable isotopes.

(2) Oak Ridge National Laboratory Catalog and Price List of radioisotopes, special materials, and services.

(3) Idaho National Engineering Laboratory Catalog of Price and charges on irradiation services at the materials testing reactor. The waiver does include inventions or discoveries made by sponsor personnel in the course of their use of the Gamma Irradiation Facility at the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory.

(4) Argonne National Laboratory schedule of charges for irradiation services at its irradiation facilities.

(5) Brookhaven National Laboratory schedule of prices and charges for irradiation services and radioisotopes.
