
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 784 - PATENT WAIVER REGULATION
#### ยง 784.12 Terms and conditions of waivers.
##### et seq.

The terms and conditions for waivers are set forth in the "Patent Rights-Waiver" clause in this section. A waiver of all foreign and domestic patent rights under a contract authorizes the use of this clause with any additions prescribed by the DOE Acquisition Regulations (48 CFR Chapter 9) or the terms of the waiver. This clause shall not be used in contracts with small business firms or nonprofit organizations subject to 35 U.S.C. 200If a waiver of different scope is granted, the clause shall be modified to conform to the scope of the waiver granted. Advance waivers for arrangements other than contracts, grants, and cooperative agreements may use other clause provisions approved by the Assistant General Counsel for Technology Transfer and Intellectual Property, except that all waivers for funding agreements shall be subject to the license of clause paragraph (b) and the provisions of clause paragraphs (i) and (j). The terms and conditions of the clause shall also constitute the basis for confirmatory licenses regarding waivers of identified inventions. For inventions under advance waivers, a duly executed and approved instrument fully confirmatory of all rights to which the Government is entitled is required to be submitted promptly after filing a patent application thereon. If, however, a waiver request is pending, delivery of the confirmatory instrument may be delayed until a determination on the waiver request is made. In the case of a waiver of an identified invention pursuant to a request for greater rights, the confirmatory instrument shall be agreed to or submitted to Patent Counsel before or at the time the waiver is granted.
