
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 800 - LOANS FOR BID OR PROPOSAL PREPARATION BY MINORITY BUSINESS ENTERPRISES SEEKING DOE CONTRACTS AND ASSISTANCE
#### Subpart B - Loan Solicitation, Application and Review
##### ยง 800.102 Review by Application Evaluation Panel.
###### Panel review of specific loan requests.

(c)(1) If an application contains a specific loan request, and complies with ยง 800.101, the Panel shall arrange for risk analysis, independent of any such analysis submitted by or on behalf of the applicant. Risk analysis shall be directed both to the loan request and to applicant's prospective performance of work pursuant to the bid or proposal.

(2) The Panel shall evaluate the loan request in light of the risk analysis, and shall give its conclusions in writing to the Application Approving Official, with respect to the following and to such other considerations as that official may direct:

(i) Applicant's eligibility as a minority business enterprise.

(ii) Compliance with the application requirements of ยง 800.101.

(iii) Compliance with ยง 800.200 on allowable costs.

(iv) Applicant's financial ability to make the bid or proposal without the loan.

(v) Applicant's contribution of, or ability to contribute, the 25% minimum share of allowable costs, or more.

(vi) Applicant's ability to prepare an adequate bid or proposal, if the loan is made.

(vii) Possibility of award to applicant pursuant to its bid or proposal.

(viii) Applicant's ability to perform pursuant to the bid or proposal.

(ix) Likelihood that applicant will repay the requested loan, regardless of success of applicant's bid or proposal.

(x) Optimal use of available program funds.

(xi) The Panel's recommendation.
