
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 800 - LOANS FOR BID OR PROPOSAL PREPARATION BY MINORITY BUSINESS ENTERPRISES SEEKING DOE CONTRACTS AND ASSISTANCE
#### Subpart C - Loans
##### ยง 800.200 Maximum loan; allowable costs.

(a) A loan under this regulation shall not exceed 75 percent of allowable costs of a bid or proposal to obtain a DOE contract or other agreement (such as a procurement contract, cooperative agreement, grant, loan or loan guarantee), or a subcontract with a DOE operating contractor, or a contract with a first-tier subcontractor of a DOE operating contractor in furtherance of the research, development, demonstration or other contract activities of DOE.

(b) To be allowable, costs must, in DOE's judgment:

(1) Be consistent with the bidding cost principles of the Federal Procurement Regulation (41 CFR Ch. 1, 1-15.205-3) and DOE Procurement Regulation (41 CFR Ch. 9, 9-15.205-3); and;

(2) Be necessary, reasonable and customary for the bid or proposal contemplated by the application; and

(3) Be incurred, or expected to be incurred, by the applicant.

(c) Costs which are, in general, allowable, if consistent with paragraph (b) of this section include, but are not limited to:

(1) Bid bond premiums.

(2) Financial, accounting, legal, engineering and other professional, consulting or similar fees and service charges.

(3) Printing and reproduction costs.

(4) Travel and transportation costs.

(5) Costs of the loan application under this rule.

(d) Costs that are not considered as allowable costs include the following:

(1) Fees and commissions charged to the applicant, including finder's fees, for obtaining Federal funds.

(2) Expenses, which, in DOE's judgment, have primarily an application broader than the specific loan request.

(3) Costs which, in DOE's judgment, fail to conform to paragraph (b) of this section.
