
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 800 - LOANS FOR BID OR PROPOSAL PREPARATION BY MINORITY BUSINESS ENTERPRISES SEEKING DOE CONTRACTS AND ASSISTANCE
#### Subpart C - Loans
##### ยง 800.201 Findings.

A loan shall issue under this regulation only if the Secretary, having reviewed the action of the Application Approving Official, and having considered such other information as the Secretary may deem pertinent, has made all the findings that follow:

(a) That the applicant is a minority business enterprise.

(b) That the loan will assist the enterprise to participate in the research, development, demonstration or contract activities of the Department of Energy by providing funds needed by applicant for bid or proposal purposes.

(c) That, by terms of the loan, applicant's use of the funds will be limited to bidding for and obtaining a contract or other agreement with the Department of Energy, a subcontract with a DOE operating contractor, or a contract with a first-tier subcontractor of a DOE operating contractor in furtherance of the research, development, demonstration or other contract activities of DOE.

(d) That the funds to be loaned will not exceed 75% of applicant's costs in bidding for and obtaining the contract or agreement.

(e) That the rate of interest on the loan has been determined in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury.

(f) That there is a reasonable prospect that the applicant will make the bid or proposal which is the purpose of the loan, will perform according to its bid or proposal, and will repay the loan according to the terms thereof, regardless of the success of its bid or proposal.

(g) That the terms and conditions of the loan are acceptable to the Secretary and comply with this regulation and with section 211(e) of the Department of Energy Organization Act.
