
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 810 - ASSISTANCE TO FOREIGN ATOMIC ENERGY ACTIVITIES
#### § 810.12 Reports.

(a) Each person who has received a specific authorization shall, within 30 calendar days after beginning the authorized activity, provide to DOE a written report containing the following information:

(1) The name, address, and citizenship of the person submitting the report;

(2) The name, address, and citizenship of the person for whom or which the activity is being performed;

(3) A description of the activity, the date it began, its location, status, and anticipated date of completion; and

(4) A copy of the DOE letter authorizing the activity.

(b) Each person carrying out a specifically authorized activity shall inform DOE, in writing within 30 calendar days, of completion of the activity or of its termination before completion.

(c) Each person granted a specific authorization shall inform DOE, in writing within 30 calendar days, when it is known that the proposed activity will not be undertaken and the granted authorization will not be used.

(d) DOE may require reports to include such additional information that may be required by applicable U.S. law, regulation, or policy with respect to the specific nuclear activity or country for which specific authorization is required.

(e) Each person, within 30 calendar days after beginning any generally authorized activity under § 810.6, shall provide to DOE:

(1) The name, address, and citizenship of the person submitting the report;

(2) The name, address, and citizenship of the person for whom or which the activity is being performed;

(3) A description of the activity, the date it began, its location, status, and anticipated date of completion; and

(4) A written assurance that the applicant has an agreement with the recipient ensuring that any subsequent transfer of materials, equipment, or technology transferred under general authorization under circumstances in which the conditions in § 810.6 would not be met will take place only if the applicant obtains DOE's prior written approval.

(f) Individuals engaging in generally authorized activities as employees of persons required to report are not themselves required to submit the reports described in paragraph (e) of this section.

(g) Persons engaging in generally authorized activities under § 810.6(b) are required to notify DOE that a citizen or national of a country not listed in the Appendix to this part has been granted access to information subject to § 810.2 in accordance with Nuclear Regulatory Commission access requirements. The report should contain the information required in § 810.11(b).

(h) All reports should be sent to: U.S. Department of Energy, National Nuclear Security Administration, Washington, DC 20585, Attention: Senior Policy Advisor, Office of Nonproliferation and Arms Control (NPAC).
