
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 820 - PROCEDURAL RULES FOR DOE NUCLEAR ACTIVITIES
#### Subpart B - Enforcement Process
##### ยง 820.28 Prehearing actions.
###### Other discovery.

(f)(1) Except as provided by paragraph (c) of this section, further discovery under this section shall be permitted only upon determination by the Presiding Officer:

(i) That such discovery will not in any way unreasonably delay the proceeding;

(ii) That the information to be obtained is not otherwise obtainable; and

(iii) That such information has significant probative value.

(2) The Presiding Officer shall order depositions upon oral questions only upon a showing of good cause and upon a finding that:

(i) The information sought cannot be obtained by alternative methods; or

(ii) There is substantial reason to believe that relevant and probative evidence may otherwise not be preserved for presentation by a witness at the hearing.

(3) Any party to the proceeding desiring an order to take further discovery shall make a motion therefor. Such a motion shall set forth:

(i) The circumstances warranting the taking of the discovery;

(ii) The nature of the information expected to be discovered; and

(iii) The proposed time and place where it will be taken. If the Presiding Officer determines that the motion should be granted, he shall issue an order for the taking of such discovery together with the conditions and terms thereof.

(4) When the information sought to be obtained is within the control of one of the parties, failure to comply with an order issued pursuant to this paragraph may lead to the inference that the information to be discovered would be adverse to the party from whom the information was sought, or the issuance of a default order under 820.38.
