
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 20 - STANDARDS FOR PROTECTION AGAINST RADIATION
#### Appendix G to Part 20 - Requirements for Transfers of Low-Level Radioactive Waste Intended for Disposal at Licensed Land Disposal Facilities and Manifests
##### i.e.

10. The identities and activities of individual radionuclides contained in each container, the masses of U-233, U-235, and plutonium in special nuclear material, and the masses of uranium and thorium in source material. For discrete waste types (, activated materials, contaminated equipment, mechanical filters, sealed source/devices, and wastes in solidification/stabilization media), the identities and activities of individual radionuclides associated with or contained on these waste types within a disposal container shall be reported;

11. The total radioactivity within each container; and

12. For wastes consigned to a disposal facility, the classification of the waste pursuant to ยง 61.55 of this chapter. Waste not meeting the structural stability requirements of ยง 61.56(b) of this chapter must be identified.

The shipper of the radioactive waste shall provide the following information on the uniform manifest regarding a waste shipment delivered without a disposal container:

1. The approximate volume and weight of the waste;

2. A physical and chemical description of the waste;

3. The total weight percentage of chelating agent if the chelating agent exceeds 0.1% by weight, plus the identity of the principal chelating agent;

4. For waste consigned to a disposal facility, the classification of the waste pursuant to ยง 61.55 of this chapter. Waste not meeting the structural stability requirements of ยง 61.56(b) of this chapter must be identified;

5. The identities and activities of individual radionuclides contained in the waste, the masses of U-233, U-235, and plutonium in special nuclear material, and the masses of uranium and thorium in source material; and

6. For wastes consigned to a disposal facility, the maximum radiation levels at the surface of the waste.

This section applies to disposal containers enclosing mixtures of waste originating from different generators. (Note: The origin of the LLW resulting from a processor's activities may be attributable to one or more "generators" (including "waste generators") as defined in this part). It also applies to mixtures of wastes shipped in an uncontainerized form, for which portions of the mixture within the shipment originate from different generators.

1. For homogeneous mixtures of waste, such as incinerator ash, provide the waste description applicable to the mixture and the volume of the waste attributed to each generator.
