
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 835 - OCCUPATIONAL RADIATION PROTECTION
#### Subpart B - Management and Administrative Requirements
##### ยง 835.101 Radiation protection programs.

(a) A DOE activity shall be conducted in compliance with a documented radiation protection program (RPP) as approved by the DOE.

(b) The DOE may direct or make modifications to a RPP.

(c) The content of each RPP shall be commensurate with the nature of the activities performed and shall include formal plans and measures for applying the as low as reasonably achievable (ALARA) process to occupational exposure.

(d) The RPP shall specify the existing and/or anticipated operational tasks that are intended to be within the scope of the RPP. Except as provided in ยง 835.101(h), any task outside the scope of a RPP shall not be initiated until an update of the RPP is approved by DOE.

(e) The content of the RPP shall address, but shall not necessarily be limited to, each requirement in this part.

(f) The RPP shall include plans, schedules, and other measures for achieving compliance with regulations of this part. Unless otherwise specified in this part, compliance with the amendments to this part published on June 8, 2007 shall be achieved no later than July 9, 2010.

(g) An update of the RPP shall be submitted to DOE:

(1) Whenever a change or an addition to the RPP is made;

(2) Prior to the initiation of a task not within the scope of the RPP; or

(3) Within 180 days of the effective date of any modifications to this part.

(h) Changes, additions, or updates to the RPP may become effective without prior Department approval only if the changes do not decrease the effectiveness of the RPP and the RPP, as changed, continues to meet the requirements of this part. Proposed changes that decrease the effectiveness of the RPP shall not be implemented without submittal to and approval by the Department.

(i) An initial RPP or an update shall be considered approved 180 days after its submission unless rejected by DOE at an earlier date.
