
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 835 - OCCUPATIONAL RADIATION PROTECTION
#### Subpart H - Records
##### § 835.702 Individual monitoring records.

(a) Except as authorized by § 835.702(b), records shall be maintained to document doses received by all individuals for whom monitoring was conducted and to document doses received during planned special exposures, unplanned doses exceeding the monitoring thresholds of § 835.402, and authorized emergency exposures.

(b) Recording of the non-uniform equivalent dose to the skin is not required if the dose is less than 2 percent of the limit specified for the skin at § 835.202(a)(4). Recording of internal dose (committed effective dose or committed equivalent dose) is not required for any monitoring result estimated to correspond to an individual receiving less than 0.01 rem (0.1 mSv) committed effective dose. The bioassay or air monitoring result used to make the estimate shall be maintained in accordance with § 835.703(b) and the unrecorded internal dose estimated for any individual in a year shall not exceed the applicable monitoring threshold at § 835.402(c).

(c) The records required by this section shall:

(1) Be sufficient to evaluate compliance with subpart C of this part;

(2) Be sufficient to provide dose information necessary to complete reports required by subpart I of this part;

(3) Include the results of monitoring used to assess the following quantities for external dose received during the year:

(i) The effective dose from external sources of radiation (equivalent dose to the whole body may be used as effective dose for external exposure);

(ii) The equivalent dose to the lens of the eye;

(iii) The equivalent dose to the skin; and

(iv) The equivalent dose to the extremities.

(4) Include the following information for internal dose resulting from intakes received during the year:

(i) Committed effective dose;

(ii) Committed equivalent dose to any organ or tissue of concern; and

(iii) Identity of radionuclides.

(5) Include the following quantities for the summation of the external and internal dose:

(i) Total effective dose in a year;

(ii) For any organ or tissue assigned an internal dose during the year, the sum of the equivalent dose to the whole body from external exposures and the committed equivalent dose to that organ or tissue; and

(iii) Cumulative total effective dose.

(6) Include the equivalent dose to the embryo/fetus of a declared pregnant worker.

(d) Documentation of all occupational doses received during the current year, except for doses resulting from planned special exposures conducted in compliance with § 835.204 and emergency exposures authorized in accordance with § 835.1302(d), shall be obtained to demonstrate compliance with § 835.202(a). If complete records documenting previous occupational dose during the year cannot be obtained, a written estimate signed by the individual may be accepted to demonstrate compliance.

(e) For radiological workers whose occupational dose is monitored in accordance with § 835.402, reasonable efforts shall be made to obtain complete records of prior years occupational internal and external doses.

(f) The records specified in this section that are identified with a specific individual shall be readily available to that individual.

(g) Data necessary to allow future verification or reassessment of the recorded doses shall be recorded.

(h) All records required by this section shall be transferred to the DOE upon cessation of activities at the site that could cause exposure to individuals.
