
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 835 - OCCUPATIONAL RADIATION PROTECTION
#### Subpart I - Reports to Individuals
##### § 835.801 Reports to individuals.

(a) Radiation exposure data for individuals monitored in accordance with § 835.402 shall be reported as specified in this section. The information shall include the data required under § 835.702(c). Each notification and report shall be in writing and include: the DOE site or facility name, the name of the individual, and the individual's social security number, employee number, or other unique identification number.

(b) Upon the request from an individual terminating employment, records of exposure shall be provided to that individual as soon as the data are available, but not later than 90 days after termination. A written estimate of the radiation dose received by that employee based on available information shall be provided at the time of termination, if requested.

(c) Each DOE- or DOE-contractor-operated site or facility shall, on an annual basis, provide a radiation dose report to each individual monitored during the year at that site or facility in accordance with § 835.402.

(d) Detailed information concerning any individual's exposure shall be made available to the individual upon request of that individual, consistent with the provisions of the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a).

(e) When a DOE contractor is required to report to the Department, pursuant to Departmental requirements for occurrence reporting and processing, any exposure of an individual to radiation and/or radioactive material, or planned special exposure in accordance with § 835.204(e), the contractor shall also provide that individual with a report on his or her exposure data included therein. Such report shall be transmitted at a time not later than the transmittal to the Department.
