
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 850 - CHRONIC BERYLLIUM DISEASE PREVENTION PROGRAM
#### Subpart C - Specific Program Requirements
##### ยง 850.34 Medical surveillance.
###### General.

(a)(1) The responsible employer must establish and implement a medical surveillance program for beryllium-associated workers who voluntarily participate in the program.

(2) The responsible employer must designate a Site Occupational Medical Director (SOMD) who is responsible for administering the medical surveillance program.

(3) The responsible employer must ensure that the medical evaluations and procedures required by this section are performed by, or under the supervision of, a licensed physician who is familiar with the health effects of beryllium.

(4) The responsible employer must establish, and maintain, a list of beryllium-associated workers who may be eligible for protective measures under this part. The list must be:

(i) Based on the hazard assessment, exposure records, and other information regarding the identity of beryllium-associated workers; and

(ii) Adjusted at regular intervals based on periodic evaluations of beryllium-associated workers performed under paragraph (b)(2) of this section;

(5) The responsible employer must provide the SOMD with the information needed to operate and administer the medical surveillance program, including the:

(i) List of beryllium-associated workers required by paragraph (a)(4) of this section;

(ii) Baseline inventory;

(iii) Hazard assessment and exposure monitoring data;

(iv) Identity and nature of activities or operations on the site that are covered under the CBDPP, related duties of beryllium-associated workers; and

(v) Type of personal protective equipment used.

(6) The responsible employer must provide the following information to the SOMD and the examining physician:

(i) A copy of this rule and its preamble;

(ii) A description of the worker's duties as they pertain to beryllium exposure;

(iii) Records of the worker's beryllium exposure; and

(iv) A description of the personal protective and respiratory protective equipment used by the worker in the past, present, or anticipated future use.
