
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 850 - CHRONIC BERYLLIUM DISEASE PREVENTION PROGRAM
#### Subpart C - Specific Program Requirements
##### ยง 850.35 Medical removal.
###### Medical removal protection benefits.

(b)(1) If a beryllium-associated worker has been permanently removed from beryllium exposure pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the responsible employer must provide the beryllium-associated worker:

(i) The opportunity to transfer to another position which is available, or later becomes available, for which the beryllium-associated worker is qualified (or for which the worker can be trained in a short period) and where beryllium exposures are as low as possible, but in no event at or above the action level; or

(ii) If the beryllium-associated worker cannot be transferred to a comparable job where beryllium exposures are below the action level, a maximum of 2 years of permanent medical removal protection benefits (specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section).

(2) If required by this section to provide medical removal protection benefits, the responsible employer must maintain the removed worker's total normal earnings, seniority and other worker rights and benefits, as though the worker had not been removed.

(3) If a removed beryllium-associated worker files a claim for workers' compensation payments for a beryllium-related disability, then the responsible employer must continue to provide medical removal protection benefits pending disposition of the claim. The responsible employer must receive no credit for the workers' compensation payments received by the worker for treatment related expenses.

(4) The responsible employer's obligation to provide medical removal protection benefits to a removed beryllium-associated worker is reduced to the extent that the worker receives compensation for earnings lost during the period of removal either from a publicly- or employer-funded compensation program, or from employment with another employer made possible by virtue of the worker's removal.

(5) For the purposes of this section, the requirement that a responsible employer provide medical removal protection benefits is not intended to expand upon, restrict, or change any rights to a specific job classification or position under the terms of an applicable collective bargaining agreement.

(6) The responsible employer may condition the provision of medical removal protection benefits upon the beryllium-associated worker's participation in medical surveillance provided in accordance with ยง 850.34 of this part.
