
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 851 - WORKER SAFETY AND HEALTH PROGRAM
#### Subpart C - Specific Program Requirements
##### § 851.23 Safety and health standards.
###### Beryllium

(3) Title 29 CFR, Part 1910, "Occupational Safety and Health Standards," excluding 29 CFR 1910.1096, "Ionizing Radiation, and 29 CFR 1910.1000,"

(4) Title 29 CFR, Part 1915, "Shipyard Employment."

(5) Title 29 CFR, Part 1917, "Marine Terminals."

(6) Title 29 CFR, Part 1918, "Safety and Health Regulations for Longshoring."

(7) Title 29 CFR, Part 1926, "Safety and Health Regulations for Construction."

(8) Title 29 CFR, Part 1928, "Occupational Safety and Health Standards for Agriculture."

(9) American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists (ACGIH&#xAE;), "Threshold Limit Values for Chemical Substances and Physical Agents and Biological Exposure Indices," (2016) (incorporated by reference, see § 851.27) when the ACGIH&#xAE; Threshold Limit Values (TLVs) are lower (more protective) than permissible exposure limits in 29 CFR part 1910 for general industry and/or part 1926 for construction. When the ACGIH TLVs are used as exposure limits, contractors must nonetheless comply with the other provisions of any applicable expanded health standard found in 29 CFR part 1910 and/or part 1926.

(10) American National Standards Institute (ANSI/ASSE) Z88.2, "American National Standard Practices for Respiratory Protection," (2015) (incorporated by reference, see § 851.27).

(11) ANSI Z136.1, "Safe Use of Lasers," (2014) (incorporated by reference, see § 851.27).

(12) ANSI Z49.1, "Safety in Welding, Cutting and Allied Processes," sections 4.3 and E4.3 (2012) (incorporated by reference, see § 851.27).

(13) National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 70, "National Electrical Code," (2017) (incorporated by reference, see § 851.27).

(14) NFPA 70E, "Standard for Electrical Safety in the Workplace," (2015) (incorporated by reference, see § 851.27).

(b) Nothing in this part must be construed as relieving a contractor from complying with any additional specific safety and health requirement that it determines to be necessary to protect the safety and health of workers.
