
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 851 - WORKER SAFETY AND HEALTH PROGRAM
#### Subpart E - Enforcement Process
##### ยง 851.42 Preliminary notice of violation.

(a) Based on a determination by the Director that there is a reasonable basis to believe a contractor has violated or is continuing to violate a requirement of this part, the Director may issue a preliminary notice of violation (PNOV) to the contractor.

(b) A PNOV must indicate:

(1) The date, facts, and nature of each act or omission upon which each alleged violation is based;

(2) The particular requirement involved in each alleged violation;

(3) The proposed remedy for each alleged violation, including the amount of any civil penalty; and

(4) The obligation of the contractor to submit a written reply to the Director within 30 calendar days of receipt of the PNOV.

(c) A reply to a PNOV must contain a statement of all relevant facts pertaining to an alleged violation.

(1) The reply must:

(i) State any facts, explanations and arguments that support a denial of the alleged violation;

(ii) Demonstrate any extenuating circumstances or other reason why a proposed remedy should not be imposed or should be mitigated;

(iii) Discuss the relevant authorities that support the position asserted, including rulings, regulations, interpretations, and previous decisions issued by DOE; and

(iv) Furnish full and complete answers to any questions set forth in the preliminary notice.

(2) Copies of all relevant documents must be submitted with the reply.

(d) If a contractor fails to submit a written reply within 30 calendar days of receipt of a PNOV:

(1) The contractor relinquishes any right to appeal any matter in the preliminary notice; and

(2) The preliminary notice, including any proposed remedies therein, constitutes a final order.

(e) A copy of the PNOV must be prominently posted, once final, at or near the location where the violation occurred until the violation is corrected.
