
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 25 - ACCESS AUTHORIZATION
#### Access Authorizations
##### ยง 25.15 Access permitted under "Q" or "L" access authorization.
###### i.e.

(a) A "Q" access authorization permits an individual access on a need-to-know basis to (1) Secret and Confidential Restricted Data and (2) Secret and Confidential National Security Information including intelligence information, CRYPTO (, cryptographic information) or other classified communications security (COMSEC) information.

(b) An "L" access authorization permits an individual access on a need-to-know basis to Confidential Restricted Data and Secret and Confidential National Security Information other than the categories specifically included in paragraph (a) of this section. In addition, access to certain Confidential COMSEC information is permitted as authorized by a National Communications Security Committee waiver dated February 14, 1985.

(c) Each employee of the Commission is processed for one of the two levels of access authorization. Licensees and other persons will furnish National Security Information and/or Restricted Data to a Commission employee on official business when the employee has the appropriate level of NRC access authorization and need-to-know. Some individuals are permitted to begin NRC employment without an access authorization. However, no NRC employee shall be permitted access to any classified information until the appropriate level of access authorization has been granted to that employee by NRC.
