
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 25 - ACCESS AUTHORIZATION
#### Access Authorizations
##### ยง 25.17 Approval for processing applicants for access authorization.

(a) Access authorizations must be requested for licensee employees or other persons (e.g., 10 CFR part 2, subpart I) who need access to classified information in connection with activities under 10 CFR parts 50, 52, 54, 60, 63, 70, 72, or 76.

(b) The request must be submitted to the facility CSA. If the NRC is the CSA, the procedures in ยง 25.17 (c) and (d) will be followed. If the NRC is not the CSA, the request will be submitted to the CSA in accordance with procedures established by the CSA. The NRC will be notified of the request by a letter that includes the name, Social Security number and level of access authorization.

(c) The request must include a completed personnel security packet (see ยง 25.17(d)) and request form (NRC Form 237) signed by a licensee, licensee contractor official, or other authorized person.

(d)(1) Each personnel security packet submitted must include the following completed forms:

(i) Electronic Questionnaire for Investigations Processing (e-QIP), SF-86 Questionnaire for National Security Positions;

(ii) Two standard fingerprint cards (FD-258);

(iii) Security Acknowledgment (NRC Form 176); and

(iv) Other related forms where specified in accompanying instructions (NRC Form 254).

(2) Only a Security Acknowledgment (NRC Form 176) need be completed by any person possessing an active access authorization, or who is being processed for an access authorization, by another Federal agency. The active or pending access authorization must be at an equivalent level to that required by the NRC and be based on an adequate investigation of not more than five years old.

(e) To avoid delays in processing requests for access authorizations, each security packet should be reviewed for completeness and correctness (including legibility of response on the forms) before submittal.

(f) The Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) bills the NRC for the cost of each background investigation conducted in support of an application for access authorization (application). The combined cost of the DCSA investigation and the NRC's application processing overhead (NRC processing fee) are recovered through an access authorization fee imposed on applicants for access authorization.
