
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 862 - RESTRICTIONS ON AIRCRAFT LANDING AND AIR DELIVERY AT DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NUCLEAR SITES
#### ยง 862.5 Procedures for removal of downed aircraft.

(a) An aircraft on or brought on to a designated site, except as provided in ยง 862.2 (b)(1), shall not be moved within or removed from such areas except as provided for in this section. All such aircraft are subject to full inspection by DOE security personnel upon landing upon order of the Manager of Operations or his designee. Any attempt to depart or remove the aircraft from a designated site without clearance obtained pursuant to this section, may be assumed to be indicative of hostile intent by security forces at such sites.

(b)(1) The cognizant DOE Manager of Operations for a designated site may, on his own initiative, issue a written order to the owner or operator of a downed aircraft to require the removal of that aircraft from the site within 20 days of this notice. Such an order shall specify:

(i) The date upon which removal operations must be completed;

(ii) The times and means of access to and from the downed aircraft to be removed;

(iii) The manner of removal; and

(iv) An estimate of the cost of removal to DOE for which the owner or operator will be held liable if removal is accomplished by DOE.

(2) The owner or operator of the downed aircraft may file a written petition, supported by affidavits, to the cognizant Manager of Operations requesting that the order be modified or set aside. The petition may be granted by the Manager of Operations for good cause shown, upon a finding that it is clearly consistent with the national security, public safety, and federal property interests. Such petition must be filed at least 10 days prior to the date upon which removal is to be initiated, as specified in the order. The written decision of the Manager of Operations shall be a final agency action.

(c)(1) The owner of a downed aircraft may petition the cognizant Manager of Operations of permission to move or remove the downed aircraft from or within a designated site. The petition must provide assurances that the owner will fully compensate DOE for all costs incurred or damages experienced as a result of landing or removal through a contact for services. The Manager of Operations may, for good cause shown, waive part or all of the compensation which might otherwise be due DOE.

(2) The Manager of Operations may deny such petition in whole or part and prohibit removal of a downed aircraft upon finding that:

(i) The removal of a downed aircraft would create an unacceptable safety or security risk;

(ii) The removal of a downed aircraft would result in excessive resource loss of property damage or an unacceptable disruption of federal activities;

(iii) The removal of downed aircraft is impracticable or impossible;

(iv) The owner has failed to provide adequate assurances that all costs incurred or damages experienced by DOE due to landing or removal of aircraft will be fully paid immediately upon removal by the owner under a contract for services;

(v) An inspection of the aircraft has not been conducted by DOE security personnel.

(3) In the event that such petition is granted in whole or part, the cognizant Manager of Operations may issue an order, as set forth in (b)(1) (i) through (iv) of this section. In the event that a petition is denied in whole or part, the Manager of Operations shall issue a written decision which shall set forth the reasons for such denial.

(d) Failure to comply with an order issued by the Manager of Operations pursuant to this section is basis for DOE to consider the downed aircraft to be abandoned property. DOE may take whatever measures it deems necessary when it determines that downed aircraft is abandoned property.

(e) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the Manager of Operations may move or remove a downed aircraft from such an area upon oral or written notification to the owner or operator of such aircraft upon a finding that national security or operational requirements necessitate expedited movement or removal. The owner or operator may be held jointly and separately liable for all expenses incurred by DOE in the movement or removal of such aircraft. Such expenses shall be deemed to be incurred through an implied contract at law for services.
