
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 25 - ACCESS AUTHORIZATION
#### Access Authorizations
##### ยง 25.21 Determination of initial and continued eligibility for access authorization.

(a) Following receipt by the CSA of the reports of the personnel security investigations, the record will be reviewed to determine that granting an access authorization or renewal of access authorization will not endanger the common defense and security and is clearly consistent with the national interest. If this determination is made, access authorization will be granted or renewed. If the NRC is the CSA, questions as to initial or continued eligibility will be determined in accordance with part 10 of chapter I. If another agency is the CSA, that agency will, under the requirements of the NISPOM, have established procedures at the facility to resolve questions as to initial or continued eligibility for access authorization. These questions will be determined in accordance with established CSA procedures already in effect for the facility.

(b) The CSA must be promptly notified of developments that bear on continued eligibility for access authorization throughout the period for which the authorization is active (e.g., persons who marry subsequent to the completion of a personnel security packet must report this change by submitting a completed NRC Form 354, "Data Report on Spouse" or equivalent CSA form).

(c)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, an NRC "Q" access authorization must be renewed every five years from the date of issuance. Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, an NRC "L" access authorization must be renewed every ten years from the date of issuance. An application for renewal must be submitted at least 120 days before the expiration of the five-year period for a "Q" access authorization and the ten-year period for an "L" access authorization, and must include:

(i) A statement by the licensee or other person that the individual continues to require access to classified National Security Information or Restricted Data; and

(ii) A personnel security packet as described in ยง 25.17(d).

(2) Renewal applications and the required paperwork are not required for individuals who have a current and active access authorization from another Federal agency and who are subject to a reinvestigation program by that agency that is determined by the NRC to meet the NRC's requirements. (The DOE Reinvestigation Program has been determined to meet the NRC's requirements.) For these individuals, the submission of the SF-86 by the licensee or other person to the other Government agency pursuant to their reinvestigation requirements will satisfy the NRC's renewal submission and paperwork requirements, even if less than five years have passed since the date of issuance or renewal of the NRC "Q" access authorization, or if less than 10 years have passed since the date of issuance or renewal of the NRC "L" access authorization. Any NRC access authorization continued in response to the provisions of this paragraph will, thereafter, not be due for renewal until the date set by the other Government agency for the next reinvestigation of the individual pursuant to the other agency's reinvestigation program. However, the period of time for the initial and each subsequent NRC "Q" renewal application to the NRC may not exceed seven years or, in the case of an NRC "L" renewal application, twelve years. Any individual who is subject to the reinvestigation program requirements of another Federal agency but, for administrative or other reasons, does not submit reinvestigation forms to that agency within seven years for a "Q" renewal or twelve years for an "L" renewal of the previous submission, shall submit a renewal application to the NRC using the forms prescribed in ยง 25.17(d) before the expiration of the seven-year period for a "Q" renewal or twelve-year period for an "L" renewal.

(3) If the NRC is not the CSA, reinvestigation program procedures and requirements will be set by the CSA.
