
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 903 - POWER AND TRANSMISSION RATES
#### Subpart A - Procedures for Public Participation in Power and Transmission Rate Adjustments and Extensions for the Alaska, Southeastern, Southwestern, and Western Area Power Administrations
##### ยง 903.21 Completion of rate development; provisional rates.

(a) Following completion of the consultation and comment period and review of any oral and written comments on the Proposed Rates, the Administrator may: (1) Withdraw the proposal; (2) develop rates which in the Administrator's and the Secretary's or his or her designee's judgment should be confirmed, approved, and placed into effect on an interim basis (Provisional Rates); or (3) develop rates which in the Administrator's judgment should be confirmed, approved, and placed into effect by the FERC on a final basis without being placed into effect on an interim basis. A statement shall be prepared and made available to the public setting forth the principal factors on which the Secretary's or his or her designee's or the Administrator's decision was based. The statement shall include an explanation responding to the major comments, criticisms, and alternatives offered during the comment period. The Administrator shall certify that the rates are consistent with applicable law and that they are the lowest possible rates to customers consistent with sound business principles. The rates shall be submitted promptly to the FERC for confirmation and approval on a final basis.

(b) The Secretary or his or her designee shall set the effective date for Provisional Rates. The effective date shall be at least 30 days after the Secretary's or his or her designee's decision except that the effective date may be sooner when appropriate to meet a contract deadline, to avoid financial difficulties, to provide a rate for a new service, or to make a minor rate adjustment.

(c) The effective date may be adjusted by the Administrator to coincide with the beginning of the next billing period following the effective date set by the Secretary or his or her designee for the Provisional Rates.

(d) Provisional Rates shall remain in effect on an interim basis until: (1) They are confirmed and approved on a final basis by the FERC; (2) they are disapproved and the rates last previously confirmed and approved on a final basis become effective; (3) they are disapproved and higher Substitute Rates are confirmed and approved on a final basis and placed in effect by the FERC; (4) they are disapproved and lower Substitute Rates are confirmed and approved on a final basis by the FERC; or (5) they are superseded by other Provisional Rates placed in effect by the Secretary or his or her designee, whichever occurs first.
