
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 904 - GENERAL REGULATIONS FOR THE CHARGES FOR THE SALE OF POWER FROM THE BOULDER CANYON PROJECT
#### Subpart A - Power Marketing
##### ยง 904.7 Base charge.

(a) The Base Charge shall be developed by the Administrator and promulgated in accordance with appropriate DOE regulations. The Base Charge shall be composed of a capacity component and an energy component.

(b) The capacity component of the Base Charge shall be a dollar per kilowattmonth amount determined by (1) multiplying the estimated average annual revenue requirement developed pursuant to paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of ยง 904.5 of these General Regulations by 50 percent, and (2) dividing the results of that multiplication by the estimated average annual kW rating of the Project, and (3) dividing the quotient by 12. The total estimated kW rating will be based on the powerplant output capability with all units in service at 498 feet of net effective head or 1,951,000 kW, whichever is less. The capacity component of the Base Charge shall be applied each billing period to each kW of rated output to which each Contractor is entitled by Contract. Adjustments to the application of the capacity component shall be made during outages which cause significant reductions in capacity as provided by the Contract.

(c) The energy component of the Base Charge shall be a mills per kWh amount determined by (1) multiplying the estimated average annual revenue requirements developed pursuant to paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of ยง 904.5 of these General Regulations by 50 percent and (2) dividing the results of that multiplication by the average annual kWh estimated to be available from the Project. The energy component of the Base Charge shall be applied to each kWh made available to each Contractor, as provided for by Contract, except for the energy purchased by Western, at the request of a Contractor, to meet that Contractor's deficiency in Firm Energy pursuant to section 105(a)(2) of the Hoover Power Plant Act (43 U.S.C. 619(a)(2)) and section F of the Conformed Criteria, and that Contractor's Uprating Program credit carry forward, as provided by Contract.

(d) Application of the Base Charge to capacity and energy overruns will be provided for by Contract. The capacity component and the energy component of the Base Charge shall be applied each billing period for each Contractor.

(e) The Base Charge shall be reviewed annually. The Base Charge shall be adjusted either upward or downward, when necessary and administratively feasible, to assure sufficient revenues to effect payment of all costs and financial obligations associated with the Project pursuant to paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of ยง 904.5 of these General Regulations. The Administrator shall provide all Contractors an opportunity to comment on any proposed adjustment to the Base Charge pursuant to the DOE's power rate adjustment procedures then in effect.
