
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 25 - ACCESS AUTHORIZATION
#### Classified Visits
##### ยง 25.35 Classified visits.

(a) The number of classified visits must be held to a minimum. The licensee, certificate holder, applicant for a standard design certification under part 52 of this chapter (including an applicant after the Commission has adopted a final standard design certification rule under part 52 of this chapter), or other facility, or an applicant for or holder of a standard design approval under part 52 of this chapter shall determine that the visit is necessary and that the purpose of the visit cannot be achieved without access to, or disclosure of, classified information. All classified visits require advance notification to, and approval of, the organization to be visited. In urgent cases, visit information may be furnished by telephone and confirmed in writing.

(b) Representatives of the Federal Government, when acting in their official capacities as inspectors, investigators, or auditors, may visit a licensee, certificate holder, or other facility without furnishing advanced notification, provided these representatives present appropriate Government credentials upon arrival. Normally, however, Federal representatives will provide advance notification in the form of an NRC Form 277, "Request for Visit or Access Approval," with the "need-to-know" certified by the appropriate NRC office exercising licensing or regulatory authority and verification of an NRC access authorization by the Division of Facilities and Security.

(c) The licensee, certificate holder, or others shall include the following information on all Visit Authorization Letters (VAL) which they prepare.

(1) Visitor's name, address, and telephone number and certification of the level of the facility security clearance;

(2) Name, date and place of birth, and citizenship of the individual intending to visit;

(3) Certification of the proposed visitor's personnel clearance and any special access authorizations required for the visit;

(4) Name of person(s) to be visited;

(5) Purpose and sufficient justification for the visit to allow for a determination of the necessity of the visit; and

(6) Date or period during which the VAL is to be valid.

(d) Classified visits may be arranged for a 12 month period. The requesting facility shall notify all places honoring these visit arrangements of any change in the individual's status that will cause the visit request to be canceled before its normal termination date.

(e) The responsibility for determining need-to-know in connection with a classified visit rests with the individual who will disclose classified information during the visit. The licensee, certificate holder or other facility shall establish procedures to ensure positive identification of visitors before the disclosure of any classified information.
