
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 905 - ENERGY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
#### Subpart B - Integrated Resource Planning
##### ยง 905.11 What must an IRP include?
###### Identification of resource options.

(1)Identification and comparison of resource options is an assessment and comparison of existing and future supply-and demand-side resource options available to a customer based upon its size, type, resource needs, geographic area, and competitive situation. Resource options evaluated by the specific customer must be identified. The options evaluated should relate to the resource situation unique to each Western customer as determined by profile data (such as service area, geographical characteristics, customer mix, historical loads, projected growth, existing system data, rates, and financial information) and load forecasts. Specific details of the customer's resource comparison need not be provided in the IRP itself. They must, however, be made available to Western upon request.

(i) Supply-side options include, but are not limited to, purchased power contracts and conventional and renewable generation options.

(ii) Demand-side options alter the customer's use pattern to provide for an improved combination of energy services to the customer and the ultimate consumer.

(iii) Considerations that may be used to develop potential options include cost, market potential, consumer preferences, environmental impacts, demand or energy impacts, implementation issues, revenue impacts, and commercial availability.

(iv) The IRP discussion of resource options must describe the options chosen by the customer, clearly demonstrating that decisions were based on a reasonable analysis of the options. The IRP may strike a balance among the applicable resource evaluation factors.
