
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 905 - ENERGY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
#### Subpart C - Power Marketing Initiative
##### ยง 905.32 Resource extensions and resource pool size.

(a) Western will extend a project-specific percentage of the marketable resource, determined to be available at the time future resource extensions begin, to existing customers with long-term firm power contracts. The remaining unextended power will be used to establish project-specific resource pools. An initial level of 96 percent of the marketable resource will be extended for the Pick-Sloan Missouri Basin Program-Eastern Division and the Loveland Area Projects.

(b) At two 5-year intervals after the effective date of the extension to existing customers, Western shall create a project-specific resource pool increment of up to an additional 1 percent of the long-term marketable resource under contract at the time. The size of the additional resource pool increment shall be determined by Western based on consideration of the actual fair-share needs of eligible new customers and other appropriate purposes.

(c) The initial pool percentages shall be applied to the marketable resource determined to be available at the time future resource extensions begin. Subsequent percentages shall be applied to the resource under contract at the time.

(d) The additional resource pool increments shall be established by pro rata withdrawals, on 2 years' notice, from then-existing customers. Withdrawals could be mitigated or delayed if good water conditions exist.

(e) Once the extensions for existing customers and allocations to new customers from the resource pool have been made, additional power resources may become available for various reasons. Any additional available resources will be used as follows:

(1) If power is reserved for new customers but not allocated, or resources are offered but not placed under contract, this power will be offered on a pro rata basis to customers that contributed to the resource pool through application of the extension formula in ยง 905.33.

(2) If power resources become available as a result of the enhancement of existing generation, project-use load efficiency upgrades, the development of new resources, or resources turned back to Western, Western may elect to use this power to reduce the need to acquire firming resources, retain the power for operational flexibility, sell these resources on a short-term basis, or allocate the power.

(3) If resources become available due to imposition of penalties pursuant to ยง 905.17, Western may make such resources available within the marketing area to existing customers that are in compliance with subpart B, subject to withdrawal.
