
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 950 - STANDBY SUPPORT FOR CERTAIN NUCLEAR PLANT DELAYS
#### Subpart D - Dispute Resolution Process
##### ยง 950.36 Other contract matters in dispute.

(a) If the parties disagree over terms or conditions of the Standby Support Contract other than disagreements related to covered events or covered costs, then the parties shall engage in informal dispute resolution as follows:

(1) The parties shall engage in good faith efforts to resolve the dispute after written notification by one party to the other that there is a contract matter in dispute.

(2) If the parties cannot reach a resolution of the matter in disagreement within thirty (30) days of the written notification of the matter in dispute, then the parties shall have fifteen (15) days during which time they must informally and in good faith participate in mediation to attempt to resolve the disagreement before instituting the process under paragraph (b) of this section. If the parties reach agreement through mediation, the agreement shall constitute a Final Agreement on the matter in dispute.

(3) The parties shall jointly select the mediator(s). The parties shall share equally the cost of the mediation.

(b) If the parties cannot resolve the disagreement through mediation under the timeframe established in paragraph (a)(2) of this section and either party elects to continue pursuing the disagreement, that party shall within ten (10) days submit any remaining issues in controversy to the Civilian Board or its successor, for resolution by an Administrative Judge of the Civilian Board utilizing the Civilian Board's Summary Binding Decision procedure. The parties shall abide by the procedures of the Civilian Board for Summary Binding Decision. The parties shall agree that the decision of the Civilian Board constitutes a Final Decision on the matter in dispute.
