
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 950 - STANDBY SUPPORT FOR CERTAIN NUCLEAR PLANT DELAYS
#### Subpart D - Dispute Resolution Process
##### ยง 950.33 Covered costs dispute resolution.

(a) If a sponsor disagrees with the Claim Determination rendered in accordance with ยง 950.24 and cannot resolve the dispute informally with the Claims Administrator, then the parties agree that any dispute must be resolved as follows:

(1) A sponsor shall, within thirty (30) days of receipt of the Claim Determination, deliver to the Claims Administrator in writing notice of and reasons for its disagreement (Sponsor's Rebuttal), including any expert opinion obtained by the sponsor.

(2) After submission of the sponsor's rebuttal to the Claims Administrator, the parties have fifteen (15) days to informally and in good faith participate in mediation to resolve the disagreement before instituting the process under paragraph (b) of this section. If the parties reach agreement through mediation, the agreement shall constitute a Final Claim Determination.

(3) The parties shall jointly select the mediator(s). The parties shall share equally the cost of the mediator(s).

(b) If the parties cannot resolve the disagreement through mediation under the timeframe established under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, any remaining issues in controversy shall be submitted by the sponsor within ten (10) days to the Civilian Board or its successor, for resolution by an Administrative Judge of the Civilian Board utilizing the Board's Summary Binding Decision procedure. The parties shall abide by the procedures of the Civilian Board for Summary Binding Decision. The parties agree that the decision of the Civilian Board shall constitute a Final Claim Determination.
