
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter III - Department of Energy
### PART 960 - GENERAL GUIDELINES FOR THE PRELIMINARY SCREENING OF POTENTIAL SITES FOR A NUCLEAR WASTE REPOSITORY
#### Subpart D - Preclosure Guidelines
##### ยง 960.5-2 Technical guidelines.

The technical guidelines in this subpart set forth qualifying, favorable, potentially adverse, and, in seven guidelines, disqualifying conditions for the characteristics, processes, and events that influence the suitability of a site relative to the preclosure system guidelines. These conditions are separated into three main groups: Preclosure radiological safety; environment, socioeconomics, and transportation; and ease and cost of siting, construction, operation, and closure. The first group includes conditions on population density and distribution, site ownership and control, meteorology, and offsite installations and operations. The second group includes conditions related to environmental quality and socioeconomic impacts in areas potentially affected by a repository and to the transportation of waste to a repository site. The third group includes conditions on the surface characteristics of the site, the characteristics of the host rock and surrounding strata, hydrology, and tectonics. The individual technical guidelines within each group, as well as the favorable conditions and the potentially adverse conditions under each guideline, are not listed in any assumed order of importance. The technical guidelines that follow establish conditions that shall be considered in determining compliance with the qualifying conditions of the preclosure system guidelines. For each technical guideline, an evaluation of qualification or disqualification shall be made in accordance with the requirements specified in subpart B.
