
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1000 - TRANSFER OF PROCEEDINGS TO THE SECRETARY OF ENERGY AND THE FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION
#### ยง 1000.1 Transfer of proceedings.
##### Proceedings transferred to the Commission.

(c)There are hereby transferred to the jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission the following proceedings:

(1) From the Interstate Commerce Commission:

(i) Ex Parte No. 308-Valuation of Common Carrier Pipelines.

(ii) I&S 9164-Trans Alaska Pipeline System-Rate Filings (including I&S 9164 (Sub-No. 1), NOR 36611, NOR 36611 (Sub-No. 1), NOR 36611 (Sub-No. 2), NOR 36611 (Sub-No. 3), NOR 36611 (Sub-No. 4)).

(iii) I&S 9089-General Increase, December 1975, Williams Pipeline Company.

(iv) I&S 9128-Anhydrous Ammonia, Gulf Central Pipeline Company.

(v) NOR 35533 (Sub-No. 3)-Petroleum Products, Southwest & Midwest Williams Pipeline.

(vi) NOR 35794-Northville Dock Pipeline Corp. et al.

(vii) NOR 35895-Inexco Oil Company v. Belle Fourche Pipeline Co. et al.

(viii) NOR 36217-Department of Defense v. Interstate Storage & Pipeline Corp.

(ix) NOR 36423-Petroleum Products Southwest to Midwest Points.

(x) NOR 36520-Williams Pipeline Company-Petroleum Products Midwest.

(xi) NOR 36553-Kerr-McGee Refining Corporation v. Texoma Pipeline Co.

(xii) Suspension Docket 67124-Williams Pipe Line Co.-General Increase.

(xiii) Valuation Docket 1423-Williams Pipeline Company (1971-1974 inclusive).

(2) To remain with the Commission until forwarding to the Secretary:
