
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1002 - OFFICIAL SEAL AND DISTINGUISHING FLAG
#### Subpart B - Official Seal
##### ยง 1002.11 Description of official seal.

The Department of Energy hereby prescribes as its official seal, of which judicial notice shall be taken pursuant to section 654 of the Department of Energy Organization Act of 1977, 42 U.S.C. 7264, the imprint illustrated below and described as follows:

(a)(1) The official seal includes a green shield bisected by a gold-colored lightning bolt, on which is emblazoned a gold-colored symbolic sun, atom, oil derrick, windmill, and dynamo. It is crested by the white head of an eagle, atop a white rope. Both appear on a blue field surrounded by concentric circles in which the name of the agency, in gold, appears on a green background. Detailing is in black.

(2) The colors used in the configuration are dark green, dark blue, gold, black, and white.

(3) The eagle represents the care in planning and the purposefulness of efforts required to respond to the Nation's increasing demands for energy. The sun, atom, oil derrick, windmill, and dynamo serve as representative technologies whose enhanced development can help meet these demands. The rope represents the cohesiveness in the development of the technologies and their link to our future capabilities. The lightning bolt represents the power of the natural forces from which energy is derived and the Nation's challenge in harnessing the forces.

(4) The color scheme is derived from nature, symbolizing both the source of energy and the support of man's existence. The blue field represents air and water, green represents mineral resources and the earth itself, and gold represents the creation of energy in the release of natural forces. By invoking this symbolism, the color scheme represents the Nation's commitment to meet its energy needs in a manner consistent with the preservation of the natural environment.
