
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1002 - OFFICIAL SEAL AND DISTINGUISHING FLAG
#### Subpart B - Official Seal
##### ยง 1002.12 Use of replicas, reproductions, and embossing seals.

(a) The Secretary and his designees are authorized to affix replicas, reproductions, and embossing seals to appropriate documents, certifications, and other material for all purposes as authorized by this section.

(b) Replicas may be used only for:

(1) Display in or adjacent to DOE facilities, in Department auditoriums, presentation rooms, hearing rooms, lobbies, and public document rooms.

(2) Offices of senior officials.

(3) Official DOE distinguishing flags, adopted and utilized pursuant to subpart C.

(4) Official awards, certificates, medals, and plaques.

(5) Motion picture film, video tape and other audiovisual media prepared by or for DOE and attributed thereto.

(6) Official prestige publications which represent the achievements or mission of DOE.

(7) Non-DOE facilities in connection with events and displays sponsored by DOE, and public appearances of the Secretary or other designated senior DOE Officials.

(8) For other such purposes as determined by the Director of the Office of Administrative Services.

(c) Reproductions may be used only on:

(1) DOE letterhead stationery.

(2) Official DOE identification cards and security credentials.

(3) Business cards for DOE employees.

(4) Official DOE signs.

(5) Official publications or graphics issued by and attributed to DOE, or joint statements of DOE with one or more Federal agencies, State or local governments, or foreign governments.

(6) Official awards, certificates, and medals.

(7) Motion picture film, video tape, and other audiovisual media prepared by or for DOE and attributed thereto.

(8) For other such purposes as determined by the Director of the Office of Administrative Services.

(d) Embossing seals may be used only on:

(1) DOE legal documents, including interagency or intergovernmental agreements, agreements with States, foreign patent applications, and similar documents.

(2) For other such purposes as determined by the General Counsel or the Director of Administration.

(e) Any person who uses the official seal, replicas, reproductions, or embossing seals in a manner inconsistent with this part shall be subject to the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 1017, providing penalties for the wrongful use of an official seal, and to other provisions of law as applicable.

(f) The official seal is being registered with the World Intellectual Property Organization through the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.
