
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1004 - FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT (FOIA)
#### § 1004.5 Processing requests for records.

(a) FOIA Officers will be responsible for processing requests for records submitted pursuant to this part. Upon receiving such a request, the FOIA Officer will, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, ascertain which Authorizing Official has responsibility for, custody of, or concern with the records requested. The FOIA Officer will review the request, consulting with the Authorizing Official where appropriate, to determine its compliance with § 1004.4. Where a request complies with § 1004.4, the FOIA Officer will acknowledge receipt of the request to the requester and forward the request to the Authorizing Official for action.

(b) The Authorizing Official will promptly identify and review the records encompassed by the request. The Authorizing Official or FOIA Officer will prepare a written response-

(1) Granting the request;

(2) Denying the request;

(3) Granting/denying it in part;

(4) Replying with a response stating that the request has been referred to another agency under § 1004.4(f) or § 1004.6(e); or

(5) Informing the requester that responsive records cannot be located or do not exist. The written response shall also notify the requester of the right to seek dispute resolution services from the DOE FOIA Public Liaison(s) or the Office of Government Information Services.

(c) Where a request involves records that are in the custody of or are the concern of more than one Authorizing Official, the FOIA Officer will identify all concerned Authorizing Officials that can reasonably be expected to have custody of the requested records. Upon identification of the appropriate Authorizing Officials, the FOIA Officer will forward them a copy of the request and a request for action. The Authorizing Officials will prepare a DOE response to the requester consistent with paragraph (b) of this section. The response will identify the Authorizing Official having responsibility for the determination to release or deny records.
