
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1004 - FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT (FOIA)
#### ยง 1004.8 Appeal of initial denials.
##### Action within 20 days.

(d)(1) The Appeal Authority will act upon the appeal within 20 days of its receipt, except that if unusual circumstances (as defined in ยง 1004.5(d)(2)) require an extension of time before a decision on a request can be reached, the Appeal Authority may extend the time for final action for an additional ten days less the number of days of any statutory extension which may have been taken by the Authorizing Official during the period of initial determination.

(2) The requester must be promptly notified in writing of the extension, setting forth the reasons for the extension, and the date on which a determination is expected to be issued. Notification will be sent by electronic mail, when possible, or by letter.

(3) If no determination on the appeal has been issued at the end of the 20-day period or the last extension thereof, the requester may consider his administrative remedies to be exhausted and seek a review in a district court of the United States as specified in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4). When no determination can be issued within the applicable time limit, the appeal will nevertheless continue to be processed; on expiration of the time limit the requester will be informed of the reason for the delay, of the date on which a determination may be expected to be issued, and of his right to seek judicial review in the United States district court in the district in which he resides or has his principal place of business, the district in which the records are situated, or the District of Columbia. The requester may be asked to forego judicial review until determination of the appeal.

(4) Nothing in this part will preclude the Appeal Authority and a requester from agreeing to an extension of time for the decision on an appeal. Any such agreement will be confirmed in writing by the Appeal Authority and will clearly specify the total time agreed upon for the appeal decision.
