
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1004 - FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT (FOIA)
#### ยง 1004.11 Handling information of a private business, foreign government, or an international organization.

(a) Whenever a document submitted to DOE contains information which may be exempt from public disclosure, it will be handled in accordance with the procedures in this section. While DOE is responsible for making the final determination with regard to the disclosure or nondisclosure of information contained in requested documents, DOE will consider the submitter's views (as that term is defined in this section) in making its determination. Nothing in this section will preclude the submission of a submitter's views at the time of the submission of the document to which the views relate, or at any other time.

(b) When the DOE may determine, in the course of responding to a FOIA request, not to release information submitted to the DOE (as described in paragraph (a) of this section, and contained in a requested document) without seeking any or further submitter's views, no notice will be given the submitter.

(c) When the DOE, in the course of responding to a FOIA request, cannot make the determination described in paragraph (b) of this section without having for consideration the submitter's views, the submitter shall be promptly notified and provided an opportunity to submit his views on whether information contained in the requested document (1) is exempt from the mandatory public disclosure requirements of the FOIA Act, (2) contains information referred to in 18 U.S.C. 1905, or (3) is otherwise exempt by law from public disclosure. The DOE will make its own determinations as to whether any information is exempt from disclosure. Notice of a determination by the DOE that a claim of exemption made pursuant to this paragraph is being denied will be given to a person making such a claim no less than seven (7) calendar days prior to intended public disclosure of the information in question. For purposes of this section, notice is deemed to be given when mailed to the submitter at the submitter's last known address.

(d) When the DOE, in the course of responding to a FOIA request, cannot make the determination described in paragraph (b) of this section and, without recourse to paragraph (c) of this section, previously has received the submitter's views, the DOE will consider such submitter's views and will not be required to obtain additional submitter's views under the procedure described in paragraph (c) of this section. The DOE will make its own determination with regard to any claim that information be exempted from disclosure. Notice of the DOE's determination to deny a claim of exemption made pursuant to this paragraph will be given to a person making such a claim no less than seven (7) calendar days prior to its intended public disclosure.

(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, DOE offices may require a person submitting documents containing information that may be exempt by law from mandatory disclosure to (1) submit copies of each document from which information claimed to be confidential has been deleted or (2) require that the submitter's views be otherwise made known at the time of the submission. Notice of a determination by the DOE that a claim of exemption is being denied will be given to a person making such a claim no less than seven (7) calendar days prior to intended public disclosure of the information in question. For purposes of this section, notice is deemed to be given when mailed to the submitter at the submitter's last known address.
