
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1004 - FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT (FOIA)
#### ยง 1004.13 Critical electric infrastructure information.
##### Treatment of Submitted Information.

(4)(i) Upon receiving a request for CEII designation of information submitted to DOE, the DOE CEII Coordinator or Coordinator's designee shall review the submission made in accordance with paragraph (g)(2) of this section.

(ii) Information for which CEII treatment is requested will be maintained by the CEII Coordinator or Coordinator's designee in DOE's files as non-public unless and until DOE completes its determination that the information is not entitled to CEII treatment. This approach does not mean that DOE has made a determination regarding CEII designation, and should under no circumstances be construed as such. DOE will endeavor to make a determination as soon as practicable. The Department retains the right to make determinations about any request for CEII designation at any time, including the removal of a previously granted CEII designation. At such time that a determination is made that information does not meet the CEII criteria, DOE will follow the procedures for return of information not designated as CEII outlined in paragraph (g)(6)(iii) of this section.

(iii) When a requester seeks information for which CEII status has been requested but not designated, or when DOE itself is considering release of such information, DOE will render a decision on designation before responding to the requester or releasing such information. Subsequently, the release of information will be treated in accordance with the procedures established for CEII-designated material, or the return of information not designated as CEII.
