
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1004 - FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT (FOIA)
#### ยง 1004.13 Critical electric infrastructure information.
##### Review or requests for reconsideration of designation,Request for Reconsideration.

(i)-(1)(i) Any person who has submitted information and requested such information to be designated as CEII may request reconsideration of a DOE decision not to designate that information as CEII, or to remove an existing CEII designation, on grounds that the information does not meet the required CEII criteria. Within ten (10) business days of notification by DOE of its CEII decision, the person must file a request for reconsideration. The request must be sent to the DOE CEII Coordinator and Coordinator's designee through a secure electronic submission or by mail according to the instructions at 10 CFR 205.12. The request must also be sent to the DOE Office that made the decision at issue and to DOE's Office of General Counsel in Washington, DC, according to the instructions at 10 CFR 205.12. A statement in support of the request for reconsideration must be submitted within twenty (20) business days of the date of the determination. The request and the supporting statement will be considered submitted upon receipt by the Office of the General Counsel.

(ii) Any person who has received a decision denying a request for the release of CEII, in whole or in part, or a decision denying a request to change the designation of CEII, may request reconsideration of that decision. A statement in support of the request for reconsideration must be submitted to the DOE Office of the General Counsel within twenty (20) business days of the date of the determination.

(iii) The Secretary or the DOE Office that made the decision at issue will make a determination, in coordination with the DOE CEII Coordinator or Coordinator's designee, with respect to any request for reconsideration within twenty (20) business days after the receipt of the request and will notify the person submitting the request of the determination and the availability of judicial review.

(iv) Before seeking judicial review in Federal District Court under section 215A(d)(11) of the FPA, a person who received a determination from DOE concerning a CEII designation must first request reconsideration of that determination.

(v) A request for reconsideration triggers a stay of the underlying decision, except in instances where voluntary sharing of the disputed information is necessary for law enforcement purposes, to ensure reliable operation or maintenance of electric or energy infrastructure, to maintain infrastructure security, to address potential threats, or to address an urgent need to disseminate the information quickly due to an emergency or other unforeseen circumstance.
