
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1008 - RECORDS MAINTAINED ON INDIVIDUALS (PRIVACY ACT)
#### Subpart B - Requests for Access or Amendment
##### § 1008.6 Procedures for Privacy Act requests.

(a) Any individual may-

(1) Ask the DOE whether a system of records maintained by the DOE contains records about him or her;

(2) Request access to information pertaining to him or her that is maintained in a DOE system of records;

(3) Request that information about him or her in a DOE system of records be amended or corrected. Requests for correction or amendment may include inquiries concerning:

(i) Whether such information is relevant or necessary to accomplish a purpose that DOE is required to accomplish by statute or Executive Order; or

(ii) If the information is to be used by the DOE in making a determination about the individual, whether the information is as accurate, relevant, timely, or complete as is reasonably necessary to assure fairness in the determination.

(b) Requests submitted pursuant to this section shall:

(1) Be in writing and signed by the individual making the request;

(2) State that the request is a "Privacy Act Access" or "Privacy Act Amendment" request;

(3) Include the identification information required by § 1008.4;

(4) Specify, if possible, the title and identifying number of the system of records as listed in DOE's published notices of system of records;

(5) Provide if possible any additional information to aid DOE in responding to the request, for example, a description of the records sought;

(6) Indicate, as appropriate, the time, place, and form of access sought.

(c) Any request not addressed and marked as specified in paragraph (a) of this section shall be forwarded immediately to the appropriate Privacy Act Officer. An improperly addressed request will not be deemed to have been received for purposes of measuring time periods pursuant to §§ 1008.7 and 1008.10 until actual receipt by the appropriate Privacy Act Officer. The individual making the request shall be notified that the request was improperly addressed and the date when the request was received by the Privacy Act Officer.

(d) Assistance in preparing an access request pursuant to this section may be obtained from any DOE Privacy Act Officer at the locations listed at § 1008.2(e).

(e) An individual shall not be required to state a reason or otherwise justify his request for information or access to a record pertaining to him/her that is contained in a system of records.
