
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1008 - RECORDS MAINTAINED ON INDIVIDUALS (PRIVACY ACT)
#### Subpart B - Requests for Access or Amendment
##### ยง 1008.7 Processing of requests.
###### unusual circumstances

(c) The termas used in this section includes situations where a search for requested records from inactive storage is necessary; cases where a voluminous amount of data is involved; instances where information on other individuals must be separated or expunged from the particular record; and cases where consultation with other agencies which have substantial interest in the response to the request is necessary.

(d) Upon receiving a request, the Privacy Act Officer shall ascertain which System Manager or Managers of the DOE have primary responsibility for, custody of, or concern with the system or systems of records subject to the request and shall forward the request to such System Manager or Managers. The System Manager or Managers shall promptly identify and, in consultation with the General Counsel, review the records encompassed by the request.

(e) Where the request is for access to or information about records, after reviewing the material the System Manager or Managers concerned shall transmit to the Privacy Act Officer the requested material. The transmission to the Privacy Act Officer shall include any recommendation that the request be granted or wholly or partially denied and shall set forth any exemption categories supporting denials. Any denial recommendation must be concurred in by the appropriate General Counsel.

(f) Where the request is for correction or amendment of records, after reviewing the material the System Manager or Managers shall transmit a recommended decision to the Privacy Act Officer. Any recommendation that the request be granted or wholly or partially denied shall cite the exemption relied on and set forth the policy considerations supporting a denial. Any recommendation of denial must be concurred in by General Counsel.
