
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1008 - RECORDS MAINTAINED ON INDIVIDUALS (PRIVACY ACT)
#### Subpart B - Requests for Access or Amendment
##### ยง 1008.12 Exemptions.
###### Classified material.

(1)(i) Subsection (k)(1) permits exemption of systems of records that are specifically authorized under criteria established under statute or Executive Order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy, and are in fact properly classified pursuant to such statute or Executive Order. Restricted Data and Formerly Restricted Data under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, are included in this exemption.

(ii) The DOE systems of records listed below have been exempted under subsection (k)(1) to the extent they contain classified information, in order to prevent serious damage to the national defense or foreign policy that could arise from providing individuals access to classified information. Systems exempted under subsection (k)(1) are:

(A) Alien Visits and Participation (DOE-52).

(B) Clearance Board Cases (DOE-46).

(C) Security Correspondence Files (DOE-49).

(D) Foreign Travel Records (DOE-27)

(E) Legal Files (Claims, Litigations, Criminal Violation, Patents, and other Legal Files) (DOE-41).

(F) Personnel Security Clearance Files (DOE-43).

(G) Personnel Security Clearance Index (Automated) (DOE-42).

(H) Special Access Authorization for Categories of Classified Information (DOE-44).

(I) Administrative and Analytical Records and Reports (DOE-81).

(J) Law Enforcement Investigative Records (DOE-84).

(K) Employee Concerns Program Records (DOE-3)

(L) Whistleblower Investigation, Hearing and Appeal Records (DOE-7)

(M) Intelligence Related Access Authorization (DOE-15)
