
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1008 - RECORDS MAINTAINED ON INDIVIDUALS (PRIVACY ACT)
#### Subpart B - Requests for Access or Amendment
##### ยง 1008.12 Exemptions.
###### Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes.,Provided, however,

(2)(i) Subsection (k)(2) permits the exemption of investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes:That if any individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit to which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law, or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such material, such material shall be provided to such individual, except to the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, or, prior to September 27, 1975, under an implied promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence.

(ii) The DOE systems of records listed below have been exempted under subsection (k)(2) in order to prevent subjects of investigation from frustrating the investigatory process through access to records about themselves or as a result of learning the identities of confidential informants; to prevent disclosure of investigative techniques; to maintain the ability to obtain necessary information; and thereby to insure the proper functioning and integrity of law enforcement activities. Systems of records exempted under subsection (k)(2) are:

(A) Alien Visits and Participation (DOE-52).

(B) Clearance Board Cases (DOE-46).

(C) Security Correspondence Files (DOE-49).

(D) Foreign Travel Records (DOE-27).

(E) Legal Files (Claims, Litigation, Criminal Violations, Patents, and other Legal Files) (DOE-41).

(F) Personnel Security Clearance Files (DOE-43).

(G) Personnel Security Clearance Index (Automated) (DOE-42).

(H) Special Access Authorization for Categories of Classified Information (DOE-44).

(I) DOE Personnel and General Employment Records (DOE-1) (only personnel investigative records concerning current and former DOE employees and applicants for employment by DOE).

(J) Investigative Files of the Inspector General (DOE-54) (only investigative records concerning past and present DOE employees).

(K) Administrative and Analytical Records and Reports (DOE-81).

(L) Law Enforcement Investigative Records (DOE-84).

(M) Allegation-Based Inspections Files of the Office of Inspector General (DOE-83).

(N) Employee Concerns Program Records (DOE-3)

(O) Whistleblower Investigation, Hearing and Appeal Records (DOE-7)

(P) Intelligence Related Access Authorization (DOE-15)
