
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1008 - RECORDS MAINTAINED ON INDIVIDUALS (PRIVACY ACT)
#### Subpart B - Requests for Access or Amendment
##### § 1008.13 Fees.

(a) The only fees to be charged to or collected from an individual under the provisions of this part are for copying records at the request of the individual. The fee charged shall be consistent with the fee schedule set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.

(1) No fees shall be charged or collected for the following: Search for and retrieval of records; review of records; copying by the DOE incident to granting access; copying at the initiative of the DOE without a request from the individual; copying when the aggregate of fees for copying is $25 or less; time spent providing copies; transportation of records and personnel; and first class postage.

(2) It is the policy of the DOE to provide an individual with one copy of each record corrected or amended pursuant to request without charge.

(3) As required by the Office of Personnel Management in its published regulations implementing the Act, the DOE will charge no fee for a single copy of a personnel record covered by that Commission's Government-wide published notice of systems of records.

(b) The schedule of fees is as follows:

(1) $.10 per copy of each page.

(2) For other forms of copying and other forms of materials (e.g., cassettes, computer materials), the direct cost of the materials, personnel, and equipment shall be charged, but only with prior specific approval of the person making the request, when such charges would be in excess of $25.

(c) The Privacy Act Officer may, upon application by an individual, furnish any records without charge or at a reduced rate, if the Privacy Act Officer determines that such waiver or reduction of fees is in the public interest.

(d) Payment shall be made by check or money order payable to the United States Department of Energy.

(e) Advance payment of all or part of the fees may be required at the discretion of the Privacy Act Officer. Unless the individual requesting the copies specifically states that he is willing to pay whatever fees are assessed for meeting the request or, alternatively, specifies an amount in excess of $25 that he is willing to pay and which in fact covers the anticipated fees for meeting the request, a request that is expected to involve assessed fees in excess of $25 shall not be deemed to have been received, for purposes of the time periods specified in §§ 1008.7 and 1008.10 until the individual making the request is notified of the anticipated cost, agrees to bear it, and makes any advance deposit required. Such notification shall be made by the Privacy Act Officer as promptly as possible after receipt of the request.
