
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1008 - RECORDS MAINTAINED ON INDIVIDUALS (PRIVACY ACT)
#### Subpart D - Maintenance and Establishment of Systems of Records
##### ยง 1008.23 Public notice of systems of records.

(a) The DOE shall publish in theat least annually a notice of the existence and character of each of its systems of records, which notice shall include:

(1) The name and location of the system;

(2) The categories of individuals on whom records are maintained in the system;

(3) The categories of records maintained in the system;

(4) Each routine use of the records contained in the system, including the categories of users and the purpose of such use, subject to paragraph (d) of this section;

(5) The policies and practices of the DOE regarding storage, retrievability, access controls, retention, and disposal of the records;

(6) The title and business address of the DOE official who is responsible for the system of records;

(7) The DOE procedures whereby an individual can be notified at his request if the system of records contains a record pertaining to him;

(8) The DOE procedures whereby an individual can be notified at his request about how he can gain access to any record pertaining to him contained in the system or records, and how he can contest its content; and

(9) The categories of source of records in the systems.

(b) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, the notice of systems of records shall not necessarily include the information in paragraphs (a) (7) through (9) of this section if DOE has claimed a general or specific exemption from the requirements of the Act, as provided in ยง 1008.12.

(c) Copies of the notices as printed in theshall be available at the DOE locations listed at ยง 1008.2(c). Requests by mail for copies of such notices should be sent to Privacy Act Officer, Headquarters, U.S. Department of Energy, Washington, DC. 20585. The first copy will be furnished free of charge. For each additional copy, the costs of printing and handling may be charged.

(d) DOE shall publish in thenotice of any new routine use or intended routine use of a record in the system of records, at least 30 calendar days prior to the implementation of any new routine use of a record in a system of records, or at least 30 calendar days prior to publication of the annual notice of such routine uses, as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, an opportunity for interested persons to submit written comments consisting of data, views, or arguments regarding such use to DOE, shall be provided.
