
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1009 - GENERAL POLICY FOR PRICING AND CHARGING FOR MATERIALS AND SERVICES SOLD BY DOE
#### ยง 1009.4 Exclusions.

This part shall not apply when the amount to be priced or charged is otherwise provided for by statute, Executive Order, or regulations. This part does not apply to:

(a) Fees, penalties and fines established by the Economic Regulatory Administration of DOE.

(b) Power marketing and related activities of the Alaska Power Administration, the Bonneville Power Administration, the Southeastern Power Administration, the Southwestern Power Administration, and the Western Power Administration.

(c) Crude oil, natural gas and other petroleum products and services by or from the Naval Petroleum and Oil Shale Reserves.

(d) Uranium enriching services, source material, and special nuclear material.

(e) Requests for information under the Freedom of Information Act and the Privacy Act.

(f) Energy data and information provided by the Energy Information Administration.

(g) Crude oil and related materials and services from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.

(h) The disposal of excess and surplus property.

(i) Access permits for uranium enrichment technology issued in accordance with 10 CFR part 725.

(j) Materials and services provided pursuant to a cooperative agreement, research assistance contract or grant, or made available to a DOE contractor in connection with a contract, the primary purpose of which is to procure materials or services for DOE.
