
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1014 - ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS UNDER FEDERAL TORT CLAIMS ACT
#### ยง 1014.2 Administrative claim; when presented; appropriate office.

(a) For purposes of these regulations, a claim shall be deemed to have been presented when DOE receives, at a place designated in paragraph (b) of this section, an executed Standard Form 95 or other written notification of an incident, accompanied by a claim for money damages in a definite amount for injury to or loss of property, personal injury, or death, that is alleged to have occurred by reason of the incident. A claim that should have been presented to DOE but which was mistakenly addressed to or filed with another Federal agency, shall be deemed to be presented to DOE on the date the claim is received by DOE. A claim mistakenly addressed to or filed with DOE shall be transferred to the appropriate Federal agency, if ascertainable, or returned to the claimant.

(b) Claims should be mailed in envelopes marked "Attention Office of General Counsel." Claims shall be mailed or delivered to the DOE installation or office employing the person or persons whose acts or omissions are alleged to have caused the loss, damage, or injury, unless the claimant does not know that address. If the proper address is unknown, claims may be mailed or delivered to: The General Counsel, U.S. Department of Energy, Washington, DC 20585. Forms may be obtained from the same places.

(c) A claim may be amended by the claimant at any time before final DOE action or before the exercise of the claimant's option under 28 U.S.C. 2675(a). Amendments shall be submitted in writing and signed by the claimant or a duly authorized agent or legal representative. If an amendment to a pending claim is filed in time, the DOE shall have 6 months to decide the claim as amended. The claimant's option under 28 U.S.C. 2675(a) shall not accrue until 6 months after the filing of an amendment.
