
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1014 - ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS UNDER FEDERAL TORT CLAIMS ACT
#### ยง 1014.3 Administrative claim; who may file.

(a) A claim for injury to or loss of property may be presented by the owner of the property interest that is the subject of the claim or the owner's duly authorized agent or legal representative.

(b) A claim for personal injury may be presented by the injured person or the claimant's duly authorized agent or legal representative.

(c) A claim based on death may be presented by the executor or administrator of the decedent's estate or by any other person legally entitled to assert such a claim under the applicable State law.

(d) A claim for a loss that was wholly compensated by an insurer with the rights of a subrogee may be presented by the insurer. A claim for loss that was partially compensated by an insurer with the rights of a subrogee may be presented by the insurer or the insured individually, as their respective interests appear, or jointly. Whenever an insurer presents a claim asserting the rights of a subrogee, it shall present with its claim appropriate evidence that it has the rights of a subrogee.

(e) A claim presented by an agent or legal representative shall be presented in the name of the claimant, be signed by the agent or legal representative, show the title or legal capacity of the person signing, and be accompanied by evidence of authority to present a claim on behalf of the claimant.
