
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1014 - ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS UNDER FEDERAL TORT CLAIMS ACT
#### ยง 1014.4 Administrative claims; evidence and information to be submitted.
##### Personal injury.

(b)In support of a claim for personal injury, including pain and suffering, the claimant may be required to submit the following evidence or information:

(1) A written report by the attending physician or dentist setting forth the nature and extent of the injury, the nature and extent of treatment, any degree of temporary or permanent disability, the prognosis, the period of hospitalization, and any diminished earning capacity. In addition, the claimant may be required to submit to a physical or mental examination by a physician employed by the DOE or another Federal agency. A copy of the physician's report shall be made available to the claimant upon the claimant's written request, provided that the claimant has, upon request, made or agrees to make available to the DOE any physician's reports previously or thereafter made of the physical or mental condition which is the subject matter of the claim.

(2) Itemized bills for medical, dental, and hospital expenses incurred, or itemized receipts of payment for such expenses.

(3) If the prognosis reveals that future treatment will be needed, a statement of the expected expenses of such treatment.

(4) If a claim is made for loss of time from employment, a written statement from the claimant's employer showing actual time lost from employment, whether the claimant is a full-time or part-time employee, and the wages or salary actually lost.

(5) If a claim is made for loss of income and the claimant is self-employed, documentary evidence showing the amounts of earnings actually lost.

(6) Any other evidence or information that may bear on either the responsibility of the United States for the personal injury or the damages claimed.
