
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1015 - COLLECTION OF CLAIMS OWED THE UNITED STATES
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 1015.103 Antitrust, fraud, tax, interagency, transportation account audit, acquisition contract, and financial assistance instrument claims excluded.

(a) The standards in this part relating to compromise, suspension, and termination of collection activity do not apply to any debt based in whole or in part on conduct in violation of the antitrust laws or to any debt involving fraud, the presentation of a false claim, or misrepresentation on the part of the debtor or any party having an interest in the claim. Only the DOJ has the authority to compromise, suspend, or terminate collection activity on such claims. The standards in this part relating to the administrative collection of claims do apply, but only to the extent authorized by the DOJ in a particular case. Upon identification of a claim based in whole or in part on conduct in violation of the antitrust laws or any claim involving fraud, the presentation of a false claim, or misrepresentation on the part of the debtor or any party having an interest in the claim, DOE will promptly refer the case to the DOJ for action. At its discretion, the DOJ may return the claim to DOE for further handling in accordance with the standards in this part.

(b) Part 1015 does not apply to tax debts.

(c) Part 1015 does not apply to claims between Federal agencies. Federal agencies should attempt to resolve interagency claims by negotiation in accordance with Executive Order 12146 (3 CFR, 1980 Comp., pp. 409-412).
