
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1015 - COLLECTION OF CLAIMS OWED THE UNITED STATES
#### Subpart B - Standards for the Administrative Collection of Claims
##### ยง 1015.203 Collection by administrative offset.
###### Mandatory centralized administrative offset.,i.e.,

(b)(1) As described in ยง 1015.201(e), under the DCIA, DOE is required to refer all debts over 180 days delinquent to Treasury for purposes of debt collection (cross-servicing). Administrative offset is one type of collection tool used by Treasury to collect debts referred under 31 CFR 285.12. Thus, by transferring debts to Treasury, DOE will satisfy the requirement to notify Treasury of debts for the purposes of administrative offset and duplicate referrals are not required. A debt, which is not transferred to Treasury for purposes of debt collection, however, may be subject to the DCIA requirement of notification to Treasury for purposes of administrative offset.

(2) The names and taxpayer identifying numbers (TINs) of debtors who owe debts referred to Treasury as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be compared to the names and TINs on payments to be made by Federal disbursing officials. Federal disbursing officials include disbursing officials of Treasury, the Department of Defense, the United States Postal Service, other Government corporations, and disbursing officials of the United States designated by the Secretary of the Treasury. When the name and TIN of a debtor match the name and TIN of a payee and all other requirements for offset have been met, the payment will be offset to satisfy the debt.

(3) Treasury will notify the debtor/payee in writing that an offset has occurred to satisfy, in part or in full, a past due, legally enforceable delinquent debt. The notice shall include a description of the type and amount of the payment from which the offset was taken, the amount of offset that was taken, the identity of DOE as the creditor agency requesting the offset, and a contact point within DOE who will respond to questions regarding the offset.

(4) As required in 31 CFR 901.3(b)(4), DOE will refer a delinquent debt to Treasury for administrative offset, only after the debtor:

(i) Has been sent written notice of the type and amount of the debt, the intention of DOE to use administrative offset to collect the debt, and an explanation of the debtor's rights under 31 U.S.C. 3716; and

(ii) Has been given:

(A) The opportunity to inspect and copy DOE records related to the debt;

(B) The opportunity for a review within DOE of the determination of indebtedness; and

(C) The opportunity to make a written agreement to repay the debt.

(iii) DOE may omit the procedures set forth in paragraph (a)(4) of this section when:

(A) The offset is in the nature of a recoupment;
