
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1015 - COLLECTION OF CLAIMS OWED THE UNITED STATES
#### Subpart B - Standards for the Administrative Collection of Claims
##### ยง 1015.203 Collection by administrative offset.
###### Non-centralized administrative offset.

(c)(1) Generally, non-centralized administrative offsets are ad hoc case-by-case offsets that DOE conducts, at DOE's discretion, internally or in cooperation with the agency certifying or authorizing payments to the debtor. Unless otherwise prohibited by law, when centralized administrative offset is not available or appropriate, past due, legally enforceable non-tax delinquent debts may be collected through non-centralized administrative offset. In these cases, DOE may make a request directly to a payment-authorizing agency to offset a payment due a debtor to collect a delinquent debt. For example, it may be appropriate for DOE to request that the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) offset a Federal employee's lump sum payment upon leaving Government service to satisfy an unpaid advance.

(2) DOE shall comply with offset requests by creditor agencies to collect debts owed to the United States, unless the offset would not be in the best interest of the United States with respect to the program of DOE, or would otherwise be contrary to law. Appropriate use will be made of the cooperative efforts of other agencies in effecting collection by administrative offset.

(3) When collecting multiple debts by non-centralized administrative offset, DOE generally will apply the recovered amounts to those debts in accordance with the best interests of the United States, as determined by the facts and circumstances of the particular case, particularly the applicable statute of limitations.
