
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1015 - COLLECTION OF CLAIMS OWED THE UNITED STATES
#### Subpart B - Standards for the Administrative Collection of Claims
##### ยง 1015.203 Collection by administrative offset.
###### Cecile Industries, Inc.,Cheney,

(B) The debt arises under a contract as set forth inv.995 F.2d 1052 (Fed. Cir. 1993) (notice and other procedural protections set forth in 31 U.S.C. 3716(a) do not supplant or restrict established procedures for contractual offsets accommodated by the Contracts Disputes Act); or

(C) In the case of non-centralized administrative offsets conducted under paragraph (c) of this section, DOE first learns of the existence of the amount owed by the debtor when there is insufficient time before payment would be made to the debtor/payee to allow for prior notice and an opportunity for review. When prior notice and an opportunity for review are omitted, DOE shall give the debtor such notice and an opportunity for review as soon as practicable and shall promptly refund any money ultimately found not to have been owed to the Government.

(iv) When DOE previously has given a debtor any of the required notice and review opportunities with respect to a particular debt (see ยง 1015.202), DOE need not duplicate such notice and review opportunities before administrative offset may be initiated.

(5) When DOE refers delinquent debts to Treasury, DOE must certify, in a form acceptable to Treasury, that:

(i) The debt(s) is (are) past due and legally enforceable; and

(ii) DOE has complied with all due process requirements under 31 U.S.C. 3716(a) and DOE regulations.

(6) Payments that are prohibited by law from being offset are exempt from centralized administrative offset. Treasury may exempt classes of DOE payments from centralized offset upon the written request of the Secretary of DOE.

(7) In accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3716(f), Treasury may waive the provisions of the Computer Matching and Privacy Protection Act of 1988 concerning matching agreements and post-match notification and verification (5 U.S.C. 552a(o) and (p)) for centralized administrative offset upon receipt of a certification from DOE that the due process requirements enumerated in 31 U.S.C. 3716(a) have been met. The certification of a debt in accordance with paragraph (b)(5) of this section will satisfy this requirement. If such a waiver is granted, only the Data Integrity Board of Treasury is required to oversee any matching activities, in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3716(g). This waiver authority does not apply to offsets conducted under paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.
