
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1015 - COLLECTION OF CLAIMS OWED THE UNITED STATES
#### Subpart B - Standards for the Administrative Collection of Claims
##### ยง 1015.207 Suspension or revocation of eligibility for loans and loan guaranties, licenses, permits, or privileges.

(a) Unless waived by the Secretary of DOE or his designee, DOE may not extend financial assistance in the form of a loan, loan guarantee, or loan insurance to any person who DOE knows to be delinquent on a non-tax debt owed to a Federal agency. This prohibition does not apply to disaster loans. The authority to waive the application of this section may be delegated to the Chief Financial Officer and redelegated only to the Deputy Chief Financial Officer of DOE. DOE may extend credit after the delinquency has been resolved. See 31 CFR 285.13 (Barring Delinquent Debtors From Obtaining Federal Loans or Loan Insurance or Guarantees).

(b) In non-bankruptcy cases, DOE offices seeking the collection of statutory penalties, forfeitures, or other types of claims should consider the suspension or revocation of licenses, permits, or other privileges for any inexcusable or willful failure of a debtor to pay such a debt in accordance with DOE's regulations or governing procedures. The debtor should be advised in DOE's written demand for payment of DOE's ability to suspend or revoke licenses, permits, or privileges. Any DOE office making, guaranteeing, insuring, acquiring, or participating in loans should consider suspending or disqualifying any lender, contractor, or broker from doing further business with DOE or engaging in programs sponsored by DOE if such lender, contractor, or broker fails to pay its debts to the Government within a reasonable time or if such lender, contractor, or broker has been suspended, debarred, or disqualified from participation in a program or activity by another Federal agency. The failure of any surety to honor its obligations in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 9305 should be reported to Treasury. Treasury will forward to all interested agencies notification that a surety's certificate of authority to do business with the Government has been revoked by Treasury.

(c) The suspension or revocation of licenses, permits, or privileges also should extend to Federal programs or activities that are administered by the states on behalf of the Federal Government, to the extent that they affect the Federal Government's ability to collect money or funds owed by debtors. Therefore, states that manage Federal activities, pursuant to approval from DOE, should ensure that appropriate steps are taken to safeguard against issuing licenses, permits, or privileges to debtors who fail to pay their debts to the Federal Government.

(d) In bankruptcy cases, before advising the debtor of DOE's intention to suspend or revoke licenses, permits, or privileges, DOE will seek legal advice from counsel concerning the impact of the Bankruptcy Code, particularly 11 U.S.C. 362 and 525, which may restrict such action.
