
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1015 - COLLECTION OF CLAIMS OWED THE UNITED STATES
#### Subpart C - Standards for the Compromise of Claims
##### ยง 1015.301 Scope and application.

(a) The standards set forth in this subpart apply to the compromise of debts pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3711. DOE's Chief Financial Officer or designee or Heads of Field Elements or designees in field locations may exercise such compromise authority for debts arising out of activities of, or referred or transferred for collection services to, DOE when the amount of the debt then due, exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative costs, does not exceed $100,000 or any higher amount authorized by the Attorney General.

(b) Unless otherwise provided by law, when the principal balance of a debt, exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative costs, exceeds $100,000 or any higher amount authorized by the Attorney General, the authority to accept the compromise rests with the DOJ. DOE will evaluate the compromise offer, using the factors set forth in this part. If an offer to compromise any debt in excess of $100,000 is acceptable to DOE, DOE shall refer the debt to the Civil Division or other appropriate litigating division in the DOJ using a Claims Collection Litigation Report (CCLR). DOE may obtain the CCLR from the DOJ's National Central Intake Facility. The referral shall include appropriate financial information and a recommendation for the acceptance of the compromise offer. DOJ approval is not required if DOE rejects a compromise offer.
