
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1015 - COLLECTION OF CLAIMS OWED THE UNITED STATES
#### Subpart D - Standards for Suspending or Terminating Collection Activity
##### ยง 1015.402 Suspension of collection activity.

(a) DOE may suspend collection activity on a debt when:

(1) DOE cannot locate the debtor;

(2) The debtor's financial condition is expected to improve; or

(3) The debtor has requested a waiver or review of the debt.

(b) Based on the current financial condition of the debtor, DOE may suspend collection activity on a debt when the debtor's future prospects justify retention of the debt for periodic review and collection activity and:

(1) The applicable statute of limitations has not expired; or

(2) Future collection can be effected by administrative offset, notwithstanding the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations for litigation of claims, with due regard to the 10-year limitation for administrative offset prescribed by 31 U.S.C. 3716(e)(1); or

(3) The debtor agrees to pay interest on the amount of the debt on which collection will be suspended, and such suspension is likely to enhance the debtor's ability to pay the full amount of the principal of the debt with interest at a later date.

(c)(1) DOE shall suspend collection activity during the time required for consideration of the debtor's request for waiver or administrative review of the debt if the statute under which the request is sought prohibits DOE from collecting the debt during that time. As indicated in ยง 1015.212(h), DOE will continue to accrue interest, penalties, and administrative costs during the period collection activity is suspended.

(2) If the statute under which the request is sought does not prohibit collection activity pending consideration of the request, DOE may use discretion, on a case-by-case basis, to suspend collection. Further, DOE ordinarily will suspend collection action upon a request for waiver or review if DOE is prohibited by statute or regulation from issuing a refund of amounts collected prior to DOE's consideration of the debtor's request. However, DOE will not suspend collection when DOE determines that the request for waiver or review is frivolous or was made primarily to delay collection.

(d) When DOE learns that a bankruptcy petition has been filed with respect to a debtor, in most cases the collection activity on a debt must be suspended, pursuant to the provisions of 11 U.S.C. 362, 1201, and 1301, unless DOE can clearly establish that the automatic stay has been lifted or is no longer in effect. DOE will seek legal advice immediately from counsel and, if legally permitted, take the necessary legal steps to ensure that no funds or money is paid by DOE to the debtor until relief from the automatic stay is obtained.
