
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1015 - COLLECTION OF CLAIMS OWED THE UNITED STATES
#### Subpart D - Standards for Suspending or Terminating Collection Activity
##### ยง 1015.405 Discharge of indebtedness; reporting requirements.

(a) Before discharging a delinquent debt (also referred to as a close out of the debt), DOE shall take all appropriate steps to collect the debt in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3711(g), including, as applicable, administrative offset, tax refund offset, Federal salary offset, referral to Treasury, Treasury-designated debt collection centers or private collection contractors, credit bureau reporting, wage garnishment, litigation, and foreclosure. Discharge of indebtedness is distinct from termination or suspension of collection activity under ยง 1015.400 of this part and is governed by the Internal Revenue Code. When collection action on a debt is suspended or terminated, the debt remains delinquent and further collection action may be pursued at a later date in accordance with the standards set forth in this subpart. When DOE discharges a debt in full or in part, further collection action is prohibited. Therefore, DOE will make the determination that collection action is no longer warranted before discharging a debt. Before discharging a debt, DOE must terminate debt collection action.

(b) 31 U.S.C. 3711(i) requires DOE to sell a delinquent non-tax debt upon termination of collection action if Treasury determines such a sale is in the best interests of the United States. Since the discharge of a debt precludes any further collection action (including the sale of a delinquent debt), DOE may not discharge a debt until the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 3711(i) have been met.

(c) Upon discharge of an indebtedness, DOE must report the discharge to the IRS in accordance with the requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6050P and 26 CFR 1.6050P-1. DOE may request Treasury or Treasury-designated debt collection centers to file such a discharge report to the IRS on DOE's behalf.

(d) When discharging a debt, DOE must request that litigation counsel release any liens of record securing the debt.
