
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1015 - COLLECTION OF CLAIMS OWED THE UNITED STATES
#### Subpart E - Referrals to the Department of Justice
##### § 1015.502 Prompt referral.

(a) If a debt is not referred to the DOJ through Treasury's cross-servicing program, DOE shall promptly refer to the DOJ for litigation debts on which aggressive collection activity has been taken in accordance with § 1015.200 of this part and that cannot be compromised, or on which collection activity cannot be suspended or terminated, in accordance with §§ 1015.300 and 1015.400 of this part. DOE may refer those debts arising out of activities of DOE. Debts for which the principal amount is over $1,000,000, or such other amount as the Attorney General may direct, exclusive of interest and penalties, shall be referred to the Civil Division or other division responsible for litigating such debts at the DOJ, Washington, DC. Debts for which the principal amount is $1,000,000, or less, or such other amount as the Attorney General may direct, exclusive of interest or penalties, shall be referred to the DOJ's Nationwide Central Intake Facility as required by the CCLR instructions. Claims will be referred as early as possible, consistent with aggressive agency collection activity and the observance of the standards contained in the Federal Claims Collection Standards (31 CFR parts 900-904), and, in any event, well within the period for initiating timely lawsuits against the debtors. DOE shall make every effort to refer delinquent debts to the DOJ for litigation within one year of the date such debts last became delinquent. In the case of guaranteed or insured loans, DOE will make every effort to refer these delinquent debts to the DOJ for litigation within one year from the date the loan was presented to DOE for payment or re-insurance.

(b) The DOJ has exclusive jurisdiction over the debts referred to it pursuant to this section. DOE shall refrain from having any contact with the debtor and shall direct all debtor inquiries concerning the claim to the DOJ. DOE shall notify the DOJ immediately of any payments credited by DOE to the debtor's account after referral of a debt or claim under this section. The DOJ shall notify DOE, in a timely manner, of any payments it receives from the debtor.
