
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1016 - SAFEGUARDING OF RESTRICTED DATA BY ACCESS PERMITTEES
#### General Provisions
##### ยง 1016.3 Definitions.
###### Access authorization.

(a)An administrative determination by DOE that an individual who is either a DOE employee, applicant for employment, consultant, assignee, other Federal department or agency employee (or other persons who may be designated by the Secretary of Energy), or a DOE contractor or subcontractor employee, or an access permittee is eligible for access to Restricted Data. Access authorizations granted by DOE are designated as "Q," "Q(X)," "L," or "L(X)."

(1) "Q" access authorizations are based upon single scope background investigations as set forth in applicable DOE and national-level directives. They permit an individual who has "need to know" access to Top Secret, Secret and Confidential Restricted Data, Formerly Restricted Data, National Security Information, or special nuclear material in Category I or II quantities as required in the performance of duties, subject to additional determination that permitting this access will not endanger the common defense or national security of the United States. There may be additional requirements for access to specific types of RD information.

(2) "Q(X)" access authorizations are based upon the same level of investigation required for a Q access authorization. When "Q" access authorizations are granted to access permittees they are identified as "Q(X)" access authorizations and, as need-to-know applies, authorize access only to the type of Secret Restricted Data as specified in the permit and consistent with appendix A, 10 CFR part 725, "Categories of Restricted Data Available."

(3) "L" access authorizations are based upon a Tier III (formerly National Agency Check with Local Agency Checks and Credit Checks (NACLC)/Access National Agency Check with Inquiries (ANACI)) background investigation as set forth in applicable national-level directives. They permit an individual who has "need to know" access to Confidential Restricted Data, Secret and Confidential Formerly Restricted Data, or Secret and Confidential National Security Information, required in the performance of duties, provided such information is not designated "CRYPTO" (classified cryptographic information), "COMSEC" (communications security), or intelligence information and subject to additional determination that permitting this access will not endanger the common defense or national security of the United States. There may be additional requirements for access to specific types of RD information.

(4) "L(X)" access authorizations are based upon the same level of investigation required for an "L" access authorization. When "L" access authorizations are granted to access permittees, they are identified as "L(X)" access authorizations and, as need to know applies, authorize access only to the type of Confidential Restricted Data as specified in the permit and consistent with appendix A, 10 CFR part 725, "Categories of Restricted Data Available."
