
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1021 - NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT IMPLEMENTING PROCEDURES
#### Subpart C - Implementing Procedures
##### ยง 1021.314 Supplemental environmental impact statements.

(a) DOE shall prepare a supplemental EIS if there are substantial changes to the proposal or significant new circumstances or information relevant to environmental concerns, as discussed in 40 CFR 1502.9(c)(1).

(b) DOE may supplement a draft EIS or final EIS at any time, to further the purposes of NEPA, in accordance with 40 CFR 1502.9(c)(2).

(c) When it is unclear whether or not an EIS supplement is required, DOE shall prepare a Supplement Analysis.

(1) The Supplement Analysis shall discuss the circumstances that are pertinent to deciding whether to prepare a supplemental EIS, pursuant to 40 CFR 1502.9(c).

(2) The Supplement Analysis shall contain sufficient information for DOE to determine whether:

(i) An existing EIS should be supplemented;

(ii) A new EIS should be prepared; or

(iii) No further NEPA documentation is required.

(3) DOE shall make the determination and the related Supplement Analysis available to the public for information. Copies of the determination and Supplement Analysis shall be provided upon written request. DOE shall make copies available for inspection in the appropriate DOE public reading room(s) or other appropriate location(s) for a reasonable time.

(d) DOE shall prepare, circulate, and file a supplement to a draft or final EIS in the same manner as any other draft and final EISs, except that scoping is optional for a supplement. If DOE decides to take action on a proposal covered by a supplemental EIS, DOE shall prepare a ROD in accordance with the provisions of ยง 1021.315 of this part.

(e) When applicable, DOE will incorporate an EIS supplement, or the determination and supporting Supplement Analysis made under paragraph (c) of this section, into any related formal administrative record on the action that is the subject of the EIS supplement or determination (40 CFR 1502.9(c)(3)).
