
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1021 - NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT IMPLEMENTING PROCEDURES
#### Subpart C - Implementing Procedures
##### ยง 1021.313 Public review of environmental impact statements.

(a) The public review and comment period on a DOE draft EIS shall be no less than 45 days (40 CFR 1506.10(c)). The public comment period begins when EPA publishes a Notice of Availability of the document in the

(b) DOE shall hold at least one public hearing on DOE draft EISs. Such public hearings shall be announced at least 15 days in advance. The announcement shall identify the subject of the draft EIS and include the location, date, and time of the public hearings.

(c) DOE shall prepare a final EIS following the public comment period and hearings on the draft EIS. The final EIS shall respond to oral and written comments received during public review of the draft EIS, as provided at 40 CFR 1503.4. In addition to the requirements at 40 CFR 1502.9(b), a DOE final EIS may include any Statement of Findings required by 10 CFR part 1022, "Compliance with Floodplain and Wetland Environmental Review Requirements," or a Statement of Findings may be issued separately.

(d) DOE shall use appropriate means to publicize the availability of draft and final EISs and the time and place for public hearings on a draft EIS. The methods chosen should focus on reaching persons who may be interested in or affected by the proposal and may include the methods listed in 40 CFR 1506.6(b)(3).
