
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1021 - NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT IMPLEMENTING PROCEDURES
#### Subpart C - Implementing Procedures
##### ยง 1021.301 Agency review and public participation.

(a) DOE shall make its NEPA documents available to other Federal agencies, states, local governments, American Indian tribes, interested groups, and the general public, in accordance with 40 CFR 1506.6, except as provided in ยง 1021.340 of this part.

(b) Wherever feasible, DOE NEPA documents shall explain technical, scientific, or military terms or measurements using terms familiar to the general public, in accordance with 40 CFR 1502.8.

(c) DOE shall notify the host state and host tribe of a DOE determination to prepare an EA or EIS for a DOE proposal, and may notify any other state or American Indian tribe that, in DOE's judgment, may be affected by the proposal.

(d) DOE shall provide the host state and host tribe with an opportunity to review and comment on any DOE EA prior to DOE's approval of the EA. DOE may also provide any other state or American Indian tribe with the same opportunity if, in DOE's judgment, the state or tribe may be affected by the proposed action. At DOE's discretion, this review period shall be from 14 to 30 days. DOE shall consider all comments received from a state or tribe during the review period before approving or modifying the EA, as appropriate. If all states and tribes afforded this opportunity for preapproval review waive such opportunity, or provide a response before the end of the comment period, DOE may proceed to approve or take other appropriate action on the EA before the end of the review period.

(e) Paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section shall not apply to power marketing actions, such as rate-setting, in which a state or American Indian tribe is a customer, or to any other circumstances where DOE determines that such advance information could create a conflict of interest.
