
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1021 - NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT IMPLEMENTING PROCEDURES
#### Subpart C - Implementing Procedures
##### ยง 1021.330 Programmatic (including site-wide) NEPA documents.

(a) When required to support a DOE programmatic decision (40 CFR 1508.18(b)(3)), DOE shall prepare a programmatic EIS or EA (40 CFR 1502.4). DOE may also prepare a programmatic EIS or EA at any time to further the purposes of NEPA.

(b) A DOE programmatic NEPA document shall be prepared, issued, and circulated in accordance with the requirements for any other NEPA document, as established by the CEQ Regulations and this part.

(c) As a matter of policy when not otherwise required, DOE shall prepare site-wide EISs for certain large, multiple-facility DOE sites; DOE may prepare EISs or EAs for other sites to assess the impacts of all or selected functions at those sites.

(d) DOE shall evaluate site wide NEPA documents prepared under ยง 1021.330(c) at least every five years. DOE shall evaluate site-wide EISs by means of a Supplement Analysis, as provided in ยง 1021.314. Based on the Supplement Analysis, DOE shall determine whether the existing EIS remains adequate or whether to prepare a new site-wide EIS or supplement the existing EIS, as appropriate. The determination and supporting analysis shall be made available in the appropriate DOE public reading room(s) or in other appropriate location(s) for a reasonable time.

(e) DOE shall evaluate site-wide EAs by means of an analysis similar to the Supplement Analysis to determine whether the existing site-wide EA remains adequate, whether to prepare a new site-wide EA, revise the FONSI, or prepare a site wide EIS, as appropriate. The determination and supporting analysis shall be made available in the appropriate DOE public reading room(s) or in other appropriate location(s) for a reasonable time.
