
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1021 - NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT IMPLEMENTING PROCEDURES
#### Subpart D - Typical Classes of Actions
##### Appendix A to Subpart D of Part 1021 - Categorical Exclusions Applicable to General Agency Actions

Routine actions necessary to support the normal conduct of DOE business limited to administrative, financial, and personnel actions.

Contract interpretations, amendments, and modifications that are clarifying or administrative in nature.

Adjustments, exceptions, exemptions, appeals and stays, modifications, or rescissions of orders issued by the Office of Hearings and Appeals.

Interpretations and rulings with respect to existing regulations, or modifications or rescissions of such interpretations and rulings.

Rulemakings interpreting or amending an existing rule or regulation that does not change the environmental effect of the rule or regulation being amended.

Rulemakings that are strictly procedural, including, but not limited to, rulemaking (under 48 CFR chapter 9) establishing procedures for technical and pricing proposals and establishing contract clauses and contracting practices for the purchase of goods and services, and rulemaking (under 10 CFR part 600) establishing application and review procedures for, and administration, audit, and closeout of, grants and cooperative agreements.

Awards of contracts for technical support services, management and operation of a government-owned facility, and personal services.

Information gathering (including, but not limited to, literature surveys, inventories, site visits, and audits), data analysis (including, but not limited to, computer modeling), document preparation (including, but not limited to, conceptual design, feasibility studies, and analytical energy supply and demand studies), and information dissemination (including, but not limited to, document publication and distribution, and classroom training and informational programs), but not including site characterization or environmental monitoring. (See also B3.1 of appendix B to this subpart.)

Reports and recommendations on legislation or rulemaking that are not proposed by DOE.

Technical advice and planning assistance to international, national, state, and local organizations.

Emergency preparedness planning activities, including, but not limited to, the designation of onsite evacuation routes.

Administrative, organizational, or procedural Policies, Orders, Notices, Manuals, and Guides.

Approval of technical exchange arrangements for information, data, or personnel with other countries or international organizations (including, but not limited to, assistance in identifying and analyzing another country's energy resources, needs and options).

Approval of DOE participation in international "umbrella" agreements for cooperation in energy research and development activities that would not commit the U.S. to any specific projects or activities.
