
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1021 - NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT IMPLEMENTING PROCEDURES
#### Subpart D - Typical Classes of Actions
##### Appendix C to Subpart D of Part 1021 - Classes of Actions that Normally Require EAs but not Necessarily EISs

Rate changes for electric power, power transmission, and other products or services provided by Power Marketing Administrations that are based on changes in revenue requirements if the operations of generation projects would not remain within normal operating limits.

Upgrading or rebuilding more than approximately 20 miles in length of existing powerlines; or construction of powerlines (1) More than approximately 10 miles in length outside previously disturbed or developed powerline or pipeline rights-of-way or (2) more than approximately 20 miles in length within previously disturbed or developed powerline or pipeline rights-of-way.

Implementation of a Power Marketing Administration system-wide vegetation management program.

Implementation of a Power Marketing Administration system-wide erosion control program.

Establishment and implementation of contracts, policies, and marketing and allocation plans related to electric power acquisition that involve (1) The interconnection of, or acquisition of power from, new generation resources that are equal to or less than 50 average megawatts; (2) changes in the normal operating limits of generation resources equal to or less than 50 average megawatts; or (3) service to discrete new loads of less than10 average megawatts over a 12-month period.

Large-scale activities undertaken to protect cultural resources (such as fencing, labeling, and flagging) or to protect, restore, or improve fish and wildlife habitat, fish passage facilities (such as fish ladders and minor diversion channels), or fisheries.

Field demonstration projects for wetlands mitigation, creation, and restoration.

Siting, construction or modification, operation, and decommissioning of low- or medium-energy (when the primary beam energy exceeds approximately 100 million electron volts and the average beam power exceeds approximately 250 kilowatts or where the average current exceeds 2.5 milliamperes) particle acceleration facilities, including electron beam acceleration facilities, and associated beamlines, storage rings, colliders, and detectors for research and medical purposes, within or contiguous to a previously disturbed or developed area (where active utilities and currently used roads are readily accessible).

Siting, construction, operation, and decommissioning of energy system demonstration actions (including, but not limited to, wind resource, hydropower, geothermal, fossil fuel, biomass, and solar energy, but excluding nuclear). For purposes of this category, "demonstration actions" means actions that are undertaken at a scale to show whether a technology would be viable on a larger scale and suitable for commercial deployment.

Siting, construction (or expansion), operation, and decommissioning of wastewater, surface water, potable water, and sewage treatment facilities with a total capacity greater than approximately 250,000 gallons per day, and of lower capacity wastewater and surface water treatment facilities whose liquid discharges are not subject to external regulation.

Siting, construction (or expansion), operation, and decommissioning of research and development incinerators for any type of waste and of any other incinerators that would treat nonhazardous solid waste (as designated in 40 CFR 261.4(b)).

Siting, construction, modification to increase capacity, operation, and decommissioning of packaging and unpacking facilities (such as characterization operations) and large storage facilities (greater than approximately 50,000 square feet in area) for waste, except high-level radioactive waste, generated onsite or resulting from activities connected to site operations. These actions do not include storage, packaging, or unpacking of spent nuclear fuel. (See also B6.4, B6.5, B6.6, and B6.10 of appendix B.)
