
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1040 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN FEDERALLY ASSISTED PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 1040.5 Designation of responsible employee.
###### Designation of responsible employee.

(a)Each recipient shall designate at least one employee to coordinate its efforts to carry outs its responsibilities under this part. The recipient shall publish the name, office address and telephone number of the employee or employees appointed under this paragraph.

(b) A recipient shall display prominently, in reasonable numbers and places, posters which state that the recipient operates a program or activity subject to the nondiscrimination provisions of applicable subparts, summarize those requirements, note availability of information regarding this part from the recipient and DOE, and explain briefly the procedures for filing a complaint. Information on requirements of this part, complaint procedures and the rights of beneficiaries are to be included in handbooks, manuals, pamphlets, and other materials which are ordinarily distributed to the public to describe the federally assisted programs or activities and the requirements for participation by recipients and beneficiaries. To the extent that recipients are required by law or regulation to publish or broadcast information in the news media, the recipient shall insure that such publications and broadcasts state that the program or activity in question is an equal opportunity program or activity or otherwise indicate that discrimination in the program is prohibited by Federal law.

(c) Where a significant number or proportion of the population eligible to be served or likely to be directly affected by a federally assisted program or activity requires service or information in a language other than English in order to be informed of or to participate in the program, the recipient shall take reasonable steps, considering the scope of the program and size and concentration of such population, to provide information in appropriate languages (including braille) to such persons. This requirement applies to written material of the type which is ordinarily distributed to the public. The Department may require a recipient to take additional steps to carry out the intent of this subsection.
