
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1040 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN FEDERALLY ASSISTED PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES
#### Subpart E - Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Age - Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as Amended
##### Investigation, Conciliation and Enforcement Procedures
###### ยง 1040.89-6 Mediation.
####### Referral of complaints for mediation.

(a)DOE will refer to the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, in accordance with 45 CFR 90.43(c)(3), all complaints that:

(1) Fall within the jurisdiction of the Act and these regulations; and

(2) Contain all information necessary for further processing.

(b) Both the complainant and the recipient shall participate in the mediation process to the extent necessary to reach an agreement or make an informed judgment that an agreement is not possible. There must be at least one meeting with the mediator before the Director, Office of Civil Rights and Diversity, will accept a judgment that an agreement is not possible. However, the recipient and the complainant need not meet with the mediator at the same time.

(c) If the complainant and the recipient reach an agreement, the mediator shall prepare a written statement of the agreement and have the complainant and the recipient sign it. The mediator shall send a copy of the agreement to the Director, Office of Civil Rights and Diversity, DOE. DOE will take no further action on the complaint unless the complainant or the recipient fails to comply with the agreement.

(d) DOE will use the mediation process for a maximum of 60 days after referring a complaint to mediation. Mediation ends if:

(1) 60 days elapse from the time the mediation agency receives the complaint; or

(2) Prior to the end of the 60 day mediation period, an agreement is reached; or

(3) Prior to the end of that 60 day mediation period, the mediator determines that an agreement cannot be reached.

(e) The mediator shall return unresolved complaints to the Director, Office of Civil Rights and Diversity, DOE.
