
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1040 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN FEDERALLY ASSISTED PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES
#### Subpart H - Enforcement
##### Opportunity for Hearing
###### ยง 1040.121 Notice of opportunity for hearing.

(a) Whenever an opportunity for hearing is required by ยง 1040.113, the Director, OEO, or his/her designee shall serve on the applicant or recipient, by registered, certified mail, or return receipt requested, a notice of opportunity for hearing which will:

(1) Inform the applicant or recipient of the action proposed to be taken and of his/her right within twenty (20) days of the date of the notice of opportunity for hearing, or another period which may be specified in the notice, to request a hearing;

(2) Set forth the alleged item or items of noncompliance with this part;

(3) Specify the issues;

(4) State that compliance with this part may be effected by an order providing for the termination of or refusal to grant or to continue assistance, as appropriate, under the program involved; and

(5) Provide that the applicant or recipient may file a written answer with the Director, OEO, to the notice of opportunity for hearing under oath or affirmation within twenty (20) days of its date, or another period which may be specified in the notice.

(b) An applicant or recipient may file an answer, and waive or fail to request a hearing, without waiving the requirement for findings of fact and conclusions of law or the right to seek review by the FERC in accordance with the provisions established by the FERC. At the time an answer is filed, the applicant or recipient may also submit written information or argument for the record if he/she does not request a hearing.

(c) An answer or stipulation may consent to the entry of an order in substantially the form set forth in the notice of opportunity for hearing. The order may be entered by the General Counsel or his/her designee. The consent of the applicant or recipient to the entry of an order shall constitute a waiver by him/her of a right to:

(1) A hearing under Sec. 902 of title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 602 of title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Section 16, Section 401 and ยง 1040.113;

(2) Findings of fact and conclusions of law; and

(3) Seek review by the FERC.

(d) The failure of an applicant or recipient to file an answer within the period prescribed or, if the applicant or recipient requests a hearing, his failure to appear at the hearing shall constitute a waiver by him/her of a right to:

(1) A hearing under Section 902 of title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 602 of title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Section 16, Section 401, and ยง 1040.113;

(2) Conclusions of law; and

(3) Seek review by the FERC.

(e) An order entered in accordance with paragraph (c) or (d) of this section shall constitute the final decision of DOE unless the FERC, within forty-five (45) days after entry of the order, issues a subsequent decision which shall then constitute the final decision of DOE.

(f) A copy of an order entered by the FERC official shall be mailed to the applicant or recipient and to the complainant, if any.
