
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1045 - NUCLEAR CLASSIFICATION AND DECLASSIFICATION
#### Subpart C - Determining if Information is RD, FRD, or TFNI
##### ยง 1045.105 What is the method to request the declassification of RD, FRD or TFNI?

(a) If a person believes RD, FRD, or TFNI should not be classified, he or she may submit a declassification proposal. Proposals must be submitted in writing and must include a description of the information concerned and may include a reason for the request. If submitted by a person with access to RD, FRD, or TFNI, the request must be submitted through secure means. The proposal is processed as follows:

(b) The Associate Under Secretary for Environment, Health, Safety and Security considers declassification proposals from the public and Government agencies and their contractors for the declassification of RD, FRD, and TFNI on an ongoing basis. For FRD, the Director, Office of Classification, will coordinate the declassification proposal with the appropriate DoD official (as specified in DoD Instruction 5210.02 or subsequent instructions).

(c) Declassification proposals may be sent to the Associate Under Secretary for Environment, Health, Safety and Security, AU-1/Forrestal Building, U.S. Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20585. For FRD, the proposal may be sent to the Director, Office of Classification, or the appropriate DoD official (as specified in DoD Instruction 5210.02 or subsequent instructions). DOE and DoD must coordinate with one another concerning declassification proposals for FRD.
