
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1045 - NUCLEAR CLASSIFICATION AND DECLASSIFICATION
#### Subpart D - Classifying and Declassifying Matter Containing RD, FRD, or TFNI
##### ยง 1045.115 Who is authorized to derivatively classify matter that contains RD, FRD, or TFNI?

(a) Specific authority and/or training is required to derivatively classify matter containing RD, FRD, or TFNI. These derivative classification decisions must be based on a classification guide, a classification bulletin, or a portion-marked source document and must only be made in the RD Derivative Classifier's subject areas of expertise. In cases where guidance does not exist, for RD the Director, Office of Classification must make an initial determination that information is RD or that the matter contains RD, and for FRD DOE and DoD must jointly determine that the information is FRD or the matter contains FRD. No other agency or agency personnel has the authority to make an initial determination regarding RD or FRD. See ยง 1045.135 for the process for requesting a determination in cases where guidance does not exist.

(b) Each person who derivatively classifies matter containing RD or FRD must be an RD Derivative Classifier.

(c) Except for DoD military and DoD Federal civilian employees, each RD Derivative Classifier must be designated by name or position in writing in accordance with agency procedures.

(d) An agency contractor employee may be an RD Derivative Classifier. All contractor employees, including DoD contractors, must be designated by name or position as such in writing in accordance with agency procedures.

(e) Once a person is an RD Derivative Classifier for an agency, he or she may classify matter containing RD or FRD in those subject areas in which they have programmatic expertise for any agency, provided the other agency or agencies accept the existing authority.

(f) No specific designation as an RD Derivative Classifier is required to classify matter containing TFNI. Any person who has received training required by ยง 1045.120 may classify matter containing TFNI.
