
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1045 - NUCLEAR CLASSIFICATION AND DECLASSIFICATION
#### Subpart D - Classifying and Declassifying Matter Containing RD, FRD, or TFNI
##### ยง 1045.140 How is matter containing RD, FRD, or TFNI marked?
###### Working papers containing RD, FRD, or TFNI.

(c)Prior to the determination that matter contains RD, FRD, or TFNI, it must be marked and protected as a working paper. Matter that has not been reviewed that potentially contains RD, FRD, or TFNI, or is expected to be revised prior to the preparation of a finished product that contains RD, FRD, or TFNI, must be dated when created or last changed, marked with the highest potential level and category of information (and caveats, when applicable) on the bottom and top of each page, and must be protected at the highest potential level and category of the information contained in the matter. The matter must also be marked "Draft" or "Working Paper" on the front cover. The RD/FRD admonishment is not required. RD Derivative Classifier authority is not required to mark working papers containing RD or FRD. However, working papers containing RD or FRD must be reviewed by an RD Derivative Classifier, and working papers containing TFNI must be reviewed by a person trained to mark matter containing TFNI, and the matter must be marked as a final document when it is:

(1) Released outside the originating activity;

(2) Retained more than 180 days from the date of origin or the date of the last change; or

(3) Filed permanently.
