
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1046 - MEDICAL, PHYSICAL READINESS, TRAINING, AND ACCESS AUTHORIZATION STANDARDS FOR PROTECTIVE FORCE PERSONNEL
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 1046.2 Scope.

(a) This part applies to DOE, including NNSA, contractor employees and applicants for contractor protective force positions at government-owned or government leased facilities, regardless of whether the facility is privately operated. This part provides for the establishment of physical security programs based on uniform standards for medical, physical performance, training, and access authorizations for PF personnel providing physical security services to the Department.

(b) Use of a single, suitably qualified individual is encouraged when it is operationally, fiscally, or otherwise appropriate to perform multiple roles as required in this part (e.g., Designated Physician and Physical Protection Medical Director (PPMD)). Similarly, when appropriate medical, psychological, or other examinations, evaluations, testing, or reports required by other DOE regulations can be used to satisfy the requirements of multiple parts of this title, nothing in this part is intended to require duplicative examinations, evaluations, testing, or reports as long as the requirements of this part are met.

(c) The Department is authorized to grant such exemptions from the requirements of this part as it determines are authorized by law. Exemptions may not be granted from the requirement to meet any essential function of a position notwithstanding that reasonable accommodation must be granted as required by this part and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), as amended by the Americans with Disabilities Act Amendment Act of 2009 (ADAAA), and its implementing regulations. Exemptions from requirements other than the medical certification standards are allowed only on a case-by-case basis for a specific requirement covered under this part. The Department must document that the exemption will not endanger life or property or the common defense and security, and is otherwise in the public interest. Consistent with the exemption process specified by DOE, exemptions must be made from this part in consultation with the Associate Under Secretary for the Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security (AU-1) and approved by the Secretary, Deputy Secretary, or for the National Nuclear Security Administration, the Administrator. Granting of equivalencies is not authorized. Nothing in this part shall prohibit NNSA from enhancing the requirements set forth in ยง 1046.16, SPO Physical Readiness Qualification Standards and Procedures, as necessary to further the interests of national security.

(d) Requests for technical clarification of the requirements of this part by organizations or individuals affected by its requirements must be made in writing through the appropriate program or staff offices of the Department. Such requests must be coordinated with AU or its successor organization. AU-1 is responsible for providing a written response to such requests. Requests for interpretations of the requirements of this part may be made to the General Counsel. The General Counsel is responsible for providing responses to such requests.

(e) This part is effective March 10, 2014. Requirements of this rule that cannot be implemented by March 10, 2014 due to contractual conflicts or within existing resources must be documented by the officially designated federal security authority (ODFSA) and submitted to the relevant program officers: the Under Secretary; the Under Secretary for Science or the Under Secretary for Nuclear Security, NNSA; and the Associate Under Secretary for Environment, Health, Safety and Security. The documentation must include timelines and resources needed to fully implement this part.
