
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1046 - MEDICAL, PHYSICAL READINESS, TRAINING, AND ACCESS AUTHORIZATION STANDARDS FOR PROTECTIVE FORCE PERSONNEL
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 1046.4 Physical Protection Medical Director (PPMD).
###### Documentation.

(c)At the time of initial nomination, the nominee shall submit to the PPMD the following documents or copies thereof, translated into English if written in another language:

(1) Applicable diplomas;

(2) Certificate of any postgraduate professional training (e.g., internship, residency, fellowship);

(3) Current medical license in the state in which duties will be performed; and

(4) Certification of good standing by all medical licensing bodies from which the applicant has held medical licenses, as well as documentation of any restrictions or limitations to practice medicine, past or present (such documentation may be obtained in written form or electronically). The PPMD may request the nominee to instruct the licensing body to send such certifications to the PPMD. Under no circumstances will such certifications of good standing be accepted directly from the applicant. Additionally, the PPMD may request notice of certification by any additional American specialty board, if applicable; and

(5) A current curriculum vitae may be requested. The curriculum vitae, if requested, must include a discussion of any gaps in employment.

(6) If determined necessary by the PPMD, updated information, as identified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section, may be requested at any time.
