
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1046 - MEDICAL, PHYSICAL READINESS, TRAINING, AND ACCESS AUTHORIZATION STANDARDS FOR PROTECTIVE FORCE PERSONNEL
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 1046.4 Physical Protection Medical Director (PPMD).
###### Self reporting.

(d)(1) Each incumbent individual covered under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section must agree to self-report the following information as a condition of the designation. PPMDs must report to their employer, who must forward the information to AU-1 or as appropriate to the NNSA organization responsible for occupational health and safety through the ODFSA. Additionally, Designated Physicians must report to the PPMD the following:

(i) Any change in status or initiation or taking of an adverse action, past or present, by any state medical licensing board or any other professional licensing board against the licenses of the individual (these may be provided in written or electronic form). The incumbent or nominee may be required to request the licensing body to provide such information to the ODFSA or PDMD, as appropriate. Under no circumstances will such information be accepted directly from the incumbent or nominee;

(ii) Initiation of an adverse action by any Federal or state regulatory board;

(iii) Being named a defendant in any criminal proceedings (felony or misdemeanor);

(iv) Being named in a civil suit alleging professional malpractice;

(v) Being evaluated or treated for alcohol use disorder or drug dependency or abuse; and

(vi) Occurrence of a physical disorder, a mental disorder, or any other health condition that might affect the physician's ability to perform professional duties.

(2) All information in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section must be submitted to DOE for consideration and possible action and may result in rejection or termination of the applicable designation. Failure to provide such information may also result in the rejection or termination of the applicable designation. For NNSA contractors, in consultation with AU-1, the NNSA organization responsible for occupational health and safety will make the final decision on the appropriate action in light of the information received.
