
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1046 - MEDICAL, PHYSICAL READINESS, TRAINING, AND ACCESS AUTHORIZATION STANDARDS FOR PROTECTIVE FORCE PERSONNEL
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 1046.4 Physical Protection Medical Director (PPMD).
###### Nomination.

(1)The name of each PPMD candidate must be submitted by the contractor to the ODFSA who in turn must consult with AU-1 prior to approving the PPMD. For NNSA, PPMD nominations must be made to the NNSA organization responsible for occupational health and safety. At the time of initial nomination for the PPMD designation the nominee shall submit, through the nominee's employer and the ODFSA, the following documents or copies thereof, translated into English if written in another language:

(i) Applicable diplomas;

(ii) Certificate of any postgraduate professional training (e.g., internship, residency, fellowship);

(iii) Current medical license in the state in which duties will be performed;

(iv) Certification of good standing by all medical licensing bodies from which the applicant has held medical licenses, as well as documentation of any restrictions or limitations to practice medicine, past or present (such documentation may be obtained in written form or electronically). The nominee may be requested to instruct the licensing body to send such certifications to AU-1 and as applicable to the NNSA organization responsible for occupational health and safety. Under no circumstances will such certifications of good standing be accepted directly from the applicant. Additionally, notice of certification by any additional American specialty board, if applicable, and/or current curriculum vitae may be requested; and

(v) A curriculum vitae, if requested, must include a discussion of any gaps in employment.
