
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1046 - MEDICAL, PHYSICAL READINESS, TRAINING, AND ACCESS AUTHORIZATION STANDARDS FOR PROTECTIVE FORCE PERSONNEL
#### Subpart B - Protective Force (PF) Personnel
##### ยง 1046.13 Medical certification standards and procedures.
###### Requirements of the medical evaluation to determine medical certification.

(b)(1) The medical evaluation must be made by the Designated Physician without delegation (e.g., to a physician's assistant or nurse practitioner).

(2) Evaluations of incumbent security police officers must include a medical history, the results of the examination, and a formal written determination.

(3) A site standard form approved by AU-1 must be used, and pertinent negatives must be documented on the form.

(4) The Medical Certification Standards are the minimum medical standards to be used in determining whether applicants and incumbent PF personnel can effectively perform, with or without reasonable accommodation, all essential functions of normal and emergency duties without imposing an undue hardship on the employer or posing a direct threat to the PF member or others, the facility, or the general public. All reasonable accommodations as defined in this part must be approved in writing by the PF contractor with a determination that the use of the device is compatible with all actions associated with emergency and protective equipment without creating a hardship for the contractor. The Designated Physician and PPMD must determine that the reasonable accommodation is consistent with the medical standard without creating a direct threat to the individual or to others.
