
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1046 - MEDICAL, PHYSICAL READINESS, TRAINING, AND ACCESS AUTHORIZATION STANDARDS FOR PROTECTIVE FORCE PERSONNEL
#### Subpart B - Protective Force (PF) Personnel
##### ยง 1046.13 Medical certification standards and procedures.
###### Cardiovascular.

(ii)(A) Capacity for tolerating physical exertion during emergencies. The results of the two semiannual assessments as identified in ยง 1046.16(b)(4) must be considered. Normal configuration and function, normal resting pulse, regular pulse without arrhythmia, full symmetrical pulses in extremities, and normotensive, with tolerance for rapid postural changes on rapid change from lying to standing position. The use of hypertensive medications is acceptable if there are no side effects present that would preclude adequate functions as herein specified.

(B) If an examination reveals significant evidence of cardiovascular abnormality or significantly increased risk for coronary artery disease (CAD) as determined by the examining physician (e.g., by using the Framingham Point System), an evaluation by a specialist in internal medicine or cardiology may be required and evaluated by the Designated Physician. An electrocardiogram is required at entry, at age 40, and annually thereafter, which must be free from significant abnormality. If such abnormalities are detected, then a stress electrocardiogram with non-ischemic results must be provided, or the individual must be referred to a cardiologist for a fitness for duty examination. A stress electrocardiogram must be performed every other year beginning at age 50 with the results reviewed by the Designated Physician.
