
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1046 - MEDICAL, PHYSICAL READINESS, TRAINING, AND ACCESS AUTHORIZATION STANDARDS FOR PROTECTIVE FORCE PERSONNEL
#### Subpart B - Protective Force (PF) Personnel
##### ยง 1046.13 Medical certification standards and procedures.
###### Medical examination procedures and requirements.

(g)(1) The medical examinations required for certification must be performed at the following intervals:

(i) Applicants for PF member positions must undergo a comprehensive medical examination, as specified herein. The Chief Health, Safety and Security Officer or designee, the Chief, Defense Nuclear Security in the case of NNSA, and/or the PPMD may require additional evaluations.

(ii) After initial certification, each SO must be medically examined and recertified at least every two years or more often if the PPMD so requires. This initial certification date becomes the SO's anniversary date. Medical certification remains valid through 30 days beyond the anniversary date or for the period indicated by the PPMD if less than twenty-four months.

(iii) After initial certification, each SPO must be medically examined and recertified every twelve months or more often (pursuant to ยง 1046.14 or otherwise if the PPMD so requires). This initial certification date becomes the SPO's anniversary date. Medical certification remains valid through 30 days from the anniversary date or for the time indicated by the PPMD if less than twelve months.

(2) The medical examination must include a review of the essential functions of the job to which the individual is assigned. Medical examinations of SPO and SO applicants and incumbents must include the following evaluations to determine whether the individual meets the Medical Certification Standards for the applicable position:

(i) An up to date medical and occupational history, complete physical examination, vision testing, audiometry, and spirometry. In addition, laboratory testing must be performed, including a complete blood count (CBC), basic blood chemistry, a fasting blood glucose, and a fasting lipid panel (the examination and testing is to identify baseline abnormalities, as well as trends); and
