
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1046 - MEDICAL, PHYSICAL READINESS, TRAINING, AND ACCESS AUTHORIZATION STANDARDS FOR PROTECTIVE FORCE PERSONNEL
#### Subpart B - Protective Force (PF) Personnel
##### ยง 1046.14 Medical certification disqualification.
###### Temporary removal pending final medical determination.

(1)(i) The employer of a disqualified SPO must offer the SPO temporary medical removal from PF duties on each occasion that the PPMD determines in a written medical opinion that the worker should be temporarily removed from such duties pending a final medical determination of whether the SPO should be removed permanently, if appropriate. "Final medical determination" means the outcome of the Independent Review provided for in ยง 1046.15(c) or, if one is held, the Final Review provided for in ยง 1046.15(d).

(ii) If an SPO is temporarily removed from PF duties pursuant to this section, the SPO's employer must not remove the employee from the payroll unless available alternative duties for which the worker is qualified or can be trained in a short period of time are refused or performed unsatisfactorily.

(iii) While the SPO remains on the payroll pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, the SPO's employer must maintain the SPO's total base pay (overtime not included), seniority, and other site-specific worker rights and benefits (e.g., corporate benefit package and collective bargaining agreement benefits) as if the worker had not been removed. Funds reimbursable by the DOE which are provided to a SPO under medical removal protection must be reduced dollar for dollar for any other PF related pay or monetary benefit for associated lost earnings, including those negotiated through collective bargaining and from workers compensation. Medical removal protection in conjunction with these other benefits must not exceed the SPO's total base pay.

(iv) If there are no suitable alternative duties available as described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, the SPO's employer must provide to the SPO the medical removal protection benefits specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section until alternative duties become available, the SPO has recovered, or one year has elapsed from the date of the PPMD's determination that the SPO should be temporarily removed from duties, whichever comes first. During this period the SPO may be placed on administrative leave when alternative duties are not available.
