
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1046 - MEDICAL, PHYSICAL READINESS, TRAINING, AND ACCESS AUTHORIZATION STANDARDS FOR PROTECTIVE FORCE PERSONNEL
#### Subpart B - Protective Force (PF) Personnel
##### ยง 1046.13 Medical certification standards and procedures.
###### 3

() Qualify and quantify abnormalities.

(B) The information gathered from paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section, together with the results of the semi-structured interview of this paragraph, psychiatric evaluations (if required), and reviews of job performance may indicate disqualifying medical or psychological conditions. Additional generally-accepted psychological testing may be performed as required to substantiate findings of the MMPI. If medically indicated and approved by the PPMD, an additional evaluation by a psychiatrist who meets standards established by DOE may be conducted. Additional or more frequent psychological evaluations as determined by the psychologist, psychiatrist, Designated Physician, or the PPMD may be required. Unless otherwise indicated, a psychological evaluation performed in accordance with the other DOE requirements (e.g., pursuant to 10 CFR part 712) may satisfy the requirements of this part.

(C) The Designated Physician may request any additional medical examination, test, consultation or evaluation deemed necessary to evaluate a candidate or an incumbent SO's or SPO's ability to perform essential job duties or for incumbents, the need for temporary work restrictions.

(3) When an examinee needs the use of corrective devices, such as eyeglasses or hearing aids, to enable the examinee to successfully meet medical qualification requirements, the contractor responsible for the examinee's performance must make a determination that the use of any such device is compatible with all required emergency and protective equipment that the examinee may be required to wear or use while performing assigned job duties. The Designated Physician and the PPMD must determine that the reasonable accommodation is consistent with the medical standard and will not result in a direct threat to the individual or to others. This determination must be made before such corrective devices may be used by the examinee to meet the medical, physical readiness, or training requirements for a particular position.

(4) Contractor management must provide reasonable accommodations to a qualified individual by taking reasonable steps to modify required emergency and protective equipment to be compatible with corrective devices or by providing equally effective, alternate equipment, if available.

(5) The Designated Physician must discuss the results of the medical and physical readiness examinations with the individual. The results of the medical examinations also must be communicated in writing to PF management and to the individual and must include:

(i) A statement of the certification status of the individual, including any essential functions for which the individual is not qualified, with or without reasonable accommodations, and an assessment of whether the individual would present a direct threat to self or others in the position at issue;

(ii) If another medical appointment is required, the date of the next medical appointment; and

(iii) Recommended remedial programs or other measures that may restore the individual's ability to perform the essential functions or may negate the direct threat concern, if the individual is not approved for physical training, testing, or the relevant position.

(6) The PF contractor must offer a health status exit review for all employees leaving PF service. If the employee desires the review, it must be conducted by the PPMD or Designated Physician. The review, which may be conducted in conjunction with the requirements of other parts, must include all of the medical standards for the PF position being vacated. The reason(s) for any health status exit review not being performed must be documented (e.g., employee declined to have the review conducted).
