
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1046 - MEDICAL, PHYSICAL READINESS, TRAINING, AND ACCESS AUTHORIZATION STANDARDS FOR PROTECTIVE FORCE PERSONNEL
#### Subpart B - Protective Force (PF) Personnel
##### ยง 1046.15 Review of medical certification disqualification.
###### Temporary medical and physical conditions.

(a)Should the PPMD determine that an individual is disqualified from medical certification because of a temporary medical or physical condition which results in the individual not being able to perform any of the essential functions of the job classification, the employer may assign the individual to alternate, limited duty, if available, until the individual is again medically certified by the PPMD. However, this limited duty may only include assignment to duties in a job classification where all essential functions for that job classification can be safely and efficiently performed. Medical certification is required to remain in armed status. A temporary medical certification disqualification may not exceed a period of twelve months regardless of whether medical removal protection is authorized. Before the end of the twelve-month period, the PPMD must determine whether the individual is permanently disqualified from medical certification because of a continuing medical or physical condition which results in the individual not being able to perform all essential functions of the job classification. The individual may request an Independent Review of the disqualification at any time the twelve-month period.
