
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1046 - MEDICAL, PHYSICAL READINESS, TRAINING, AND ACCESS AUTHORIZATION STANDARDS FOR PROTECTIVE FORCE PERSONNEL
#### Subpart B - Protective Force (PF) Personnel
##### ยง 1046.15 Review of medical certification disqualification.
###### Independent review.

(c)An individual PF member disqualified from medical certification, temporarily or permanently, by the PPMD may request an Independent Review of the case. The individual initiating such a review must submit the request for an Independent Review in writing to AU-1 within ten working days of the date of notification (date of written correspondence) of disqualification. A copy of the request must be sent to the individual's employer and to the local ODFSA: for DOE HQ sites, to the Director, Office of Security Operations; for NNSA sites, to the cognizant NNSA Security Director; and for any other DOE sites, to the cognizant DOE Security Director.

(1) AU-1, in coordination with the respective PPMD, must provide for the Independent Review. The Independent Review must be conducted within sixty calendar days of the receipt of the request for an Independent Review. The Independent Review must include a complete review of the record of the case.

(2) The disqualified individual may select a representative during the Independent Review process. The individual or representative may provide additional evidence relating solely to the medical or physical readiness of the individual. The individual must execute a consent document authorizing the release of relevant medical information to AU-1.

(3) The disqualified individual must provide a copy of the request for Independent Review and the signed consent document for the release of medical information to the respective PPMD and the individual's employer within ten working days of the submission of the request to AU-1.

(4) Within ten working days of receipt of a copy of the request for an Independent Review, the disqualified individual's employer must provide AU-1 with the following:

(i) A copy of the job analysis (JA)/mission essential task list (METL) available to the respective Designated Physician at the time of the individual's medical evaluation;

(ii) A listing of the essential functions for the individual's PF job classification; and

(iii) Any additional information relating to the medical or physical readiness of the requestor that AU-1 may request.

(5) AU-1 must provide the information in paragraph (c)(4) of this section to the Independent Physician for use in the independent review.

(6) A medical examination of the disqualified individual must be conducted by an Independent Physician approved by AU-1. The Independent Physician must not have served as the requestor's personal physician in any capacity or have been previously involved in the requestor's case on behalf of the Department or a Department contractor. The Independent Review must confirm or disagree with the medical certification disqualification and must consider:

(i) The validity of the stated physical requirements and essential function(s) for the applicable job classification;

(ii) The PPMD's medical determination of the individual's inability to perform essential functions or to undertake training or the physical readiness qualification test without undue medical risk to the health and safety of the individual;

(iii) The completeness of the medical information available to the PPMD; and

(iv) If applicable, the determination by the PPMD that the performance of the individual poses a direct threat to self or others.

(7) The results of the Independent Physician's medical examination of the individual must be provided to AU-1 for review. AU-1 must then recommend a final determination confirming or reversing the medical certification disqualification. The recommendation of AU-1 must be forwarded to the applicable local ODFSA (for DOE HQ sites, the Director, Office of Security Operations; for NNSA sites, the cognizant local NNSA Security Director; and for any other DOE sites, the cognizant local DOE Security Director) and the respective PPMD. This individual will either adopt or reject the recommendation of AU-1.

(8) AU-1 must provide the results of the Independent Review and the final determination regarding the individual's medical disqualification to the requestor, the respective PPMD, the respective local ODFSA, and the requestor's employer.

(9) If the Independent Review determination confirms the individual is disqualified from medical certification, the individual must be removed from the PF job classification by the individual's employer. If the Independent Review disagrees with the medical certification disqualification, the individual must be reinstated to the PF job classification by the individual's employer, subject to successful completion of any required qualifications or training requirements that were due during the temporary disqualification, and subject to subsequent annual medical examinations and the ability to meet applicable physical readiness requirements.
