
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1046 - MEDICAL, PHYSICAL READINESS, TRAINING, AND ACCESS AUTHORIZATION STANDARDS FOR PROTECTIVE FORCE PERSONNEL
#### Subpart B - Protective Force (PF) Personnel
##### ยง 1046.14 Medical certification disqualification.
###### Medical removal protection benefits.

(c)(1) If required by this section to provide medical removal protection benefits, the SPO's employer must maintain for not more than one year, as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section, the removed worker's total base pay, and seniority, as though the SPO had not been removed. The total base pay provision in this section must be reduced by any compensation for lost earnings provided by any other benefit or those negotiated through collective bargaining for both temporary and permanent removal protection as provided by this section.

(2) If a removed SPO files a claim for workers' compensation payments for a physical disability, then the SPO's employer must continue to provide medical removal protection benefits until disposition of the claim, recovery of the claimant, or one year from the date the removal protection began, whichever comes first. If workers' compensation benefits are provided retroactively then the SPO must reimburse the employer to the extent the SPO is compensated for lost earnings for the same period that the medical removal protection benefits are received for both temporary and permanent removal protection as provided by this section. Expenses for medical/rehabilitation treatments related to the basis for medical removal protection are not covered under this part.

(3) The SPO's employer's obligation to provide medical removal protection benefits to an SPO is reduced to the extent that the worker receives compensation for earnings lost during the period of removal either from a publicly or site employer-funded compensation program.
