
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1046 - MEDICAL, PHYSICAL READINESS, TRAINING, AND ACCESS AUTHORIZATION STANDARDS FOR PROTECTIVE FORCE PERSONNEL
#### Subpart B - Protective Force (PF) Personnel
##### ยง 1046.15 Review of medical certification disqualification.
###### Final review.

(d)An individual receiving an unfavorable Independent Review Determination may request a Final Review of the Independent Review Determination by the Office of Hearings and Appeals. The individual must submit a request for a Final Review to the Office of Hearings and Appeals, in writing, within 30 days of receiving an unfavorable determination, and notify AU-1 of the request for appeal. In the request for a Final Review, the individual must state with specificity the basis for disagreement with the Independent Review confirming the medical certification disqualification. AU-1 must transmit the complete record in the case to the Office of Hearings and Appeals within five business days of receiving notice from the individual that the SPO has filed an appeal of the Independent Review Determination. The Office of Hearings and Appeals may request additional information, if necessary, to clarify any issue on appeal. Within 45 days of the closing of the record, the Office of Hearings and Appeals must issue a Decision and Order setting forth its findings on appeal and its conclusions based on the record before it. Upon receipt of an unfavorable Final Review decision by the Office of Hearings and Appeals, the individual must be permanently removed from that PF job classification, SO or SPO (FPRS, BRS, ARS, or SRT member) by the employer. However, nothing in the Final Review decision shall prevent the employee from being allowed to qualify for a less strenuous physical readiness job classification given the availability of said position, subject to successful completion of any other required qualifications or training requirements. Upon receipt of a favorable Final Review decision from the Office of Hearings and Appeals, the individual must be reinstated to the PF job classification by the employer, subject to successful completion of any required qualifications or training requirements due during the temporary disqualification, and future ability to be medically certified for the PF job classification and to meet applicable physical readiness standards.
