
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1046 - MEDICAL, PHYSICAL READINESS, TRAINING, AND ACCESS AUTHORIZATION STANDARDS FOR PROTECTIVE FORCE PERSONNEL
#### Subpart B - Protective Force (PF) Personnel
##### ยง 1046.16 SPO physical readiness qualification standards and procedures.
###### Physical testing for BRS and ARS SPOs.

(g)The following procedures apply to an individual physically demonstrating the physical readiness standards for applicants and incumbent SPOs.

(1) Incumbent BRS and ARS SPOs randomly selected for physical testing pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section in any given year shall physically meet the applicable physical readiness standard within 30 days of their anniversary date.

(2) Incumbent SPOs shall physically meet the applicable physical readiness standard prior to their assignment to duties which require a more stringent standard.

(3) All newly hired SPOs must physically meet the most stringent standard required at the site.

(4) SPOs returning after an absence from protective force duties which encompasses their anniversary date must physically meet at least the standard they were required to meet when they left SPO duties, should such a position requiring that standard be available.

(5) Each applicant and incumbent SPO must be medically approved by the Designated Physician within thirty days prior to initial participation in any physical readiness training program and prior to attempting the applicable standard to determine whether the individual can undertake the standard without undue medical risk to the health and safety of the individual. Incumbents also must have successfully completed a physical readiness assessment within thirty days prior to their annual physical examination by the Designated Physician.

(6) Incumbent SPOs must qualify on the applicable standard annually by physically passing the required test if they have not received a reasonable expectation determination as described in paragraph (f) of this section. The testing protocol shall include mandated participation by the SPO being tested in pre-test warm-up and post-test cool-down activities as described in paragraph (c) of this section. The responsible person in charge of the qualification activity must inform the SPO that the attempt will be for qualification. Once this has been communicated by the person in charge, the attempt will constitute a qualification attempt. Ability to summon appropriate medical emergency response with the capability of responding within a reasonable time must be available at the testing site. An individual trained in cardio pulmonary resuscitation and automatic external defibrillator equipment must be present.

(7) Physical readiness re-qualification for randomly selected incumbent SPOs must occur not more than 30 days from the anniversary date. Failure to qualify within 30 days past the anniversary date must result in removal from SPO status for that physical readiness category. Not more than five attempts may be allowed during the 30-day period. All attempts must be made within 30 days of the medical approval required in paragraph (g)(5) of this section.

(8) Remedial training program: If an SPO fails all attempts pursuant to paragraph (g)(7) of this section for reasons other than injury or illness, the PF contractor must offer the SPO the opportunity to participate in a supervised physical readiness remedial training program developed by an exercise physiologist.

(i) Supervision of the physical readiness remedial training program may be accomplished by direct observation of the SPO during the training program by personnel knowledgeable of Department physical readiness program requirements, or by these personnel monitoring the SPO's progress on a weekly basis.

(ii) The remedial training program must be based upon an assessment of the SPO's individual physical readiness deficiencies and improvement needs which precluded the SPO from successfully completing the applicable physical readiness standard.

(iii) The remedial training program must not exceed a period of 30 days.

(9) Re-testing of incumbent SPOs after completion of remedial training program.

(i) Once an SPO has begun a remedial training program, it must be completed before the SPO may attempt the applicable standard.

(ii) Upon completion of the remedial training the ARS/BRS SPO must be offered an assessment using the same process that is used for the required semiannual assessment as required in paragraph (c)(4) of this section. Any deficiencies and improvement needs must be identified to the SPO.

(iii) The SPO has seven days from the completion date of the remedial training program to meet the applicable physical readiness qualification standard. Only one attempt during this seven-day period may be made unless circumstances beyond the testing organization or participant's control (e.g., severe weather, equipment failure, or injury as determined by the employer) interrupt the attempt. When the attempt is interrupted, the employer may reschedule it within seven days.

(iv) If the SPO meets the standard on the attempt specified in paragraph (f)(9)(iii) of this section, the original anniversary qualification date remains the same.

(v) Failure to meet the standard must result in the SPO being permanently removed from duties requiring ability to meet that physical readiness standard.

(vi) If an SPO requires remedial training during three consecutive annual qualification periods, then a fourth remediation shall not be offered for subsequent failures to achieve the physical readiness standard. The SPO must be permanently removed from duties requiring ability to meet that physical readiness standard.

(10) The physical readiness standards set forth in this part may not be waived or exempted. Additional time, not to exceed six months, may be granted on a case-by-case basis for those individuals who, because of a temporary medical condition or physical injury certified by the Designated Physician, are unable to satisfy the physical readiness standards within the required period without suffering injury. Additional time totaling more than one year may not be granted. When additional time is granted:

(i) The granting of such time does not eliminate the requirement for the incumbent SPO to be removed from that SPO physical readiness standard status during the time extension.

(ii) When additional time is granted because of an inability to qualify without a certified medical condition or injury, the PF member is not entitled to temporary removal protection benefits. Granting additional time due to deconditioning is not authorized.

(iii) Upon completion of the additional time period and requisite physical readiness training, as applicable, the incumbent SPO must be assessed using the same process that is used for the semiannual assessment as required in paragraph (c)(4) of this section if the results indicate the SPO is ready to take the test. The test must be taken within 30 days of medical clearance as described in ยง 1046.13(g).

(iv) For a duration exceeding three months, the SPO's original anniversary qualification date may be revised at the discretion of the employer to reflect the most recent date that the SPO qualified under the applicable standard, which will become the new anniversary qualification date.
