
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1046 - MEDICAL, PHYSICAL READINESS, TRAINING, AND ACCESS AUTHORIZATION STANDARDS FOR PROTECTIVE FORCE PERSONNEL
#### Subpart B - Protective Force (PF) Personnel
##### ยง 1046.16 SPO physical readiness qualification standards and procedures.
###### http://www.acsm.org/,http://www.cooperinstitute.org/

(4) Assessments of an SPO's level of physical readiness must be conducted at least semiannually by personnel knowledgeable of DOE requirements. The results of the assessments must be provided to the Designated Physician. The assessments must include recognized assessment standard values for aerobic capacity (e.g., American College of Sports Medicine [], Cooper Fitness Institute [], or Rockport Walk Protocol [available online from a variety of Web sites]). Though not a qualification, the assessment report must include an evaluation of the SPO's level of physical readiness and provide recommendations for maintenance requirements and improvement needs, if any. Ability to summon appropriate medical emergency response with the capability of responding within a reasonable time must be available at the assessment site. An individual trained in cardio-pulmonary resuscitation and automatic external defibrillator equipment must be present.

(5) No additional training or time extension to meet the standards is permitted except for unusual circumstances based on a temporary medical or physical condition as certified by the PPMD that causes the SPO to be unable to satisfy the physical readiness standards within the required time period without suffering undue physical harm. An SPO who fails to re-qualify must be removed from armed SPO status and must participate in a remedial physical readiness training program, as specified in paragraphs (g)(8) and (9) of this section.

(6) An SPO may be required to demonstrate the ability to meet the applicable physical readiness qualification standard during a Headquarters or field audit/inspection/survey or other similar activity, as directed by the local ODFSA. Failure to meet the physical readiness standard must be treated as if the SPO failed the first attempt during routine qualification, and the procedures of paragraphs (g)(5) and (8) of this section apply. An SPO who fails to demonstrate the standard must be removed from armed status.

(7) Employees must notify the employer when the requirements of the training program cannot be successfully completed on a recurring basis (e.g., exercises cannot be completed and/or completed within time limits several times in a row due to injury and/or conditioning issues).

(8) When a physical readiness deficiency is first identified, the employer must provide the SPO access to remedial training or, based upon PPMD evaluation validating the medical need, to a work hardening or rehabilitation program.
