
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1046 - MEDICAL, PHYSICAL READINESS, TRAINING, AND ACCESS AUTHORIZATION STANDARDS FOR PROTECTIVE FORCE PERSONNEL
#### Subpart B - Protective Force (PF) Personnel
##### ยง 1046.16 SPO physical readiness qualification standards and procedures.
###### Fixed Post Readiness Standard (FPRS).

(1)This qualification standard applies to all SPOs. Regardless of an SPO's physical readiness category, the FPRS must be physically demonstrated every year by all SPOs.

(i) The standard requires sufficient agility and range of motion to: Assume, maintain, and recover from the variety of cover positions associated with effective use of firearms at entry portals and similar static environments to include prone, standing, kneeling, and barricade positions; use site-specific deadly and intermediate force weapons and employ weaponless self-defense techniques; effect arrests of suspects and place them under restraint, e.g., with handcuffs or other physical restraint devices; and meet any other measure of physical readiness necessary to perform site-specific essential functions as prescribed by site management and approved by the respective program office.

(ii) A stand-alone qualification test which requires the demonstration of all of the required elements (both general and site-specific, if applicable) must be developed and maintained by each site and approved by the ODFSA. This qualification test can be used for annual qualification, or sites may choose to document an SPO's ability to meet specific elements of the standard during annual refresher training sessions and/or during weapons qualification activities. All elements of this standard must be demonstrated annually in the aggregate.

(iii) The results must be provided to the Designated Physician prior to the annual medical examination. Inability to physically demonstrate the FPRS requirements must result in temporary loss of SPO status. Remedial training must be provided pursuant to the requirements of paragraph (g)(8) of this section.
