
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1046 - MEDICAL, PHYSICAL READINESS, TRAINING, AND ACCESS AUTHORIZATION STANDARDS FOR PROTECTIVE FORCE PERSONNEL
#### Subpart B - Protective Force (PF) Personnel
##### ยง 1046.16 SPO physical readiness qualification standards and procedures.
###### Training program requirements.

(c)(1) The training program must include the following elements:

(i) Activities with appropriate durations specific to the physical readiness standard, which appropriately address aerobic, agility, flexibility, and strength conditioning.

(ii) Instruction on techniques and exercises designed to ensure SPOs can safely rise quickly from the prone position, and if required by qualification standard, transition into a run.

(iii) Appropriate warm-up and cool down activities designed by exercise physiologists to support injury free workouts and physical readiness testing.

(2) An SPO physical readiness training and maintenance program must be developed by the employing organization in consultation with the PPMD and the local ODFSA.

(3) After initial training and qualification, each SPO must participate in the physical readiness training and maintenance program on a continuing basis. The physical readiness maintenance program must be based on assessment of the individual SPO's physical readiness levels and be tailored to the individual SPO's physical readiness maintenance requirements and improvement needs. Whether training is conducted on or off site, the SPO's participation must be documented.
