
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1046 - MEDICAL, PHYSICAL READINESS, TRAINING, AND ACCESS AUTHORIZATION STANDARDS FOR PROTECTIVE FORCE PERSONNEL
#### Subpart B - Protective Force (PF) Personnel
##### ยง 1046.16 SPO physical readiness qualification standards and procedures.
###### Evaluation and documentation for BRS and ARS SPOs.

(f)Two distinct determinations must be made by the Designated Physician for BRS and ARS SPOs. First, a medical examination that meets the requirements of ยง 1046.13(g) must be conducted. A written determination must be made whether the SPO is medically certified for SPO duties without being a danger to self or others. This includes being able to attempt to physically demonstrate the applicable physical readiness standard. Given a favorable medical clearance determination, the second determination assesses the SPO's physical readiness capability by comparing the SPO's current examination results, medical history, normative data, past qualifying times, and the results of physical assessments. The Designated Physician's evaluation and documentation that an incumbent BRS or ARS SPO has reasonable expectation of meeting the appropriate physical readiness standard is deemed to have met the annual physical readiness qualification requirement without having to take the appropriate BRS or ARS test unless the SPO is randomly selected pursuant to paragraph (f)(7) of this section. Physician extenders (e.g., physician's assistants, certified occupational health nurses, or nurse practitioners) and exercise physiologists may perform appropriate elements of the physical examination and the physical assessments required in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. However, both the medical clearance determination and the formal physical readiness capability evaluation must be made by the Designated Physician without delegation. A site standard form must be used, and pertinent negatives must be documented on the form. The following procedures apply regarding the Designated Physician's evaluation and documentation that an incumbent BRS or ARS SPO has a reasonable expectation of meeting the appropriate physical readiness standard.

(1) Evaluation of BRS and ARS SPOs must include consideration of past medical history and normative data when available for individuals deemed to be physically capable. The following criteria must be evaluated: Cardiac function to include resting pulse rate and pulse recovery after exertion; neuromuscular function to include assessments of strength, range/freedom of motion, and movement without pain. While they are not required to be used or intended to be the sole determining criterion, for Designated Physicians using metabolic equivalents (METS) data the following values may be included in the overall process to determine if an individual SPO has a reasonable expectation of being able to physically demonstrate the appropriate physical readiness standard.

(i) For BRS SPOs a METS value of seven or greater would be a positive indicator of sufficient aerobic capacity to successfully demonstrate the half mile run associated with the BRS.

(ii) For ARS SPOs a METS value of 12 or greater would be a positive indicator of sufficient aerobic capacity to successfully demonstrate the mile run associated with the ARS.

(2) The designated physician may medically certify the BRS or ARS SPO for SPO duties and document that the SPO has a reasonable expectation of meeting the appropriate physical readiness standard. In this case, the SPO is deemed to have met the annual physical readiness qualification requirement without having to take the appropriate BRS or ARS test, unless the SPO is randomly selected pursuant to paragraph (f)(7) of this section.

(3) The designated physician may indicate the BRS or ARS SPO meets medical standards for SPO duties, but also indicate that the SPO does not appear to have the physical capability to pass the appropriate physical readiness test. In this case, the file must be immediately forwarded to the PPMD for review.

(4) If the PPMD concurs with the Designated Physician that the SPO does not have a reasonable expectation of being able to meet the readiness standard, the SPO may request to attempt to demonstrate the appropriate physical readiness test, which must be accomplished successfully within 30 days of the date of the medical certification for the SPO to remain in status. If the SPO chooses not to attempt to demonstrate the readiness standard, then the SPO must be removed immediately from duties associated with that physical readiness standard. Should the SPO fail to meet the standard, the retesting process described below in paragraph (g) of this section must be followed. Ultimate return to duties associated with that standard would require following the new hire process of medical clearance for SPO duties and then physically demonstrating the readiness standard which had not been met.

(5) Should the PPMD determine that the SPO does appear to have a reasonable expectation of meeting the appropriate physical readiness standard, the SPO is deemed to have met the annual qualification requirement for the appropriate physical readiness standard.

(6) The Designated Physician may find that the SPO cannot be medically certified for SPO duties. In this case, the SPO must be removed from armed status with appropriate PPMD review and medical intervention recommendations.

(7) Each year, 10 percent of the BRS and ARS SPO populations (supervisors included) at each site must be randomly selected by the employer and physically tested pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section. At the beginning of the testing year as established by each site, the site must ensure that a sufficient number of individuals and alternates are selected in one drawing to ensure that the 10 percent testing requirement can be achieved even though some SPOs selected may not receive a reasonable expectation determination for the Designated Physician as identified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. Once 10 percent of the SPOs successfully demonstrating the standard has been achieved, the remaining alternates are not required to be physically tested unless they do not receive a reasonable expectation determination. The identity of an individual as a selectee for testing shall be kept confidential by the employer in a manner that ensures this information does not become known to the selected individual, the PPMD, and the Designated Physician until after the individual SPO has been deemed to have a reasonable expectation of meeting the appropriate physical readiness standard pursuant to paragraphs (f)(2) or (5) of this section. The selected individuals must successfully complete the applicable physical readiness standard to retain SPO status. During a given year's testing, at least 90 percent of those tested in each physical readiness category must meet the requirements.

(8)(i) Should the passing percentage of those randomly selected and attempting to physically demonstrate the standard in a particular physical readiness category at a particular site drop below 90 percent (on the first attempt) then all SPOs in that category at that site must be tested on their ability to physically demonstrate the standard. The following parameters apply.

(A) All percentages are based upon first attempts.

(B) The total population of SPOs (supervisors included) in that physical readiness category at the beginning of that testing year at that site must be used to determine the percentage thresholds.

(C) The 100 percent testing of SPOs in that category must commence immediately upon the failure that renders achievement of a 90 percent success rate mathematically impossible for that readiness category during that testing year. The date of this failure will establish the anniversary date of the new testing year.

(D) An insufficient number of randomly selected individuals and alternates available to constitute the 10 percent selection criterion represents a failure to achieve the 90 percent threshold. Identification of additional randomly selected individuals for that testing year is not authorized.

(ii) The 100 percent testing described in paragraph (f)(8)(i) of this section must continue for a minimum of 365 days. With a 95 percent successful demonstration rate of the standard over the year, 10 percent testing may return at the beginning of the new testing year.

(iii) Should 95 percent successful demonstration not be achieved in the 365 days of 100 percent testing, the 100 percent testing described in paragraph (f)(8)(i) of this section must continue for the next 365 days under the conditions specified in paragraphs (f)(8)(i)(A) through (D) of this section. This process must be repeated until 95 percent successful demonstration is achieved.
