
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1046 - MEDICAL, PHYSICAL READINESS, TRAINING, AND ACCESS AUTHORIZATION STANDARDS FOR PROTECTIVE FORCE PERSONNEL
#### Subpart B - Protective Force (PF) Personnel
##### ยง 1046.17 Training standards and procedures.

(a) Department contractors responsible for the management of PF personnel must establish training programs and procedures for PF members to develop and maintain the knowledge, skills and abilities required to perform assigned tasks. The site-specific qualification and training programs must be based upon criteria approved by the ODFSA.

(b) Department contractors responsible for training PF personnel must prepare and annually review mission essential tasks from which a JA or mission essential task list (METL) is developed. The JAs or METLs must be prepared detailing the required actions or functions for each specific PF job assignment. When a generic Department JA or METL does not exist for a site-specific PF assignment (e.g., dog handler, investigator, flight crew, pilot, etc.) the site must develop a site-specific JA or METL. The JA or METL must be used as the basis for local site-specific training programs.

(c) The Designated Physician must approve in advance the participation by individuals in training and examinations of training prior to an individual's beginning employment as a PF member and annually thereafter.

(d) The formal PF training program must:

(1) Be based on identified essential functions and job tasks, with identified levels of knowledge, skills and abilities needed to perform the tasks required by a specific position;

(2) Be aimed at achieving at least a well-defined, minimum level of competency required to perform each essential function and task acceptably, with or without reasonable accommodations;

(3) Employ standardized instructional guidelines, based on approved curricula, with clear performance objectives as the basis for instruction;

(4) Include valid performance-based testing to determine and certify job readiness;

(5) Be documented so that individual and overall training status is easily accessible. Individual training records and certifications must be retained for at least one year after termination of the employee from employment as a member of the PF;

(6) Incorporate the initial and maintenance training and training exercise requirements expressly set forth in this part and as otherwise required by DOE;

(7) Be reviewed and revised, as applicable, by PF management on an annual basis; and

(8) Be reviewed and approved by the local ODFSA on an annual basis.
