
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1046 - MEDICAL, PHYSICAL READINESS, TRAINING, AND ACCESS AUTHORIZATION STANDARDS FOR PROTECTIVE FORCE PERSONNEL
#### Subpart B - Protective Force (PF) Personnel
##### ยง 1046.19 Medical and fitness for duty status reporting requirements.

(a) SPOs and SOs must report immediately to their supervisor that they have a known or suspected change in health status that might impair their capacity for duty. To protect their medical confidentiality, they are required only to identify that they need to see the Designated Physician. SOs and SPOs must provide to the Designated Physician detailed information on any known or suspected change in health status that might impair their capacity for duty or the safe and effective performance of assigned duties.

(b) SPOs and SOs must report to their supervisor and the Designated Physician for a determination of fitness for duty when prescription medication is started or a dosage is changed, to ensure that such medication or change in dosage does not alter the individual's ability to perform any of the essential functions of the job. SPOs and SOs must report to their supervisor and the Designated Physician for a determination of fitness for duty within 24 hours, and prior to assuming duty, after any medication capable of affecting the mind, emotions, and behavior is started, to ensure that such medication does not alter the individual's ability to perform any of the essential functions of the job. Where a written reasonable accommodation determination already has been made, any additional change to an SO's or SPO's health status affecting that accommodation must be reported to their supervisor and the Designated Physician for a determination of fitness for duty.

(c) Supervisory personnel must document and report to the Designated Physician any observed physical, behavioral, or health changes or deterioration in work performance in SPOs and SOs under their supervision.

(d)(1) PF contractor management must inform the Designated Physician of all anticipated job transfers or recategorizations including:

(i) From SO to FPRS, BRS, ARS, or SRT Member;

(ii) From FPRS, to BRS, ARS or SRT Member;

(iii) From BRS to ARS or SRT Member;

(iv) From ARS to SRT Member;

(v) From SRT Member to ARS, BRS, FPRS or SO;

(vi) From ARS to BRS, FPRS, or SO;

(vii) From BRS to FPRS or SO;

(viii) From FPRS to SO; and

(ix) From PF to other assignments.

(2) For downward re-categorizations in paragraphs (d)(1)(v) through (ix) of this section, the anticipated transfer notification must include appropriate additional information such as the apparent inability of the employee to perform essential functions, meet physical readiness standards, or to serve without posing a direct threat to self or others.

(e) The Designated Physician must notify the PPMD to ensure appropriate medical review can be made regarding any recommended or required changes to the PF member's status.
