
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1046 - MEDICAL, PHYSICAL READINESS, TRAINING, AND ACCESS AUTHORIZATION STANDARDS FOR PROTECTIVE FORCE PERSONNEL
#### Subpart B - Protective Force (PF) Personnel
##### ยง 1046.17 Training standards and procedures.
###### Firearms qualification standards.

(k)(1) No person may be authorized to carry a firearm as an SPO until the responsible local ODFSA is assured that the individual who is to be armed with individually issued/primary weapons is qualified in accordance with firearms standards or that, in the case of post-specific crew-served and special weapons, a determination of proficiency and ability to operate the weapon safely has been made.

(2) As a minimum, each SPO must meet the applicable firearms qualification or proficiency standards every six months under daylight and reduced lighting conditions. Requalification or proficiency demonstration must occur no earlier than 30 days prior to, and no later than 30 days after, six months from the previous qualification. In the case of individually assigned/primary weapons, if the SPO does not re-qualify during the re-qualification period, the individual's authority to be armed and to make arrests must be suspended following the unsuccessful qualification attempts as provided in paragraph (k)(11) of this section. For post-specific and crew-served weapons, if the SPO does not demonstrate proficiency during the re-qualification period, the individual's eligibility for assignment to posts having those post-specific or crew-served weapons must be suspended until such time as proficiency can be demonstrated. To facilitate training programs, employers may adjust qualification and proficiency demonstration schedules as long as the maximum durations as noted in this section are not exceeded.

(3) PF personnel must maintain firearms proficiency on a continuing basis. Therefore, an SPO may be required to demonstrate an ability to meet the applicable firearms qualification or proficiency standard(s) during a Headquarters or field audit, survey, inspection, or other situation directed by the local ODFSA. Failure to meet the standard must be treated as if the individual failed the first attempt during routine semiannual qualification or proficiency demonstration. See paragraph (k)(10) of this section. In the event the SPO fails both attempts, the requirements of paragraphs (k)(11) through (14) of this section apply.

(4) Each SPO must qualify with primary/individually-issued weapons required by duty assignment (to include: specialty weapons, long gun and/or handgun, if so armed). Qualification is the semiannual act of achieving a set score while demonstrating the ability to load, operate, and discharge a firearm or weapon system accurately and safely (to include clearing the weapon at the conclusion of firing) according to a Departmentally-approved course of fire. At least one of the two semiannual qualifications must be accomplished with the same type of firearm or weapon system and ammunition equivalent in trajectory and recoil as that authorized for duty use. All qualification courses must: be constrained by time, identify the maximum amount of available ammunition, and include minimum scoring percentages required to qualify.

(5) For the purposes of this part, weapons system simulator means a device that closely simulates all major aspects of employing the corresponding actual firearm/weapons system, without firing live ammunition. The simulator should permit all weapons-handling and operational actions required by the actual weapon, and should allow the use of sight settings similar to the corresponding actual weapon with assigned duty loads. Additionally, when weapons or weapons system simulators are used for qualification testing of protective force officers, the operation of the simulated weapon must closely approximate all weapons handling and operational manipulation actions required by the actual weapon. The simulation system must precisely register on-target hits and misses with accuracy comparable to the actual weapon at the same shooting distances. The weight, balance, and sighting systems should closely replicate those of the corresponding actual weapon with assigned duty loads, and noise signatures and felt recoil should be simulated to the extent technically feasible.

(6) SPOs assigned to posts which require the operation of post-specific specialized or crew-served weapons must be trained and must demonstrate proficiency in the safe use of such weapons in a tactical environment. These proficiency courses must provide for the demonstration of skills required to support the site security plan. Ammunition equivalent in both trajectory and recoil to that used for duty must be used during an initial demonstration of proficiency. A weapons proficiency demonstration means a process based on a predetermined, objective set of criteria approved by the respective program office in consultation with AU-1 that results in a grade (e.g., pass/fail). The process must ensure that an individual (or team, for crew-served weapons) demonstrates the ability to perform all weapons-handling and operational manipulations necessary to load, operate, and discharge a weapon system accurately and safely (to include clearing/returning to safe mode the weapon system at the conclusion of firing), without the necessity for scoring targets during the course of fire. Proficiency courses of fire must include tactically-relevant time constraints. Demonstrations of proficiency are allowed with the actual weapon and assigned duty load, with alternate loads (e.g., frangible or dye-marking rounds), or with authorized weapons system simulators, as defined in this section. Proficiency courses of fire must be tactically relevant.

(7) Weapon system simulators may be used for training, familiarization, and semiannual proficiency verifications (e.g., engaging moving vehicles and/or aircraft). Demonstrations of proficiency must include all weapons-handling and operational manipulations necessary to load, operate, and discharge a weapon system accurately and safely (to include clearing the weapon at the conclusion of firing) according to a Departmentally-approved course of proficiency demonstration. Weapon demonstrations of proficiency are allowed with the same type of firearm or weapon system and ammunition equivalent in trajectory and recoil as that authorized for duty use, or with firearms simulators that have the features and capabilities as described in paragraph (k)(5) of this section.

(8) Each SPO must be given a presentation on the basic principles of weapons safety prior to any range activity. This does not require that a weapons safety presentation be given for each course of fire, but does require that, prior to the start of range training or qualification for a given period (e.g., initial qualification, semiannual qualification, training, familiarization, proficiency testing, or range practice), each SPO must be given a range and weapon safety presentation.

(9) Standardized Departmentally-approved firearm/weapon qualification courses must be used for qualification. Site-specific conditions and deployment of specialized firearms/weapons may justify requirements for developing and implementing supplementary special training and proficiency courses. Proficiency courses or demonstrations must be constrained by time limits. Where standardized Department firearms/weapons courses do not exist for a weapons system that is required to address site-specific concerns, both daylight and reduced lighting site-specific qualification or proficiency courses (as applicable) must be developed. After approval by the local ODFSA, the developed courses must be submitted to the respective program office for review and approval.

(10) When qualification or demonstration of proficiency is prescribed, SPOs must be allowed two attempts to qualify with assigned firearms/weapons semiannually. A designated firearms instructor or other person in charge of the range must ensure the shooter understands that the attempt will be for qualification. Once this has been communicated by the firearms instructor or person in charge, the attempt must constitute an attempt to qualify or demonstrate proficiency. The SPO must qualify or demonstrate proficiency during one of these attempts.

(11) Upon suspension of an SPO's authority to carry firearms, in order to return to status, the SPO must enter a standardized, remedial firearms/weapons training program developed by the respective site PF contractor firearms training staff. The remedial training program must be a combination of basic weapon manipulation skills, firearms safety, and an additional segment of time individually designed to provide the SPO with the necessary individual training to afford a reasonable opportunity to meet the firearms/weapons qualification or proficiency standards by addressing specific areas of performance.

(12) When qualification is required following the completion of the remedial training course, any SPO who fails to qualify after two subsequent attempts must lose SPO status and the authority to carry firearms/weapons and to make arrests. When weapons-specific safety or proficiency cannot be demonstrated, the SPO must not be assigned to posts that require the operation of that weapon until such safety or proficiency standards can be met.

(13) Any SPO who requires remedial training on three consecutive semiannual qualification periods with the same type of firearm/weapon (caliber, make, and model, but not necessarily the exact same weapon) must be removed from duties that require the issuance of that weapon. If the weapon is considered a primary duty weapon; e.g., rifle or handgun, the officer must be removed from SPO status based on recurring inability to maintain qualification status. If an SPO requires remedial training for the same firearm during three consecutive semiannual qualification periods, then a fourth remediation shall not be offered for subsequent failures to achieve that firearms qualification standard. The employer may reinstate an individual removed from SPO status if the individual can demonstrate the ability to pass the current Department qualification course for that firearm. Prior to being given the opportunity to obtain reinstatement, the SPO must provide the employer written validation from a certified firearms instructor that the SPO has demonstrated the ability to meet applicable DOE standards. All such training and validation expenses are solely the responsibility of the SPO. If reinstatement under these circumstances occurs, the employer must provide all other training for returning protective force members according to the requirements of this part and as otherwise specified by DOE.

(14) An appropriate Department record must be maintained for each SPO who qualifies or who attempts to qualify or to demonstrate proficiency. Records must be retained for one year after separation of a PF member from SPO duties, unless a longer retention period is specified by other requirements. A supervisor or a training officer must be designated, in writing, as the individual authorized to certify the validity of the scores.
