
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1047 - LIMITED ARREST AUTHORITY AND USE OF FORCE BY PROTECTIVE FORCE OFFICERS
#### General Provisions
##### ยง 1047.4 Arrest authority.
###### Felonies:

(i)(A) Arson-18 U.S.C. 81-(only applicable to "special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the United States" as defined by 18 U.S.C. 7).

(B) Building or property within special maritime and territorial jurisdiction-18 U.S.C. 1363-(only applicable to "special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of United States" as defined by 18 U.S.C. 7).

(C) Civil disorder-18 U.S.C. 231.

(D) Communication lines, stations or systems-18 U.S.C. 1362.

(E) Concealment, removal or mutilation generally-18 U.S.C. 2071.

(F) Conspiracy-18 U.S.C. 371-(violation of this section is a felony if the offense which is the object of the conspiracy is a felony).

(G) Destruction of motor vehicles or motor vehicle facilities-18 U.S.C. 33.

(H) Explosives-18 U.S.C. 844(f).

(I) Government property or contracts-18 U.S.C. 1361-(violation of section is a felony if property damage exceeds $100).

(J) Military, naval or official passes-18 U.S.C. 499-(pertains to forging or altering official passes).

(K) Personal property of the United States-18 U.S.C. 2112.

(L) Public money, property, or records-18 U.S.C. 641-(violation of section is a felony if the property value exceeds $100).

(M) Sabotage-18 U.S.C. 2151, 2153-2156.

(N) Violation under Physical Security Convention-18 U.S.C. 831.
