
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1049 - LIMITED ARREST AUTHORITY AND USE OF FORCE BY PROTECTIVE FORCE OFFICERS OF THE STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVE
#### ยง 1049.8 Training of SPR Protective Force Officers and qualification to carry firearms.

(a) Protective Force Officers shall successfully complete training required by applicable Department of Energy orders prior to receiving authorization to carry firearms. The Chief Health, Safety and Security Officer shall approve the course.

(b) Prior to initial assignment to duty, Protective Force Officers shall successfully complete a basic qualification training course which equips them with at least the minimum level of competence to perform tasks associated with their responsibilities. The basic course shall include the following subject areas:

(1) Legal authority, including use of deadly force and exercise of limited arrest authority;

(2) Security operations, including policies and procedures;

(3) Security tactics, including tactics for Protective Force Officers acting alone or as a group;

(4) Use of firearms, including firearms safety and proficiency with all types of weapons expected to be used;

(5) Use of non-deadly weapons, weapon-less self-defense, and physical conditioning;

(6) Use of vehicles, including vehicle safety in routine and emergency situations;

(7) Safety, first aid, and elementary firefighting procedures;

(8) Operating in such a manner as to preserve SPR sites and facilities;

(9) Communications, including methods and procedures.

(c) After completing training, and receiving the appropriate security clearance, Protective Force Officers shall be authorized to carry firearms and exercise limited arrest authority. Protective Force Officers shall receive an identification card, which must be carried whenever on duty and whenever armed.

(d) On an annual basis, each Protective Force Officer must successfully complete training sufficient to maintain at least the minimum level of competency required for the successful performance of all assigned tasks identified for Protective Force Officers.

(e) Protective Force Officers shall be qualified in the use of firearms by demonstrating proficiency in the use of firearms on a semiannual basis prior to receiving authorization to carry firearms. Protective Force Officers shall demonstrate proficiency in the use of all types of weapons expected to be used while on duty under both day and night conditions. In demonstrating firearms proficiency, Protective Force Officers shall use firearms of the same type and barrel length as firearms used by Protective Force Officers while on duty, and the same type of ammunition as that used by Protective Force Officers on duty. Before a Protective Force Officer is qualified in the use of firearms, the Officer shall complete a review of the basic principles of firearms safety.

(f) Protective Force Officers shall be allowed two attempts to qualify in the use of firearms. Protective Force Officers shall qualify in the use of firearms within six months of failing to qualify. If an Officer fails to qualify, the Officer shall complete a remedial firearms training program. A Protective Force Officer who fails to qualify in the use of firearms after completion of a remedial program, and after two further attempts to qualify shall not be authorized to carry firearms or to exercise limited arrest authority.
