
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1050 - FOREIGN GIFTS AND DECORATIONS
#### Subpart B - Guidelines for Acceptance of Foreign Gifts or Decorations
##### ยง 1050.202 Allowable acceptance of gifts.
###### any portion

(d) An employee may accept gifts (whether or not of minimal value) of travel or expenses for travel (such as transportation, food, lodging, or entertainment) taking place entirely outside of the United States where the provision of such travel or expenses is in accordance with diplomatic custom or treaty and where the Head of the employee's Office grants prior written approval. A spouse or dependent may accept gifts of travel or travel expenses when accompanying the employee, provided this is done with the prior written approval of the Head of the employee's Office. The Head of the employee's Office shall consult with the appropriate General Counsel in connection with granting approval under this paragraph. Travel or expenses for travel may not be accepted merely for the personal benefit, pleasure, enjoyment, or financial enrichment of the individual involved. An appropriate statement shall be filed in accordance with ยง 1050.301(b) of this part. Whenof the travel (such as the origination or termination of a flight) is within the United States, it may not be paid for by a foreign government, except as set forth in paragraph (e) of this section.

(e) Pursuant to section 652 of the DOE Organization Act, an employee may accept gifts from the International Atomic Energy Agency or other energy-related international organizations (e.g., the Nuclear Energy Agency and the International Energy Agency) covering transportation expenses to or from a foreign country in connection with scientific or technical assistance projects of such agencies for which the Department of Energy has lead U.S. Government agency responsibility. Such gifts may be accepted only with the prior written approval of the Head of the employee's Office, who is hereby delegated authority to accept such gifts in accordance with section 652.
