
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1050 - FOREIGN GIFTS AND DECORATIONS
#### Subpart B - Guidelines for Acceptance of Foreign Gifts or Decorations
##### § 1050.202 Allowable acceptance of gifts.

(a) An employee may accept and retain gifts from foreign governments where the gift is tendered or received as a souvenir or mark of courtesy, and is of minimal value. Initial responsibility for determining the value of a gift lies with the employee.

(b) Subject to the prior approval requirements described in § 1050.204(a) of this part, an employee may accept gifts of more than minimal value, tendered as a souvenir or mark of courtesy, where it appears that refusal of the gift would likely cause offense or embarrassment or otherwise adversely affect the foreign relations of the United States. Otherwise, an employee, when offered a gift of more than minimal value from a foreign government, other than a gift designated in paragraph (c) of this section, should advise the donor that acceptance of such gifts by the employee is contrary to the policy of the United States. If a gift described in this paragraph is accepted by an employee and not immediately returned thereby, it shall be deemed to have been accepted on behalf of the United States. Upon acceptance it becomes the property of the United States. Within 60 days after acceptance by the employee, the gift shall be deposited with the Directorate of Administration for disposal or official Departmental use as determined by the Directorate of Administration, in accordance with § 1050.302 of this part, and an appropriate statement shall be filed by the employee in accordance with § 1050.301(a) of this part.

(c) Subject to the prior approval requirements described in § 1050.204(a) of this part, an employee may accept and retain gifts of more than minimal value:

(1) Where the gift is in the nature of an educational scholarship.

(2) Where the gift is in the form of medical treatment.
