
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter X - Department of Energy (General Provisions)
### PART 1050 - FOREIGN GIFTS AND DECORATIONS
#### Subpart B - Guidelines for Acceptance of Foreign Gifts or Decorations
##### § 1050.204 Advance approval for acceptance of gifts or decorations.

(a) If an employee is advised that a gift of more than minimal value as described in § 1050.202 (b) or (c) is to be tendered to him or her, the employee shall, if time permits, request the written advice of the Directorate of Administration regarding the appropriateness of accepting or refusing the gift. A request for approval shall be submitted to the Directorate of Administration in writing, stating the nature of the gift and the reasons for which it is being tendered. The Directorate of Administration shall consult with Assistant Secretary for International Affairs and the appropriate General Counsel in connection with advising the employee. If such advice cannot be obtained and refusal of the gift would likely cause offense or embarrassment or otherwise adversely effect the foreign relations of the United States, the gift may be accepted, but the Directorate of Administration shall be informed as soon as possible. In either event, the employee shall proceed as provided in §§ 1050.202 and 1050.301 of this part.

(b) Where an employee is notified of the intent of a foreign government to award him a decoration for outstanding or unusually meritorious service, approval required under § 1050.203 should be obtained prior to acceptance of the award. A request for approval shall be submitted to the Directorate of Administration in writing, stating the nature of the decoration and the reasons for which it is being awarded. The Directorate of Administration shall consult with the Assistant Secretary for International Affairs and the appropriate General Counsel. If time does not permit the employee to obtain approval for the award of the decoration before its receipt, the employee may accept it, but shall seek such approval immediately thereafter.
