
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter XIII - Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board
### PART 1303 - PUBLIC INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
#### ยง 1303.102 Definitions.

For words used in this part, unless the context varies otherwise, singular includes the plural, plural includes the singular, present tense includes the future tense, and words of one gender include the other gender.

(a)(1) Agency records-include materials that are in the control of the Board and associated with Board business, as follows:

(i) Materials produced by the Board.

(ii) Materials produced a consultant for the Board.

(iii) Materials distributed by presenters at a Board meeting.

(2) All references to records, include both the entire record, or any part of the record.

(b) Board-The U.S. Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board.

(c) Chairman-The Chairman of the Board as designated by the President.

(d) Designated FOIA Officer-The person named by the Board to administer the Board's activities in regard do the regulations in this part. The FOIA Officer also shall be:

(1) The Board officer having custody of, or responsibility for, agency records in the possession of the Board.

(2) The Board officer having responsibility for authorizing or denying production of records from requests filed under the Freedom of Information Act.

(e) Executive Director-The chief operating officer of the Board.

(f) Member-An individual appointed to serve on the Board by the President of the United States.

(g) Days-Standard working days, excluding weekends and federal holidays.
