
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter XIII - Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board
### PART 1303 - PUBLIC INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
#### ยง 1303.105 Requests for Board records.
##### foia@nwtrb.gov

(2) Send an e-mail request toand specify that this is a FOIA request in the subject line; or

(3) Fax: 703-235-4495.

(b) When making a request for records about a person, Privacy Act regulations also may apply. Please check the regulations for additional requirements before submitting a request. When making a request for records about someone other than yourself, you must include either:

(1) Written authorization signed by the person permitting you to see the records; or

(2) Proof that the individual is deceased (e.g., a death certificate or an obituary).

(c) A request will be considered received for purposes of ยง 1303.107 on the date that it is received by the Board's FOIA office. For prompt handling, write "Freedom of Information Act Request" on the letter and envelope or in the subject line of the Web request or fax.

(d) Each request must clearly describe the desired records in sufficient detail to enable Board personnel to locate them with reasonable effort. Response to requests may be delayed if the records are not clearly described.

(e) Whenever possible, requests should include specific information about each record sought, such as date, title or name, author, recipient, and subject.

(f) If the FOIA Officer determines that the request does not clearly describe the records sought, he or she will either advise you of the additional needed to locate the record or otherwise state why the request is insufficient. The requestor will then be given the opportunity to provide additional information or to modify their request.

(g) Submitting a FOIA request shall be considered a commitment by the requestor to pay all applicable fees required under ยง 1303.108 unless the requestor seeks a waiver of fees. When making a request, you may specify a willingness to pay fees up to a specific amount.

(h) The FOIA does not require the Board to:

(1) Compile or create records solely for the purpose of satisfying a request for records.

(2) Provide records not yet in existence, even if such records may be expected to come into existence at some time in the future.

(3) Restore records destroyed or otherwise disposed of, except that the FOIA Officer must notify the requestor that the records have been destroyed or otherwise disposed of.
