
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter XIII - Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board
### PART 1303 - PUBLIC INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
#### ยง 1303.107 Timing of responses to requests.
##### Expedited processing:

(e)

(1) Requests and appeals shall be taken out of order and given expedited processing whenever it is determined that they involve:

(i) Circumstances that could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual; or

(ii) An urgency to inform the public about an actual or alleged activity if made by a person primarily engaged in disseminating information.

(2) Requests for expedited processing may be made either at the time of the initial request or at a later time.

(3) Requests for expedited processing must include a statement explaining in detail the basis for requesting expedited processing. For example, a requestor under ยง 1303.108 must demonstrate that their professional activity involves news reporting or otherwise disseminating information to the public, although this need not be their sole occupation. A requestor also must establish a particular urgency to inform the public about government activity involved in the request, beyond the public's right to know about government activity generally.

(4) Within 10 calendar days of receipt of a request for expedited processing, the Board shall decide whether to grant the request and notify the requestor of its decision. If a request for expedited treatment is granted, the request shall be processed as soon as practicable. If a request for expedited processing is denied, an appeal of that decision shall be acted on expeditiously.
