
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter XVII - Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
### PART 1703 - PUBLIC INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
#### ยง 1703.105 Requests for board records not available through the public reading room (FOIA requests).
##### Expedited processing.

(e)(1)A person may request expedited processing of an FOIA request when a compelling need for the requested records has been shown. "Compelling need" means:

(i) Circumstances in which the lack of expedited treatment could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual;

(ii) An urgency to inform the public about an actual or alleged Federal Government activity, if the request is made by a person primarily engaged in disseminating information; or

(iii) The records pertain to an immediate source of risk to the public health and safety or worker safety at a defense nuclear facility under the Board's jurisdiction.

(2) A requester seeking expedited processing should so indicate in the initial request, and should state all facts supporting the need to obtain the requested records rapidly. The requester must also state that these facts are true and correct to the best of the requester's knowledge and belief.

(3) When a request for expedited processing is received, the Board will respond within ten calendar days from the date of receipt of the request, stating whether or not the request has been granted. If the request for expedited processing is denied, any appeal of that decision will be acted upon expeditiously.
