
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter XVII - Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
### PART 1703 - PUBLIC INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
#### § 1703.105 Requests for board records not available through the public reading room (FOIA requests).

(a) Upon the request of any person, the Board shall make available for public inspection and copying any reasonably described agency record in the possession and control of the Board, but not available through the Public Reading Room, subject to the provisions of this part. If a member of the public files a request with the Board under the FOIA for records that the Board determines are available through the Public Reading Room, the Board will treat the request under the simplified procedures of § 1703.103.

(b)(1) A person may request access to Board records that are not available through the Public Reading Room by using the following procedures:

(i) The request must be in writing and must describe the records requested to enable Board personnel to locate them with a reasonable amount of effort. Where possible, specific information regarding dates, titles, file designations, and other information which may help identify the records should be supplied by the requester, including the names and titles of any Board personnel who have been contacted regarding the request prior to the submission of the written request.

(ii) A request for all records falling within a reasonably specific and well-defined category shall be regarded as conforming to the statutory requirement that records be reasonably described. The request must enable the Board to identify and locate the records by a process that is not unreasonably burdensome or disruptive of Board operations.

(2) The request should be addressed to the Designated FOIA Officer and clearly marked "Freedom of Information Act Request." The address for such requests is: Designated FOIA Officer, Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board, 625 Indiana Avenue, NW., suite 700, Washington, DC 20004. For purposes of calculating the time for response to the request under § 1703.108, the request shall not be deemed to have been received until it is in the possession of the Designated FOIA Officer or his designee.

(3) The request must include:

(i) A statement by the requester of a willingness to pay the fee applicable under § 1703.107(b), or to pay that fee not to exceed a specific amount, or

(ii) A request for waiver or reduction of fees.

(4) No request shall be deemed to have been received until the Board has:

(i) Received a statement of willingness to pay, as indicated in § 1703.105(b)(3)(i), or

(ii) Received and approved a request for waiver or reduction of fees. However, the FOIA request shall be deemed to have been received if the request for waiver or reduction of fees includes a statement of willingness to pay the fee anticipated to be incurred in processing the request under this section, or to pay that fee not to exceed a specific amount, should the request for fee waiver or reduction be denied.

(c) with respect to records in the files of the Board that have been obtained from other federal agencies:

(1) Where the record originated in another federal agency, the Designated FOIA Officer shall refer the request to that agency and so inform the requester, unless the originating agency agrees to direct release by the Board.

(2) Requests for Board records containing information received from another agency, or records prepared jointly by the Board and other agencies, shall be treated as requests for Board records. The Designated FOIA Officer shall, however, coordinate with the appropriate official of the other agency. The notice of determination to the requester, in the event part or all of the record is recommended for denial by the other agency, shall cite the other agency Denying Official as well as the Designated FOIA Officer if a denial by the Board is also involved.

(d) If a request does not reasonably describe the records sought, as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the Board response shall specify the reasons why the request failed to meet those requirements and shall offer the requester the opportunity to confer with knowledgeable Board personnel in an attempt to restate the request. If additional information is needed from the requester to render records reasonably described, any restated request submitted by the requester shall be treated as an initial request for purposes of calculating the time for response under § 1703.108.
