
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter XVII - Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
### PART 1703 - PUBLIC INFORMATION AND REQUESTS
#### ยง 1703.108 Processing of FOIA requests.
##### unusual circumstances

(c) For purposes of this section and ยง 1703.109, the termmay include but is not limited to the following:

(1) The need to search for and collect the requested records from field facilities or other establishments that are separate from the Board's Washington, DC offices:

(2) The need to search for, collect and appropriately examine a voluminous amount of separate and distinct records which may be responsive to a single request; or

(3) The need for consultation, which shall be conducted with all practicable speed, with another agency pursuant to ยง 1703.105(d).

(d) If no determination has been made at the end of the ten day period, or the last extension thereof, the requester may deem his administrative remedies to have been exhausted, giving rise to a right of review in a district court of the United States as specified in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4). When no determination can be made within the applicable time limit, the Board will nevertheless continue to process the request. If the Board is unable to provide a response within the statutory period, the Designated FOIA Officer shall inform the requester of the reason for the delay; the date on which a determination may be expected to be made; and that the requester can seek remedy through the courts, but shall ask the requester to forgo such action until a determination is made.

(e) Nothing in this part shall preclude the Designated FOIA Officer and a requester from agreeing to an extension of time for the initial determination on a request. Any such agreement shall be confirmed in writing and shall clearly specify the total time agreed upon.

(f) The procedure for appeal of denial of a request for Board records is set forth in ยง 1703.109.
