
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 26 - FITNESS FOR DUTY PROGRAMS
#### Subpart G - Laboratories Certified by the Department of Health and Human Services
##### ยง 26.165 Testing split specimens and retesting single specimens.
###### i.e.,i.e.,

(2) The MRO shall inform the donor that he or she may, within 3 business days of notification by the MRO of the confirmed positive, adulterated, or substituted test result, request the retesting of an aliquot of the single specimen or the testing of the Bottle B split specimen. The MRO shall provide the donor with specific instructions for making this request (, providing telephone numbers or other contact information). The MRO shall have the ability to receive the donor's calls at all times during the 3-day period (e.g., by use of an answering machine with a "time stamp" feature when there is no one in the MRO's office to answer the phone). The donor's request may be oral or in writing. The MRO shall document in his or her records when (date and time) the request was received from the donor to retest an aliquot of the single specimen or to test the Bottle B split specimen.

(3) No entity, other than the MRO as permitted in ยง 26.185(l), may order the retesting of an aliquot of the single specimen or the testing of the Bottle B split specimen.

(4) If the donor has not requested a retest of an aliquot of a single specimen or a test of the split specimen (Bottle B) within 3 business days, the donor may present to the MRO information documenting that serious injury, illness, lack of actual notice of the confirmed test result, inability to contact the MRO (e.g., there was no one in the MRO's office and the answering machine was not working), or other circumstances unavoidably prevented the donor from making a timely request. If the MRO concludes from the donor's information that there was a legitimate reason for the donor's failure to contact the MRO within the 3 business days permitted, the MRO shall direct the retesting of an aliquot of the single specimen or the test of the split specimen (Bottle B) take place, as if the donor had made a timely request.

(5) As soon as reasonably practical and not more than 1 business day following the day of the donor's request, as permitted in paragraph (b)(3) or (b)(4) of this section, the MRO shall ensure that the HHS-certified laboratory forwards an aliquot of a single specimen, or that the HHS-certified laboratory (or licensee testing facility, as appropriate) forwards Bottle B of a split specimen, to a second HHS-certified laboratory that did not test the specimen in Bottle A.

(6) The HHS-certified laboratory that retests an aliquot of a single specimen or tests the specimen in Bottle B shall provide quantitative test results to the MRO and the MRO shall provide them to the donor.
