
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 26 - FITNESS FOR DUTY PROGRAMS
#### Subpart H - Determining Fitness-for-Duty Policy Violations and Determining Fitness
##### ยง 26.183 Medical review officer.
###### MRO staff.

(d)Individuals who provide administrative support to the MRO may be employees of a licensee or other entity, employees of the MRO, or employees of an organization with whom a licensee or other entity contracts for MRO services. Employees of a licensee or other entity who serve MRO staff functions may also perform other duties for the licensee or other entity and need not be under the direction of the MRO while performing those other duties.

(1) Direction of MRO staff activities. MROs shall be directly responsible for all administrative, technical, and professional activities of individuals who are serving MRO staff functions while they are performing those functions, and those functions must be under the MRO's direction.

(i) The duties of MRO staff must be maintained independent from any other activity or interest of a licensee or other entity, in order to protect the integrity of the MRO function and donors' privacy.

(ii) An MRO's responsibilities for directing MRO staff must include, but are not limited to, ensuring that-

(A) The procedures being performed by MRO staff meet NRC regulations and HHS' and professional standards of practice;

(B) Records and other donor personal information are maintained confidential by MRO staff and are not released to other individuals or entities, except as permitted under this part;

(C) Data transmission is secure; and

(D) Drug test results are reported to the licensee's or other entity's designated reviewing official only as required by this part.

(iii) The MRO may not delegate any of his or her responsibilities for directing MRO staff to any other individual or entity, except another MRO.

(2) MRO staff responsibilities. MRO staff may perform routine administrative support functions, including receiving test results, reviewing negative test results, and scheduling interviews for the MRO.

(i) The staff under the direction of the MRO may receive, review, and report negative test results to the licensee's or other entity's designated representative.

(ii) The staff reviews of positive, adulterated, substituted, invalid, and dilute test results must be limited to reviewing the Federal CCF to determine whether it contains any errors that may require corrective action and to ensure that it is consistent with the information on the MRO's copy. The staff may resolve errors in Federal CCFs that require corrective action(s), but shall forward the Federal CCFs to the MRO for review and approval of the resolution.

(iii) The staff may not conduct interviews with donors to discuss positive, adulterated, substituted, invalid, or dilute test results nor request medical information from a donor. Only the MRO may request and review medical information related to a positive, adulterated, substituted, or invalid test result or other matter from a donor.

(iv) Staff may not report nor discuss with any individuals other than the MRO and other MRO staff any positive, adulterated, substituted, invalid, or dilute test results received from the HHS-certified laboratory before those results have been reviewed and confirmed by the MRO. Any MRO staff discussions of confirmed positive, adulterated, substituted, invalid, or dilute test results must be limited to discussions only with the licensee's or other entity's FFD program personnel and may not reveal quantitative test results or any personal medical information about the donor that the MRO may have obtained in the course of reviewing confirmatory test results from the HHS-certified laboratory.
