
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 26 - FITNESS FOR DUTY PROGRAMS
#### Subpart H - Determining Fitness-for-Duty Policy Violations and Determining Fitness
##### ยง 26.185 Determining a fitness-for-duty policy violation.
###### Review of invalid specimens.

(f)(1) If the HHS-certified laboratory reports an invalid result, the MRO shall consult with the laboratory to determine whether additional testing by another HHS-certified laboratory may be useful in determining and reporting a positive or adulterated test result. If the MRO and the laboratory agree that further testing would be useful, the HHS-certified laboratory shall forward the specimen to a second laboratory for additional testing.

(2) If the MRO and the laboratory agree that further testing would not be useful and there is no technical explanation for the result, the MRO shall contact the donor and determine whether there is an acceptable medical explanation for the invalid result. If there is an acceptable medical explanation, the MRO shall report to the licensee or other entity that the test result is not an FFD policy violation, but that a negative test result was not obtained. If the medical reason for the invalid result is, in the opinion of the MRO, a temporary condition, the licensee or other entity shall collect a second urine specimen from the donor as soon as reasonably practical and rely on the MRO's review of the test results from the second collection. The second specimen collected for the purposes of this paragraph may not be collected under direct observation. If the medical reason for the invalid result would similarly affect the testing of another urine specimen, the MRO may authorize an alternative method for drug testing. Licensees and other entities may not impose sanctions for an invalid test result due to a medical condition.

(3) If the MRO and the laboratory agree that further testing would not be useful and there is no legitimate technical or medical explanation, and the invalid result is based on pH in the range of 9.0 to 9.5, the MRO shall consider whether there is evidence of elapsed time, exposure of the specimen to high temperature, or both that could account for the pH value. If an acceptable explanation exists for the invalid test result due to pH, based on objective and sufficient information, that elapsed time, high temperature, or both caused the high pH and donor action did not result in the invalid pH result, the MRO shall report a cancelled test result to the licensee or other entity, cancel the test result, and direct the licensee or other entity to collect a second urine specimen from the donor as soon as reasonably practicable. The second specimen collected may not be collected under direct observation.

(4) If the MRO and the laboratory agree that further testing would not be useful and there is no legitimate technical or medical explanation for the invalid test result, the MRO shall require that a second collection take place as soon as practical under direct observation. The licensee or other entity shall rely on the MRO's review of the test results from the directly observed collection.
