
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 30 - RULES OF GENERAL APPLICABILITY TO DOMESTIC LICENSING OF BYPRODUCT MATERIAL
#### Licenses
##### ยง 30.32 Application for specific licenses.
###### Hazardous chemicals.

(xiii)A certification that the applicant has met its responsibilities under the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986, title III, Pub. L. 99-499, if applicable to the applicant's activities at the proposed place of use of the byproduct material.

(4) The licensee shall allow the offsite response organizations expected to respond in case of an accident 60 days to comment on the licensee's emergency plan before submitting it to NRC. The licensee shall provide any comments received within the 60 days to the NRC with the emergency plan.

(j) An application from a medical facility, educational institution, or Federal facility to produce Positron Emission Tomography (PET) radioactive drugs for noncommercial transfer to licensees in its consortium authorized for medical use under part 35 of this chapter or equivalent Agreement State requirements shall include:

(1) A request for authorization for the production of PET radionuclides or evidence of an existing license issued under part 30 of this chapter or Agreement State requirements for a PET radionuclide production facility within its consortium from which it receives PET radionuclides.

(2) Evidence that the applicant is qualified to produce radioactive drugs for medical use by meeting one of the criteria in ยง 32.72(a)(2) of this chapter.

(3) Identification of individual(s) authorized to prepare the PET radioactive drugs if the applicant is a pharmacy, and documentation that each individual meets the requirements of an authorized nuclear pharmacist as specified in ยง 32.72(b)(2) of this chapter.

(4) Information identified in ยง 32.72(a)(3) of this chapter on the PET drugs to be noncommercially transferred to members of its consortium.
