
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 30 - RULES OF GENERAL APPLICABILITY TO DOMESTIC LICENSING OF BYPRODUCT MATERIAL
#### Licenses
##### § 30.34 Terms and conditions of licenses.
###### Security requirements for portable gauges.

(i)Each portable gauge licensee shall use a minimum of two independent physical controls that form tangible barriers to secure portable gauges from unauthorized removal, whenever portable gauges are not under the control and constant surveillance of the licensee.

(j)(1) Authorization under § 30.32(j) to produce Positron Emission Tomography (PET) radioactive drugs for noncommercial transfer to medical use licensees in its consortium does not relieve the licensee from complying with applicable FDA, other Federal, and State requirements governing radioactive drugs.

(2) Each licensee authorized under § 30.32(j) to produce PET radioactive drugs for noncommercial transfer to medical use licensees in its consortium shall:

(i) Satisfy the labeling requirements in § 32.72(a)(4) of this chapter for each PET radioactive drug transport radiation shield and each syringe, vial, or other container used to hold a PET radioactive drug intended for noncommercial distribution to members of its consortium.

(ii) Possess and use instrumentation to measure the radioactivity of the PET radioactive drugs intended for noncommercial distribution to members of its consortium and meet the procedural, radioactivity measurement, instrument test, instrument check, and instrument adjustment requirements in § 32.72(c) of this chapter.

(3) A licensee that is a pharmacy authorized under § 30.32(j) to produce PET radioactive drugs for noncommercial transfer to medical use licensees in its consortium shall require that any individual that prepares PET radioactive drugs shall be:

(i) an authorized nuclear pharmacist that meets the requirements in § 32.72(b)(2) of this chapter, or

(ii) an individual under the supervision of an authorized nuclear pharmacist as specified in § 35.27 of this chapter.

(4) A pharmacy, authorized under § 30.32(j) to produce PET radioactive drugs for noncommercial transfer to medical use licensees in its consortium that allows an individual to work as an authorized nuclear pharmacist, shall meet the requirements of § 32.72(b)(5) of this chapter.

(k) As required by the Additional Protocol, each specific licensee authorized to possess and use byproduct material shall file with the Commission location information described in § 75.11 of this chapter on DOC/NRC Forms AP-1 and associated forms. The licensee shall also permit verification of this information by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and shall take other action as may be necessary to implement the US/IAEA Safeguards Agreement, as described in part 75 of this chapter.
