
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 31 - GENERAL DOMESTIC LICENSES FOR BYPRODUCT MATERIAL
#### ยง 31.4 Information collection requirements: OMB approval.
##### et seq.
###### i.e.

(13)(i) Shall register, in accordance with paragraphs (c)(13)(ii) and (iii) of this section, devices containing at least 370 megabecquerels (10 millicuries) of cesium-137, 3.7 megabecquerels (0.1 millicurie) of strontium-90, 37 megabecquerels (1 millicurie) of cobalt-60, 3.7 megabecquerels (0.1 millicurie) of radium-226, or 37 megabecquerels (1 millicurie) of americium-241 or any other transuranic (, element with atomic number greater than uranium (92)), based on the activity indicated on the label. Each address for a location of use, as described under paragraph (c)(13)(iii)(D) of this section, represents a separate general licensee and requires a separate registration and fee.

(ii) If in possession of a device meeting the criteria of paragraph (c)(13)(i) of this section, shall register these devices annually with the Commission and shall pay the fee required by ยง 170.31 of this chapter. Registration must be done by verifying, correcting, and/or adding to the information provided in a request for registration received from the Commission. The registration information must be submitted to the NRC within 30 days of the date of the request for registration or as otherwise indicated in the request. In addition, a general licensee holding devices meeting the criteria of paragraph (c)(13)(i) of this section is subject to the bankruptcy notification requirement in ยง 30.34(h) of this chapter.

(iii) In registering devices, the general licensee shall furnish the following information and any other information specifically requested by the Commission-

(A) Name and mailing address of the general licensee.

(B) Information about each device: the manufacturer (or initial transferor), model number, serial number, the radioisotope and activity (as indicated on the label).

(C) Name, title, and telephone number of the responsible person designated as a representative of the general licensee under paragraph (c)(12) of this section.

(D) Address or location at which the device(s) are used and/or stored. For portable devices, the address of the primary place of storage.

(E) Certification by the responsible representative of the general licensee that the information concerning the device(s) has been verified through a physical inventory and checking of label information.

(F) Certification by the responsible representative of the general licensee that they are aware of the requirements of the general license.

(iv) Persons generally licensed by an Agreement State with respect to devices meeting the criteria in paragraph (c)(13)(i) of this section are not subject to registration requirements if the devices are used in areas subject to NRC jurisdiction for a period less than 180 days in any calendar year. The Commission will not request registration information from such licensees.

(14) Shall report changes to the mailing address for the location of use (including change in name of general licensee) to the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, ATTN: GLTS, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001 within 30 days of the effective date of the change. For a portable device, a report of address change is only required for a change in the device's primary place of storage.

(15) May not hold devices that are not in use for longer than 2 years. If devices with shutters are not being used, the shutter must be locked in the closed position. The testing required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section need not be performed during the period of storage only. However, when devices are put back into service or transferred to another person, and have not been tested within the required test interval, they must be tested for leakage before use or transfer and the shutter tested before use. Devices kept in standby for future use are excluded from the two-year time limit if the general licensee performs quarterly physical inventories of these devices while they are in standby.

(d) The general license in paragraph (a) of this section does not authorize the manufacture or import of devices containing byproduct material.
