
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 31 - GENERAL DOMESTIC LICENSES FOR BYPRODUCT MATERIAL
#### ยง 31.12 General license for certain items and self-luminous products containing radium-226.

(a) A general license is hereby issued to any person to acquire, receive, possess, use, or transfer, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, radium-226 contained in the following products manufactured prior to November 30, 2007.

(1) Antiquities originally intended for use by the general public. For the purposes of this paragraph, antiquities mean products originally intended for use by the general public and distributed in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, such as radium emanator jars, revigators, radium water jars, radon generators, refrigerator cards, radium bath salts, and healing pads.

(2) Intact timepieces containing greater than 0.037 megabecquerel (1 microcurie), nonintact timepieces, and timepiece hands and dials no longer installed in timepieces.

(3) Luminous items installed in air, marine, or land vehicles.

(4) All other luminous products, provided that no more than 100 items are used or stored at the same location at any one time.

(5) Small radium sources containing no more than 0.037 megabecquerel (1 microcurie) of radium-226. For the purposes of this paragraph, "small radium sources" means discrete survey instrument check sources, sources contained in radiation measuring instruments, sources used in educational demonstrations (such as cloud chambers and spinthariscopes), electron tubes, lightning rods, ionization sources, static eliminators, or as designated by the NRC.

(b) Persons who acquire, receive, possess, use, or transfer byproduct material under the general license issued in paragraph (a) of this section are exempt from the provisions of 10 CFR parts 19, 20, and 21, and ยง 30.50 and 30.51 of this chapter, to the extent that the receipt, possession, use, or transfer of byproduct material is within the terms of the general license; provided, however, that this exemption shall not be deemed to apply to any such person specifically licensed under this chapter.

(c) Any person who acquires, receives, possesses, uses, or transfers byproduct material in accordance with the general license in paragraph (a) of this section:

(1) Shall notify the NRC should there be any indication of possible damage to the product so that it appears it could result in a loss of the radioactive material. A report containing a brief description of the event, and the remedial action taken, must be furnished to the Director of the Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001 within 30 days.

(2) Shall not abandon products containing radium-226. The product, and any radioactive material from the product, may only be disposed of according to ยง 20.2008 of this chapter or by transfer to a person authorized by a specific license to receive the radium-226 in the product or as otherwise approved by the NRC.

(3) Shall not export products containing radium-226 except in accordance with part 110 of this chapter.

(4) Shall dispose of products containing radium-226 at a disposal facility authorized to dispose of radioactive material in accordance with any Federal or State solid or hazardous waste law, including the Solid Waste Disposal Act, as authorized under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, by transfer to a person authorized to receive radium-226 by a specific license issued under part 30 of this chapter, or equivalent regulations of an Agreement State, or as otherwise approved by the NRC.

(5) Shall respond to written requests from the NRC to provide information relating to the general license within 30 calendar days of the date of the request, or other time specified in the request. If the general licensee cannot provide the requested information within the allotted time, it shall, within that same time period, request a longer period to supply the information by providing the Director of the Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, by an appropriate method listed in ยง 30.6(a) of this chapter, a written justification for the request.

(d) The general license in paragraph (a) of this section does not authorize the manufacture, assembly, disassembly, repair, or import of products containing radium-226, except that timepieces may be disassembled and repaired.
