
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 32 - SPECIFIC DOMESTIC LICENSES TO MANUFACTURE OR TRANSFER CERTAIN ITEMS CONTAINING BYPRODUCT MATERIAL
#### Subpart A - Exempt Concentrations and Items
##### § 32.12 Same: Records and material transfer reports.

(a) Each person licensed under § 32.11 shall maintain records of transfer of byproduct material and file a report with the Director of the Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards by an appropriate method listed in § 30.6(a) of this chapter, including in the address: ATTN: Document Control Desk/Exempt Distribution.

(1) The report must clearly identify the specific licensee submitting the report and include the license number of the specific licensee.

(2) The report must indicate that the byproduct material is transferred for use under § 30.14 of this chapter or equivalent regulations of an Agreement State.

(b) The report must identify the:

(1) Type and quantity of each product or material into which byproduct material has been introduced during the reporting period;

(2) Name and address of the person who owned or possessed the product or material, into which byproduct material has been introduced, at the time of introduction;

(3) The type and quantity of radionuclide introduced into each product or material; and

(4) The initial concentrations of the radionuclide in the product or material at time of transfer of the byproduct material by the licensee.

(c)(1) The licensee shall file the report, covering the preceding calendar year, on or before January 31 of each year. In its first report after December 17, 2007, the licensee shall separately include data for transfers in prior years not previously reported to the Commission or to an Agreement State.

(2) Licensees who permanently discontinue activities authorized by the license issued under § 32.11 shall file a report for the current calendar year within 30 days after ceasing distribution.

(d) If no transfers of byproduct material have been made under § 32.11 during the reporting period, the report must so indicate.

(e) The licensee shall maintain the record of a transfer for one year after the transfer is included in a report to the Commission.
