
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 32 - SPECIFIC DOMESTIC LICENSES TO MANUFACTURE OR TRANSFER CERTAIN ITEMS CONTAINING BYPRODUCT MATERIAL
#### Subpart B - Generally Licensed Items
##### § 32.51a Same: Conditions of licenses.

(a) If a device containing byproduct material is to be transferred for use under the general license contained in § 31.5 of this chapter, each person that is licensed under § 32.51 shall provide the information specified in this paragraph to each person to whom a device is to be transferred. This information must be provided before the device may be transferred. In the case of a transfer through an intermediate person, the information must also be provided to the intended user prior to initial transfer to the intermediate person. The required information includes-

(1) A copy of the general license contained in § 31.5 of this chapter; if paragraphs (c)(2) through (4) or (c)(13) of § 31.5 do not apply to the particular device, those paragraphs may be omitted.

(2) A copy of §§ 31.2, 30.51, 20.2201, and 20.2202 of this chapter;

(3) A list of the services that can only be performed by a specific licensee;

(4) Information on acceptable disposal options including estimated costs of disposal; and

(5) An indication that NRC's policy is to issue high civil penalties for improper disposal.

(b) If byproduct material is to be transferred in a device for use under an equivalent general license of an Agreement State, each person that is licensed under § 32.51 shall provide the information specified in this paragraph to each person to whom a device is to be transferred. This information must be provided before the device may be transferred. In the case of a transfer through an intermediate person, the information must also be provided to the intended user prior to initial transfer to the intermediate person. The required information includes-

(1) A copy of the Agreement State's regulations equivalent to §§ 31.5, 31.2, 30.51, 20.2201, and 20.2202 of this chapter or a copy of §§ 31.5, 31.2, 30.51, 20.2201, and 20.2202 of this chapter. If a copy of the NRC regulations is provided to a prospective general licensee in lieu of the Agreement State's regulations, it shall be accompanied by a note explaining that use of the device is regulated by the Agreement State; if certain paragraphs of the regulations do not apply to the particular device, those paragraphs may be omitted.

(2) A list of the services that can only be performed by a specific licensee;

(3) Information on acceptable disposal options including estimated costs of disposal; and

(4) The name or title, address, and phone number of the contact at the Agreement State regulatory agency from which additional information may be obtained.

(c) An alternative approach to informing customers may be proposed by the licensee for approval by the Commission.

(d) Each device that is transferred after February 19, 2002 must meet the labeling requirements in § 32.51(a)(3) through (5).

(e) If a notification of bankruptcy has been made under § 30.34(h) or the license is to be terminated, each person licensed under § 32.51 shall provide, upon request, to the NRC and to any appropriate Agreement State, records of final disposition required under § 32.52(c).
