
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 33 - SPECIFIC DOMESTIC LICENSES OF BROAD SCOPE FOR BYPRODUCT MATERIAL
#### Specific Licenses of Broad Scope
##### § 33.11 Types of specific licenses of broad scope.

(a) A "Type A specific license of broad scope" is a specific license authorizing receipt, acquisition, ownership, possession, use, and transfer of any chemical or physical form of the byproduct material specified in the license, but not exceeding quantities specified in the license, for purposes authorized by the Act. The quantities specified are usually in the multicurie range.

(b) A "Type B specific license of broad scope" is a specific license authorizing receipt, acquisition, ownership, possession, use, and transfer of any chemical or physical form of byproduct material specified in § 33.100, Schedule A, of this part for purposes authorized by the Act. The possession limit for a Type B broad license, if only one radionuclide is possessed thereunder, is the quantity specified for that radionuclide in § 33.100, Schedule A, Column I. If two or more radionuclides are possessed thereunder, the possession limit for each is determined as follows: For each radionuclide, determine the ratio of the quantity possessed to the applicable quantity specified in § 33.100, Schedule A, Column I, for that radionuclide. The sum of the ratios for all radionuclides possessed under the license shall not exceed unity.

(c) A "Type C specific license of broad scope" is a specific license authorizing receipt, acquisition, ownership, possession, use, and transfer of any chemical or physical form of byproduct material specified in § 33.100, Schedule A, for purposes authorized by the Act. The possession limit for a Type C broad license, if only one radionuclide is possessed thereunder, is the quantity specified for that radionuclide in § 33.100, Schedule A, Column II. If two or more radionuclides are possessed thereunder, the possession limit is determined for each as follows: For each radionuclide determine the ratio of the quantity possessed to the applicable quantity specified in § 33.100, Schedule A, Column II, for that radionuclide. The sum of the ratios for all radionuclides possessed under the license shall not exceed unity.
