
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 34 - LICENSES FOR INDUSTRIAL RADIOGRAPHY AND RADIATION SAFETY REQUIREMENTS FOR INDUSTRIAL RADIOGRAPHIC OPERATIONS
#### Subpart B - Specific Licensing Provisions
##### § 34.13 Specific license for industrial radiography.

An application for a specific license for the use of licensed material in industrial radiography will be approved if the applicant meets the following requirements:

(a) The applicant satisfies the general requirements specified in § 30.33 of this chapter for byproduct material, as appropriate, and any special requirements contained in this part.

(b) The applicant submits an adequate program for training radiographers and radiographers' assistants that meets the requirements of § 34.43.

(1) After May 28, 1999, a license applicant need not describe its initial training and examination program for radiographers in the subjects outlined in § 34.43(g).

(2) From June 27, 1997 to May 28, 1999 a license applicant may affirm that all individuals acting as industrial radiographers will be certified in radiation safety by a certifying entity before commencing duty as radiographers. This affirmation substitutes for a description of its initial training and examination program for radiographers in the subjects outlined in § 34.43(g).

(c) The applicant submits procedures for verifying and documenting the certification status of radiographers and for ensuring that the certification of individuals acting as radiographers remains valid.

(d) The applicant submits written operating and emergency procedures as described in § 34.45.

(e) The applicant submits a description of a program for inspections of the job performance of each radiographer and radiographers' assistant at intervals not to exceed 6 months as described in § 34.43(e).

(f) The applicant submits a description of the applicant's overall organizational structure as it applies to the radiation safety responsibilities in industrial radiography, including specified delegation of authority and responsibility.

(g) The applicant identifies and lists the qualifications of the individual(s) designated as the RSO (§ 34.42) and potential designees responsible for ensuring that the licensee's radiation safety program is implemented in accordance with approved procedures.

(h) If an applicant intends to perform leak testing of sealed sources or exposure devices containing depleted uranium (DU) shielding, the applicant must describe the procedures for performing and the qualifications of the person(s) authorized to do the leak testing. If the applicant intends to analyze its own wipe samples, the application must include a description of the procedures to be followed. The description must include the-

(1) Instruments to be used;

(2) Methods of performing the analysis; and

(3) Pertinent experience of the person who will analyze the wipe samples.

(i) If the applicant intends to perform "in-house" calibrations of survey instruments the applicant must describe methods to be used and the relevant experience of the person(s) who will perform the calibrations. All calibrations must be performed according to the procedures described and at the intervals prescribed in § 34.25.

(j) The applicant identifies and describes the location(s) of all field stations and permanent radiographic installations.

(k) The applicant identifies the locations where all records required by this part and other parts of this chapter will be maintained.
