
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 35 - MEDICAL USE OF BYPRODUCT MATERIAL
#### Subpart B - General Administrative Requirements
##### § 35.24 Authority and responsibilities for the radiation protection program.

(a) In addition to the radiation protection program requirements of § 20.1101 of this chapter, a licensee's management shall approve in writing-

(1) Requests for a license application, renewal, or amendment before submittal to the Commission;

(2) Any individual before allowing that individual to work as an authorized user, authorized nuclear pharmacist, or authorized medical physicist; and

(3) Radiation protection program changes that do not require a license amendment and are permitted under § 35.26;

(b) A licensee's management shall appoint a Radiation Safety Officer who agrees, in writing, to be responsible for implementing the radiation protection program. The licensee, through the Radiation Safety Officer, shall ensure that radiation safety activities are being performed in accordance with licensee-approved procedures and regulatory requirements. A licensee's management may appoint, in writing, one or more Associate Radiation Safety Officers to support the Radiation Safety Officer. The Radiation Safety Officer, with written agreement of the licensee's management, must assign the specific duties and tasks to each Associate Radiation Safety Officer. These duties and tasks are restricted to the types of use for which the Associate Radiation Safety Officer is listed on a license. The Radiation Safety Officer may delegate duties and tasks to the Associate Radiation Safety Officer but shall not delegate the authority or responsibilities for implementing the radiation protection program.

(c) For up to 60 days each year, a licensee may permit an individual qualified to be a Radiation Safety Officer, under §§ 35.50 and 35.59, to function as a temporary Radiation Safety Officer and to perform the functions of a Radiation Safety Officer, as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, if the licensee takes the actions required in paragraphs (b), (e), (g), and (h) of this section and notifies the Commission in accordance with § 35.14(b).

(d) A licensee may simultaneously appoint more than one temporary Radiation Safety Officer in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, if needed to ensure that the licensee has a temporary Radiation Safety Officer that satisfies the requirements to be a Radiation Safety Officer for each of the different types of uses of byproduct material permitted by the license.

(e) A licensee shall establish the authority, duties, and responsibilities of the Radiation Safety Officer in writing.

(f) Licensees that are authorized for two or more different types of uses of byproduct material under Subparts E, F, and H of this part, or two or more types of units under Subpart H of this part, shall establish a Radiation Safety Committee to oversee all uses of byproduct material permitted by the license. The Committee must include an authorized user of each type of use permitted by the license, the Radiation Safety Officer, a representative of the nursing service, and a representative of management who is neither an authorized user nor a Radiation Safety Officer. The Committee may include other members the licensee considers appropriate.

(g) A licensee shall provide the Radiation Safety Officer sufficient authority, organizational freedom, time, resources, and management prerogative, to-

(1) Identify radiation safety problems;

(2) Initiate, recommend, or provide corrective actions;

(3) Stop unsafe operations; and,

(4) Verify implementation of corrective actions.

(h) A licensee shall retain a record of actions taken under paragraphs (a), (b), and (e) of this section in accordance with § 35.2024.
