
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 2 - AGENCY RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
#### Subpart F - Additional Procedures Applicable to Early Partial Decisions on Site Suitability Issues in Connection With an Application for a Construction Permit or Combined License To Construct Certain Utilization Facilities; and Advance Issuance of Limited Work Authorizations
##### Early Partial Decisions on Site Suitability - Combined License Under 10 CFR Part 52
###### § 2.621 Acceptance and docketing of application for early review of site suitability issues in a combined license proceeding.

(a) Each part of an application submitted in accordance with § 2.101(a-1) of this part will be initially treated as a tendered application. If it is determined that any one of the parts as described in § 2.101(a-1) is incomplete and not acceptable for processing, the Director of the Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation will inform the applicant of this determination and the respects in which the document is deficient. Such a determination of completeness will generally be made within a period of 30 days.

(b)(1) The Director of the Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation will accept for docketing an application for a combined license for a nuclear power facility where part one of the application as described in § 2.101(a-1) is complete. Part one of any application will not be considered complete unless it contains proposed findings as required by § 2.101(a-1)(1)(i) and unless it describes the applicant's site selection process, specifies the extent to which that process involves the consideration of alternative sites, explains the relationship between that process and the application for early review of site suitability issues, and briefly describes the applicant's long-range plans for ultimate development of the site. Upon assignment of a docket number, the procedures in § 2.101(a)(3) and (4) relating to formal docketing and the submission and distribution of additional copies of the application shall be followed.

(2) Additional parts of the application will be docketed upon a determination by the Director of the Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation that they are complete.

(c) If part one of the application is docketed, the Director of the Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation will cause to be published in theand send to the Governor or other appropriate official of the State in which the site is located, a notice of docketing of the application which states the purpose of the application, states the location of the proposed site, states that a notice of hearing will be published, requests comments within 120 days or such other time as may be specified on the initiation or outcome of an early site review from Federal, State, and local agencies and interested persons.
