
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 35 - MEDICAL USE OF BYPRODUCT MATERIAL
#### Subpart H - Photon Emitting Remote Afterloader Units, Teletherapy Units, and Gamma Stereotactic Radiosurgery Units
##### ยง 35.610 Safety procedures and instructions for remote afterloader units, teletherapy units, and gamma stereotactic radiosurgery units.

(a) A licensee shall-

(1) Secure the unit, the console, the console keys, and the treatment room when not in use or unattended;

(2) Permit only individuals approved by the authorized user, Radiation Safety Officer, or authorized medical physicist to be present in the treatment room during treatment with the source(s);

(3) Prevent dual operation of more than one radiation producing device in a treatment room if applicable; and

(4) Develop, implement, and maintain written procedures for responding to an abnormal situation when the operator is unable to place the source(s) in the shielded position, or remove the patient or human research subject from the radiation field with controls from outside the treatment room. These procedures must include-

(i) Instructions for responding to equipment failures and the names of the individuals responsible for implementing corrective actions;

(ii) The process for restricting access to and posting of the treatment area to minimize the risk of inadvertent exposure; and

(iii) The names and telephone numbers of the authorized users, the authorized medical physicist, and the Radiation Safety Officer to be contacted if the unit or console operates abnormally.

(b) A copy of the procedures required by paragraph (a)(4) of this section must be physically located at the unit console.

(c) A licensee shall post instructions at the unit console to inform the operator of-

(1) The location of the procedures required by paragraph (a)(4) of this section; and

(2) The names and telephone numbers of the authorized users, the authorized medical physicist, and the Radiation Safety Officer to be contacted if the unit or console operates abnormally.

(d)(1) Prior to the first use for patient treatment of a new unit or an existing unit with a manufacturer upgrade that affects the operation and safety of the unit, a licensee shall ensure that vendor operational and safety training is provided to all individuals who will operate the unit. The vendor operational and safety training must be provided by the device manufacturer or by an individual certified by the device manufacturer to provide the operational and safety training.

(2) A licensee shall provide operational and safety instructions initially and at least annually to all individuals who operate the unit at the facility, as appropriate to the individual's assigned duties. The instructions shall include instruction in-

(i) The procedures identified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section; and

(ii) The operating procedures for the unit.

(e) A licensee shall ensure that operators, authorized medical physicists, and authorized users participate in drills of the emergency procedures, initially and at least annually.

(f) A licensee shall retain a record of individuals receiving instruction required by paragraph (d) of this section, in accordance with ยง 35.2310.

(g) A licensee shall retain a copy of the procedures required by paragraphs (a)(4) and (d)(2)(ii) of this section in accordance with ยง 35.2610.
