
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 35 - MEDICAL USE OF BYPRODUCT MATERIAL
#### Subpart H - Photon Emitting Remote Afterloader Units, Teletherapy Units, and Gamma Stereotactic Radiosurgery Units
##### ยง 35.632 Full calibration measurements on teletherapy units.

(a) A licensee authorized to use a teletherapy unit for medical use shall perform full calibration measurements on each teletherapy unit-

(1) Before the first medical use of the unit; and

(2) Before medical use under the following conditions:

(i) Whenever spot-check measurements indicate that the output differs by more than 5 percent from the output obtained at the last full calibration corrected mathematically for radioactive decay;

(ii) Following replacement of the source or following reinstallation of the teletherapy unit in a new location;

(iii) Following any repair of the teletherapy unit that includes removal of the source or major repair of the components associated with the source exposure assembly; and

(3) At intervals not exceeding 1 year.

(b) To satisfy the requirement of paragraph (a) of this section, full calibration measurements must include determination of-

(1) The output within +/-3 percent for the range of field sizes and for the distance or range of distances used for medical use;

(2) The coincidence of the radiation field and the field indicated by the light beam localizing device;

(3) The uniformity of the radiation field and its dependence on the orientation of the useful beam;

(4) Timer accuracy and linearity over the range of use;

(5) On-off error; and

(6) The accuracy of all distance measuring and localization devices in medical use.

(c) A licensee shall use the dosimetry system described in ยง 35.630(a) to measure the output for one set of exposure conditions. The remaining radiation measurements required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section may be made using a dosimetry system that indicates relative dose rates.

(d) A licensee shall make full calibration measurements required by paragraph (a) of this section in accordance with published protocols accepted by nationally recognized bodies.

(e) A licensee shall mathematically correct the outputs determined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section for physical decay for intervals not exceeding 1 month for cobalt-60, 6 months for cesium-137, or at intervals consistent with 1 percent decay for all other nuclides.

(f) Full calibration measurements required by paragraph (a) of this section and physical decay corrections required by paragraph (e) of this section must be performed by the authorized medical physicist.

(g) A licensee shall retain a record of each calibration in accordance with ยง 35.2632.
