
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 36 - LICENSES AND RADIATION SAFETY REQUIREMENTS FOR IRRADIATORS
#### Subpart C - Design and Performance Requirements for Irradiators
##### ยง 36.33 Irradiator pools.

(a) For licenses initially issued after July 1, 1993, irradiator pools must either:

(1) Have a water-tight stainless steel liner or a liner metallurgically compatible with other components in the pool; or

(2) Be constructed so that there is a low likelihood of substantial leakage and have a surface designed to facilitate decontamination. In either case, the licensee shall have a method to safely store the sources during repairs of the pool.

(b) For licenses initially issued after July 1, 1993, irradiator pools must have no outlets more than 0.5 meter below the normal low water level that could allow water to drain out of the pool. Pipes that have intakes more than 0.5 meter below the normal low water level and that could act as siphons must have siphon breakers to prevent the siphoning of pool water.

(c) A means must be provided to replenish water losses from the pool.

(d) A visible indicator must be provided in a clearly visible location to indicate if the pool water level is below the normal low water level or above the normal high water level.

(e) Irradiator pools must be equipped with a purification system designed to be capable of maintaining the water during normal operation at a conductivity of 20 microsiemens per centimeter or less and with a clarity so that the sources can be seen clearly.

(f) A physical barrier, such as a railing or cover, must be used around or over irradiator pools during normal operation to prevent personnel from accidentally falling into the pool. The barrier may be removed during maintenance, inspection, and service operations.

(g) If long-handled tools or poles are used in irradiator pools, the radiation dose rate on the handling areas of the tools may not exceed 0.02 millisievert (2 millirems) per hour.
