
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 36 - LICENSES AND RADIATION SAFETY REQUIREMENTS FOR IRRADIATORS
#### Subpart D - Operation of Irradiators
##### § 36.61 Inspection and maintenance.

(a) The licensee shall perform inspection and maintenance checks that include, as a minimum, each of the following at the frequency specified in the license or license application:

(1) Operability of each aspect of the access control system required by § 36.23.

(2) Functioning of the source position indicator required by § 36.31(b).

(3) Operability of the radiation monitor for radioactive contamination in pool water required by § 36.59(b) using a radiation check source, if applicable.

(4) Operability of the over-pool radiation monitor at underwater irradiators as required by § 36.29(b).

(5) Operability of the product exit monitor required by § 36.29(a).

(6) Operability of the emergency source return control required by § 36.31(c).

(7) Leak-tightness of systems through which pool water circulates (visual inspection).

(8) Operability of the heat and smoke detectors and extinguisher system required by § 36.27 (but without turning extinguishers on).

(9) Operability of the means of pool water replenishment required by § 36.33(c).

(10) Operability of the indicators of high and low pool water levels required by § 36.33(d).

(11) Operability of the intrusion alarm required by § 36.23(i), if applicable.

(12) Functioning and wear of the system, mechanisms, and cables used to raise and lower sources.

(13) Condition of the barrier to prevent products from hitting the sources or source mechanism as required by § 36.35.

(14) Amount of water added to the pool to determine if the pool is leaking.

(15) Electrical wiring on required safety systems for radiation damage.

(16) Pool water conductivity measurements and analysis as required by § 36.63(b).

(b) Malfunctions and defects found during inspection and maintenance checks must be repaired without undue delay.
