
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 36 - LICENSES AND RADIATION SAFETY REQUIREMENTS FOR IRRADIATORS
#### Subpart E - Records
##### § 36.81 Records and retention periods.

The licensee shall maintain the following records at the irradiator for the periods specified.

(a) A copy of the license, license conditions, documents incorporated into a license by reference, and amendments thereto until superseded by new documents or until the Commission terminates the license for documents not superseded.

(b) Records of each individual's training, tests, and safety reviews provided to meet the requirements of § 36.51 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), and (g) until 3 years after the individual terminates work.

(c) Records of the annual evaluations of the safety performance of irradiator operators required by § 36.51(e) for 3 years after the evaluation.

(d) A copy of the current operating and emergency procedures required by § 36.53 until superseded or the Commission terminates the license. Records of the radiation safety officer's review and approval of changes in procedures as required by § 36.53(c)(3) retained for 3 years from the date of the change.

(e) Evaluations of personnel dosimeters required by § 36.55 until the Commission terminates the license.

(f) Records of radiation surveys required by § 36.57 for 3 years from the date of the survey.

(g) Records of radiation survey meter calibrations required by § 36.57 and pool water conductivity meter calibrations required by § 36.63(b) until 3 years from the date of calibration.

(h) Records of the results of leak tests required by § 36.59(a) and the results of contamination checks required by § 36.59(b) for 3 years from the date of each test.

(i) Records of inspection and maintenance checks required by § 36.61 for 3 years.

(j) Records of major malfunctions, significant defects, operating difficulties or irregularities, and major operating problems that involve required radiation safety equipment for 3 years after repairs are completed.

(k) Records of the receipt, transfer and disposal, of all licensed sealed sources as required by §§ 30.51 and 30.41.

(l) Records on the design checks required by § 36.39 and the construction control checks as required by § 36.41 until the license is terminated. The records must be signed and dated. The title or qualification of the person signing must be included.

(m) Records related to decommissioning of the irradiator as required by § 30.35(g).
