
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 37 - PHYSICAL PROTECTION OF CATEGORY 1 AND CATEGORY 2 QUANTITIES OF RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL
#### Subpart C - Physical Protection Requirements During Use
##### ยง 37.49 Monitoring, detection, and assessment.
###### Monitoring and detection.

(a)(1) Licensees shall establish and maintain the capability to continuously monitor and detect without delay all unauthorized entries into its security zones. Licensees shall provide the means to maintain continuous monitoring and detection capability in the event of a loss of the primary power source, or provide for an alarm and response in the event of a loss of this capability to continuously monitor and detect unauthorized entries.

(2) Monitoring and detection must be performed by:

(i) A monitored intrusion detection system that is linked to an onsite or offsite central monitoring facility; or

(ii) Electronic devices for intrusion detection alarms that will alert nearby facility personnel; or

(iii) A monitored video surveillance system; or

(iv) Direct visual surveillance by approved individuals located within the security zone; or

(v) Direct visual surveillance by a licensee designated individual located outside the security zone.

(3) A licensee subject to this subpart shall also have a means to detect unauthorized removal of the radioactive material from the security zone. This detection capability must provide:

(i) For category 1 quantities of radioactive material, immediate detection of any attempted unauthorized removal of the radioactive material from the security zone. Such immediate detection capability must be provided by:

(A) Electronic sensors linked to an alarm; or

(B) Continuous monitored video surveillance; or

(C) Direct visual surveillance.

(ii) For category 2 quantities of radioactive material, weekly verification through physical checks, tamper indicating devices, use, or other means to ensure that the radioactive material is present.
