
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 39 - LICENSES AND RADIATION SAFETY REQUIREMENTS FOR WELL LOGGING
#### Subpart B - Specific Licensing Requirements
##### § 39.13 Specific licenses for well logging.

The Commission will approve an application for a specific license for the use of licensed material in well logging if the applicant meets the following requirements:

(a) The applicant shall satisfy the general requirements specified in § 30.33 of this chapter for byproduct material, in § 40.32 of this chapter for source material, and in § 70.23 of this chapter for special nuclear material, as appropriate, and any special requirements contained in this part.

(b) The applicant shall develop a program for training logging supervisors and logging assistants and submit to the Commission a description of this program which specifies the-

(1) Initial training;

(2) On-the-job training;

(3) Annual safety reviews provided by the licensee;

(4) Means the applicant will use to demonstrate the logging supervisor's knowledge and understanding of and ability to comply with the Commission's regulations and licensing requirements and the applicant's operating and emergency procedures; and

(5) Means the applicant will use to demonstrate the logging assistant's knowledge and understanding of and ability to comply with the applicant's operating and emergency procedures.

(c) The applicant shall submit to the Commission written operating and emergency procedures as described in § 39.63 or an outline or summary of the procedures that includes the important radiation safety aspects of the procedures.

(d) The applicant shall establish and submit to the Commission its program for annual inspections of the job performance of each logging supervisor to ensure that the Commission's regulations, license requirements, and the applicant's operating and emergency procedures are followed. Inspection records must be retained for 3 years after each annual internal inspection.

(e) The applicant shall submit a description of its overall organizational structure as it applies to the radiation safety responsibilities in well logging, including specified delegations of authority and responsibility.

(f) If an applicant wants to perform leak testing of sealed sources, the applicant shall identify the manufacturers and the model numbers of the leak test kits to be used. If the applicant wants to analyze its own wipe samples, the applicant shall establish procedures to be followed and submit a description of these procedures to the Commission. The description must include the-

(1) Instruments to be used;

(2) Methods of performing the analysis; and

(3) Pertinent experience of the person who will analyze the wipe samples.
