
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 39 - LICENSES AND RADIATION SAFETY REQUIREMENTS FOR WELL LOGGING
#### Subpart D - Radiation Safety Requirements
##### ยง 39.61 Training.

(a) The licensee may not permit an individual to act as a logging supervisor until that person-

(1) Has completed training in the subjects outlined in paragraph (e) of this section;

(2) Has received copies of, and instruction in-

(i) The NRC regulations contained in the applicable sections of parts 19, 20, and 39 of this chapter;

(ii) The NRC license under which the logging supervisor will perform well logging; and

(iii) The licensee's operating and emergency procedures required by ยง 39.63;

(3) Has completed on-the-job training and demonstrated competence in the use of licensed materials, remote handling tools, and radiation survey instruments by a field evaluation; and

(4) Has demonstrated understanding of the requirements in paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section by successfully completing a written test.

(b) The licensee may not permit an individual to act as a logging assistant until that person-

(1) Has received instruction in applicable sections of parts 19 and 20 of this chapter;

(2) Has received copies of, and instruction in, the licensee's operating and emergency procedures required by ยง 39.63;

(3) Has demonstrated understanding of the materials listed in paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section by successfully completing a written or oral test; and

(4) Has received instruction in the use of licensed materials, remote handling tools, and radiation survey instruments, as appropriate for the logging assistant's intended job responsibilities.

(c) The licensee shall provide safety reviews for logging supervisors and logging assistants at least once during each calendar year.

(d) The licensee shall maintain a record on each logging supervisor's and logging assistant's training and annual safety review. The training records must include copies of written tests and dates of oral tests given after July 14, 1987. The training records must be retained until 3 years following the termination of employment. Records of annual safety reviews must list the topics discussed and be retained for 3 years.

(e) The licensee shall include the following subjects in the training required in paragraph (a)(1) of this section:

(1) Fundamentals of radiation safety including-

(i) Characteristics of radiation;

(ii) Units of radiation dose and quantity of radioactivity;

(iii) Hazards of exposure to radiation;

(iv) Levels of radiation from licensed material;

(v) Methods of controlling radiation dose (time, distance, and shielding); and

(vi) Radiation safety practices, including prevention of contamination, and methods of decontamination.

(2) Radiation detection instruments including-

(i) Use, operation, calibration, and limitations of radiation survey instruments;

(ii) Survey techniques; and

(iii) Use of personnel monitoring equipment;

(3) Equipment to be used including-

(i) Operation of equipment, including source handling equipment and remote handling tools;

(ii) Storage, control, and disposal of licensed material; and

(iii) Maintenance of equipment.

(4) The requirements of pertinent Federal regulations. And

(5) Case histories of accidents in well logging.
