
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 40 - DOMESTIC LICENSING OF SOURCE MATERIAL
#### License Applications
##### § 40.31 Application for specific licenses.
###### Hazardous chemicals.

(xiii)A certification that the application has met its responsibilities under the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986, title III, Pub. L. 99-499, if applicable to the applicant's activities at the proposed place of the use of the source material.

(4) The licensee shall allow the offsite response organizations expected to respond in case of an accident 60 days to comment on the licensee's emergency plan before submitting it to the NRC. The licensee shall provide any comments received within the 60 days to the NRC with the emergency plan.

(k) A license application for a uranium enrichment facility must be accompanied by an Environmental Report required under subpart A of part 51 of this chapter.

(l) A license application that involves the use of source material in a uranium enrichment facility must include the applicant's provisions for liability insurance.

(m) Each applicant for a license for the possession of source material at a facility for the production or conversion of uranium hexafluoride shall protect Safeguards Information against unauthorized disclosure in accordance with the requirements in §§ 73.21 and 73.22 of this chapter, as applicable. Each applicant for a license for source material shall protect Safeguards Information against unauthorized disclosure in accordance with the requirements in § 73.21 and the requirements of § 73.22 or § 73.23 of this chapter, as applicable.
