
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 40 - DOMESTIC LICENSING OF SOURCE MATERIAL
#### Transfer of Source Material
##### § 40.55 Conditions of licenses to initially transfer source material for use under the 'small quantities of source material' general license: Quality control, labeling, safety instructions, and records and reports.

(a) Each person licensed under § 40.54 shall label the immediate container of each quantity of source material with the type of source material and quantity of material and the words, "radioactive material."

(b) Each person licensed under § 40.54 shall ensure that the quantities and concentrations of source material are as labeled and indicated in any transfer records.

(c) Each person licensed under § 40.54 shall provide the information specified in this paragraph to each person to whom source material is transferred for use under § 40.22 or equivalent provisions in Agreement State regulations. This information must be transferred before the source material is transferred for the first time in each calendar year to the particular recipient. The required information includes:

(1) A copy of §§ 40.22 and 40.51, or relevant equivalent regulations of the Agreement State.

(2) Appropriate radiation safety precautions and instructions relating to handling, use, storage, and disposal of the material.

(d) Each person licensed under § 40.54 shall report transfers as follows:

(1) File a report with the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555. The report shall include the following information:

(i) The name, address, and license number of the person who transferred the source material;

(ii) For each general licensee under § 40.22 or equivalent Agreement State provisions to whom greater than 50 grams (0.11 lb) of source material has been transferred in a single calendar quarter, the name and address of the general licensee to whom source material is distributed; a responsible agent, by name and/or position and phone number, of the general licensee to whom the material was sent; and the type, physical form, and quantity of source material transferred; and

(iii) The total quantity of each type and physical form of source material transferred in the reporting period to all such generally licensed recipients.

(2) File a report with each responsible Agreement State agency that identifies all persons, operating under provisions equivalent to § 40.22, to whom greater than 50 grams (0.11 lb) of source material has been transferred within a single calendar quarter. The report shall include the following information specific to those transfers made to the Agreement State being reported to:

(i) The name, address, and license number of the person who transferred the source material; and

(ii) The name and address of the general licensee to whom source material was distributed; a responsible agent, by name and/or position and phone number, of the general licensee to whom the material was sent; and the type, physical form, and quantity of source material transferred.

(iii) The total quantity of each type and physical form of source material transferred in the reporting period to all such generally licensed recipients within the Agreement State.

(3) Submit each report by January 31 of each year covering all transfers for the previous calendar year. If no transfers were made to persons generally licensed under § 40.22 or equivalent Agreement State provisions during the current period, a report shall be submitted to the Commission indicating so. If no transfers have been made to general licensees in a particular Agreement State during the reporting period, this information shall be reported to the responsible Agreement State agency upon request of the agency.

(e) Each person licensed under § 40.54 shall maintain all information that supports the reports required by this section concerning each transfer to a general licensee for a period of 1 year after the event is included in a report to the Commission or to an Agreement State agency.
