
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 40 - DOMESTIC LICENSING OF SOURCE MATERIAL
#### Records, Reports, and Inspections
##### § 40.60 Reporting requirements.
###### Written report.

(2)Each licensee who makes a report required by paragraph (a) or (b) of this section shall submit a written follow-up report within 30 days of the initial report. Written reports prepared pursuant to other regulations may be submitted to fulfill this requirement if the reports contain all of the necessary information and the appropriate distribution is made. These written reports must be sent to the NRC's Document Control Desk by an appropriate method listed in § 40.5, with a copy to the appropriate NRC regional office listed in appendix D to part 20 of this chapter. The reports must include the following:

(i) A description of the event, including the probable cause and the manufacturer and model number (if applicable) of any equipment that failed or malfunctioned;

(ii) The exact location of the event;

(iii) The isotopes, quantities, and chemical and physical form of the licensed material involved;

(iv) Date and time of the event;

(v) Corrective actions taken or planned and the results of any evaluations or assessments; and

(vi) The extent of exposure of individuals to radiation or to radioactive materials without identification of individuals by name.

(3) The provisions of § 40.60 do not apply to licensees subject to the notification requirements in § 50.72. They do apply to those part 50 licensees possessing material licensed under part 40 who are not subject to the notification requirements in § 50.72.
