
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 40 - DOMESTIC LICENSING OF SOURCE MATERIAL
#### Records, Reports, and Inspections
##### § 40.61 Records.

(a) Each person who receives source or byproduct material pursuant to a license issued pursuant to the regulations in this part shall keep records showing the receipt, transfer, and disposal of this source or byproduct material as follows:

(1) The licensee shall retain each record of receipt of source or byproduct material as long as the material is possessed and for three years following transfer or disposition of the source or byproduct material.

(2) The licensee who transferred the material shall retain each record of transfer of source or byproduct material until the Commission terminates each license that authorizes the activity that is subject to the recordkeeping requirement.

(3) The licensee shall retain each record of disposal of source or byproduct material until the Commission terminates each license that authorizes the activity that is subject to the recordkeeping requirement.

(4) If source or byproduct material is combined or mixed with other licensed material and subsequently treated in a manner that makes direct correlation of a receipt record with a transfer, export, or disposition record impossible, the licensee may use evaluative techniques (such as first-in-first-out), to make the records that are required by this part account for 100 percent of the material received.

(b) The licensee shall retain each record that is required by the regulations in this part or by license condition for the period specified by the appropriate regulation or license condition. If a retention period is not otherwise specified by regulation or license condition, each record must be maintained until the Commission terminates the license that authorizes the activity that is subject to the recordkeeping requirement.

(c)(1) Records which must be maintained pursuant to this part may be the original or reproduced copy or microform if the reproduced copy or microform is duly authenticated by authorized personnel and the microform is capable of producing a clear and legible copy after storage for the period specified by Commission regulations. The record may also be stored in electronic media with the capability for producing legible, accurate, and complete records during the required retention period. Records such as letters, drawings, specifications, must include all pertinent information such as stamps, initials, and signatures. The licensee shall maintain adequate safeguards against tampering with and loss of records.

(2) If there is a conflict between the Commission's regulations in this part, license condition, or other written Commission approval or authorization pertaining to the retention period for the same type of record, the retention period specified in the regulations in this part for such records shall apply unless the Commission, pursuant to § 40.14 of this part, has granted a specific exemption from the record retention requirements specified in the regulations in this part.

(d) Prior to license termination, each licensee authorized to possess source material, in an unsealed form, shall forward the following records to the appropriate NRC Regional Office:

(1) Records of disposal of licensed material made under § 20.2002 (including burials authorized before January 28, 1981), 20.2003, 20.2004, 20.2005; and

(2) Records required by § 20.2103(b)(4).

(e) If licensed activities are transferred or assigned in accordance with § 40.41(b), each licensee authorized to possess source material, in an unsealed form, shall transfer the following records to the new licensee and the new licensee will be responsible for maintaining these records until the license is terminated:

(1) Records of disposal of licensed material made under § 20.2002 (including burials authorized before January 28, 1981), 20.2003, 20.2004, 20.2005; and

(2) Records required by § 20.2103(b)(4).

(f) Prior to license termination, each licensee shall forward the records required by § 40.36(f) to the appropriate NRC Regional Office.
