
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 40 - DOMESTIC LICENSING OF SOURCE MATERIAL
#### Records, Reports, and Inspections
##### ยง 40.64 Reports.
###### RidsNmssFcss@nrc.gov.

(a) Except as specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, each specific licensee who transfers, receives, or adjusts the inventory in any manner, of uranium or thorium source material with foreign obligations by one kilogram or more; or who imports or exports one kilogram or more of uranium or thorium source material; or who uses one kilogram or more of any uranium or thorium source material in enrichment services, downblending uranium that has an initial enrichment of the Uisotope of 10 percent or more, or in the fabrication of mixed-oxide fuels, shall complete a Nuclear Material Transaction Report in computer-readable format as specified in the instructions in NUREG/BR-0006 and NMMSS Report D-24, "Personal Computer Data Input for NRC Licensees." Each licensee who exports one kilogram or more of uranium or thorium source material shall complete in the format listed above the licensee's portion of the Nuclear Material Transaction Report unless there is indication of loss, theft, or diversion as discussed under paragraph (d) of this section, in which case both the licensee's and the foreign facility's information must be reported. Licensees who import one kilogram or more of uranium or thorium source material shall complete the supplier's and the licensee's portion of the Nuclear Material Transaction Report. Copies of the instructions may be obtained either by writing the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Division of Fuel Management, Washington, DC 20555-0001, or by e-mail toEach licensee who transfers the material shall submit a Nuclear Material Transaction Report in computer-readable format as specified in the instructions no later than the close of business the next working day. Each licensee who receives the material shall submit a Nuclear Material Transaction Report in computer-readable format in accordance with instructions within ten (10) days after the material is received. The Commission's copy of the report must be submitted to the address specified in the instructions. These prescribed computer-readable forms replace the DOE/NRC Form 741 previously submitted in paper form.

(b) Except as specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, each licensee who:

(1) Possesses, or had possessed in the previous reporting period, at any one time and location, one kilogram or more of uranium or thorium source material with foreign obligations as defined in this part, shall document holdings as of September 30 of each year and submit to the Commission within 30 days, a statement of its source material inventory with foreign obligations as defined in this part. Alternatively, this information may be submitted with the licensee's material status reports on special nuclear material filed under part 72 or 74 of this chapter, as a statement of its source material inventory with foreign obligations as defined in this part. This statement must be submitted to the address specified in the reporting instructions in NUREG/BR-0007, and include the Reporting Identification Symbol (RIS) assigned by the Commission to the licensee.
