
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 50 - DOMESTIC LICENSING OF PRODUCTION AND UTILIZATION FACILITIES
#### Applications for Licenses, Certifications, and Regulatory Approvals; Form; Contents; Ineligibility of Certain Applicants
##### ยง 50.34 Contents of applications; technical information.
###### Provided, however,

(5) An identification and justification for the selection of those variables, conditions, or other items which are determined as the result of preliminary safety analysis and evaluation to be probable subjects of technical specifications for the facility, with special attention given to those items which may significantly influence the final design:That this requirement is not applicable to an application for a construction permit filed prior to January 16, 1969.

(6) A preliminary plan for the applicant's organization, training of personnel, and conduct of operations.

(7) A description of the quality assurance program to be applied to the design, fabrication, construction, and testing of the structures, systems, and components of the facility. Appendix B, "Quality Assurance Criteria for Nuclear Power Plants and Fuel Reprocessing Plants," sets forth the requirements for quality assurance programs for nuclear power plants and fuel reprocessing plants. The description of the quality assurance program for a nuclear power plant or a fuel reprocessing plant shall include a discussion of how the applicable requirements of appendix B will be satisfied.

(8) An identification of those structures, systems, or components of the facility, if any, which require research and development to confirm the adequacy of their design; and identification and description of the research and development program which will be conducted to resolve any safety questions associated with such structures, systems or components; and a schedule of the research and development program showing that such safety questions will be resolved at or before the latest date stated in the application for completion of construction of the facility.

(9) The technical qualifications of the applicant to engage in the proposed activities in accordance with the regulations in this chapter.

(10) A discussion of the applicant's preliminary plans for coping with emergencies. Appendix E sets forth items which shall be included in these plans.

(11) On or after February 5, 1979, applicants who apply for construction permits for nuclear power plants to be built on multiunit sites shall identify potential hazards to the structures, systems and components important to safety of operating nuclear facilities from construction activities. A discussion shall also be included of any managerial and administrative controls that will be used during construction to assure the safety of the operating unit.

(12) On or after January 10, 1997, stationary power reactor applicants who apply for a construction permit, as partial conformance to General Design Criterion 2 of appendix A to this part, shall comply with the earthquake engineering criteria in appendix S to this part.

(13) On or after July 13, 2009, power reactor applicants who apply for a construction permit shall submit the information required by 10 CFR 50.150(b) as a part of their preliminary safety analysis report.
