
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 1 - STATEMENT OF ORGANIZATION AND GENERAL INFORMATION
#### Subpart B - Headquarters
##### ยง 1.11 The Commission.

(a) The Nuclear Regulatory Commission, composed of five members, one of whom is designated by the President as Chairman, is established pursuant to section 201 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended. The Chairman is the principal executive officer of the Commission, and is responsible for the executive and administrative functions with respect to appointment and supervision of personnel, except as otherwise provided by the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended, and Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1980 (45 FR 40561); distribution of business; use and expenditures of funds (except that the function of revising budget estimates and purposes is reserved to the Commission); and appointment, subject to approval of the Commission, of heads of major administrative units under the Commission. The Chairman is the official spokesman, as mandated by the Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1980. The Chairman has ultimate authority for all NRC functions pertaining to an emergency involving an NRC Licensee. The Chairman's actions are governed by the general policies of the Commission.

(b) The Commission is responsible for licensing and regulating nuclear facilities and materials and for conducting research in support of the licensing and regulatory process, as mandated by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended; the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended; and the Nuclear Nonproliferation Act of 1978; and in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended, and other applicable statutes. These responsibilities include protecting public health and safety, protecting the environment, protecting and safeguarding nuclear materials and nuclear power plants in the interest of national security, and assuring conformity with antitrust laws. Agency functions are performed through standards setting and rulemaking; technical reviews and studies; conduct of public hearings; issuance of authorizations, permits, and licenses; inspection, investigation, and enforcement; evaluation of operating experience; and confirmatory research. The Commission is composed of five members, appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate.

(c) The following staff units and officials report directly to the Commission: Atomic Safety and Licensing Board Panel, Office of the General Counsel, Office of the Secretary, Office of Commission Appellate Adjudication, Office of International Programs, and other committees and boards that are authorized or established specifically by the Act. The Advisory Committee on Reactor Safeguards and the Advisory Committee on Nuclear Waste also report directly to the Commission.

(d) The Offices of Congressional Affairs and Public Affairs report directly to the Chairman.
