
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 50 - DOMESTIC LICENSING OF PRODUCTION AND UTILIZATION FACILITIES
#### Applications for Licenses, Certifications, and Regulatory Approvals; Form; Contents; Ineligibility of Certain Applicants
##### ยง 50.36 Technical specifications.
###### Written Reports.

(8)Licensees for nuclear power reactors licensed under ยง 50.21(b) and ยง 50.22 of this part shall submit written reports to the Commission in accordance with ยง 50.73 of this part for events described in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section. For all licensees, the Commission may require Special Reports as appropriate.

(d)(1) This section shall not be deemed to modify the technical specifications included in any license issued prior to January 16, 1969. A license in which technical specifications have not been designated shall be deemed to include the entire safety analysis report as technical specifications.

(2) An applicant for a license authorizing operation of a production or utilization facility to whom a construction permit has been issued prior to January 16, 1969, may submit technical specifications in accordance with this section, or in accordance with the requirements of this part in effect prior to January 16, 1969.

(3) At the initiative of the Commission or the licensee, any license may be amended to include technical specifications of the scope and content which would be required if a new license were being issued.

(e) The provisions of this section apply to each nuclear reactor licensee whose authority to operate the reactor has been removed by license amendment, order, or regulation.
