
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 50 - DOMESTIC LICENSING OF PRODUCTION AND UTILIZATION FACILITIES
#### Standards for Licenses, Certifications, and Regulatory Approvals
##### ยง 50.49 Environmental qualification of electric equipment important to safety for nuclear power plants.
###### Margins.

(8)Margins must be applied to account for unquantified uncertainty, such as the effects of production variations and inaccuracies in test instruments. These margins are in addition to any conservatisms applied during the derivation of local environmental conditions of the equipment unless these conservatisms can be quantified and shown to contain appropriate margins.

(f) Each item of electric equipment important to safety must be qualified by one of the following methods:

(1) Testing an identical item of equipment under identical conditions or under similar conditions with a supporting analysis to show that the equipment to be qualified is acceptable.

(2) Testing a similar item of equipment with a supporting analysis to show that the equipment to be qualified is acceptable.

(3) Experience with identical or similar equipment under similar conditions with a supporting analysis to show that the equipment to be qualified is acceptable.

(4) Analysis in combination with partial type test data that supports the analytical assumptions and conclusions.

(g) Each holder of an operating license issued prior to February 22, 1983, shall, by May 20, 1983, identify the electric equipment important to safety within the scope of this section already qualified and submit a schedule for either the qualification to the provisions of this section or for the replacement of the remaining electric equipment important to safety within the scope of this section. This schedule must establish a goal of final environmental qualification of the electric equipment within the scope of this section by the end of the second refueling outage after March 31, 1982 or by March 31, 1985, whichever is earlier. The Director of the Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation may grant requests for extensions of this deadline to a date no later than November 30, 1985, for specific pieces of equipment if these requests are filed on a timely basis and demonstrate good cause for the extension, such as procurement lead time, test complications, and installation problems. In exceptional cases, the Commission itself may consider and grant extensions beyond November 30, 1985, for completion of environmental qualification.

(h) Each license shall notify the Commission as specified in ยง 50.4 of any significant equipment qualification problem that may require extension of the completion date provided in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section within 60 days of its discovery.

(i) Applicants for operating licenses granted after February 22, 1983, but prior to November 30, 1985, shall perform an analysis to ensure that the plant can be safely operated pending completion of equipment qualification required by this section. This analysis must be submitted, as specified in ยง 50.4, for consideration prior to the granting of an operating license and must include, where appropriate, consideration of:

(1) Accomplishing the safety function by some designated alternative equipment if the principal equipment has not been demonstrated to be fully qualified.

(2) The validity of partial test data in support of the original qualification.

(3) Limited use of administrative controls over equipment that has not been demonstrated to be fully qualified.

(4) Completion of the safety function prior to exposure to the accident environment resulting from a design basis event and ensuring that the subsequent failure of the equipment does not degrade any safety function or mislead the operator.

(5) No significant degradation of any safety function or misleading information to the operator as a result of failure of equipment under the accident environment resulting from a design basis event.

(j) A record of the qualification, including documentation in paragraph (d) of this section, must be maintained in an auditable form for the entire period during which the covered item is installed in the nuclear power plant or is stored for future use to permit verification that each item of electric equipment important to safety covered by this section:

(1) Is qualified for its application; and

(2) Meets its specified performance requirements when it is subjected to the conditions predicted to be present when it must perform its safety function up to the end of its qualified life.

(k) Applicants for and holders of operating licenses are not required to requalify electric equipment important to safety in accordance with the provisions of this section if the Commission has previously required qualification of that equipment in accordance with "Guidelines for Evaluating Environmental Qualification of Class 1E Electrical Equipment in Operating Reactors," November 1979 (DOR Guidelines), or NUREG-0588 (For Comment version), "Interim Staff Position on Environmental Qualification of Safety-Related Electrical Equipment."

(l) Replacement equipment must be qualified in accordance with the provisions of this section unless there are sound reasons to the contrary.
