
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 50 - DOMESTIC LICENSING OF PRODUCTION AND UTILIZATION FACILITIES
#### Issuance, Limitations, and Conditions of Licenses and Construction Permits
##### § 50.54 Conditions of licenses.

The following paragraphs of this section, with the exception of paragraphs (r) and (gg), and the applicable requirements of 10 CFR 50.55a, are conditions in every nuclear power reactor operating license issued under this part. The following paragraphs with the exception of paragraph (r), (s), and (u) of this section are conditions in every combined license issued under part 52 of this chapter, provided, however, that paragraphs (i) introductory text, (i)(1), (j), (k), (l), (m), (n), (w), (x), (y), (z), and (hh) of this section are only applicable after the Commission makes the finding under § 52.103(g) of this chapter.

(a)(1) Each nuclear power plant or fuel reprocessing plant licensee subject to the quality assurance criteria in appendix B of this part shall implement, under § 50.34(b)(6)(ii) or § 52.79 of this chapter, the quality assurance program described or referenced in the safety analysis report, including changes to that report. However, a holder of a combined license under part 52 of this chapter shall implement the quality assurance program described or referenced in the safety analysis report applicable to operation 30 days prior to the scheduled date for the initial loading of fuel.

(2) Each licensee described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall, by June 10, 1983, submit to the appropriate NRC Regional Office shown in appendix D of part 20 of this chapter the current description of the quality assurance program it is implementing for inclusion in the Safety Analysis Report, unless there are no changes to the description previously accepted by NRC. This submittal must identify changes made to the quality assurance program description since the description was submitted to NRC. (Should a licensee need additional time beyond June 10, 1983 to submit its current quality assurance program description to NRC, it shall notify the appropriate NRC Regional Office in writing, explain why additional time is needed, and provide a schedule for NRC approval showing when its current quality assurance program description will be submitted.)

(3) Each licensee described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section may make a change to a previously accepted quality assurance program description included or referenced in the Safety Analysis Report without prior NRC approval, provided the change does not reduce the commitments in the program description as accepted by the NRC. Changes to the quality assurance program description that do not reduce the commitments must be submitted to the NRC in accordance with the requirements of § 50.71(e). In addition to quality assurance program changes involving administrative improvements and clarifications, spelling corrections, punctuation, or editorial items, the following changes are not considered to be reductions in commitment:

(i) The use of a QA standard approved by the NRC which is more recent than the QA standard in the licensee's current QA program at the time of the change;

(ii) The use of a quality assurance alternative or exception approved by an NRC safety evaluation, provided that the bases of the NRC approval are applicable to the licensee's facility;

(iii) The use of generic organizational position titles that clearly denote the position function, supplemented as necessary by descriptive text, rather than specific titles;

(iv) The use of generic organizational charts to indicate functional relationships, authorities, and responsibilities, or, alternately, the use of descriptive text;

(v) The elimination of quality assurance program information that duplicates language in quality assurance regulatory guides and quality assurance standards to which the licensee is committed; and

(vi) Organizational revisions that ensure that persons and organizations performing quality assurance functions continue to have the requisite authority and organizational freedom, including sufficient independence from cost and schedule when opposed to safety considerations.

(4) Changes to the quality assurance program description that do reduce the commitments must be submitted to the NRC and receive NRC approval prior to implementation, as follows:

(i) Changes made to the quality assurance program description as presented in the Safety Analysis Report or in a topical report must be submitted as specified in § 50.4.

(ii) The submittal of a change to the Safety Analysis Report quality assurance program description must include all pages affected by that change and must be accompanied by a forwarding letter identifying the change, the reason for the change, and the basis for concluding that the revised program incorporating the change continues to satisfy the criteria of appendix B of this part and the Safety Analysis Report quality assurance program description commitments previously accepted by the NRC (the letter need not provide the basis for changes that correct spelling, punctuation, or editorial items).

(iii) A copy of the forwarding letter identifying the change must be maintained as a facility record for three years.

(iv) Changes to the quality assurance program description included or referenced in the Safety Analysis Report shall be regarded as accepted by the Commission upon receipt of a letter to this effect from the appropriate reviewing office of the Commission or 60 days after submittal to the Commission, whichever occurs first.

(b) No right to the special nuclear material shall be conferred by the license except as may be defined by the license.

(c) Neither the license, nor any right thereunder, nor any right to utilize or produce special nuclear material shall be transferred, assigned, or disposed of in any manner, either voluntarily or involuntarily, directly or indirectly, through transfer of control of the license to any person, unless the Commission shall, after securing full information, find that the transfer is in accordance with the provisions of the act and give its consent in writing.

(d) The license shall be subject to suspension and to the rights of recapture of the material or control of the facility reserved to the Commission under section 108 of the act in a state of war or national emergency declared by Congress.

(e) The license shall be subject to revocation, suspension, modification, or amendment for cause as provided in the act and regulations, in accordance with the procedures provided by the act and regulations.

(f) The licensee shall at any time before expiration of the license, upon request of the Commission, submit, as specified in § 50.4, written statements, signed under oath or affirmation, to enable the Commission to determine whether or not the license should be modified, suspended, or revoked. Except for information sought to verify licensee compliance with the current licensing basis for that facility, the NRC must prepare the reason or reasons for each information request prior to issuance to ensure that the burden to be imposed on respondents is justified in view of the potential safety significance of the issue to be addressed in the requested information. Each such justification provided for an evaluation performed by the NRC staff must be approved by the Executive Director for Operations or his or her designee prior to issuance of the request.

(g) The issuance or existence of the license shall not be deemed to waive, or relieve the licensee from compliance with, the antitrust laws, as specified in subsection 105a of the Act. In the event that the licensee should be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have violated any provision of such antitrust laws in the conduct of the licensed activity, the Commission may suspend or revoke the license or take such other action with respect to it as shall be deemed necessary.

(h) The license shall be subject to the provisions of the Act now or hereafter in effect and to all rules, regulations, and orders of the Commission. The terms and conditions of the license shall be subject to amendment, revision, or modification, by reason of amendments of the Act or by reason of rules, regulations, and orders issued in accordance with the terms of the act.

(i) Except as provided in § 55.13 of this chapter, the licensee may not permit the manipulation of the controls of any facility by anyone who is not a licensed operator or senior operator as provided in part 55 of this chapter.

(i-1) Within 3 months after either the issuance of an operating license or the date that the Commission makes the finding under § 52.103(g) of this chapter for a combined license, as applicable, the licensee shall have in effect an operator requalification program. The operator requalification program must, as a minimum, meet the requirements of § 55.59(c) of this chapter. Notwithstanding the provisions of § 50.59, the licensee may not, except as specifically authorized by the Commission decrease the scope of an approved operator requalification program.

(j) Apparatus and mechanisms other than controls, the operation of which may affect the reactivity or power level of a reactor shall be manipulated only with the knowledge and consent of an operator or senior operator licensed pursuant to part 55 of this chapter present at the controls.

(k) An operator or senior operator licensed pursuant to part 55 of this chapter shall be present at the controls at all times during the operation of the facility.

(l) The licensee shall designate individuals to be responsible for directing the licensed activities of licensed operators. These individuals shall be licensed as senior operators pursuant to part 55 of this chapter.

(m)(1) A senior operator licensed pursuant to part 55 of this chapter shall be present at the facility or readily available on call at all times during its operation, and shall be present at the facility during initial start-up and approach to power, recovery from an unplanned or unscheduled shut-down or significant reduction in power, and refueling, or as otherwise prescribed in the facility license.

(2) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, by January 1, 1984, licensees of nuclear power units shall meet the following requirements:

(i) Each licensee shall meet the minimum licensed operator staffing requirements in the following table:

(ii) Each licensee shall have at its site a person holding a senior operator license for all fueled units at the site who is assigned responsibility for overall plant operation at all times there is fuel in any unit. If a single senior operator does not hold a senior operator license on all fueled units at the site, then the licensee must have at the site two or more senior operators, who in combination are licensed as senior operators on all fueled units.

(iii) When a nuclear power unit is in an operational mode other than cold shutdown or refueling, as defined by the unit's technical specifications, each licensee shall have a person holding a senior operator license for the nuclear power unit in the control room at all times. In addition to this senior operator, for each fueled nuclear power unit, a licensed operator or senior operator shall be present at the controls at all times.

(iv) Each licensee shall have present, during alteration of the core of a nuclear power unit (including fuel loading or transfer), a person holding a senior operator license or a senior operator license limited to fuel handling to directly supervise the activity and, during this time, the licensee shall not assign other duties to this person.

(3) Licensees who cannot meet the January 1, 1984 deadline must submit by October 1, 1983 a request for an extension to the Director of the Office of Nuclear Regulation and demonstrate good cause for the request.

(n) The licensee shall not, except as authorized pursuant to a construction permit, make any alteration in the facility constituting a change from the technical specifications previously incorporated in a license or construction permit pursuant to § 50.36 of this part.

(o) Primary reactor containments for water cooled power reactors, other than facilities for which the certifications required under §§ 50.82(a)(1) or 52.110(a)(1) of this chapter have been submitted, shall be subject to the requirements set forth in appendix J to this part.

(p)(1) The licensee shall prepare and maintain safeguards contingency plan procedures in accordance with appendix C of part 73 of this chapter for affecting the actions and decisions contained in the Responsibility Matrix of the safeguards contingency plan. The licensee may not make a change which would decrease the effectiveness of a physical security plan, or guard training and qualification plan, or cyber security plan prepared under § 50.34(c) or § 52.79(a), or part 73 of this chapter, or of the first four categories of information (Background, Generic Planning Base, Licensee Planning Base, Responsibility Matrix) contained in a licensee safeguards contingency plan prepared under § 50.34(d) or § 52.79(a), or part 73 of this chapter, as applicable, without prior approval of the Commission. A licensee desiring to make such a change shall submit an application for amendment to the licensee's license under § 50.90.

(2) The licensee may make changes to the plans referenced in paragraph (p)(1) of this section, without prior Commission approval if the changes do not decrease the safeguards effectiveness of the plan. The licensee shall maintain records of changes to the plans made without prior Commission approval for a period of 3 years from the date of the change, and shall submit, as specified in § 50.4 or § 52.3 of this chapter, a report containing a description of each change within 2 months after the change is made. Prior to the safeguards contingency plan being put into effect, the licensee shall have:

(i) All safeguards capabilities specified in the safeguards contingency plan available and functional;

(ii) Detailed procedures developed according to appendix C to part 73 of this chapter available at the licensee's site; and

(iii) All appropriate personnel trained to respond to safeguards incidents as outlined in the plan and specified in the detailed procedures.

(3) The licensee shall provide for the development, revision, implementation, and maintenance of its safeguards contingency plan. The licensee shall ensure that all program elements are reviewed by individuals independent of both security program management and personnel who have direct responsibility for implementation of the security program either:

(i) At intervals not to exceed 12 months; or

(ii) As necessary, based on an assessment by the licensee against performance indicators, and as soon as reasonably practicable after a change occurs in personnel, procedures, equipment, or facilities that potentially could adversely affect security, but no longer than 12 months after the change. In any case, all elements of the safeguards contingency plan must be reviewed at least once every 24 months.

(4) The review must include a review and audit of safeguards contingency procedures and practices, an audit of the security system testing and maintenance program, and a test of the safeguards systems along with commitments established for response by local law enforcement authorities. The results of the review and audit, along with recommendations for improvements, must be documented, reported to the licensee's corporate and plant management, and kept available at the plant for inspection for a period of 3 years.
