
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 50 - DOMESTIC LICENSING OF PRODUCTION AND UTILIZATION FACILITIES
#### Issuance, Limitations, and Conditions of Licenses and Construction Permits
##### ยง 50.55 Conditions of construction permits, early site permits, combined licenses, and manufacturing licenses.
###### Content of notification.

(6)The written notification required by paragraph (e)(5)(ii) of this section must clearly indicate that the written notification is being submitted under ยง 50.55(e) and include the following information, to the extent known.

(i) Name and address of the individual or individuals informing the Commission.

(ii) Identification of the facility, the activity, or the basic component supplied for the facility or the activity within the United States which contains a defect or fails to comply.

(iii) Identification of the firm constructing or manufacturing the facility or supplying the basic component which fails to comply or contains a defect.

(iv) Nature of the defect or failure to comply and the safety hazard which is created or could be created by the defect or failure to comply.

(v) The date on which the information of a defect or failure to comply was obtained.

(vi) In the case of a basic component which contains a defect or fails to comply, the number and location of all the basic components in use at the facility subject to the regulations in this part.

(vii) In the case of a completed reactor manufactured under part 52 of this chapter, the entities to which the reactor was supplied.

(viii) The corrective action which has been, is being, or will be taken; the name of the individual or organization responsible for the action; and the length of time that has been or will be taken to complete the action.

(ix) Any advice related to the defect or failure to comply about the facility, activity, or basic component that has been, is being, or will be given to other entities.
