
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 2 - AGENCY RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
#### Subpart I - Special Procedures Applicable to Adjudicatory Proceedings Involving Restricted Data and/or National Security Information
##### ยง 2.905 Access to restricted data and national security information for parties; security clearances.
###### Access to Restricted Data or National Security Information not introduced into proceedings.

(b)(1) On application showing that access to Restricted Data or National Security Information may be required for the preparation of a party's case, and except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, the Commission or the presiding officer will issue an order granting access to such Restricted Data or National Security Information to the party upon his obtaining the required security clearance, to counsel for the party upon their obtaining the required security clearance, and to such other individuals as may be needed by the party for the preparation and presentation of his case upon their obtaining the required clearance.

(2) Where the interest of the party applying for access will not be prejudiced, the Commission or the presiding officer may postpone action on an application pursuant to this paragraph until after a notice of hearing, answers and replies have been filed.

(c) The Commission will consider requests for appropriate security clearances in reasonable numbers pursuant to this section. A reasonable charge will be made by the Commission for costs of security clearance pursuant to this section.

(d) The presiding officer may certify to the Commission for its consideration and determination any questions relating to access to Restricted Data or National Security Information arising under this section. Any party affected by a determination or order of the presiding officer under this section may appeal forthwith to the Commission from the determination or order. The filing by the staff of an appeal from an order of a presiding officer granting access to Restricted Data or National Security Information shall stay the order pending determination of the appeal by the Commission.
