
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 2 - AGENCY RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
#### Subpart I - Special Procedures Applicable to Adjudicatory Proceedings Involving Restricted Data and/or National Security Information
##### ยง 2.910 Unclassified statements required.

(a) Whenever Restricted Data or other National Security Information is introduced into a proceeding, the party offering it shall submit to the presiding officer and to all parties to the proceeding an unclassified statement setting forth the information in the classified matter as accurately and completely as possible.

(b) In accordance with such procedures as may be agreed upon by the parties or prescribed by the presiding officer, and after notice to all parties and opportunity to be heard thereon, the presiding officer shall determine whether the unclassified statement or any portion of it, together with any appropriate modifications suggested by any party, may be substituted for the classified matter or any portion of it without prejudice to the interest of any party or to the public interest.

(c) If the presiding officer determines that the unclassified statement, together with such unclassified modifications as he finds are necessary or appropriate to protect the interest of other parties and the public interest, adequately sets forth information in the classified matter which is relevant and material to the issues in the proceeding, he shall direct that the classified matter be excluded from the record of the proceeding. His determination will be considered by the Commission as a part of the decision in the event of review.

(d) If the presiding officer determines that an unclassified statement does not adequately present the information contained in the classified matter which is relevant and material to the issues in the proceeding, he shall include his reasons in his determination. This determination shall be included as part of the record and will be considered by the Commission in the event of review of the determination.

(e) The presiding officer may postpone all or part of the procedures established in this section until the reception of all other evidence has been completed. Service of the unclassified statement required in paragraph (a) of this section shall not be postponed if any party does not have access to Restricted Data or other National Security Information.
