
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 50 - DOMESTIC LICENSING OF PRODUCTION AND UTILIZATION FACILITIES
#### Issuance, Limitations, and Conditions of Licenses and Construction Permits
##### § 50.61a Alternate fracture toughness requirements for protection against pressurized thermal shock events.
###### Calculation of RT,values.

(f)Each licensee shall calculate RTvalues for each reactor vessel beltline material using &#x3C6;t. The neutron flux (&#x3C6;[t]), must be calculated using a methodology that has been benchmarked to experimental measurements and with quantified uncertainties and possible biases.

(1) The values of RT, RT, RT, and RTmust be determined using Equations 1 through 4 of this section. When calculating RTusing Equation 1, RTis the maximum value of (RT+ ΔT) for the weld and for the adjoining plates. When calculating RTusing Equation 4, RTis the maximum value of (RT+ ΔT) for the circumferential weld and for the adjoining plates or forgings.

(2) The values of ΔTmust be determined using Equations 5, 6 and 7 of this section, unless the conditions specified in paragraph (f)(6)(v) of this section are not met, for each axial weld, plate, forging, and circumferential weld. The ΔTvalue for each axial weld calculated as specified by Equation 1 of this section must be calculated for the maximum fluence (&#x3C6;t) occurring along a particular axial weld at the clad-to-base metal interface. The ΔTvalue for each plate calculated as specified by Equation 1 of this section must also be calculated using the same value of &#x3C6;tused for the axial weld. The ΔTvalues in Equation 1 shall be calculated for the weld itself and each adjoining plate. The ΔTvalue for each plate or forging calculated as specified by Equations 2 and 3 of this section must be calculated for the maximum fluence (&#x3C6;t) occurring at the clad-to-base metal interface over the entire area of each plate or forging. In Equation 4, the fluence (&#x3C6;t) value used for calculating the plate, forging, and circumferential weld ΔTvalue is the maximum fluence occurring for each material along the circumferential weld at the clad-to-base metal interface. The ΔTvalues in Equation 4 shall be calculated for the circumferential weld and for the adjoining plates or forgings. If the conditions specified in paragraph (f)(6)(v) of this section are not met, licensees must propose ΔTand RTvalues in accordance with paragraph (f)(6)(vi) of this section.
