
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 50 - DOMESTIC LICENSING OF PRODUCTION AND UTILIZATION FACILITIES
#### Issuance, Limitations, and Conditions of Licenses and Construction Permits
##### ยง 50.61a Alternate fracture toughness requirements for protection against pressurized thermal shock events.
###### i.e.,

(3) The values of Cu, Mn, P, and Ni in Equations 6 and 7 of this section must represent the best estimate values for the material. For a plate or forging, the best estimate value is normally the mean of the measured values for that plate or forging. For a weld, the best estimate value is normally the mean of the measured values for a weld deposit made using the same weld wire heat number as the critical vessel weld. If these values are not available, either the upper limiting values given in the material specifications to which the vessel material was fabricated, or conservative estimates (mean plus one standard deviation) based on generic dataas shown in Table 4 of this section for P and Mn, must be used.

(4) The values of RTmust be evaluated according to the procedures in the ASME Code, Section III, paragraph NB-2331. If any other method is used for this evaluation, the licensee shall submit the proposed method for review and approval by the Director along with the calculation of RTvalues required in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(i) If a measured value of RTis not available, a generic mean value of RTfor the classof material must be used if there are sufficient test results to establish a mean.

(ii) The following generic mean values of RTmust be used unless justification for different values is provided: 0 &#xB0;F for welds made with Linde 80 weld flux; and -56 &#xB0;F for welds made with Linde 0091, 1092, and 124 and ARCOS B-5 weld fluxes.

(5) The value of Tin Equation 6 of this section must represent the time-weighted average of the reactor cold leg temperature under normal operating full power conditions from the beginning of full power operation through the end of licensed operation.
