
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 50 - DOMESTIC LICENSING OF PRODUCTION AND UTILIZATION FACILITIES
#### Issuance, Limitations, and Conditions of Licenses and Construction Permits
##### ยง 50.61a Alternate fracture toughness requirements for protection against pressurized thermal shock events.
###### i.e.,

(ii) The licensee shall estimate the mean deviation from the embrittlement model for the specific data set (a group of surveillance data points representative of a given material). The mean deviation from the embrittlement model for a given data set must be calculated using Equations 8 and 9 of this section. The mean deviation for the data set must be compared to the maximum heat-average residual given in Table 5 or derived using Equation 10 of this section. The maximum heat-average residual is based on the material group into which the surveillance material falls and the number of surveillance data points. For surveillance data sets with greater than 8 data points, the maximum credible heat-average residual must be calculated using Equation 10 of this section. The value of &#x3C3; used in Equation 10 of this section must be obtained from Table 5 of this section.

(iii) The licensee shall estimate the slope of the embrittlement model residuals (estimated using Equation 8) plotted as a function of the base 10 logarithm of neutron fluence for the specific data set. The licensee shall estimate the T-statistic for this slope (T) using Equation 11 and compare this value to the maximum permissible T-statistic (T) in Table 6. For surveillance data sets with greater than 15 data points, the Tvalue must be calculated using Student's T distribution with a significance level (&#x3B1;) of 1 percent for a one-tailed test.
