
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 50 - DOMESTIC LICENSING OF PRODUCTION AND UTILIZATION FACILITIES
#### Inspections, Records, Reports, Notifications
##### ยง 50.70 Inspections.

(a) Each applicant for or holder of a license, including a construction permit or an early site permit, shall permit inspection, by duly authorized representatives of the Commission, of his records, premises, activities, and of licensed materials in possession or use, related to the license or construction permit or early site permit as may be necessary to effectuate the purposes of the Act, as amended, including Section 105 of the Act, and the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended.

(b)(1) Each licensee and each holder of a construction permit shall, upon request by the Director, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation, provide rent-free office space for the exclusive use of the Commission inspection personnel. Heat, air conditioning, light, electrical outlets, and janitorial services shall be furnished by each licensee and each holder of a construction permit. The office shall be convenient to and have full access to the facility and shall provide the inspector both visual and acoustic privacy.

(2) For a site with a single power reactor or fuel facility licensed under part 50 or part 52 of this chapter, or a facility issued a manufacturing license under part 52, the space provided shall be adequate to accommodate a full-time inspector, a part-time secretary and transient NRC personnel and will be generally commensurate with other office facilities at the site. A space of 250 square feet either within the site's office complex or in an office trailer or other onsite space is suggested as a guide. For sites containing multiple power reactor units or fuel facilities, additional space may be requested to accommodate additional full-time inspector(s). The office space that is provided shall be subject to the approval of the Director, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. All furniture, supplies and communication equipment will be furnished by the Commission.

(3) The licensee or construction permit holder shall afford any NRC resident inspector assigned to that site, or other NRC inspectors identified by the Regional Administrator as likely to inspect the facility, immediate unfettered access, equivalent to access provided regular plant employees, following proper identification and compliance with applicable access control measures for security, radiological protection and personal safety.

(4) The licensee or construction permit holder (nuclear power reactor only) shall ensure that the arrival and presence of an NRC inspector, who has been properly authorized facility access as described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, is not announced or otherwise communicated by its employees or contractors to other persons at the facility unless specifically requested by the NRC inspector.
