
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 50 - DOMESTIC LICENSING OF PRODUCTION AND UTILIZATION FACILITIES
#### Inspections, Records, Reports, Notifications
##### § 50.71 Maintenance of records, making of reports.

(a) Each licensee, including each holder of a construction permit or early site permit, shall maintain all records and make all reports, in connection with the activity, as may be required by the conditions of the license or permit or by the regulations, and orders of the Commission in effectuating the purposes of the Act, including Section 105 of the Act, and the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended. Reports must be submitted in accordance with § 50.4 or 10 CFR 52.3, as applicable.

(b) With respect to any production or utilization facility of a type described in § 50.21(b) or 50.22, or a testing facility, each licensee and each holder of a construction permit shall submit its annual financial report, including the certified financial statements, to the Commission, as specified in § 50.4, upon issuance of the report. However, licensees and holders of a construction permit who submit a Form 10-Q with the Securities and Exchange Commission or a Form 1 with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, need not submit the annual financial report or the certified financial statement under this paragraph.

(c) Records that are required by the regulations in this part or part 52 of this chapter, by license condition, or by technical specifications must be retained for the period specified by the appropriate regulation, license condition, or technical specification. If a retention period is not otherwise specified, these records must be retained until the Commission terminates the facility license or, in the case of an early site permit, until the permit expires.

(d)(1) Records which must be maintained under this part or part 52 of this chapter may be the original or a reproduced copy or microform if the reproduced copy or microform is duly authenticated by authorized personnel and the microform is capable of producing a clear and legible copy after storage for the period specified by Commission regulations. The record may also be stored in electronic media with the capability of producing legible, accurate, and complete records during the required retention period. Records such as letters, drawings, and specifications, must include all pertinent information such as stamps, initials, and signatures. The licensee shall maintain adequate safeguards against tampering with, and loss of records.

(2) If there is a conflict between the Commission's regulations in this part, license condition, or technical specification, or other written Commission approval or authorization pertaining to the retention period for the same type of record, the retention period specified in the regulations in this part for such records shall apply unless the Commission, pursuant to § 50.12 of this part, has granted a specific exemption from the record retention requirements specified in the regulations in this part.

(e) Each person licensed to operate a nuclear power reactor under the provisions of § 50.21 or § 50.22, and each applicant for a combined license under part 52 of this chapter, shall update periodically, as provided in paragraphs (e) (3) and (4) of this section, the final safety analysis report (FSAR) originally submitted as part of the application for the license, to assure that the information included in the report contains the latest information developed. This submittal shall contain all the changes necessary to reflect information and analyses submitted to the Commission by the applicant or licensee or prepared by the applicant or licensee pursuant to Commission requirement since the submittal of the original FSAR, or as appropriate, the last update to the FSAR under this section. The submittal shall include the effectsof all changes made in the facility or procedures as described in the FSAR; all safety analyses and evaluations performed by the applicant or licensee either in support of approved license amendments or in support of conclusions that changes did not require a license amendment in accordance with § 50.59(c)(2) or, in the case of a license that references a certified design, in accordance with § 52.98(c) of this chapter; and all analyses of new safety issues performed by or on behalf of the applicant or licensee at Commission request. The updated information shall be appropriately located within the update to the FSAR.

(1) The licensee shall submit revisions containing updated information to the Commission, as specified in § 50.4, on a replacement-page basis that is accompanied by a list which identifies the current pages of the FSAR following page replacement.

(2) The submittal shall include (i) a certification by a duly authorized officer of the licensee that either the information accurately presents changes made since the previous submittal, necessary to reflect information and analyses submitted to the Commission or prepared pursuant to Commission requirement, or that no such changes were made; and (ii) an identification of changes made under the provisions of § 50.59 but not previously submitted to the Commission.

(3)(i) A revision of the original FSAR containing those original pages that are still applicable plus new replacement pages shall be filed within 24 months of either July 22, 1980, or the date of issuance of the operating license, whichever is later, and shall bring the FSAR up to date as of a maximum of 6 months prior to the date of filing the revision.

(ii) [Reserved]

(iii) During the period from the docketing of an application for a combined license under subpart C of part 52 of this chapter until the Commission makes the finding under § 52.103(g) of this chapter, the update to the FSAR must be submitted annually.

(4) Subsequent revisions must be filed annually or 6 months after each refueling outage provided the interval between successive updates does not exceed 24 months. The revisions must reflect all changes up to a maximum of 6 months prior to the date of filling. For nuclear power reactor facilities that have submitted the certifications required by § 50.82(a)(1), subsequent revisions must be filed every 24 months.

(5) Each replacement page shall include both a change indicator for the area changed, e.g., a bold line vertically drawn in the margin adjacent to the portion actually changed, and a page change identification (date of change or change number or both).

(6) The updated FSAR shall be retained by the licensee until the Commission terminates their license.

(f) Each person licensed to manufacture a nuclear power reactor under subpart F of 10 CFR part 52 shall update the FSAR originally submitted as part of the application to reflect any modification to the design that is approved by the Commission under § 52.171 of this chapter, and any new analyses of the design performed by or on behalf of the licensee at the NRC's request. This submittal shall contain all the changes necessary to reflect information and analyses submitted to the Commission by the licensee or prepared by the licensee with respect to the modification approved under § 52.171 of this chapter or the analyses requested by the Commission under § 52.171 of this chapter. The updated information shall be appropriately located within the update to the FSAR.

(g) The provisions of this section apply to nuclear power reactor licensees that have submitted the certification of permanent cessation of operations required under §§ 50.82(a)(1)(i) or 52.110(a)(1) of this chapter. The provisions of paragraphs (a), (c), and (d) of this section also apply to non-power reactor licensees that are no longer authorized to operate.

(h)(1) No later than the scheduled date for initial loading of fuel, each holder of a combined license under subpart C of 10 CFR part 52 shall develop a level 1 and a level 2 probabilistic risk assessment (PRA). The PRA must cover those initiating events and modes for which NRC-endorsed consensus standards on PRA exist one year prior to the scheduled date for initial loading of fuel.

(2) Each holder of a combined license shall maintain and upgrade the PRA required by paragraph (h)(1) of this section. The upgraded PRA must cover initiating events and modes of operation contained in NRC-endorsed consensus standards on PRA in effect one year prior to each required upgrade. The PRA must be upgraded every four years until the permanent cessation of operations under § 52.110(a) of this chapter.

(3) Each holder of a combined license shall, no later than the date on which the licensee submits an application for a renewed license, upgrade the PRA required by paragraph (h)(1) of this section to cover all modes and all initiating events.
