
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 50 - DOMESTIC LICENSING OF PRODUCTION AND UTILIZATION FACILITIES
#### Inspections, Records, Reports, Notifications
##### ยง 50.73 Licensee event report system.
###### 3,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

() A notice of any changes made to the material incorporated by reference will be published in theCopies may be obtained from the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, 445 Hoes Lane, P.O. Box 1331, Piscataway, NJ 08855-1331. IEEE Std 803-1983 is available for inspection at the NRC's Technical Library, which is located in the Two White Flint North Building, 11545 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland 20852-2738; or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(G) For failures of components with multiple functions, include a list of systems or secondary functions that were also affected.

(H) For failure that rendered a train of a safety system inoperable, an estimate of the elapsed time from the discovery of the failure until the train was returned to service.

(I) The method of discovery of each component or system failure or procedural error.

(J) For each human performance related root cause, the licensee shall discuss the cause(s) and circumstances.

(K) Automatically and manually initiated safety system responses.

(L) The manufacturer and model number (or other identification) of each component that failed during the event.

(3) An assessment of the safety consequences and implications of the event. This assessment must include:

(i) The availability of systems or components that could have performed the same function as the components and systems that failed during the event, and

(ii) For events that occurred when the reactor was shutdown, the availability of systems or components that are needed to shutdown the reactor and maintain safe shutdown conditions, remove residual heat, control the release of radioactive material, or mitigate the consequences of an accident.

(4) A description of any corrective actions planned as a result of the event, including those to reduce the probability of similar events occurring in the future.

(5) Reference to any previous similar events at the same plant that are known to the licensee.

(6) The name and telephone number of a person within the licensee's organization who is knowledgeable about the event and can provide additional information concerning the event and the plant's characteristics.
