
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 50 - DOMESTIC LICENSING OF PRODUCTION AND UTILIZATION FACILITIES
#### Inspections, Records, Reports, Notifications
##### ยง 50.75 Reporting and recordkeeping for decommissioning planning.

(a) This section establishes requirements for indicating to NRC how a licensee will provide reasonable assurance that funds will be available for the decommissioning process. For power reactor licensees (except a holder of a manufacturing license under part 52 of this chapter), reasonable assurance consists of a series of steps as provided in paragraphs (b), (c), (e), and (f) of this section. Funding for the decommissioning of power reactors may also be subject to the regulation of Federal or State Government agencies (e.g., Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) and State Public Utility Commissions) that have jurisdiction over rate regulation. The requirements of this section, in particular paragraph (c) of this section, are in addition to, and not substitution for, other requirements, and are not intended to be used by themselves or by other agencies to establish rates.

(b) Each power reactor applicant for or holder of an operating license, and each applicant for a combined license under subpart C of 10 CFR part 52 for a production or utilization facility of the type and power level specified in paragraph (c) of this section shall submit a decommissioning report, as required by ยง 50.33(k).

(1) For an applicant for or holder of an operating license under part 50, the report must contain a certification that financial assurance for decommissioning will be (for a license applicant), or has been (for a license holder), provided in an amount which may be more, but not less, than the amount stated in the table in paragraph (c)(1) of this section adjusted using a rate at least equal to that stated in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. For an applicant for a combined license under subpart C of 10 CFR part 52, the report must contain a certification that financial assurance for decommissioning will be provided no later than 30 days after the Commission publishes notice in theunder ยง 52.103(a) in an amount which may be more, but not less, than the amount stated in the table in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, adjusted using a rate at least equal to that stated in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(2) The amount to be provided must be adjusted annually using a rate at least equal to that stated in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(3) The amount must be covered by one or more of the methods described in paragraph (e) of this section as acceptable to the NRC.
