
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 50 - DOMESTIC LICENSING OF PRODUCTION AND UTILIZATION FACILITIES
#### Amendment of License or Construction Permit at Request of Holder
##### ยง 50.91 Notice for public comment; State consultation.
###### State consultation.

(b)(1) At the time a licensee requests an amendment, it must notify the State in which its facility is located of its request by providing that State with a copy of its application and its reasoned analysis about no significant hazards considerations and indicate on the application that it has done so. (The Commission will make available to the licensee the name of the appropriate State official designated to receive such amendments.)

(2) The Commission will advise the State of its proposed determination about no significant hazards consideration normally by sending it a copy of thenotice.

(3) The Commission will make available to the State official designated to consult with it about its proposed determination the names of the Project Manager or other NRC personnel it designated to consult with the State. The Commission will consider any comments of that State official. If it does not hear from the State in a timely manner, it will consider that the State has no interest in its determination; nonetheless, to ensure that the State is aware of the application, before it issues the amendment, it will make a good faith effort to telephone that official. (Inability to consult with a responsible State official following good faith attempts will not prevent the Commission from making effective a license amendment involving no significant hazards consideration.)

(4) The Commission will make a good faith attempt to consult with the State before it issues a license amendment involving no significant hazards consideration. If, however, it does not have time to use its normal consultation procedures because of an emergency situation, it will attempt to telephone the appropriate State official. (Inability to consult with a responsible State official following good faith attempts will not prevent the Commission from making effective a license amendment involving no significant hazards consideration, if the Commission deems it necessary in an emergency situation.)

(5) After the Commission issues the requested amendment, it will send a copy of its determination to the State.
