
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 50 - DOMESTIC LICENSING OF PRODUCTION AND UTILIZATION FACILITIES
#### Additional Standards for Licenses, Certifications, and Regulatory Approvals
##### ยง 50.120 Training and qualification of nuclear power plant personnel.
###### Requirements.

(b)(1)(i) Each nuclear power plant operating license applicant, by 18 months prior to fuel load, and each holder of an operating license shall establish, implement, and maintain a training program that meets the requirements of paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section.

(ii) Each holder of a combined license shall establish, implement, and maintain the training program that meets the requirements of paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section, as described in the final safety analysis report no later than 18 months before the scheduled date for initial loading of fuel.

(2) The training program must be derived from a systems approach to training as defined in 10 CFR 55.4, and must provide for the training and qualification of the following categories of nuclear power plant personnel:

(i) Non-licensed operator.

(ii) Shift supervisor.

(iii) Shift technical advisor.

(iv) Instrument and control technician.

(v) Electrical maintenance personnel.

(vi) Mechanical maintenance personnel.

(vii) Radiological protection technician.

(viii) Chemistry technician.

(ix) Engineering support personnel.

(3) The training program must incorporate the instructional requirements necessary to provide qualified personnel to operate and maintain the facility in a safe manner in all modes of operation. The training program must be developed to be in compliance with the facility license, including all technical specifications and applicable regulations. The training program must be periodically evaluated and revised as appropriate to reflect industry experience as well as changes to the facility, procedures, regulations, and quality assurance requirements. The training program must be periodically reviewed by licensee management for effectiveness. Sufficient records must be maintained by the licensee to maintain program integrity and kept available for NRC inspection to verify the adequacy of the program.
