
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 50 - DOMESTIC LICENSING OF PRODUCTION AND UTILIZATION FACILITIES
#### Appendix C to Part 50 - A Guide for the Financial Data and Related Information Required To Establish Financial Qualifications for Construction Permits and Combined Licenses
##### Source of construction funds.

2.The application should specifically identify the source or sources upon which the applicant relies for the funds necessary to pay the cost of constructing the facility, and the amount to be obtained from each. With respect to each source, the application should describe in detail the applicant's legal and financial relationships with its stockholders, corporate affiliates, or others (such as financial institutions) upon which the applicant is relying for financial assistance. If the sources of funds relied upon include parent companies or other corporate affiliates, information to support the financial capability of each such company or affiliate to meet its commitments to the applicant should be set forth in the application. This information should be of the same kind and scope as would be required if the parent companies or affiliates were in fact the applicant. Ordinarily, it will be necessary that copies of agreements or contracts among the companies be submitted.

Each holder of a construction permit for a production or utilization facility of a type described in ยง 50.21(b) or ยง 50.22 or a testing facility, and each holder of a combined license issued under part 52 of this chapter, is required by ยง 50.71(b) to file its annual financial report with the Commission at the time of issuance. This requirement does not apply to licensees or holders of construction permits for medical and research reactors.

The Commission may, from time to time, request the applicant, whether an established organization or newly formed entity, to submit additional or more detailed information respecting its financial arrangements and status of funds if such information is deemed necessary to enable the Commission to determine an applicant's financial qualifications for the license.
