
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 50 - DOMESTIC LICENSING OF PRODUCTION AND UTILIZATION FACILITIES
#### Appendix J to Part 50 - Primary Reactor Containment Leakage Testing for Water-Cooled Power Reactors

This appendix includes two options, A and B, either of which can be chosen for meeting the requirements of this appendix.

I. Introduction.

II. Explanation of terms.

III. Leakage test requirements.

A. Type A test.

B. Type B test.

C. Type C test.

D. Periodic retest schedule.

IV. Special test requirements.

A. Containment modifications.

B. Multiple leakage-barrier containments.

V. Inspection and reporting of tests.

A. Containment inspection.

B. Repordkeeping of test results.

One of the conditions of all operating licenses under this part and combined licenses under part 52 of this chapter for water-cooled power reactors as specified in ยง 50.54(o) is that primary reactor containments shall meet the containment leakage test requirements set forth in this appendix. These test requirements provide for preoperational and periodic verification by tests of the leak-tight integrity of the primary reactor containment, and systems and components which penetrate containment of water-cooled power reactors, and establish the acceptance criteria for these tests. The purposes of the tests are to assure that (a) leakage through the primary reactor containment and systems and components penetrating primary containment shall not exceed allowable leakage rate values as specified in the technical specifications or associated bases; and (b) periodic surveillance of reactor containment penetrations and isolation valves is performed so that proper maintenance and repairs are made during the service life of the containment, and systems and components penetrating primary containment. These test requirements may also be used for guidance in establishing appropriate containment leakage test requirements in technical specifications or associated bases for other types of nuclear power reactors.

A. "Primary reactor containment" means the structure or vessel that encloses the components of the reactor coolant pressure boundary, as defined in ยง 50.2, and serves as an essentially leak-tight barrier against the uncontrolled release of radioactivity to the environment.

B. "Containment isolation valve" means any valve which is relied upon to perform a containment isolation function.

C. "Reactor containment leakage test program" includes the performance of Type A, Type B, and Type C tests, described in II.F, II.G, and II.H, respectively.

D. "Leakage rate" for test purposes is that leakage which occurs in a unit of time, stated as a percentage of weight of the original content of containment air at the leakage rate test pressure that escapes to the outside atmosphere during a 24-hour test period.

E. "Overall integrated leakage rate" means that leakage rate which obtains from a summation of leakage through all potential leakage paths including containment welds, valves, fittings, and components which penetrate containment.

F. "Type A Tests" means tests intended to measure the primary reactor containment overall integrated leakage rate (1) after the containment has been completed and is ready for operation, and (2) at periodic intervals thereafter.

G. "Type B Tests" means tests intended to detect local leaks and to measure leakage across each pressure-containing or leakage-limiting boundary for the following primary reactor containment penetrations:

1. Containment penetrations whose design incorporates resilient seals, gaskets, or sealant componds, piping penetrations fitted with expansion bellows, and electrical penetrations fitted with flexible metal seal assemblies.

2. Air lock door seals, including door operating mechanism penetrations which are part of the containment pressure boundary.

3. Doors with resilient seals or gaskets except for seal-welded doors.

4. Components other than those listed in II.G.1, II.G.2, or II.G.3 which must meet the acceptance criteria in III.B.3.

H. "Type C Tests" means tests intended to measure containment isolation valve leakage rates. The containment isolation valves included are those that:

1. Provide a direct connection between the inside and outside atmospheres of the primary reactor containment under normal operation, such as purge and ventilation, vacuum relief, and instrument valves;

2. Are required to close automatically upon receipt of a containment isolation signal in response to controls intended to effect containment isolation;

3. Are required to operate intermittently under postaccident conditions; and

4. Are in main steam and feedwater piping and other systems which penetrate containment of direct-cycle boiling water power reactors.

I. Pa (p.s.i.g.) means the calculated peak containment internal pressure related to the design basis accident and specified either in the technical specification or associated bases.

J. Pt (p.s.i.g.) means the containment vessel reduced test pressure selected to measure the integrated leakage rate during periodic Type A tests.

K. La (percent/24 hours) means the maximum allowable leakage rate at pressure Pa as specified for preoperational tests in the technical specifications or associated bases, and as specified for periodic tests in the operating license or combined license, including the technical specifications in any referenced design certification or manufactured reactor used at the facility.

L. Ld (percent/24 hours) means the design leakage rate at pressure, Pa, as specified in the technical specifications or associated bases.

M. Lt (percent/24 hours) means the maximum allowable leakage rate at pressure Pt derived from the preoperational test data as specified in III.A.4.(a)(iii).

N. Lam, Ltm (percent/24 hours) means the total measured containment leakage rates at pressure Pa and Pt, respectively, obtained from testing the containment with components and systems in the state as close as practical to that which would exist under design basis accident conditions (e.g., vented, drained, flooded or pressurized).

O. "Acceptance criteria" means the standard against which test results are to be compared for establishing the functional acceptability of the containment as a leakage limiting boundary.

A program consisting of a schedule for conducting Type A, B, and C tests shall be developed for leak testing the primary reactor containment and related systems and components penetrating primary containment pressure boundary.

Upon completion of construction of the primary reactor containment, including installation of all portions of mechanical, fluid, electrical, and instrumentation systems penetrating the primary reactor containment pressure boundary, and prior to any reactor operating period, preoperational and periodic leakage rate tests, as applicable, shall be conducted in accordance with the following:
