
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 50 - DOMESTIC LICENSING OF PRODUCTION AND UTILIZATION FACILITIES
#### Appendix J to Part 50 - Primary Reactor Containment Leakage Testing for Water-Cooled Power Reactors
##### Test Methods.

3.(a) All Type A tests shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of the American National Standards N45.4-1972, "Leakage Rate Testing of Containment Structures for Nuclear Reactors," March 16, 1972. In addition to the Total time and Point-to-Point methods described in that standard, the Mass Point Method, when used with a test duration of at least 24 hours, is an acceptable method to use to calculate leakage rates. A typical description of the Mass Point method can be found in the American National Standard ANSI/ANS 56.8-1987, "Containment System Leakage Testing Requirements," January 20, 1987. Incorporation of ANSI N45.4-1972 by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register. Copies of this standard, as well as ANSI/ANS-56.8-1987, "Containment System Leakage Testing Requirements" (dated January 20, 1987) may be obtained from the American Nuclear Society, 555 North Kensington Avenue, La Grange Park, IL 60525. A copy of each of these standards is available for inspection at the NRC Library, 11545 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland 20852-2738.

(b) The accuracy of any Type A test shall be verified by a supplemental test. An acceptable method is described in Appendix C of ANSI N45.4-1972. The supplemental test method selected shall be conducted for sufficient duration to establish accurately the change in leakage rate between the Type A and supplemental test. Results from this supplemental test are acceptable provided the difference between the supplemental test data and the Type A test data is within 0.25 La (or 0.25 Lt). If results are not within 0.25 La (or 0.25 Lt), the reason shall be determined, corrective action taken, and a successful supplemental test performed.

(c) Test leakage rates shall be calculated using absolute values corrected for instrument error.
