
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 51 - ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION REGULATIONS FOR DOMESTIC LICENSING AND RELATED REGULATORY FUNCTIONS
#### Subpart A - National Environmental Policy Act - Regulations Implementing Section 102(2)
##### scoping
###### ยง 51.29 Scoping-environmental impact statement and supplement to environmental impact statement.

(a) The scoping process for an environmental impact statement shall begin as soon as practicable after publication of the notice of intent as provided in ยง 51.116, and shall be used to:

(1) Define the proposed action which is to be the subject of the statement or supplement. For environmental impact statements other than a supplement to an early site permit final environmental impact statement prepared for a combined license application, the provisions of 40 CFR 1502.4 will be used for this purpose. For a supplement to an early site permit final environmental impact statement prepared for a combined license application, the proposed action shall be as set forth in the relevant provisions of ยง 51.92(e).

(2) Determine the scope of the statement and identify the significant issues to be analyzed in depth.

(3) Identify and eliminate from detailed study issues which are peripheral or are not significant or which have been covered by prior environmental review. Discussion of these issues in the statement will be limited to a brief presentation of why they are peripheral or will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment or a reference to their coverage elsewhere.

(4) Identify any environmental assessments and other environmental impact statements which are being or will be prepared that are related to but are not part of the scope of the statement under consideration.

(5) Identify other environmental review and consultation requirements related to the proposed action so that other required analyses and studies may be prepared concurrently and integrated with the environmental impact statement.

(6) Indicate the relationship between the timing of the preparation of environmental analyses and the Commission's tentative planning and decision-making schedule.

(7) Identify any cooperating agencies, and as appropriate, allocate assignments for preparation and schedules for completion of the statement to the NRC and any cooperating agencies.

(8) Describe the means by which the environmental impact statement will be prepared, including any contractor assistance to be used.

(b) At the conclusion of the scoping process, the appropriate NRC staff director will prepare a concise summary of the determinations and conclusions reached, including the significant issues identified, and will send a copy of the summary to each participant in the scoping process.

(c) At any time prior to issuance of the draft environmental impact statement, the appropriate NRC staff director may revise the determinations made under paragraph (b) of this section, as appropriate, if substantial changes are made in the proposed action, or if significant new circumstances or information arise which bear on the proposed action or its impacts.
