
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 51 - ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION REGULATIONS FOR DOMESTIC LICENSING AND RELATED REGULATORY FUNCTIONS
#### Subpart A - National Environmental Policy Act - Regulations Implementing Section 102(2)
##### environmental reports - production and utilization facilities
###### § 51.50 Environmental report - construction permit, early site permit, or combined license stage.
####### Early site permit stage.

(b)Each applicant for an early site permit shall submit with its application a separate document, entitled "Applicant's Environmental Report-Early Site Permit Stage," which shall contain the information specified in §§ 51.45, 51.51, and 51.52, as modified in this paragraph.

(1) The environmental report must include an evaluation of alternative sites to determine whether there is any obviously superior alternative to the site proposed.

(2) The environmental report may address one or more of the environmental effects of construction and operation of a reactor, or reactors, which have design characteristics that fall within the site characteristics and design parameters for the early site permit application, provided however, that the environmental report must address all environmental effects of construction and operation necessary to determine whether there is any obviously superior alternative to the site proposed. The environmental report need not include an assessment of the economic, technical, or other benefits (for example, need for power) and costs of the proposed action or an evaluation of alternative energy sources. As stated in § 51.23, no discussion of the environmental impacts of the continued storage of spent fuel is required in this report.

(3) For other than light-water-cooled nuclear power reactors, the environmental report must contain the basis for evaluating the contribution of the environmental effects of fuel cycle activities for the nuclear power reactor.

(4) Each environmental report must identify the procedures for reporting and keeping records of environmental data, and any conditions and monitoring requirements for protecting the non-aquatic environment, proposed for possible inclusion in the license as environmental conditions in accordance with § 50.36b of this chapter.
