
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 51 - ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION REGULATIONS FOR DOMESTIC LICENSING AND RELATED REGULATORY FUNCTIONS
#### Subpart A - National Environmental Policy Act - Regulations Implementing Section 102(2)
##### environmental reports - materials licenses
###### ยง 51.60 Environmental report - materials licenses.

(a) Each applicant for a license or other form of permission, or an amendment to or renewal of a license or other form of permission issued pursuant to parts 30, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 39, 40, 61, 70 and/or 72 of this chapter, and covered by paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section, shall submit with its application to: ATTN: Document Control Desk, Director, Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, a separate document, entitled "Applicant's Environmental Report" or "Supplement to Applicant's Environmental Report," as appropriate. The "Applicant's Environmental Report" shall contain the information specified in ยง 51.45. If the application is for an amendment to or a renewal of a license or other form of permission for which the applicant has previously submitted an environmental report, the supplement to applicant's environmental report may be limited to incorporating by reference, updating or supplementing the information previously submitted to reflect any significant environmental change, including any significant environmental change resulting from operational experience or a change in operations or proposed decommissioning activities. If the applicant is the U.S. Department of Energy, the environmental report may be in the form of either an environmental impact statement or an environmental assessment, as appropriate.

(b) As required by paragraph (a) of this section, each applicant shall prepare an environmental report for the following types of actions:

(1) Issuance or renewal of a license or other form of permission for:

(i) Possession and use of special nuclear material for processing and fuel fabrication, scrap recovery, or conversion of uranium hexafluoride pursuant to part 70 of this chapter.

(ii) Possession and use of source material for uranium milling or production of uranium hexafluoride pursuant to part 40 of this chapter.

(iii) Storage of spent fuel in an independent spent fuel storage installation (ISFSI) or the storage of spent fuel or high-level radio-active waste in a monitored retrievable storage installation (MRS) pursuant to part 72 of this chapter.

(iv) Receipt and disposal of radioactive waste from other persons pursuant to part 61 of this chapter.

(v) Processing of source material for extraction of rare earth and other metals.

(vi) Use of radioactive tracers in field flood studies involving secondary and tertiary oil and gas recovery.

(vii) Construction and operation of a uranium enrichment facility.

(2) Issuance of an amendment that would authorize or result in (i) a significant expansion of a site, (ii) a significant change in the types of effluents, (iii) a significant increase in the amounts of effluents, (iv) a significant increase in individual or cumulative occupational radiation exposure, (v) a significant increase in the potential for or consequences from radiological accidents, or (vi) a significant increase in spent fuel storage capacity, in a license or other form of permission to conduct an activity listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(3) Amendment of a license to authorize the decommissioning of an independent spent fuel storage installation (ISFSI) or a monitored retrievable storage installation (MRS) pursuant to part 72 of this chapter.

(4) Issuance of a license amendment pursuant to part 61 of this chapter authorizing (i) closure of a land disposal site, (ii) transfer of the license to the disposal site owner for the purpose of institutional control, or (iii) termination of the license at the end of the institutional control period.

(5) Any other licensing action for which the Commission determines an Environmental Report is necessary.
