
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 51 - ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION REGULATIONS FOR DOMESTIC LICENSING AND RELATED REGULATORY FUNCTIONS
#### Subpart A - National Environmental Policy Act - Regulations Implementing Section 102(2)
##### draft environmental impact statements - general requirements
###### ยง 51.74 Distribution of draft environmental impact statement and supplement to draft environmental impact statement; news releases.

(a) A copy of the draft environmental impact statement will be distributed to:

(1) The Environmental Protection Agency.

(2) Any other Federal agency which has special expertise or jurisdiction by law with respect to any environmental impact involved or which is authorized to develop and enforce relevant environmental standards.

(3) The applicant or petitioner for rulemaking and any other party to the proceeding.

(4) Appropriate State and local agencies authorized to develop and enforce relevant environmental standards.

(5) Appropriate State, regional and metropolitan clearinghouses.

(6) Appropriate Indian Tribes when the proposed action may have an environmental impact on a reservation.

(7) Upon written request, any organization or group included in the master list of interested organizations and groups maintained under ยง 51.122.

(8) Upon written request, any other person to the extent available.

(b) Additional copies will be made available in accordance with ยง 51.123.

(c) A supplement to a draft environmental impact statement will be distributed in the same manner as the draft environmental impact statement to which it relates.

(d) News releases stating the availability for comment and place for obtaining or inspecting a draft environmental statement or supplement will be provided to local newspapers and other appropriate media.

(e) A notice of availability will be published in thein accordance with ยง 51.117.
