
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 51 - ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION REGULATIONS FOR DOMESTIC LICENSING AND RELATED REGULATORY FUNCTIONS
#### Subpart A - National Environmental Policy Act - Regulations Implementing Section 102(2)
##### final environmental impact statements - general requirements
###### ยง 51.91 Final environmental impact statement - contents.

(a)(1) The final environmental impact statement will include responses to any comments on the draft environmental impact statement or on any supplement to the draft environmental impact statement. Responses to comments may include:

(i) Modification of alternatives, including the proposed action;

(ii) Development and evaluation of alternatives not previously given serious consideration;

(iii) Supplementation or modification of analyses;

(iv) Factual corrections;

(v) Explanation of why comments do not warrant further response, citing sources, authorities or reasons which support this conclusion.

(2) All substantive comments received on the draft environmental impact statement or any supplement to the draft environmental impact statement (or summaries thereof where the response has been exceptionally voluminous) will be attached to the final statement, whether or not each comment is discussed individually in the text of the statement.

(3) If changes in the draft environmental impact statement in response to comments are minor and are confined either to factual corrections or to explanations of why the comments do not warrant further response, the changes may be made by attaching errata sheets to the draft statement. The entire document with a new cover may then be issued as the final environmental impact statement.

(b) The final environmental impact statement will discuss any relevant responsible opposing view not adequately discussed in the draft environmental impact statement or in any supplement to the draft environmental impact statement, and respond to the issues raised.

(c) The final environmental impact statement will state how the alternatives considered in it and decisions based on it will or will not achieve the requirements of sections 101 and 102(1) of NEPA and of any other relevant and applicable environmental laws and policies.

(d) The final environmental impact statement will include a final analysis and a final recommendation on the action to be taken.
