
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 51 - ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION REGULATIONS FOR DOMESTIC LICENSING AND RELATED REGULATORY FUNCTIONS
#### Subpart A - National Environmental Policy Act - Regulations Implementing Section 102(2)
##### final environmental impact statements - general requirements
###### ยง 51.93 Distribution of final environmental impact statement and supplement to final environmental impact statement; news releases.

(a) A copy of the final environmental impact statement will be distributed to:

(1) The Environmental Protection Agency.

(2) The applicant or petitioner for rulemaking and any other party to the proceeding.

(3) Appropriate State, regional and metropolitan clearinghouses.

(4) Each commenter.

(b) Additional copies will be made available in accordance with ยง 51.123.

(c) If the final environmental impact statement is unusually long or there are so many comments on a draft environmental impact statement or any supplement to a draft environmental impact statement that distribution of the entire final statement to all commenters is impracticable, a summary of the final statement and the substantive comments will be distributed. When the final environmental impact statement has been prepared by adding errata sheets to the draft environmental impact statement as provided in ยง 51.91(a)(3), only the comments, the responses to the comments and the changes to the environmental impact statement will be distributed.

(d) A supplement to a final environmental impact statement will be distributed in the same manner as the final environmental impact statement to which it relates.

(e) News releases stating the availability and place for obtaining or inspecting a final environmental impact statement or supplement will be provided to local newspapers and other appropriate media.

(f) A notice of availability will be published in thein accordance with ยง 51.118.
