
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 51 - ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION REGULATIONS FOR DOMESTIC LICENSING AND RELATED REGULATORY FUNCTIONS
#### Subpart A - National Environmental Policy Act - Regulations Implementing Section 102(2)
##### general
###### ยง 51.103 Record of decision - general.

(a) The record of decision required by ยง 51.102 shall be clearly identified and shall:

(1) State the decision.

(2) Identify all alternatives considered by the Commission in reaching the decision, state that these alternatives were included in the range of alternatives discussed in the environmental impact statement, and specify the alternative or alternatives which were considered to be environmentally preferable.

(3) Discuss preferences among alternatives based on relevant factors, including economic and technical considerations where appropriate, the NRC's statutory mission, and any essential considerations of national policy, which were balanced by the Commission in making the decision and state how these considerations entered into the decision.

(4) State whether the Commission has taken all practicable measures within its jurisdiction to avoid or minimize environmental harm from the alternative selected, and if not, to explain why those measures were not adopted. Summarize any license conditions and monitoring programs adopted in connection with mitigation measures.

(5) In making a final decision on a license renewal action pursuant to part 54 of this chapter, the Commission shall determine whether or not the adverse environmental impacts of license renewal are so great that preserving the option of license renewal for energy planning decisionmakers would be unreasonable.

(6) In a construction permit or a combined license proceeding where a limited work authorization under 10 CFR 50.10 was issued, the Commission's decision on the construction permit or combined license application will not address or consider the sunk costs associated with the limited work authorization in determining the proposed action.

(b) The record of decision may be integrated into any other record prepared by the Commission in connection with the action.

(c) The record of decision may incorporate by reference material contained in a final environmental impact statement.
