
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 52 - LICENSES, CERTIFICATIONS, AND APPROVALS FOR NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS
#### Subpart A - Early Site Permits
##### § 52.17 Contents of applications; technical information.

(a) For applications submitted before September 27, 2007, the rule provisions in effect at the date of docketing apply unless otherwise requested by the applicant in writing. The application must contain:

(1) A site safety analysis report. The site safety analysis report shall include the following:

(i) The specific number, type, and thermal power level of the facilities, or range of possible facilities, for which the site may be used;

(ii) The anticipated maximum levels of radiological and thermal effluents each facility will produce;

(iii) The type of cooling systems, intakes, and outflows that may be associated with each facility;

(iv) The boundaries of the site;

(v) The proposed general location of each facility on the site;

(vi) The seismic, meteorological, hydrologic, and geologic characteristics of the proposed site with appropriate consideration of the most severe of the natural phenomena that have been historically reported for the site and surrounding area and with sufficient margin for the limited accuracy, quantity, and period of time in which the historical data have been accumulated;

(vii) The location and description of any nearby industrial, military, or transportation facilities and routes;

(viii) The existing and projected future population profile of the area surrounding the site;

(ix) A description and safety assessment of the site on which a facility is to be located. The assessment must contain an analysis and evaluation of the major structures, systems, and components of the facility that bear significantly on the acceptability of the site under the radiological consequence evaluation factors identified in paragraphs (a)(1)(ix)(A) and (a)(1)(ix)(B) of this section. In performing this assessment, an applicant shall assume a fission product releasefrom the core into the containment assuming that the facility is operated at the ultimate power level contemplated. The applicant shall perform an evaluation and analysis of the postulated fission product release, using the expected demonstrable containment leak rate and any fission product cleanup systems intended to mitigate the consequences of the accidents, together with applicable site characteristics, including site meteorology, to evaluate the offsite radiological consequences. Site characteristics must comply with part 100 of this chapter. The evaluation must determine that:

(A) An individual located at any point on the boundary of the exclusion area for any 2 hour period following the onset of the postulated fission product release, would not receive a radiation dose in excess of 25 remtotal effective dose equivalent (TEDE).

(B) An individual located at any point on the outer boundary of the low population zone, who is exposed to the radioactive cloud resulting from the postulated fission product release (during the entire period of its passage) would not receive a radiation dose in excess of 25 rem TEDE;

(x) Information demonstrating that site characteristics are such that adequate security plans and measures can be developed;

(xi) For applications submitted after September 27, 2007, a description of the quality assurance program applied to site-related activities for the future design, fabrication, construction, and testing of the structures, systems, and components of a facility or facilities that may be constructed on the site. Appendix B to 10 CFR part 50 sets forth the requirements for quality assurance programs for nuclear power plants. The description of the quality assurance program for a nuclear power plant site shall include a discussion of how the applicable requirements of appendix B to part 50 of this chapter will be satisfied; and

(xii) An evaluation of the site against applicable sections of the Standard Review Plan (SRP) revision in effect 6 months before the docket date of the application. The evaluation required by this section shall include an identification and description of all differences in analytical techniques and procedural measures proposed for a site and those corresponding techniques and measures given in the SRP acceptance criteria. Where such a difference exists, the evaluation shall discuss how the proposed alternative provides an acceptable method of complying with the Commission's regulations, or portions thereof, that underlie the corresponding SRP acceptance criteria. The SRP is not a substitute for the regulations, and compliance is not a requirement.

(2) A complete environmental report as required by 10 CFR 51.50(b).

(b)(1) The site safety analysis report must identify physical characteristics of the proposed site, such as egress limitations from the area surrounding the site, that could pose a significant impediment to the development of emergency plans. If physical characteristics are identified that could pose a significant impediment to the development of emergency plans, the application must identify measures that would, when implemented, mitigate or eliminate the significant impediment.

(2) The site safety analysis report may also:

(i) Propose major features of the emergency plans, in accordance with the pertinent standards of § 50.47 of this chapter and the requirements of appendix E to part 50 of this chapter, such as the exact size and configuration of the emergency planning zones, for review and approval by the NRC, in consultation with the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in the absence of complete and integrated emergency plans; or

(ii) Propose complete and integrated emergency plans for review and approval by the NRC, in consultation with FEMA, in accordance with the applicable standards of § 50.47 of this chapter and the requirements of appendix E to part 50 of this chapter. To the extent approval of emergency plans is sought, the application must contain the information required by § 50.33(g) and (j) of this chapter.

(3) Emergency plans submitted under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section must include the proposed inspections, tests, and analyses that the holder of a combined license referencing the early site permit shall perform, and the acceptance criteria that are necessary and sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that, if the inspections, tests, and analyses are performed and the acceptance criteria met, the facility has been constructed and will be operated in conformity with the emergency plans, the provisions of the Act, and the Commission's rules and regulations. Major features of an emergency plan submitted under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section may include proposed inspections, tests, analyses, and acceptance criteria.

(4) Under paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2)(i) of this section, the site safety analysis report must include a description of contacts and arrangements made with Federal, State, and local governmental agencies with emergency planning responsibilities. The site safety analysis report must contain any certifications that have been obtained. If these certifications cannot be obtained, the site safety analysis report must contain information, including a utility plan, sufficient to show that the proposed plans provide reasonable assurance that adequate protective measures can and will be taken in the event of a radiological emergency at the site. Under the option set forth in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, the applicant shall make good faith efforts to obtain from the same governmental agencies certifications that:

(i) The proposed emergency plans are practicable;

(ii) These agencies are committed to participating in any further development of the plans, including any required field demonstrations, and

(iii) That these agencies are committed to executing their responsibilities under the plans in the event of an emergency.

(c) An applicant may request that a limited work authorization under 10 CFR 50.10 be issued in conjunction with the early site permit. The application must include the information otherwise required by 10 CFR 50.10(d)(3). Applications submitted before, and pending as of November 8, 2007, must include the information required by § 52.17(c) effective on the date of docketing.

(d) Each applicant for an early site permit under this part shall protect Safeguards Information against unauthorized disclosure in accordance with the requirements in §§ 73.21 and 73.22 of this chapter, as applicable.
