
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 52 - LICENSES, CERTIFICATIONS, AND APPROVALS FOR NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS
#### Subpart B - Standard Design Certifications
##### ยง 52.51 Administrative review of applications.

(a) A standard design certification is a rule that will be issued in accordance with the provisions of subpart H of 10 CFR part 2, as supplemented by the provisions of this section. The Commission shall initiate the rulemaking after an application has been filed under ยง 52.45 and shall specify the procedures to be used for the rulemaking. The notice of proposed rulemaking published in themust provide an opportunity for the submission of comments on the proposed design certification rule. If, at the time a proposed design certification rule is published in theunder this paragraph (a), the Commission decides that a legislative hearing should be held, the information required by 10 CFR 2.1502(c) must be included in thedocument for the proposed design certification.

(b) Following the submission of comments on the proposed design certification rule, the Commission may, at its discretion, hold a legislative hearing under the procedures in subpart O of part 2 of this chapter. The Commission shall publish a document in theof its decision to hold a legislative hearing. The document shall contain the information specified in paragraph (c) of this section, and specify whether the Commission or a presiding officer will conduct the legislative hearing.

(c) Notwithstanding anything in 10 CFR 2.390 to the contrary, proprietary information will be protected in the same manner and to the same extent as proprietary information submitted in connection with applications for licenses, provided that the design certification shall be published in Chapter I of this title.
