
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 52 - LICENSES, CERTIFICATIONS, AND APPROVALS FOR NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS
#### Subpart C - Combined Licenses
##### § 52.98 Finality of combined licenses; information requests.

(a) After issuance of a combined license, the Commission may not modify, add, or delete any term or condition of the combined license, the design of the facility, the inspections, tests, analyses, and acceptance criteria contained in the license which are not derived from a referenced standard design certification or manufacturing license, except in accordance with the provisions of § 52.103 or § 50.109 of this chapter, as applicable.

(b) If the combined license does not reference a design certification or a reactor manufactured under a manufacturing license issued under subpart F of this part, then a licensee may make changes in the facility as described in the final safety analysis report (as updated), make changes in the procedures as described in the final safety analysis report (as updated), and conduct tests or experiments not described in the final safety analysis report (as updated) under the applicable change processes in 10 CFR part 50 (e.g., § 50.54, § 50.59, or § 50.90 of this chapter).

(c) If the combined license references a certified design, then-

(1) Changes to or departures from information within the scope of the referenced design certification rule are subject to the applicable change processes in that rule; and

(2) Changes that are not within the scope of the referenced design certification rule are subject to the applicable change processes in 10 CFR part 50, unless they also involve changes to or noncompliance with information within the scope of the referenced design certification rule. In these cases, the applicable provisions of this section and the design certification rule apply.

(d) If the combined license references a reactor manufactured under a manufacturing license issued under subpart F of this part, then-

(1) Changes to or departures from information within the scope of the manufactured reactor's design are subject to the change processes in § 52.171; and

(2) Changes that are not within the scope of the manufactured reactor's design are subject to the applicable change processes in 10 CFR part 50.

(e) The Commission may issue and make immediately effective any amendment to a combined license upon a determination by the Commission that the amendment involves no significant hazards consideration, notwithstanding the pendency before the Commission of a request for a hearing from any person. The amendment may be issued and made immediately effective in advance of the holding and completion of any required hearing. The amendment will be processed in accordance with the procedures specified in 10 CFR 50.91.

(f) Any modification to, addition to, or deletion from the terms and conditions of a combined license, including any modification to, addition to, or deletion from the inspections, tests, analyses, or related acceptance criteria contained in the license is a proposed amendment to the license. There must be an opportunity for a hearing on the amendment.

(g) Except for information sought to verify licensee compliance with the current licensing basis for that facility, information requests to the holder of a combined license must be evaluated before issuance to ensure that the burden to be imposed on the licensee is justified in view of the potential safety significance of the issue to be addressed in the requested information. Each evaluation performed by the NRC staff must be in accordance with 10 CFR 50.54(f) and must be approved by the Executive Director for Operations or his or her designee before issuance of the request.
