
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 2 - AGENCY RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
#### Subpart J - Procedures Applicable to Proceedings for the Issuance of Licenses for the Receipt of High-Level Radioactive Waste at a Geologic Repository
##### ยง 2.1020 Entry upon land for inspection.

(a) Any party, potential party, or interested governmental participant may serve on any other party, potential party, or interested governmental participant a request to permit entry upon designated land or other property in the possession or control of the party, potential party, or interested governmental participant upon whom the request is served for the purpose of access to raw data, inspection and measuring, surveying, photographing, testing, or sampling the property or any designated object or operation thereon, within the scope of ยง 2.1018 of this subpart.

(b) The request may be served on any party, potential party, or interested governmental participant without leave of the Commission or the Presiding Officer.

(c) The request shall describe with reasonable particularity the land or other property to be inspected either by individual item or by category. The request shall specify a reasonable time, place, and manner of making the inspection and performing the related acts.

(d) The party, potential party, or interested governmental participant upon whom the request is served shall serve on the party, potential party, or interested governmental participant submitting the request a written response within ten days after the service of the request. The response shall state, with respect to each item or category, that inspection and related activities will be permitted as requested, unless the request is objected to, in which case the reasons for objection shall be stated. If objection is made to part of an item or category, the part shall be specified.
