
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 2 - AGENCY RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
#### Subpart J - Procedures Applicable to Proceedings for the Issuance of Licenses for the Receipt of High-Level Radioactive Waste at a Geologic Repository
##### ยง 2.1026 Schedule.

(a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the Presiding Officer shall adhere to the schedule set forth in appendix D of this part.

(b)(1) Pursuant to ยง 2.307, the presiding officer may approve extensions of no more than fifteen (15) days beyond any required time set forth in this subpart for a filing by a party to the proceeding. Except in the case of exceptional and unforeseen circumstances, requests for extensions of more than fifteen (15) days must be filed no later than five (5) days in advance of the required time set forth in this subpart for a filing by a party to the proceeding.

(2) Extensions beyond 15 days must be referred to the Commission. If the Commission does not disapprove the extension within 10 days of receiving the request, the extension will be effective. If the Commission disapproves the extension, the date which was the subject of the extension request will be set for 5 days after the Commission's disapproval action.

(c)(1) The Presiding Officer may delay the issuance of an order up to thirty days beyond the time set forth for the issuance in appendix D.

(2) If the Presiding Officer anticipates that the issuance of an order will not occur until after the thirty day extension specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Presiding Officer shall notify the Commission at least ten days in advance of the scheduled date for the milestone and provide a justification for the delay.
