
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 52 - LICENSES, CERTIFICATIONS, AND APPROVALS FOR NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS
#### Appendix F to Part 52 - Design Certification Rule for the APR1400 Design
##### https://www.nrc.gov/reading-rm/adams.html.,PDR.Resource@nrc.gov.,Library.Resource@nrc.gov.,https://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibrlocations.html.

A. Incorporation by reference approval. The APR1400 material is approved for incorporation by reference by the Director of the Office of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain copies of the generic DCD from Yun-Ho Kim, President, KHNP Central Research Institute, 70, 1312-gil, Yuseong-daero, Yuseong-gu, Daejeon, 34101, Korea. You can view the generic DCD online in the NRC Library atIn ADAMS, search under ADAMS Accession No. ML18228A667. If you do not have access to ADAMS or if you have problems accessing documents located in ADAMS, contact the NRC's Public Document Room (PDR) reference staff at 1-800-397-4209, at 301-415-3747, or by email atCopies of this document are available for examination and copying at the NRC's PDR located at Room O1-F21, One White Flint North, 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland 20852. Copies are also available for examination at the NRC Library located at Two White Flint North, 11545 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland 20852, telephone: 301-415-5610, email:All approved material is available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030 or go to

1. Korea Electric Power Corporation and Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co, Ltd

a. APR1400 Design Control Document Tier 1 (APR1400-K-X-IT-14001-NP), Revision 3 (August 2018).

b. APR1400 Design Control Document Tier 2 (APR1400-K-X-FS-14002-NP), Revision 3 (August 2018), including:

i. Chapter 1, Introduction and General Description of the Plant.

ii. Chapter 2, Site Characteristics.

iii. Chapter 3, Design of Structures, Systems, Components, and Equipment.

iv. Chapter 4, Reactor.

v. Chapter 5, Reactor Coolant System and Connecting Systems.

vi. Chapter 6, Engineered Safety Features.

vii. Chapter 7, Instrumentation and Controls.

viii. Chapter 8, Electric Power.

ix. Chapter 9, Auxiliary Systems.

x. Chapter 10, Steam and Power Conversion System.

xi. Chapter 11, Radioactive Waste Management.

xii. Chapter 12, Radiation Protection.

xiii. Chapter 13, Conduct of Operations.

xiv. Chapter 14, Verification Programs.

xv. Chapter 15, Transient and Accident Analyses.

xvi. Chapter 16, Technical Specifications.

xvii. Chapter 17, Quality Assurance and Reliability Assurance.

xviii. Chapter 18, Human Factors Engineering.

xix. Chapter 19, Probabilistic Risk Assessment and Severe Accident Evaluation.

c. APR1400-E-B-NR-16001-NP, Evaluation of Main Steam and Feedwater Piping Applied to the Graded Approach for the APR1400, Rev. 0 (July 2017).

d. APR1400-E-B-NR-16002-NP, Evaluation of Safety Injection and Shutdown Cooling Piping Applied to the Graded Approach for the APR1400, Rev. 1 (May 2018).

e. APR1400-E-I-NR-14001-NP, Human Factors Engineering Program Plan, Rev. 4 (July 2018).

f. APR1400-E-I-NR-14002-NP, Operating Experience Review Implementation Plan, Rev. 2 (January 2018).

g. APR1400-E-I-NR-14003-NP, Functional Requirements Analysis and Function Allocation Implementation Plan, Rev. 2 (January 2018).

h. APR1400-E-I-NR-14004-NP, Task Analysis Implementation Plan, Rev. 3 (May 2018).

i. APR1400-E-I-NR-14006-NP, Treatment of Important Human Actions Implementation Plan, Rev. 3 (May 2018).

j. APR1400-E-I-NR-14007-NP, Human-System Interface Design Implementation Plan, Rev. 3 (May 2018).

k. APR1400-E-I-NR-14008-NP, Human Factors Verification and Validation Implementation Plan, Rev. 3 (May 2018).

l. APR1400-E-I-NR-14010-NP, Human Factors Verification and Validation Scenarios, Rev. 2 (January 2018).

m. APR1400-E-I-NR-14011-NP, Basic Human-System Interface, Rev. 3 (May 2018).

n. APR1400-E-I-NR-14012-NP, Style Guide, Rev. 2 (January 2018).

o. APR1400-E-J-NR-14001-NP, Component Interface Module, Rev. 1 (March 2017).

p. APR1400-E-J-NR-17001-NP, Secure Development and Operational Environment for APR1400 Computer-Based I&C Safety Systems, Rev. 0 (September 2017).

q. APR1400-E-N-NR-14001-NP, Design Features To Address GSI-191, Rev. 3 (February 2018).

r. APR1400-E-P-NR-14005-NP, Evaluations and Design Enhancements To Incorporate Lessons Learned from Fukushima Dai-Ichi Nuclear Accident, Rev. 2 (July 2017).

s. APR1400-E-S-NR-14004-NP, Evaluation of Effects of HRHF Response Spectra on SSCs, Rev. 3 (December 2017).

t. APR1400-E-S-NR-14005-NP, Evaluation of Structure-Soil-Structure Interaction (SSSI) Effects, Rev. 2 (December 2017).

u. APR1400-E-S-NR-14006-NP, Stability Check for NI Common Basemat, Rev. 5 (May 2018).

v. APR1400-E-X-NR-14001-NP, Equipment Qualification Program, Rev. 4 (July 2018).

w. APR1400-F-A-NR-14001-NP, Small Break LOCA Evaluation Model, Rev. 1 (March 2017).

x. APR1400-F-A-NR-14003-NP, Post-LOCA Long Term Cooling Evaluation Model, Rev. 1 (March 2017).

y. APR1400-F-A-TR-12004-NP-A, Realistic Evaluation Methodology for Large-Break LOCA of the APR1400 (August 2018).

z. APR1400-F-C-NR-14001-NP, CPC Setpoint Analysis Methodology for APR1400, Rev. 3 (June 2018).

aa. APR1400-F-C-NR-14002-NP, Functional Design Requirements for a Core Operating Limit Supervisory System for APR1400, Rev. 1 (February 2017).

ab. APR1400-F-C-NR-14003-NP, Functional Design Requirements for a Core Protection Calculator System for APR1400, Rev. 1 (March 2017).

ac. APR1400-F-C-TR-12002-NP-A, KCE-1 Critical Heat Flux Correlation for PLUS7 Thermal Design (April 2017).

ad. APR1400-F-M-TR-13001-NP-A, PLUS7 Fuel Design for the APR1400 (August 2018).

ae. APR1400-H-N-NR-14005-NP, Summary Stress Report for Primary Piping, Rev. 2 (September 2016).

af. APR1400-H-N-NR-14012-NP, Mechanical Analysis for New and Spent Fuel Storage Racks, Rev. 3 (August 2017).

ag. APR1400-K-I-NR-14005-NP, Staffing and Qualifications Implementation Plan, Rev. 1 (February 2017).

ah. APR1400-K-I-NR-14009-NP, Design Implementation Plan, Rev. 1 (February 2017).

ai. APR1400-K-Q-TR-11005-NP-A, KHNP Quality Assurance Program Description (QAPD) for the APR1400 Design Certification, Rev. 2 (October 2016).

aj. APR1400-Z-A-NR-14006-NP, Non-LOCA Safety Analysis Methodology, Rev. 1 (February 2017).

ak. APR1400-Z-A-NR-14007-NP, Mass and Energy Release Methodologies for LOCA and MSLB, Rev. 2 (May 2018).

al. APR1400-Z-A-NR-14011-NP, Criticality Analysis of New and Spent Fuel Storage Racks, Rev. 3 (May 2018).

am. APR1400-Z-A-NR-14019-NP, CCF Coping Analysis, Rev. 3 (July 2018).

an. APR1400-Z-J-NR-14001-NP, Safety I&C System, Rev. 3 (May 2018).

ao. APR1400-Z-J-NR-14002-NP, Diversity and Defense-in-Depth, Rev. 3 (May 2018).

ap. APR1400-Z-J-NR-14003-NP, Software Program Manual, Rev. 3 (May 2018).

aq. APR1400-Z-J-NR-14004-NP, Uncertainty Methodology and Application for Instrumentation, Rev. 2 (January 2018).

ar. APR1400-Z-J-NR-14005-NP, Setpoint Methodology for Safety-Related Instrumentation, Rev. 2 (January 2018).

as. APR1400-Z-J-NR-14012-NP, Control System CCF Analysis, Rev. 3 (May 2018).

at. APR1400-Z-J-NR-14013-NP, Response Time Analysis of Safety I&C System, Rev. 2 (January 2018).

au. APR1400-Z-M-NR-14008-NP, Pressure-Temperature Limits Methodology for RCS Heatup and Cooldown, Rev. 1 (January 2018).

av. APR1400-Z-M-TR-12003-NP-A, Fluidic Device Design for the APR1400 (April 2017).

2. Combustion Engineering, Inc.

a. CEN-310-NP-A, CPC and Methodology Changes for the CPC Improvement Program (April 1986).

b. CEN-312-NP, Overview Description of the Core Operating Limit Supervisory System (COLSS), Rev. 01-NP (November 1986).

3. Westinghouse

a. WCAP-10697-NP-A, Common Qualified Platform Topical Report, Rev. 3 (February 2013).

b. WCAP-17889-NP (APR1400-A-N-NR-17001-NP), Validation of SCALE 6.1.2 with 238-Group ENDF/B-VII.0 Cross Section Library for APR1400 Design Certification, Rev. 0 (June 2014).

B. An applicant or licensee referencing this appendix, in accordance with Section IV of this appendix, shall incorporate by reference and comply with the requirements of this appendix except as otherwise provided in this appendix.

C. If there is a conflict between Tier 1 and Tier 2 of the DCD, then Tier 1 controls.

D. If there is a conflict between the generic DCD and either the application for the design certification of the APR1400 design or "Final Safety Evaluation Report Related to Certification of the APR1400 Standard Design," then the generic DCD controls.

E. Design activities for structures, systems, and components that are entirely outside the scope of this appendix may be performed using site characteristics, provided the design activities do not affect the DCD or conflict with the interface requirements.

A. An applicant for a COL that wishes to reference this appendix shall, in addition to complying with the requirements of §§ 52.77, 52.79, and 52.80, comply with the following requirements:

1. Incorporate by reference, as part of its application, this appendix.

2. Include, as part of its application:

a. A plant-specific DCD containing the same type of information and using the same organization and numbering as the generic DCD for the APR1400 design, either by including or incorporating by reference the generic DCD information, and as modified and supplemented by the applicant's exemptions and departures;

b. The reports on departures from and updates to the plant-specific DCD required by paragraph X.B of this appendix;

c. Plant-specific TS, consisting of the generic and site-specific TS that are required by 10 CFR 50.36 and 50.36a;

d. Information demonstrating that the site characteristics fall within the site parameters and that the interface requirements have been met;

e. Information that addresses the COL items; and

f. Information required by § 52.47(a) that is not within the scope of this appendix.

3. Include, in the plant-specific DCD, the sensitive, unclassified, non-safeguards information (including proprietary information and security-related information) and safeguards information referenced in the APR1400 generic DCD.

4. Include, as part of its application, a demonstration that an entity other than KEPCO/KHNP is qualified to supply the APR1400 design, unless KEPCO/KHNP supplies the design for the applicant's use.

B. The Commission reserves the right to determine in what manner this appendix may be referenced by an applicant for a construction permit or operating license under 10 CFR part 50.

A. The regulations that apply to the APR1400 design are in 10 CFR parts 20, 50, 52, 73, and 100, codified as of September 19, 2019, that are applicable and technically relevant, as described in the final safety evaluation report.

B. [Reserved]

A. The Commission has determined that the structures, systems, and components and design features of the APR1400 design comply with the provisions of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, and the applicable regulations identified in Section V of this appendix; and therefore, provide adequate protection to the health and safety of the public. A conclusion that a matter is resolved includes the finding that additional or alternative structures, systems, and components, design features, design criteria, testing, analyses, acceptance criteria, or justifications are not necessary for the APR1400 design.

B. The Commission considers the following matters resolved within the meaning of § 52.63(a)(5) in subsequent proceedings for issuance of a COL, amendment of a COL, or renewal of a COL, proceedings held under § 52.103, and enforcement proceedings involving plants referencing this appendix:

1. All nuclear safety issues associated with the information in the final safety evaluation report, Tier 1, Tier 2, and the rulemaking record for certification of the APR1400 design, with the exception of generic TS and other operational requirements;

2. All nuclear safety and safeguards issues associated with the referenced information in the 53 non-public documents in Tables 1.6-1 and 1.6-2 of Tier 2 of the DCD, which contain sensitive unclassified non-safeguards information (including proprietary information and security-related information) and safeguards information and which, in context, are intended as requirements in the generic DCD for the APR1400 design;

3. All generic changes to the DCD under and in compliance with the change processes in paragraphs VIII.A.1 and VIII.B.1 of this appendix;

4. All exemptions from the DCD under and in compliance with the change processes in paragraphs VIII.A.4 and VIII.B.4 of this appendix, but only for that plant;

5. All departures from the DCD that are approved by license amendment, but only for that plant;

6. Except as provided in paragraph VIII.B.5.f of this appendix, all departures from Tier 2 under and in compliance with the change processes in paragraph VIII.B.5 of this appendix that do not require prior NRC approval, but only for that plant; and

7. All environmental issues concerning severe accident mitigation design alternatives associated with the information in the NRC's environmental assessment for the APR1400 design (ADAMS Accession No. ML18306A607) and APR1400-E-P-NR-14006, Revision 2, "Severe Accident Mitigation Design Alternatives (SAMDAs) for the APR1400" (ML18235A158) for plants referencing this appendix whose site characteristics fall within those site parameters specified in APR1400-E-P-NR-14006.

C. The Commission does not consider operational requirements for an applicant or licensee who references this appendix to be matters resolved within the meaning of § 52.63(a)(5). The Commission reserves the right to require operational requirements for an applicant or licensee who references this appendix by rule, regulation, order, or license condition.

D. Except under the change processes in Section VIII of this appendix, the Commission may not require an applicant or licensee who references this appendix to:

1. Modify structures, systems, components, or design features as described in the generic DCD;

2. Provide additional or alternative structures, systems, components, or design features not discussed in the generic DCD; or

3. Provide additional or alternative design criteria, testing, analyses, acceptance criteria, or justification for structures, systems, components, or design features discussed in the generic DCD.

E. The NRC will specify, at an appropriate time, the procedures to be used by an interested person who wishes to review portions of the design certification or references containing safeguards information or sensitive unclassified non-safeguards information (including proprietary information, such as trade secrets and commercial or financial information obtained from a person that are privileged or confidential (10 CFR 2.390 and 10 CFR part 9), and security-related information), for the purpose of participating in the hearing required by § 52.85, the hearing provided under § 52.103, or in any other proceeding relating to this appendix, in which interested persons have a right to request an adjudicatory hearing.

This appendix may be referenced for a period of 15 years from September 19, 2019, except as provided for in §§ 52.55(b) and 52.57(b). This appendix remains valid for an applicant or licensee who references this appendix until the application is withdrawn or the license expires, including any period of extended operation under a renewed license.

1. Generic changes to Tier 1 information are governed by the requirements in § 52.63(a)(1).

2. Generic changes to Tier 1 information are applicable to all applicants or licensees who reference this appendix, except those for which the change has been rendered technically irrelevant by action taken under paragraphs A.3 or A.4 of this section.

3. Departures from Tier 1 information that are required by the Commission through plant-specific orders are governed by the requirements in § 52.63(a)(4).

4. Exemptions from Tier 1 information are governed by the requirements in §§ 52.63(b)(1) and 52.98(f). The Commission will deny a request for an exemption from Tier 1, if it finds that the design change will result in a significant decrease in the level of safety otherwise provided by the design.

1. Generic changes to Tier 2 information are governed by the requirements in § 52.63(a)(1).

2. Generic changes to Tier 2 information are applicable to all applicants or licensees who reference this appendix, except those for which the change has been rendered technically irrelevant by action taken under paragraphs B.3, B.4, or B.5, of this section.

3. The Commission may not require new requirements on Tier 2 information by plant-specific order, while this appendix is in effect under § 52.55 or § 52.61, unless:

a. A modification is necessary to secure compliance with the Commission's regulations applicable and in effect at the time this appendix was approved, as set forth in Section V of this appendix, or to ensure adequate protection of the public health and safety or the common defense and security; and

b. Special circumstances as defined in 10 CFR 50.12(a) are present.

4. An applicant or licensee who references this appendix may request an exemption from Tier 2 information. The Commission may grant such a request only if it determines that the exemption will comply with the requirements of 10 CFR 50.12(a). The Commission will deny a request for an exemption from Tier 2, if it finds that the design change will result in a significant decrease in the level of safety otherwise provided by the design. The granting of an exemption to an applicant must be subject to litigation in the same manner as other issues material to the license hearing. The granting of an exemption to a licensee must be subject to an opportunity for a hearing in the same manner as license amendments.

5.a. An applicant or licensee who references this appendix may depart from Tier 2 information, without prior NRC approval, unless the proposed departure involves a change to or departure from Tier 1 information, or the TS, or requires a license amendment under paragraph B.5.b or B.5.c of this section. When evaluating the proposed departure, an applicant or licensee shall consider all matters described in the plant-specific DCD.

b. A proposed departure from Tier 2, other than one affecting resolution of a severe accident issue identified in the plant-specific DCD or one affecting information required by § 52.47(a)(28) to address aircraft impacts, requires a license amendment if it would:

(1) Result in more than a minimal increase in the frequency of occurrence of an accident previously evaluated in the plant-specific DCD;

(2) Result in more than a minimal increase in the likelihood of occurrence of a malfunction of a structure, system, or component important to safety and previously evaluated in the plant-specific DCD;

(3) Result in more than a minimal increase in the consequences of an accident previously evaluated in the plant-specific DCD;

(4) Result in more than a minimal increase in the consequences of a malfunction of a structure, system, or component important to safety previously evaluated in the plant-specific DCD;

(5) Create a possibility for an accident of a different type than any evaluated previously in the plant-specific DCD;

(6) Create a possibility for a malfunction of a structure, system, or component important to safety with a different result than any evaluated previously in the plant-specific DCD;

(7) Result in a design-basis limit for a fission product barrier as described in the plant-specific DCD being exceeded or altered; or

(8) Result in a departure from a method of evaluation described in the plant-specific DCD used in establishing the design bases or in the safety analyses.

c. A proposed departure from Tier 2, affecting resolution of an ex-vessel severe accident design feature identified in the plant-specific DCD, requires a license amendment if:

(1) There is a substantial increase in the probability of an ex-vessel severe accident such that a particular ex-vessel severe accident previously reviewed and determined to be not credible could become credible; or

(2) There is a substantial increase in the consequences to the public of a particular ex-vessel severe accident previously reviewed.

d. A proposed departure from Tier 2 information required by § 52.47(a)(28) to address aircraft impacts shall consider the effect of the changed design feature or functional capability on the original aircraft impact assessment required by 10 CFR 50.150(a). The applicant or licensee shall describe, in the plant-specific DCD, how the modified design features and functional capabilities continue to meet the aircraft impact assessment requirements in 10 CFR 50.150(a)(1).

e. If a departure requires a license amendment under paragraph B.5.b or B.5.c of this section, it is governed by 10 CFR 50.90.

f. A departure from Tier 2 information that is made under paragraph B.5 of this section does not require an exemption from this appendix.

g. A party to an adjudicatory proceeding for either the issuance, amendment, or renewal of a license or for operation under § 52.103(a), who believes that an applicant or licensee who references this appendix has not complied with paragraph VIII.B.5 of this appendix when departing from Tier 2 information, may petition to admit into the proceeding such a contention. In addition to complying with the general requirements of 10 CFR 2.309, the petition must demonstrate that the departure does not comply with paragraph VIII.B.5 of this appendix. Further, the petition must demonstrate that the change bears on an asserted noncompliance with an ITAAC acceptance criterion in the case of a § 52.103 preoperational hearing, or that the change bears directly on the amendment request in the case of a hearing on a license amendment. Any other party may file a response. If, on the basis of the petition and any response, the presiding officer determines that a sufficient showing has been made, the presiding officer shall certify the matter directly to the Commission for determination of the admissibility of the contention. The Commission may admit such a contention if it determines the petition raises a genuine issue of material fact regarding compliance with paragraph VIII.B.5 of this appendix.

1. Changes to APR1400 DC generic TS and other operational requirements that were completely reviewed and approved in the design certification rulemaking and do not require a change to a design feature in the generic DCD are governed by the requirements in 10 CFR 50.109. Changes that require a change to a design feature in the generic DCD are governed by the requirements in paragraphs A or B of this section.

2. Changes to APR1400 DC generic TS and other operational requirements are applicable to all applicants who reference this appendix, except those for which the change has been rendered technically irrelevant by action taken under paragraphs C.3 or C.4 of this section.

3. The Commission may require plant-specific departures on generic TS and other operational requirements that were completely reviewed and approved, provided a change to a design feature in the generic DCD is not required and special circumstances, as defined in 10 CFR 2.335 are present. The Commission may modify or supplement generic TS and other operational requirements that were not completely reviewed and approved or require additional TS and other operational requirements on a plant-specific basis, provided a change to a design feature in the generic DCD is not required.

4. An applicant who references this appendix may request an exemption from the generic TS or other operational requirements. The Commission may grant such a request only if it determines that the exemption will comply with the requirements of § 52.7. The granting of an exemption must be subject to litigation in the same manner as other issues material to the license hearing.

5. A party to an adjudicatory proceeding for the issuance, amendment, or renewal of a license, or for operation under § 52.103(a), who believes that an operational requirement approved in the DCD or a TS derived from the generic TS must be changed, may petition to admit such a contention into the proceeding. The petition must comply with the general requirements of 10 CFR 2.309 and must demonstrate why special circumstances as defined in 10 CFR 2.335 are present, or demonstrate compliance with the Commission's regulations in effect at the time this appendix was approved, as set forth in Section V of this appendix. Any other party may file a response to the petition. If, on the basis of the petition and any response, the presiding officer determines that a sufficient showing has been made, the presiding officer shall certify the matter directly to the Commission for determination of the admissibility of the contention. All other issues with respect to the plant-specific TS or other operational requirements are subject to a hearing as part of the licensing proceeding.

6. After issuance of a license, the generic TS have no further effect on the plant-specific TS. Changes to the plant-specific TS will be treated as license amendments under 10 CFR 50.90.

1. The applicant for this appendix shall maintain a copy of the generic DCD that includes all generic changes that are made to Tier 1 and Tier 2, and the generic TS and other operational requirements. The applicant shall maintain the sensitive unclassified non-safeguards information (including proprietary information and security-related information) and safeguards information referenced in the generic DCD for the period that this appendix may be referenced, as specified in Section VII of this appendix.

2. An applicant or licensee who references this appendix shall maintain the plant-specific DCD to accurately reflect both generic changes to the generic DCD and plant-specific departures made under Section VIII of this appendix throughout the period of application and for the term of the license (including any periods of renewal).

3. An applicant or licensee who references this appendix shall prepare and maintain written evaluations which provide the bases for the determinations required by Section VIII of this appendix. These evaluations must be retained throughout the period of application and for the term of the license (including any periods of renewal).

4.a. The applicant for the APR1400 design shall maintain a copy of the aircraft impact assessment performed to comply with the requirements of 10 CFR 50.150(a) for the term of the certification (including any period of renewal).

b. An applicant or licensee who references this appendix shall maintain a copy of the aircraft impact assessment performed to comply with the requirements of 10 CFR 50.150(a) throughout the pendency of the application and for the term of the license (including any periods of renewal).

1. An applicant or licensee who references this appendix shall submit a report to the NRC containing a brief description of any plant-specific departures from the DCD, including a summary of the evaluation of each departure. This report must be filed in accordance with the filing requirements applicable to reports in § 52.3.

2. An applicant or licensee who references this appendix shall submit updates to its plant-specific DCD, which reflect the generic changes to and plant-specific departures from the generic DCD made under Section VIII of this appendix. These updates shall be filed under the filing requirements applicable to final safety analysis report updates in 10 CFR 50.71(e) and 52.3.

3. The reports and updates required by paragraphs X.B.1 and X.B.2 of this appendix must be submitted as follows:

a. On the date that an application for a license referencing this appendix is submitted, the application must include the report and any updates to the generic DCD.

b. During the interval from the date of application for a license to the date the Commission makes its finding required by § 52.103(g), the report must be submitted semi-annually. Updates to the plant-specific DCD must be submitted annually and may be submitted along with amendments to the application.

c. After the Commission makes the finding required by § 52.103(g), the reports and updates to the plant-specific DCD must be submitted, along with updates to the site-specific portion of the final safety analysis report for the facility, at the intervals required by 10 CFR 50.59(d)(2) and 50.71(e)(4), respectively, or at shorter intervals as specified in the license.
