
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 54 - REQUIREMENTS FOR RENEWAL OF OPERATING LICENSES FOR NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS
#### General Provisions
##### ยง 54.17 Filing of application.

(a) The filing of an application for a renewed license must be in accordance with subpart A of 10 CFR part 2 and 10 CFR 50.4 and 50.30.

(b) Any person who is a citizen, national, or agent of a foreign country, or any corporation, or other entity which the Commission knows or has reason to know is owned, controlled, or dominated by an alien, a foreign corporation, or a foreign government, is ineligible to apply for and obtain a renewed license.

(c) An application for a renewed license may not be submitted to the Commission earlier than 20 years before the expiration of the operating license or combined license currently in effect.

(d) An applicant may combine an application for a renewed license with applications for other kinds of licenses.

(e) An application may incorporate by reference information contained in previous applications for licenses or license amendments, statements, correspondence, or reports filed with the Commission, provided that the references are clear and specific.

(f) If the application contains Restricted Data or other defense information, it must be prepared in such a manner that all Restricted Data and other defense information are separated from unclassified information in accordance with 10 CFR 50.33(j).

(g) As part of its application, and in any event before the receipt of Restricted Data or classified National Security Information or the issuance of a renewed license, the applicant shall agree in writing that it will not permit any individual to have access to or any facility to possess Restricted Data or classified National Security Information until the individual and/or facility has been approved for such access under the provisions of 10 CFR parts 25 and/or 95. The agreement of the applicant in this regard shall be deemed part of the renewed license, whether so stated therein or not.
