
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 54 - REQUIREMENTS FOR RENEWAL OF OPERATING LICENSES FOR NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS
#### General Provisions
##### ยง 54.33 Continuation of CLB and conditions of renewed license.

(a) Whether stated therein or not, each renewed license will contain and otherwise be subject to the conditions set forth in 10 CFR 50.54.

(b) Each renewed license will be issued in such form and contain such conditions and limitations, including technical specifications, as the Commission deems appropriate and necessary to help ensure that systems, structures, and components subject to review in accordance with ยง 54.21 will continue to perform their intended functions for the period of extended operation. In addition, the renewed license will be issued in such form and contain such conditions and limitations as the Commission deems appropriate and necessary to help ensure that systems, structures, and components associated with any time-limited aging analyses will continue to perform their intended functions for the period of extended operation.

(c) Each renewed license will include those conditions to protect the environment that were imposed pursuant to 10 CFR 50.36b and that are part of the CLB for the facility at the time of issuance of the renewed license. These conditions may be supplemented or amended as necessary to protect the environment during the term of the renewed license and will be derived from information contained in the supplement to the environmental report submitted pursuant to 10 CFR part 51, as analyzed and evaluated in the NRC record of decision. The conditions will identify the obligations of the licensee in the environmental area, including, as appropriate, requirements for reporting and recordkeeping of environmental data and any conditions and monitoring requirements for the protection of the nonaquatic environment.

(d) The licensing basis for the renewed license includes the CLB, as defined in ยง 54.3(a); the inclusion in the licensing basis of matters such as licensee commitments does not change the legal status of those matters unless specifically so ordered pursuant to paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section.
