
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 55 - OPERATORS' LICENSES
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 55.5 Communications.
###### http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html,MSHD.Resource@nrc.gov

(3) Where practicable, by electronic submission, for example, via Electronic Information Exchange, or CD-ROM. Electronic submissions must be made in a manner that enables the NRC to receive, read, authenticate, distribute, and archive the submission, and process and retrieve it a single page at a time. Detailed guidance on making electronic submissions can be obtained by visiting the NRC's Web site at; by e-mail to; or by writing the Office of the Chief Information Officer, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001. The guidance discusses, among other topics, the formats the NRC can accept, the use of electronic signatures, and the treatment of nonpublic information.

(b)(1) Except for test and research reactor facilities, the Director, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation, has delegated to the Regional Administrators of Regions I, II, III, and IV authority and responsibility under the regulations in this part for the issuance and renewal of licenses for operators and senior operators of nuclear power reactors licensed under 10 CFR part 50 or part 52 of this chapter and located in these regions.

(2) Any application for a license or license renewal filed under the regulations in this part involving a nuclear power reactor licensed under 10 CFR part 50 or part 52 of this chapter and any related inquiry, communication, information, or report must be submitted to the Regional Administrator by an appropriate method listed in paragraph (a) of this section. The Regional Administrator or the Administrator's designee will transmit to the Director, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation, any matter that is not within the scope of the Regional Administrator's delegated authority.
