
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 55 - OPERATORS' LICENSES
#### Subpart F - Licenses
##### § 55.59 Requalification.
###### On-the-job training.

(3)The requalification program must include on-the-job training so that-

(i) Each licensed operator of a utilization facility manipulates the plant controls and each licensed senior operator either manipulates the controls or directs the activities of individuals during plant control manipulations during the term of the licensed operator's or senior operator's license. For reactor operators and senior operators, these manipulations must consist of the following control manipulations and plant evolutions if they are applicable to the plant design. Items described in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) (A) through (L) of this section must be performed annually; all other items must be performed on a two-year cycle. However, the requalification programs must contain a commitment that each individual shall perform or participate in a combination of reactivity control manipulations based on the availability of plant equipment and systems. Those control manipulations which are not performed at the plant may be performed on a simulator. The use of the Technical Specifications should be maximized during the simulator control manipulations. Senior operator licensees are credited with these activities if they direct control manipulations as they are performed.

(A) Plant or reactor startups to include a range that reactivity feedback from nuclear heat addition is noticeable and heatup rate is established.

(B) Plant shutdown.

(C) Manual control of steam generators or feedwater or both during startup and shutdown.

(D) Boration or dilution during power operation.

(E) Significant (≥10 percent) power changes in manual rod control or recirculation flow.

(F) Reactor power change of 10 percent or greater where load change is performed with load limit control or where flux, temperature, or speed control is on manual (for HTGR).

(G) Loss of coolant, including-
