
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 55 - OPERATORS' LICENSES
#### Subpart F - Licenses
##### ยง 55.59 Requalification.
###### 4

() Saturated reactor coolant response (PWR).

(H) Loss of instrument air (if simulated plant specific).

(I) Loss of electrical power (or degraded power sources).

(J) Loss of core coolant flow/natural circulation.

(K) Loss of feedwater (normal and emergency).

(L) Loss of service water, if required for safety.

(M) Loss of shutdown cooling.

(N) Loss of component cooling system or cooling to an individual component.

(O) Loss of normal feedwater or normal feedwater system failure.

(P) Loss of condenser vacuum.

(Q) Loss of protective system channel.

(R) Mispositioned control rod or rods (or rod drops).

(S) Inability to drive control rods.

(T) Conditions requiring use of emergency boration or standby liquid control system.

(U) Fuel cladding failure or high activity in reactor coolant or offgas.

(V) Turbine or generator trip.

(W) Malfunction of an automatic control system that affects reactivity.

(X) Malfunction of reactor coolant pressure/volume control system.

(Y) Reactor trip.

(Z) Main steam line break (inside or outside containment).

(AA) A nuclear instrumentation failure.

(ii) Each licensed operator and senior operator has demonstrated satisfactory understanding of the operation of the apparatus and mechanisms associated with the control manipulations in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section, and knows the operating procedures in each area for which the operator or senior operator is licensed.

(iii) Each licensed operator and senior operator is cognizant of facility design changes, procedure changes, and facility license changes.

(iv) Each licensed operator and senior operator reviews the contents of all abnormal and emergency procedures on a regularly scheduled basis.

(v) A simulator may be used in meeting the requirements of paragraphs (c) (3)(i) and (3)(ii) of this section, if it reproduces the general operating characteristics of the facility involved and the arrangement of the instrumentation and controls of the simulator is similar to that of the facility involved. If the simulator or simulation device is used to administer operating tests for a facility, as provided in ยง 55.45(b)(1), the device approved to meet the requirements of ยง 55.45(b)(1) must be used for credit to be given for meeting the requirements of paragraphs (c)(3)(i) (G through AA) of this section.
