
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 2 - AGENCY RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
#### Subpart L - Simplified Hearing Procedures for NRC Adjudications
##### ยง 2.1207 Process and schedule for submissions and presentations in an oral hearing.
###### Oral hearing procedures.

(b)(1) The oral hearing must be transcribed.

(2) Written testimony will be received into evidence in exhibit form.

(3) Participants may designate and present their own witnesses to the presiding officer.

(4) Testimony for the NRC staff will be presented only by persons designated by the Executive Director for Operations or his delegee for that purpose.

(5) The presiding officer may accept written testimony from a person unable to appear at the hearing, and may request that person to respond in writing to questions.

(6) Participants and witnesses will be questioned orally or in writing and only by the presiding officer or the presiding officer's designee (e.g., a Special Assistant appointed under ยง 2.322). The presiding officer will examine the participants and witnesses using questions prepared by the presiding officer or the presiding officer's designee, questions submitted by the participants at the discretion of the presiding officer, or a combination of both. Questions may be addressed to individuals or to panels of participants or witnesses. No party may submit proposed questions to the presiding officer at the hearing, except upon request by, and in the sole discretion of, the presiding officer.
