
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 60 - DISPOSAL OF HIGH-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTES IN GEOLOGIC REPOSITORIES
#### Subpart B - Licenses
##### Preapplication Review
###### ยง 60.17 Contents of site characterization plan.
############# ยง 60.18 Review of site characterization activities.

(a) The Director shall cause to be published in thea notice that a site characterization plan has been received from DOE and that a staff review of such plan has begun. The notice shall identify the area to be characterized and the NRC staff members to be consulted for further information.

(b) The Director shall make a copy of the site characterization plan available at the Public Document Room. The Director shall also transmit copies of the published notice of receipt to the Governor and legislature of the State in which the area to be characterized is located and to the governing body of any affected Indian Tribe. The Director shall provide an opportunity, with respect to any area to be characterized, for the State in which such area is located and for affected Indian Tribes to present their views on the site characterization plan and their suggestions with respect to comments thereon which may be made by NRC. In addition, the Director shall make NRC staff available to consult with States and affected Indian Tribes as provided in Subpart C of this part.

(c) The Director shall review the site characterization plan and prepare a site characterization analysis with respect to such plan. In the preparation of such site characterization analysis, the Director may invite and consider the views of interested persons on DOE's site characterization plan and may review and consider comments made in connection with public hearings held by DOE.

(d) The Director shall provide to DOE the site characterization analysis together with such additional comments as may be warranted. These comments shall include either a statement that the Director has no objection to the DOE's site characterization program, if such a statement is appropriate, or specific objections with respect to DOE's program for characterization of the area concerned. In addition, the Director may make specific recommendations pertinent to DOE's site characterization program.

(e) If DOE's planned site characterization activities include onsite testing with radioactive material, including radioactive tracers, the Director's comments shall include a determination regarding whether or not the Commission concurs that the proposed use of such radioactive material is necessary to provide data for the preparation of the environmental reports required by law and for an application to be submitted under ยง 60.22 of this part.
