
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 60 - DISPOSAL OF HIGH-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTES IN GEOLOGIC REPOSITORIES
#### Subpart B - Licenses
##### License Applications
###### § 60.21 Content of application.

(a) An application shall consist of general information and a Safety Analysis Report. An environmental impact statement shall be prepared in accordance with the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, as amended, and shall accompany the application. Any Restricted Data or National Security Information shall be separated from unclassified information.

(b) The general information shall include:

(1) A general description of the proposed geologic repository identifying the location of the geologic repository operations area, the general character of the proposed activities, and the basis for the exercise of licensing authority by the Commission.

(2) Proposed schedules for construction, receipt of waste, and emplacement of wastes at the proposed geologic repository operations area.

(3) A detailed plan to provide physical protection of high-level radioactive waste in accordance with § 73.51 of this chapter. This plan must include the design for physical protection, the licensee's safeguards contingency plan, and security organization personnel training and qualification plan. The plan must list tests, inspections, audits, and other means to be used to demonstrate compliance with such requirements.

(4) A description of the program to meet the requirements of § 60.78.

(5) A description of site characterization work actually conducted by DOE at all sites considered in the application and, as appropriate, explanations of why such work differed from the description of the site characterization program described in the Site Characterization Report for each site.

(c) The Safety Analysis Report shall include:

(1) A description and assessment of the site at which the proposed geologic repository operations area is to be located with appropriate attention to those features of the site that might affect geologic repository operations area design and performance. The description of the site shall identify the location of the geologic repository operations area with respect to the boundary of the accessible environment.

(i) The description of the site shall also include the following information regarding subsurface conditions. This description shall, in all cases, include this information with respect to the postclosure controlled area. In addition, where subsurface conditions outside the postclosure controlled area may affect isolation within the postclosure controlled area, the description shall include information with respect to subsurface conditions outside the postclosure controlled area to the extent the information is relevant and material. The detailed information referred to in this paragraph shall include:

(A) The orientation, distribution, aperture in-filling and origin of fractures, discontinuities, and heterogeneities;

(B) The presence and characteristics of other potential pathways such as solution features, breccia pipes, or other potentially permeable features;

(C) The geomechanical properties and conditions, including pore pressure and ambient stress conditions;

(D) The hydrogeologic properties and conditions;

(E) The geochemical properties; and

(F) The anticipated response of the geomechanical, hydrogeologic, and geochemical systems to the maximum design thermal loading, given the pattern of fractures and other discontinuities and the heat transfer properties of the rock mass and groundwater.

(ii) The assessment shall contain:

(A) An analysis of the geology, geophysics, hydrogeology, geochemistry, climatology, and meteorology of the site,

(B) Analyses to determine the degree to which each of the favorable and potentially adverse conditions, if present, has been characterized, and the extent to which it contributes to or detracts from isolation. For the purpose of determining the presence of the potentially adverse conditions, investigations shall extend from the surface to a depth sufficient to determine critical pathways for radionuclide migration from the underground facility to the accessible environment. Potentially adverse conditions shall be investigated outside of the postclosure controlled area if they affect isolation within the postclosure controlled area.

(C) An evaluation of the performance of the proposed geologic repository for the period after permanent closure, assuming anticipated processes and events, giving the rates and quantities of releases of radionuclides to the accessible environment as a function of time; and a similar evaluation which assumes the occurrence of unanticipated processes and events.

(D) The effectiveness of engineered and natural barriers, including barriers that may not be themselves a part of the geologic repository operations area, against the release of radioactive material to the environment. The analysis shall also include a comparative evaluation of alternatives to the major design features that are important to waste isolation, with particular attention to the alternatives that would provide longer radionuclide containment and isolation.

(E) An analysis of the performance of the major design structures, systems, and components, both surface and subsurface, to identify those that are important to safety. For the purposes of this analysis, it shall be assumed that operations at the geologic repository operations area will be carried out at the maximum capacity and rate of receipt of radioactive waste stated in the application.

(F) An explanation of measures used to support the models used to perform the assessments required in paragraphs (A) through (D). Analyses and models that will be used to predict future conditions and changes in the geologic setting shall be supported by using an appropriate combination of such methods as field tests, in situ tests, laboratory tests which are representative of field conditions, monitoring data, and natural analog studies.

(2) A description and discussion of the design, both surface and subsurface, of the geologic repository operations area including:

(i) The principal design criteria and their relationship to any general performance objectives promulgated by the Commission,

(ii) The design bases and the relation of the design bases to the principal design criteria,

(iii) Information relative to materials of construction (including geologic media, general arrangement, and approximate dimensions), and

(iv) Codes and standards that DOE proposes to apply to the design and construction of the geologic repository operations area.

(3) A description and analysis of the design and performance requirements for structures, systems, and components of the geologic repository that are important to safety. The analysis must include a demonstration that-

(i) The requirements of § 60.111(a) will be met, assuming occurrence of Category 1 design basis events; and

(ii) The requirements of § 60.136 will be met, assuming occurrence of Category 2 design basis events.

(4) A description of the quality assurance program to be applied to the structures, systems, and components important to safety and to the engineered and natural barriers important to waste isolation.

(5) A description of the kind, amount, and specifications of the radioactive material proposed to be received and possessed at the geologic repository operations area.

(6) An identification and justification for the selection of those variables, conditions, or other items which are determined to be probable subjects of license specifications. Special attention shall be given to those items that may significantly influence the final design.

(7) A description of the program for control and monitoring of radioactive effluents and occupational radiation exposures to maintain such effluents and exposures in accordance with the requirements of part 20 of this chapter.

(8) A description of the controls that the applicant will apply to restrict access and to regulate land use at the site and adjacent areas, including a conceptual design of monuments which would be used to identify the postclosure controlled area after permanent closure.

(9) Plans for coping with radiological emergencies at any time prior to permanent closure and decontamination or dismantlement of surface facilities.

(10) A description of the program to be used to maintain the records described in §§ 60.71 and 60.72.

(11) A description of design considerations that are intended to facilitate permanent closure and decontamination or dismantlement of surface facilities.

(12) A description of plans for retrieval and alternate storage of the radioactive wastes should the geologic repository prove to be unsuitable for disposal of radioactive wastes.

(13) An identification and evaluation of the natural resources of the geologic setting, including estimates as to undiscovered deposits, the exploitation of which could affect the ability of the geologic repository to isolate radioactive wastes. Undiscovered deposits of resources characteristic of the area shall be estimated by reasonable inference based on geological and geophysical evidence. This evaluation of resources, including undiscoverd deposits, shall be conducted for the site and for areas of similar size that are representative of and are within the geologic setting. For natural resources with current markets the resources shall be assessed, with estimates provided of both gross and net value. The estimate of net value shall take into account current development, extraction and marketing costs. For natural resources without current markets, but which would be marketable given credible projected changes in economic or technological factors, the resources shall be described by physical factors such as tonnage or other amount, grade, and quality.

(14) An identification of those structures, systems, and components of the geologic repository, both surface and subsurface, which require research and development to confirm the adequacy of design. For structures, systems, and components important to safety and for the engineered and natural barriers important to waste isolation, DOE shall provide a detailed description of the programs designed to resolve safety questions, including a schedule indicating when these questions would be resolved.

(15) The following information concerning activities at the geologic repository operations area:

(i) The organizational structure of DOE as it pertains to construction and operation of the geologic repository operations area including a description of any delegations of authority and assignments of responsibilities, whether in the form of regulations, administrative directives, contract provisions, or otherwise.

(ii) Identification of key positions which are assigned responsibility for safety at and operation of the geologic repository operations area.

(iii) Personnel qualifications and training requirements.

(iv) Plans for startup activities and startup testing.

(v) Plans for conduct of normal activities, including maintenance, surveillance, and periodic testing of structures, systems, and components of the geologic repository operation area.

(vi) Plans for permanent closure and plans for the decontamination or dismantlement of surface facilities.

(vii) Plans for any uses of the geologic repository operations area for purposes other than disposal of radioactive wastes, with an analysis of the effects, if any, that such uses may have upon the operation of the structures, systems, and components important to safety and the engineered and natural barriers important to waste isolation.

(d) The applicant for a license to receive and possess source, special nuclear, and byproduct material at a geologic repository operations area sited, constructed, or operated in accordance with the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 shall protect Safeguards Information in accordance with the requirements in § 73.21 and the requirements in § 73.22 or § 73.23 of this chapter, as applicable, and shall protect classified information in accordance with the requirements of parts 25 and 95 of this chapter, as applicable.
