
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 60 - DISPOSAL OF HIGH-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTES IN GEOLOGIC REPOSITORIES
#### Subpart B - Licenses
##### Construction Authorization
###### ยง 60.31 Construction authorization.
####### Safety.

(a)That there is reasonable assurance that the types and amounts of radioactive materials described in the application can be received, possessed, and disposed of in a geologic repository operations area of the design proposed without unreasonable risk to the health and safety of the public. In arriving at this determination, the Commission shall consider whether:

(1) DOE has described the proposed geologic repository including but not limited to: (i) The geologic, geophysical, geochemical and hydrologic characteristics of the site; (ii) the kinds and quantities of radioactive waste to be received, possessed, stored, and disposed of in the geologic repository operations area; (iii) the principal architectural and engineering criteria for the design of the geologic repository operations area; (iv) construction procedures which may affect the capability of the geologic repository to serve its intended function; and (v) features or components incorporated in the design for the protection of the health and safety of the public.

(2) The site and design comply with the performance objectives and criteria contained in Subpart E of this part.

(3) The DOE's quality assurance program complies with the requirements of Subpart G of this part.

(4) The DOE's personnel training program complies with the criteria contained in Subpart H of this part.

(5) The DOE's emergency plan complies with the criteria contained in Subpart I of this part.

(6) The DOE's proposed operating procedures to protect health and to minimize danger to life or property are adequate.
