
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 60 - DISPOSAL OF HIGH-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTES IN GEOLOGIC REPOSITORIES
#### Subpart B - Licenses
##### License Issuance and Amendment
###### ยง 60.42 Conditions of license.

(a) A license issued pursuant to this part shall include such conditions, including license specifications, as the Commission finds to be necessary to protect the health and safety of the public, the common defense and security, and environmental values.

(b) Whether stated therein or not, the following shall be deemed conditions in every license issued:

(1) The license shall be subject to revocation, suspension, modification, or amendment for cause as provided by the Atomic Energy Act and the Commission's regulations.

(2) The DOE shall at any time while the license is in effect, upon written request of the Commission, submit written statements to enable the Commission to determine whether or not the license should be modified, suspended or revoked.

(3) The license shall be subject to the provisions of the Atomic Energy Act now or hereafter in effect and to all rules, regulations, and orders of the Commission. The terms and conditions of the license shall be subject to amendment, revision, or modification, by reason of amendments to or by reason of rules, regulations, and orders issued in accordance with the terms of the Atomic Energy Act.

(c) Each license shall be deemed to contain the provisions set forth in Section 183 b-d, inclusive, of the Atomic Energy Act, whether or not these provisions are expressly set forth in the license.

(d) The licensee (Department of Energy) shall ensure that Safeguards Information is protected against unauthorized disclosure in accordance with the requirements in ยง 73.21 and the requirements in ยง 73.22 or ยง 73.23 of this chapter, as applicable. The licensee (Department of Energy) shall ensure that classified information is protected in accordance with the requirements of parts 25 and 95 of this chapter, as applicable.
