
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 60 - DISPOSAL OF HIGH-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTES IN GEOLOGIC REPOSITORIES
#### Subpart B - Licenses
##### License Issuance and Amendment
###### ยง 60.44 Changes, tests, and experiments.

(a)(1) Following authorization to receive and possess source, special nuclear, or byproduct material at a geologic repository operations area, the DOE may (i) make changes in the geologic repository operations area as described in the application, (ii) make changes in the procedures as described in the application, and (iii) conduct tests or experiments not described in the application, without prior Commission approval, provided the change, test, or experiment involves neither a change in the license conditions incorporated in the license nor an unreviewed safety question.

(2) A proposed change, test, or experiment shall be deemed to involve an unreviewed safety question if (i) the likelihood of occurrence or the consequences of an accident or malfunction of equipment important to safety previously evaluated in the application is increased, (ii) the possibility of an accident or malfunction of a different type than any previously evaluated in the application is created, or (iii) the margin of safety as defined in the basis for any license condition is reduced.

(b) The DOE shall maintain records of changes in the geologic repository operations area and of changes in procedures made pursuant to this section, to the extent that such changes constitute changes in the geologic repository operations area or procedures as described in the application. Records of tests and experiments carried out pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall also be maintained. These records shall include a written safety evaluation which provides the basis for the determination that the change, test, or experiment does not involve an unreviewed safety question. The DOE shall prepare annually, or at such shorter intervals as may be specified in the license, a report containing a brief description of such changes, tests, and experiments, including a summary of the safety evaluation of each. The DOE shall furnish the report to the appropriate NRC Regional Office shown in appendix D to part 20 of this chapter, by an appropriate method listed in ยง 60.4(a), with a copy to the Director of the NRC's Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards. Any report submitted pursuant to this paragraph shall be made a part of the public record of the licensing proceedings.
