
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 60 - DISPOSAL OF HIGH-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTES IN GEOLOGIC REPOSITORIES
#### Subpart B - Licenses
##### Permanent Closure
###### § 60.51 License amendment for permanent closure.

(a) DOE shall submit an application to amend the license prior to permanent closure. The submission shall consist of an update of the license application submitted under §§ 60.21 and 60.22, including:

(1) A description of the program for post-permanent closure monitoring of the geologic repository.

(2) A detailed description of the measures to be employed-such as land use controls, construction of monuments, and preservation of records-to regulate or prevent activities that could impair the long-term isolation of emplaced waste within the geologic repository and to assure that relevant information will be preserved for the use of future generations. As a minimum, such measures shall include:

(i) Identification of the postclosure controlled area and geologic repository operations area by monuments that have been designed, fabricated, and emplaced to be as permanent as is practicable; and

(ii) Placement of records in the archives and land record systems of local State, and Federal government agencies, and archives elsewhere in the world, that would be likely to be consulted by potential human intruders-such records to identify the location of the geologic repository operations area, including the underground facility, boreholes and shafts, and the boundaries of the postclosure controlled area, and the nature and hazard of the waste.

(3) Geologic, geophysical, geochemical, hydrologic, and other site data that are obtained during the operational period pertinent to the long-term isolation of emplaced radioactive wastes.

(4) The results of tests, experiments, and any other analyses relating to backfill of excavated areas, shaft sealing, waste interaction with the host rock, and any other tests, experiments, or analyses pertinent to the long-term isolation of emplaced wastes within the geologic repository.

(5) Any substantial revision of plans for permanent closure.

(6) Other information bearing upon permanent closure that was not available at the time a license was issued.

(b) If necessary, so as to take into account the environmental impact of any substantial changes in the permanent closure activities proposed to be carried out or any significant new information regarding the environmental impacts of such closure, DOE shall also supplement its environmental impact statement and submit such statement, as supplemented, with the application for license amendment.
