
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 2 - AGENCY RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
#### Subpart L - Simplified Hearing Procedures for NRC Adjudications
##### ยง 2.1213 Application for a stay.

(a) Any application for a stay of the effectiveness of the NRC staff's action on a matter involved in a hearing under this subpart must be filed with the presiding officer within five (5) days of the issuance of the notice of the NRC staff's action under ยง 2.1202(a) and must be filed and considered in accordance with paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this section.

(b) An application for a stay of the NRC staff's action may not be longer than ten (10) pages, exclusive of affidavits, and must contain:

(1) A concise summary of the action which is requested to be stayed; and

(2) A concise statement of the grounds for a stay, with reference to the factors specified in paragraph (d) of this section.

(c) Within ten (10) days after service of an application for a stay of the NRC staff's action under this section, any party and/or the NRC staff may file an answer supporting or opposing the granting of a stay. Answers may not be longer than ten (10) pages, exclusive of affidavits, and must concisely address the matters in paragraph (b) of this section as appropriate. Further replies to answers will not be entertained.

(d) In determining whether to grant or deny an application for a stay of the NRC staff's action, the following will be considered:

(1) Whether the requestor will be irreparably injured unless a stay is granted;

(2) Whether the requestor has made a strong showing that it is likely to prevail on the merits;

(3) Whether the granting of a stay would harm other participants; and

(4) Where the public interest lies.

(e) Any application for a stay of the effectiveness of the presiding officer's initial decision or action under this subpart shall be filed with the Commission in accordance with ยง 2.342.

(f) Stays are not available on matters limited to whether a no significant hazards consideration determination was proper in proceedings on power reactor license amendments.
