
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 60 - DISPOSAL OF HIGH-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTES IN GEOLOGIC REPOSITORIES
#### Subpart E - Technical Criteria
##### Siting Criteria
###### ยง 60.122 Siting criteria.
####### Favorable conditions.

(b)(1) The nature and rates of tectonic, hydrogeologic, geochemical, and geomorphic processes (or any of such processes) operating within the geologic setting during the Quaternary Period, when projected, would not affect or would favorably affect the ability of the geologic repository to isolate the waste.

(2) For disposal in the saturated zone, hydrogeologic conditions that provide:

(i) A host rock with low horizontal and vertical permeability;

(ii) Downward or dominantly horizontal hydraulic gradient in the host rock and immediately surrounding hydrogeologic units; and

(iii) Low vertical permeability and low hydraulic gradient between the host rock and the surrounding hydrogeologic units.

(3) Geochemical conditions that:

(i) Promote precipitation or sorption of radionuclides;

(ii) Inhibit the formation of particulates, colloids, and inorganic and organic complexes that increase the mobility of radionuclides; or

(iii) Inhibit the transport of radionuclides by particulates, colloids, and complexes.

(4) Mineral assemblages that, when subjected to anticipated thermal loading, will remain unaltered or alter to mineral assemblages having equal or increased capacity to inhibit radionuclide migration.

(5) Conditions that permit the emplacement of waste at a minimum depth of 300 meters from the ground surface. (The ground surface shall be deemed to be the elevation of the lowest point on the surface above the disturbed zone.)

(6) A low population density within the geologic setting and a postclosure controlled area that is remote from population centers.

(7) Pre-waste-emplacement groundwater travel time along the fastest path of likely radionuclide travel from the disturbed zone to the accessible environment that substantially exceeds 1,000 years.

(8) For disposal in the unsaturated zone, hydrogeologic conditions that provide-

(i) Low moisture flux in the host rock and in the overlying and underlying hydrogeologic units;

(ii) A water table sufficiently below the underground facility such that fully saturated voids contiguous with the water table do not encounter the underground facility;

(iii) A laterally extensive low-permeability hydrogeologic unit above the host rock that would inhibit the downward movement of water or divert downward moving water to a location beyond the limits of the underground facility;

(iv) A host rock that provides for free drainage; or

(v) A climatic regime in which the average annual historic precipitation is a small percentage of the average annual potential evapotranspiration.
