
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 2 - AGENCY RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
#### Subpart M - Procedures for Hearings on License Transfer Applications
##### ยง 2.1322 Participation and schedule for submissions in an oral hearing.

(a) Unless otherwise limited by this subpart or by the Commission, participants in an oral hearing may submit and sponsor in the hearings:

(1) Initial written statements of position and written testimony with supporting affidavits on the issues. These materials must be filed on the date set by the Commission or the presiding officer.

(2)(i) Written responses and rebuttal testimony with supporting affidavits directed to the initial statements and testimony of other participants;

(ii) Proposed questions for the Presiding Officer to consider for propounding to persons sponsoring testimony.

(3) These materials must be filed within 20 days of the filing of the materials submitted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, unless the Commission or Presiding Officer directs otherwise.

(4) Proposed questions directed to rebuttal testimony for the Presiding Officer to consider for propounding to persons offering such testimony shall be filed within 7 days of the filing of the rebuttal testimony.

(b) The oral hearing should commence within 65 days of the date of the Commission's notice granting a hearing unless the Commission or Presiding Officer directs otherwise. Ordinarily, questioning in the oral hearing will be conducted by the Presiding Officer, using either the Presiding Officer's questions or questions submitted by the participants or a combination of both.

(c) Written post-hearing statements of position on the issues addressed in the oral hearing may be submitted within 20 days of the close of the oral hearing.

(d) The Commission, on its own motion, or in response to a request from a Presiding Officer other than the Commission, may use additional procedures, such as direct and cross-examination, or may convene a formal hearing under subpart G of this part on specific and substantial disputes of fact, necessary for the Commission's decision, that cannot be resolved with sufficient accuracy except in a formal hearing. The staff will be a party in any such formal hearing. Neither the Commission nor the Presiding Officer will entertain motions from the parties that request such special procedures or formal hearings.
