
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 61 - LICENSING REQUIREMENTS FOR LAND DISPOSAL OF RADIOACTIVE WASTE
#### Subpart F - Participation by State Governments and Indian Tribes
##### ยง 61.72 Filing of proposals for State and Tribal participation.

(a) A State or tribal governing body whose interest is affected by a near-surface disposal facility at the proposed site may submit to the Director a proposal for participation in the review of a license application. Proposals must be submitted within the following time periods:

(1) For the State in which the disposal facility will be located, or any State that is member of an interstate compact that includes the State in which the disposal facility is located, no later than 45 days following publication in theof the notice of tendering of an application submitted under ยง 61.20.

(2) For any other State, or for a tribal governing body, no later than 120 days following publication in theof the notice of tendering of an application submitted under ยง 61.20.

(b) Proposals for participation in the licensing process must be made in writing and must be signed by the Governor of the State or the official otherwise provided for by State or tribal law.

(c) At a minimum, proposals must contain each of the following items of information:

(1) A general description of how the State or Tribe wishes to participate in the licensing process specifically identifying those issues it wishes to review.

(2) A description of material and information which the State or Tribe plans to submit to the Commission for consideration in the licensing process. A tentative schedule referencing steps in the review and calendar dates for planned submittals should be included.

(3) A description of any work that the State or Tribe proposes to perform for the Commission in support of the licensing process.

(4) A description of State or Tribal plans to facilitate local government and citizen participation.

(5) A preliminary estimate of the types and extent of impacts which the State expects, should a disposal facility be located as proposed.

(6) If desired, any requests for educational or information services (seminars, public meetings) or other actions from the Commission such as establishment of additional Public Document Rooms or exchange of State personnel under the Intergovernmental Personnel Act.
