
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 63 - DISPOSAL OF HIGH-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTES IN A GEOLOGIC REPOSITORY AT YUCCA MOUNTAIN, NEVADA
#### Subpart B - Licenses
##### License Application
###### § 63.21 Content of application.

(a) An application consists of general information and a Safety Analysis Report. An environmental impact statement must be prepared in accordance with the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, as amended, and must accompany the application. Any Restricted Data or National Security Information must be separated from unclassified information. The application must be as complete as possible in the light of information that is reasonably available at the time of docketing.

(b) The general information must include:

(1) A general description of the proposed geologic repository at the Yucca Mountain site, identifying the location of the geologic repository operations area, the general character of the proposed activities, and the basis for the exercise of the Commission's licensing authority.

(2) Proposed schedules for construction, receipt of waste, and emplacement of wastes at the proposed geologic repository operations area.

(3) A description of the detailed security measures for physical protection of high-level radioactive waste in accordance with § 73.51 of this chapter. This plan must include the design for physical protection, the licensee's safeguards contingency plan, and security organization personnel training and qualification plan. The plan must list tests, inspections, audits, and other means to be used to demonstrate compliance with such requirements.

(4) A description of the material control and accounting program to meet the requirements of § 63.78.

(5) A description of work conducted to characterize the Yucca Mountain site.

(c) The Safety Analysis Report must include:

(1) A description of the Yucca Mountain site, with appropriate attention to those features, events, and processes of the site that might affect design of the geologic repository operations area and performance of the geologic repository. The description of the site must include information regarding features, events, and processes outside of the site to the extent the information is relevant and material to safety or performance of the geologic repository. The information referred to in this paragraph must include:

(i) The location of the geologic repository operations area with respect to the boundary of the site;

(ii) Information regarding the geology, hydrology, and geochemistry of the site, including geomechanical properties and conditions of the host rock;

(iii) Information regarding surface water hydrology, climatology, and meteorology of the site; and

(iv) Information regarding the location of the reasonably maximally exposed individual, and regarding local human behaviors and characteristics, as needed to support selection of conceptual models and parameters used for the reference biosphere and reasonably maximally exposed individual.

(2) Information relative to materials of construction of the geologic repository operations area (including geologic media, general arrangement, and approximate dimensions), and codes and standards that DOE proposes to apply to the design and construction of the geologic repository operations area.

(3) A description and discussion of the design of the various components of the geologic repository operations area and the engineered barrier system including:

(i) Dimensions, material properties, specifications, analytical and design methods used along with any applicable codes and standards;

(ii) The design criteria used and their relationships to the preclosure and postclosure performance objectives specified at § 63.111(b), § 63.113(b), and § 63.113(c); and

(iii) The design bases and their relation to the design criteria.

(4) A description of the kind, amount, and specifications of the radioactive material proposed to be received and possessed at the geologic repository operations area at the Yucca Mountain site.

(5) A preclosure safety analysis of the geologic repository operations area, for the period before permanent closure, to ensure compliance with § 63.111(a), as required by § 63.111(c). For the purposes of this analysis, it is assumed that operations at the geologic repository operations area will be carried out at the maximum capacity and rate of receipt of radioactive waste stated in the application.

(6) A description of the program for control and monitoring of radioactive effluents and occupational radiological exposures to maintain such effluents and exposures in accordance with the requirements of § 63.111.

(7) A description of plans for retrieval and alternate storage of the radioactive wastes, should retrieval be necessary.

(8) A description of design considerations that are intended to facilitate permanent closure and decontamination or decontamination and dismantlement of surface facilities.

(9) An assessment to determine the degree to which those features, events, and processes of the site that are expected to materially affect compliance with § 63.113-whether beneficial or potentially adverse to performance of the geologic repository-have been characterized, and the extent to which they affect waste isolation. Investigations must extend from the surface to a depth sufficient to determine principal pathways for radionuclide migration from the underground facility. Specific features, events, and processes of the geologic setting must be investigated outside of the site if they affect performance of the geologic repository.

(10) An assessment of the anticipated response of the geomechanical, hydrogeologic, and geochemical systems to the range of design thermal loadings under consideration, given the pattern of fractures and other discontinuities and the heat transfer properties of the rock mass and water.

(11) An assessment of the ability of the proposed geologic repository to limit radiological exposures to the reasonably maximally exposed individual for the period after permanent closure, as required by § 63.113(b).

(12) An assessment of the ability of the proposed geologic repository to limit releases of radionuclides into the accessible environment as required by § 63.113(c).

(13) An assessment of the ability of the proposed geologic repository to limit radiological exposures to the reasonably maximally exposed individual for the period after permanent closure in the event of human intrusion into the engineered barrier system as required by § 63.113(d).

(14) An evaluation of the natural features of the geologic setting and design features of the engineered barrier system that are considered barriers important to waste isolation as required by § 63.115.

(15) An explanation of measures used to support the models used to provide the information required in paragraphs (c)(9) through (c)(14) of this section. Analyses and models that will be used to assess performance of the geologic repository must be supported by using an appropriate combination of such methods as field tests, in situ tests, laboratory tests that are representative of field conditions, monitoring data, and natural analog studies.

(16) An identification of those structures, systems, and components of the geologic repository, both surface and subsurface, that require research and development to confirm the adequacy of design. For structures, systems, and components important to safety and for the engineered and natural barriers important to waste isolation, DOE shall provide a detailed description of the programs designed to resolve safety questions, including a schedule indicating when these questions would be resolved.

(17) A description of the performance confirmation program that meets the requirements of subpart F of this part.

(18) An identification and justification for the selection of those variables, conditions, or other items that are determined to be probable subjects of license specifications. Special attention must be given to those items that may significantly influence the final design.

(19) An explanation of how expert elicitation was used.

(20) A description of the quality assurance program to be applied to the structures, systems, and components important to safety and to the engineered and natural barriers important to waste isolation. The description of the quality assurance program must include a discussion of how the applicable requirements of § 63.142 will be satisfied.

(21) A description of the plan for responding to, and recovering from, radiological emergencies that may occur at any time before permanent closure and decontamination or decontamination and dismantlement of surface facilities, as required by § 63.161.

(22) The following information concerning activities at the geologic repository operations area:

(i) The organizational structure of DOE as it pertains to construction and operation of the geologic repository operations area, including a description of any delegations of authority and assignments of responsibilities, whether in the form of regulations, administrative directives, contract provisions, or otherwise.

(ii) Identification of key positions that are assigned responsibility for safety at and operation of the geologic repository operations area.

(iii) Personnel qualifications and training requirements.

(iv) Plans for startup activities and startup testing.

(v) Plans for conduct of normal activities, including maintenance, surveillance, and periodic testing of structures, systems, and components of the geologic repository operations area.

(vi) Plans for permanent closure and plans for the decontamination or decontamination and dismantlement of surface facilities.

(vii) Plans for any uses of the geologic repository operations area at the Yucca Mountain site for purposes other than disposal of radioactive wastes, with an analysis of the effects, if any, that such uses may have on the operation of the structures, systems, and components important to safety and the engineered and natural barriers important to waste isolation.

(23) A description of the program to be used to maintain the records described in §§ 63.71 and 63.72.

(24) A description of the controls that DOE will apply to restrict access and to regulate land use at the Yucca Mountain site and adjacent areas, including a conceptual design of monuments that would be used to identify the site after permanent closure.

(d) The applicant for a license to receive and possess source, special nuclear, and byproduct material at a geologic repository at Yucca Mountain, Nevada, shall protect Safeguards Information in accordance with the requirements in § 73.21, and the requirements in § 73.22, or § 73.23 of this chapter, as applicable, and shall protect classified information in accordance with the requirements of parts 25 and 95 of this chapter, as applicable.
