
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 2 - AGENCY RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
#### Subpart N - Expedited Proceedings with Oral Hearings
##### ยง 2.1406 Initial decision - issuance and effectiveness.

(a) Where practicable, the presiding officer will render a decision from the bench. In rendering a decision from the bench, the presiding officer shall state the issues in the proceeding and make clear its findings of fact and conclusions of law on each issue. The presiding officer's decision and order must be reduced to writing and transmitted to the parties as soon as practicable, but not later than twenty (20) days, after the hearing ends. If a decision is not rendered from the bench, a written decision and order will be issued not later than thirty (30) days after the hearing ends. Approval of the Chief Administrative Judge must be obtained for an extension of these time periods, and in no event may a written decision and order be issued later than sixty (60) days after the hearing ends without the express approval of the Commission.

(b) The presiding officer's written decision must be served on the parties and filed with the Commission when issued.

(c) The presiding officer's initial decision is effective and constitutes the final action of the Commission twenty-five (25) days after the date of issuance of the written decision unless any party appeals to the Commission in accordance with ยง 2.1407 or the Commission takes review of the decision sua sponte or the regulations in this part specify other requirements with regard to the effectiveness of decisions on certain applications.
