
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 63 - DISPOSAL OF HIGH-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTES IN A GEOLOGIC REPOSITORY AT YUCCA MOUNTAIN, NEVADA
#### Subpart B - Licenses
##### License Issuance and Amendment
###### ยง 63.42 Conditions of license.

(a) The Commission shall include any conditions, including license specifications, it considers necessary to protect the health and safety of the public, the common defense and security, and environmental values in a license issued under this part.

(b) Whether stated in the license or not, the following are considered to be conditions in every license issued:

(1) The license is subject to revocation, suspension, modification, or amendment for cause, as provided by the Atomic Energy Act and the Commission's regulations.

(2) DOE shall, at any time while the license is in effect, on written request of the Commission, submit written statements to enable the Commission to determine whether or not the license should be modified, suspended, or revoked.

(3) The license is subject to the provisions of the Atomic Energy Act now or hereafter in effect and to all rules, regulations, and orders of the Commission. The terms and conditions of the license are subject to amendment, revision, or modification, by reason of amendments to or by reason of rules, regulations, and orders issued in accordance with the terms of the Atomic Energy Act.

(c) Each license includes the provisions set forth in section 183 b-d, inclusive, of the Atomic Energy Act, whether or not these provisions are expressly set forth in the license.

(d) A license issued under this part includes the provisions set forth in section 114(d) of the Nuclear Waste Policy Act, as amended, defining the quantity of solidified high-level radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel, until such time as a second repository is in operation, whether or not these provisions are expressly set forth in the license.

(e) The licensee (Department of Energy) shall ensure that Safeguards Information is protected against unauthorized disclosure in accordance with the requirements in ยง 73.21, and the requirements in ยง 73.22, or ยง 73.23 of this chapter, as applicable, and shall protect classified information in accordance with the requirements of parts 25 and 95 of this chapter, as applicable.
