
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 63 - DISPOSAL OF HIGH-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTES IN A GEOLOGIC REPOSITORY AT YUCCA MOUNTAIN, NEVADA
#### Subpart B - Licenses
##### License Issuance and Amendment
###### § 63.43 License specification.

(a) A license issued under this part includes license conditions derived from the analyses and evaluations included in the application, including amendments made before a license is issued, together with any additional conditions the Commission finds appropriate.

(b) License conditions include items in the following categories:

(1) Restrictions as to the physical and chemical form and radioisotopic content of radioactive waste.

(2) Restrictions as to size, shape, and materials and methods of construction of radioactive waste packaging.

(3) Restrictions as to the amount of waste permitted per unit volume of storage space, considering the physical characteristics of both the waste and the host rock.

(4) Requirements relating to test, calibration, or inspection, to assure that the foregoing restrictions are observed.

(5) Controls to be applied to restrict access and to avoid disturbance to the site and to areas outside the site where conditions may affect compliance with §§ 63.111 and 63.113.

(6) Administrative controls, which are the provisions relating to organization and management, procedures, recordkeeping, review and audit, and reporting necessary to assure that activities at the facility are conducted in a safe manner and in conformity with the other license specifications.
