
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 2 - AGENCY RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
#### Subpart O - Legislative Hearings
##### § 2.1502 Commission decision to hold legislative hearing.

(a) The Commission may, in its discretion, hold a legislative hearing in either a design certification rulemaking under § 52.51(b) of this chapter, or a proceeding where a question has been certified to it under § 2.335(d).

(b) Notice of Commission decision-(1) Hearing in design certification rulemakings. If, at the time a proposed design certification rule is published in theunder § 52.51(a) of this chapter, the Commission decides that a legislative hearing should be held, the information required by paragraph (c) of this section must be included in thenotice for the proposed design certification rule. If, following the submission of written public comments submitted on the proposed design certification rule which are submitted in accordance with § 52.51(a) of this chapter, the Commission decides to conduct a legislative hearing, the Commission shall publish a notice in theand on the NRC Web site indicating its determination to conduct a legislative hearing. The notice shall contain the information specified in paragraph (c) of this section, and specify whether the Commission or a presiding officer will conduct the legislative hearing.

(2) Hearings under § 2.335(d). If, following a certification of a question to the Commission by a Licensing Board under § 2.335(d), the Commission decides to hold a legislative hearing to assist it in resolving the certified question, the Commission shall issue an order containing the information required by paragraph (c) of this section. The Commission shall serve the order on all parties in the proceeding. In addition, if the Commission decides that persons and entities other than those identified in paragraph (c)(2) may request to participate in the legislative hearing, the Commission shall publish a notice of its determination to hold a legislative hearing in theand on the NRC Web site. The notice shall contain the information specified in paragraph (c) of this section, and refer to the criteria in § 2.1504 which will be used in determining requests to participate in the legislative hearing.

(c) If the Commission decides to hold a legislative hearing, it shall, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section:

(1) Identify with specificity the issues on which it wishes to compile a record;

(2) Identify, in a hearing associated with a question certified to the Commission under § 2.335(d), the parties and interested State(s), governmental bodies, and Federally-recognized Indian Tribe under § 2.315(c), who may participate in the legislative hearing;

(3) Identify persons and entities that may, in the discretion of the Commission, be invited to participate in the legislative hearing;

(4) Indicate whether other persons and entities may request, in accordance with § 2.1504, to participate in the legislative hearing, and the criteria that the Commission or presiding officer will use in determining whether to permit such participation;

(5) Indicate whether the Commission or a presiding officer will conduct the legislative hearing;

(6) Specify any special procedures to be used in the legislative hearing;

(7) Set the dates for submission of requests to participate in the legislative hearing, submission of written statements and demonstrative and documentary information, and commencement of the oral hearing; and

(8) Specify the location where the oral hearing is to be held. Ordinarily, oral hearings will be held in the Washington, DC metropolitan area.
