
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 63 - DISPOSAL OF HIGH-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTES IN A GEOLOGIC REPOSITORY AT YUCCA MOUNTAIN, NEVADA
#### Subpart G - Quality Assurance
##### ยง 63.142 Quality assurance criteria.
###### Introduction and Applicability.

(a)DOE is required by ยง 63.21(c)(20) to include in its safety analysis report a description of the quality assurance program to be applied to all structures, systems, and components important to safety, to design and characterization of barriers important to waste isolation, and to related activities. These activities include: site characterization; acquisition, control, and analyses of samples and data; tests and experiments; scientific studies; facility and equipment design and construction; facility operation; performance confirmation; permanent closure; and decontamination and dismantling of surface facilities. The description must indicate how the applicable quality assurance requirements will be satisfied. DOE shall include information pertaining to the managerial and administrative controls to be used to ensure safe operation in its safety analysis report. High-level waste repositories include structures, systems, and components that prevent or mitigate the consequences of postulated event sequences or that are important to waste isolation capabilities that could cause undue risk to the health and safety of the public. The pertinent requirements of this subpart apply to all activities that are important to waste isolation and important to safety functions of those structures, systems, and components. These activities include designing, purchasing, fabricating, handling, shipping, storing, cleaning, erecting, installing, inspecting, testing, operating, maintaining, repairing, modifying, site characterization, performance confirmation, permanent closure, decontamination, and dismantling of surface facilities.
