
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 63 - DISPOSAL OF HIGH-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTES IN A GEOLOGIC REPOSITORY AT YUCCA MOUNTAIN, NEVADA
#### Subpart G - Quality Assurance
##### ยง 63.142 Quality assurance criteria.
###### Organization.

(b)DOE shall establish and execute a quality assurance program. DOE may delegate to others, such as contractors, agents, or consultants, the work of establishing and executing the quality assurance program, or any part of it, but DOE retains responsibility for it.

(1) The authority and duties of persons and organizations performing activities affecting the functions of structures, systems, and components that are important to waste isolation and important to safety must be clearly established and delineated in writing. These activities include both the performing functions of attaining quality objectives and the quality assurance functions. The quality assurance functions are those of:

(i) Assuring that an appropriate quality assurance program is established and effectively executed; and

(ii) Verifying that activities important to waste isolation and important to safety functions have been correctly performed by checking, auditing, and inspection of structures, systems, and components.

(2) The persons and organizations performing quality assurance functions shall have sufficient authority and organizational freedom to identify quality problems; to initiate, recommend, or provide solutions; and to verify implementation of solutions. The persons and organizations performing quality assurance functions shall report to a management level so that the required authority and organizational freedom, including sufficient independence from cost and schedule when opposed to safety considerations, are provided.

(3) Because of the many variables involved, such as the number of personnel, the type of activity being performed, and the location or locations where activities are performed, the organizational structure for executing the quality assurance program may take various forms provided that the persons and organizations assigned the quality assurance functions have this required authority and organizational freedom. Irrespective of the organizational structure, the individual(s) assigned the responsibility for assuring effective execution of any portion of the quality assurance program at any location where activities subject to 10 CFR part 63 are being performed must have direct access to the levels of management as may be necessary to perform this function.
