
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 63 - DISPOSAL OF HIGH-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTES IN A GEOLOGIC REPOSITORY AT YUCCA MOUNTAIN, NEVADA
#### Subpart G - Quality Assurance
##### ยง 63.142 Quality assurance criteria.
###### Design control.

(d)(1) DOE shall establish measures to assure that applicable regulatory requirements and the design basis, as defined in ยง 63.2 and as specified in the license application, for those structures, systems, and components to which this subpart applies, are correctly translated into specifications, drawings, procedures, and instructions. These measures must assure that appropriate quality standards are specified and included in design documents and that deviations from such standards are controlled. Measures must also be established for the selection and review for suitability of application of materials, parts, equipment, and processes that are important to waste isolation and important to safety functions of the structures, systems and components.

(2) DOE shall establish measures to identify and control design interfaces and for coordination among participating design organizations. These measures must include the establishment of procedures among participating design organizations for the review, approval, release, distribution, and revision of documents involving design interfaces.

(i) The design control measures must provide for verifying or checking the adequacy of design, such as by the performance of design reviews, by the use of alternate or simplified calculational methods, or by the performance of a suitable testing program. The verifying or checking process must be performed by individuals or groups other than those who performed the original design. These individuals may be from the same organization. If a test program is used to verify the adequacy of a specific design feature in lieu of other verifying or checking processes, it must include suitable qualifications testing of a prototype unit under the most adverse design conditions. Design control measures must be applied to items such as: criticality physics, stress, thermal, hydraulic, and preclosure and postclosure analyses; compatibility of materials; accessibility for inservice inspection, maintenance and repair; and delineation of acceptance criteria for inspections and tests.

(ii) Design changes, including field changes, must be subject to design control measures commensurate with those applied to the original design and be approved by the organization that performed the original design unless the applicant designates another responsible organization.
