
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 70 - DOMESTIC LICENSING OF SPECIAL NUCLEAR MATERIAL
#### Subpart C - General Licenses
##### § 70.20a General license to possess special nuclear material for transport.

(a) A general license is issued to any person to possess formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material of the types and quantities subject to the requirements of §§ 73.20, 73.25, 73.26 and 73.27 of this chapter, and irradiated reactor fuel containing material of the types and quantities subject to the requirements of § 73.37 of this chapter, in the regular course of carriage for another or storage incident. Carriers generally licensed under § 70.20b are exempt from the requirements of this section. Carriers of irradiated reactor fuel for the United States Department of Energy are also exempt from the requirements of this section. The general license is subject to the applicable provisions of §§ 70.7 (a) through (e), 70.32 (a) and (b), and §§ 70.42, 70.52, 70.55, 70.91, 70.81, 70.82 and 10 CFR 74.11.

(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the general license issued under this section does not authorize any person to conduct any activity that would be authorized by a license issued pursuant to parts 30 through 36, 39, 40, 50, 72, 110, or other sections of this part.

(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the duties of a general licensee under this section while in possession of formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material or irradiated reactor fuel in the regular course of carriage for another or storage incident thereto shall be limited to providing for the physical protection of such material against theft or sabotage. Unless otherwise provided by this section, a general license under this section is not subject to the requirements of parts 19, 20, 70 and 73.

(d) Any person who possesses formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material under this general license:

(1) Shall have submitted and received approval of a transportation security plan. The security plan shall outline the procedures that will be used to meet the requirements of §§ 73.20, 73.25, 73.26, 73.27 and 73.70(g) of this chapter including a plan for the selection, qualification, and training of armed escorts, or the specification and design of a specially designed truck or trailer as appropriate.

(2) Shall assure that the transportation is in accordance with the applicable physical protection requirements of §§ 73.20, 73.25, 73.26, 73.27 and 73.70(g) of this chapter and the applicable approved transportation security plan.

(3) Shall be subject to part 26 and § 73.80 of this chapter.

(e) Any person who possesses irradiated reactor fuel under this general license shall:

(1) Assure or receive certification from the shipper that the transportation is in accordance with the applicable physical protection requirements of § 73.37 of this chapter; and

(2) Comply with the reporting requirements of § 73.1200 of this chapter.
