
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 70 - DOMESTIC LICENSING OF SPECIAL NUCLEAR MATERIAL
#### Subpart D - License Applications
##### § 70.21 Filing.

(a)(1) A person may apply for a license to possess and use special nuclear material in a plutonium processing or fuel fabrication plant, or for a uranium enrichment facility license, by filing the application with the Director of the NRC's Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards in accordance with the instructions in § 70.5(a). If the application is on paper or CD-ROM, only one copy need be provided. If the application is to be submitted electronically, see guidance for electronic submissions to the Commission.

(2) A person may apply for any other license issued under this part, by filing the application in accordance with the instructions in § 70.5(a). If the application is on paper, only one copy need be provided. If the application is to be submitted electronically, see guidance for electronic submissions to the Commission.

(3) Information contained in previous applications, statements, or reports filed with the Commission may be incorporated by reference if the references are clear and specific.

(b) An application for license filed pursuant to the regulations in this part will be considered also as an application for licenses authorizing other activities for which licenses are required by the Act, provided the application specifies the additional activities for which licenses are requested and complies with regulations of the Commission as to applications for such licenses.

(c) Any application which contains Restricted Data shall be prepared in such manner that all Restricted Data are separated from the unclassified information.

(d) Applications and documents submitted to the Commission in connection with applications may be made available for public inspection in accordance with the provisions of the regulations contained in part 2 of this chapter.

(e) Each application for a special nuclear material license, other than a license exempted from part 170 of this chapter, shall be accompanied by the fee prescribed in § 170.31 of this chapter. No fee will be required to accompany an application for renewal or amendment of a license, except as provided in § 170.31 of this chapter.

(f) An application for a license to possess and use special nuclear material for processing and fuel fabrication, scrap recovery or conversion of uranium hexafluoride, or for the conduct of any other activity which the Commission has determined pursuant to subpart A of part 51 of this chapter will significantly affect the quality of the environment shall be filed at least 9 months prior to commencement of construction of the plant or facility in which the activity will be conducted, and shall be accompanied by an Environmental Report required under subpart A of part 51 of this chapter.

(g)(1) In response to a written request by the Commission, each applicant for a construction authorization or license and each recipient of a construction authorization or a license to possess and use special nuclear material shall submit facility information, as described in § 75.10 of this chapter, on IAEA Design Information Questionnaire forms and site information on DOC/NRC Form AP-A and associated forms;

(2) As required by the Additional Protocol, applicants and licensees specified in paragraph (a) of this section shall submit location information described in § 75.11 of this chapter on DOC/NRC Form AP-1 and associated forms; and

(3) Shall permit verification thereof by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and take other action as necessary to implement the US/IAEA Safeguards Agreement, as described in Part 75 of this chapter.

(h) A license application for a uranium enrichment facility must be accompanied by an Environmental Report required under subpart A of part 51 of this chapter.
