
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 70 - DOMESTIC LICENSING OF SPECIAL NUCLEAR MATERIAL
#### Subpart D - License Applications
##### § 70.22 Contents of applications.
###### Notification and coordination.

(viii)A commitment to and a brief description of the means to promptly notify offsite response organizations and request offsite assistance, including medical assistance for the treatment of contaminated injured onsite workers when appropriate. A control point must be established. The notification and coordination must be planned so that unavailability of some personnel, parts of the facility, and some equipment will not prevent the notification and coordination. The licensee shall also commit to notify the NRC operations center immediately after notification of the appropriate offsite response organizations and not later than one hour after the licensee declares an emergency.

(ix) Information to be communicated. A brief description of the types of information on facility status, radioactive releases, and recommended protective actions, if necessary, to be given to offsite response organizations and to the NRC.

(x) Training. A brief description of the frequency, performance objectives and plans for the training that the licensee will provide workers on how to respond to an emergency including any special instructions and orientation tours the licensee would offer to fire, police, medical and other emergency personnel. The training shall familiarize personnel with site-specific emergency procedures. Also, the training shall thoroughly prepare site personnel for their responsibilities in the event of accident scenarios postulated as most probable for the specific site, including the use of team training for such scenarios.

(xi) Safe shutdown. A brief description of the means of restoring the facility to a safe condition after an accident.

(xii) Exercises. Provisions for conducting quarterly communications checks with offsite response organizations and biennial onsite exercises to test response to simulated emergencies. Quarterly communications checks with offsite response organizations must include the check and update of all necessary telephone numbers. The licensee shall invite offsite response organizations to participate in the biennial exercises. Participation of offsite response organizations in biennial exercises although recommended is not required. Exercises must use accident scenarios postulated as most probable for the specific site and the scenarios shall not be known to most exercise participants. The licensee shall critique each exercise using individuals not having direct implementation responsibility for the plan. Critiques of exercises must evaluate the appropriateness of the plan, emergency procedures, facilities, equipment, training of personnel, and overall effectiveness of the response. Deficiencies found by the critiques must be corrected.

(xiii) Hazardous chemicals. A certification that the applicant has met its responsibilities under the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986, Title III, Pub. L. 99-499, if applicable to the applicant's activities at the proposed place of use of the special nuclear material.

(4) The licensee shall allow the offsite response organizations expected to respond in case of an accident 60 days to comment on the licensee's emergency plan before submitting it to NRC. The licensee shall provide any comments received within the 60 days to the NRC with the emergency plan.

(j)(1) Each application for a license to possess or use at any site or contiguous sites subject to control by the licensee uranium-235 (contained in uranium enriched to 20 percent or more in the uranium-235 isotope), uranium-233, or plutonium alone or in any combination in a quantity of 5,000 grams or more computed by the formula, grams = (grams contained U-235) + 2.5 (grams U-233 + grams plutonium) other than a license for possession or use of this material in the operation of a nuclear reactor licensed pursuant to part 50 of this chapter, must include a licensee safeguards contingency plan for dealing with threats, thefts, and radiological sabotage, as defined in part 73 of this chapter, relating to nuclear facilities licensed under part 50 of this chapter or to the possession of special nuclear material licensed under this part.

(2) Each application for such a license must include the first four categories of information contained in the applicant's safeguards contingency plan. (The first four categories of information, as set forth in appendix C to part 73 of this chapter, are Background, Generic Planning Base, Licensee Planning Base, and Responsibility Matrix.) The fifth category of information, Procedures, does not have to be submitted for approval.

(3) The licensee shall retain a copy of this safeguards contingency plan as a record until the Commission terminates each license obtained by this application or any application for renewal of a license and retain each change to the plan as a record for three years after the date of the change.

(k) Each application for a license to possess or use at any site or contiguous sites subject to licensee control, special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance or 10 kg or more of special nuclear material of low strategic significance as defined under § 70.4, other than a license for possession or use of this material in the operation of a nuclear power reactor licensed pursuant to part 50 of this chapter, must include a physical security plan that demonstrates how the applicant plans to meet the requirements of paragraphs (d), (e), (f), and (g) of § 73.67 of this chapter, as appropriate. The licensee shall retain a copy of this physical security plan as a record for the period during which the licensee possesses the appropriate type and quantity of special nuclear material under each license, and if any portion of the plan is superseded, retain that superseded portion of the plan for 3 years after the effective date of the change.

(l) Each applicant for a license shall protect Safeguards Information against unauthorized disclosure in accordance with the requirements in § 73.21 and the requirements of § 73.22, or 73.23 of this chapter, as applicable, and shall protect classified information in accordance with the requirements of parts 25 and 95 of this chapter, as applicable.

(m) Each application for a license to possess equipment capable of enriching uranium or operate an enrichment facility, and produce, possess, or use more than one effective kilogram of special nuclear material at any site or contiguous sites subject to control by the applicant, must contain a full description of the applicant's security program to protect against theft, and to protect against unauthorized viewing of classified enrichment equipment, and unauthorized disclosure of classified matter in accordance with the requirements of 10 CFR parts 25 and 95.

(n) A license application that involves the use of special nuclear material in a uranium enrichment facility must include the applicant's provisions for liability insurance.
