
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 70 - DOMESTIC LICENSING OF SPECIAL NUCLEAR MATERIAL
#### Subpart E - Licenses
##### § 70.32 Conditions of licenses.
###### i.e.

(g) The licensee shall prepare and maintain safeguards contingency plan procedures in accordance with appendix C to part 73 of this chapter for bringing about the actions and decisions contained in the Responsibility Matrix of its safeguards contingency plan. The licensee shall retain the current safeguards contingency plan procedures as a record for the entire period during which the licensee possesses the appropriate type and quantity of special nuclear material under each license for which the procedures were developed and, if any portion of the plan is superseded, retain that superseded portion for 3 years after the effective date of the change. The licensee shall not make a change that would decrease the safeguards effectiveness of the first four categories of information (, Background, Generic Planning Base, Licensee Planning Base, and Responsibility Matrix) contained in any licensee safeguards contingency plan prepared pursuant to §§ 70.22(g), 70.22(j), 72.184, 73.20(c), 73.26(e)(1), 73.46(h)(1), or 73.50(g)(1) of this chapter without the prior approval of the NRC. A licensee desiring to make such a change shall submit an application for an amendment to its license pursuant to § 70.34. The licensee may make changes to the licensee safeguards contingency plan without prior NRC approval if the changes do not decrease the safeguards effectiveness of the plan. The licensee shall maintain each change to the plan made without prior approval as a record during the period for which possession of a formula quantity of special nuclear material is authorized under a license and retain the superseded portion for 3 years after the effective date of the change, and shall, within 60 days after the change is made, furnish a report containing a description of each change to the Director of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards; the report may be sent using an appropriate method listed in § 70.5(a), and a copy of the report must be sent to the Regional Administrator of the appropriate NRC Regional Office as specified in appendix A to part 73 of this chapter.

(h) [Reserved]

(i) Licensees required to submit emergency plans in accordance with § 70.22(i) shall follow the emergency plan approved by the Commission. The licensee may change the approved plan without Commission approval if the changes do not decrease the effectiveness of the plan. Within six months after each change is made, the licensee shall, using an appropriate method listed in § 70.5(a), furnish the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, a copy of each change, with copies to the appropriate NRC Regional Office specified in appendix D to part 20 of this chapter and to affected offsite response organizations. Proposed changes that decrease the effectiveness of the approved emergency plan may not be implemented without prior application to and prior approval by the Commission.

(j) Each licensee who possesses special nuclear material, or who transports, or delivers to a carrier for transport, a formula quantity of strategic special nuclear material, special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance, or special nuclear material of low strategic significance, or more than 100 grams of irradiated reactor fuel shall ensure that Safeguards Information is protected against unauthorized disclosure in accordance with the requirements in § 73.21 and the requirements of § 73.22 or § 73.23 of this chapter, as applicable, and shall protect classified information in accordance with the requirements of parts 25 and 95 of this chapter, as applicable.

(k) No person may commence operation of a uranium enrichment facility until the Commission verifies through inspection that the facility has been constructed in accordance with the requirements of the license. The Commission shall publish notice of the inspection results in the
