
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 70 - DOMESTIC LICENSING OF SPECIAL NUCLEAR MATERIAL
#### Subpart G - Special Nuclear Material Control, Records, Reports and Inspections
##### § 70.51 Records requirements.

(a) Before license termination, licensees shall forward the following records to the appropriate NRC Regional Office:

(1) Records of disposal of licensed material made under 10 CFR 20.2002 (including burials authorized before January 28, 1981), 20.2003, 20.2004, 20.2005;

(2) Records required by 10 CFR 20.2103(b)(4); and

(3) Records required by § 70.25(g).

(b) If licensed activities are transferred or assigned in accordance with § 70.32(a)(3), the licensee shall transfer the following records to the new licensee and the new licensee will be responsible for maintaining these records until the license is terminated:

(1) Records of disposal of licensed material made under 10 CFR 20.2002 (including burials authorized before January 28, 1981), 20.2003, 20.2004, 20.2005;

(2) Records required by 10 CFR 20.2103(b)(4); and

(3) Records required by § 70.25(g).

(c)(1) Records which must be maintained pursuant to this part may be the original or a reproduced copy, or microform if the reproduced copy or microform is duly authenticated by authorized personnel, and the microform is capable of producing a clear and legible copy after storage for the period specified by Commission regulations. The record may also be stored in electronic media with the capability for producing legible, accurate, and complete records during the required retention period. Records such as letters, drawings, and specifications, must include all pertinent information such as stamps, initials, and signatures. The licensee shall maintain adequate safeguards against tampering with and loss of records.

(2) If there is a conflict between the Commission's regulations in this part, license condition, or other written Commission approval or authorization pertaining to the retention period for the same type of record, the retention period specified in the regulations in this part for these records shall apply unless the Commission, under § 70.17 has granted a specific exemption from the record retention requirements specified in the regulations in this part.
