
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 70 - DOMESTIC LICENSING OF SPECIAL NUCLEAR MATERIAL
#### Subpart H - Additional Requirements for Certain Licensees Authorized To Possess a Critical Mass of Special Nuclear Material
##### § 70.62 Safety program and integrated safety analysis.
###### Integrated safety analysis.

(c)(1) Each licensee or applicant shall conduct and maintain an integrated safety analysis, that is of appropriate detail for the complexity of the process, that identifies:

(i) Radiological hazards related to possessing or processing licensed material at its facility;

(ii) Chemical hazards of licensed material and hazardous chemicals produced from licensed material;

(iii) Facility hazards that could affect the safety of licensed materials and thus present an increased radiological risk;

(iv) Potential accident sequences caused by process deviations or other events internal to the facility and credible external events, including natural phenomena;

(v) The consequence and the likelihood of occurrence of each potential accident sequence identified pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section, and the methods used to determine the consequences and likelihoods; and

(vi) Each item relied on for safety identified pursuant to § 70.61(e) of this subpart, the characteristics of its preventive, mitigative, or other safety function, and the assumptions and conditions under which the item is relied upon to support compliance with the performance requirements of § 70.61.

(2) Integrated safety analysis team qualifications. To assure the adequacy of the integrated safety analysis, the analysis must be performed by a team with expertise in engineering and process operations. The team shall include at least one person who has experience and knowledge specific to each process being evaluated, and persons who have experience in nuclear criticality safety, radiation safety, fire safety, and chemical process safety. One member of the team must be knowledgeable in the specific integrated safety analysis methodology being used.

(3) Requirements for existing licensees. Individuals holding an NRC license on September 18, 2000 shall, with regard to existing licensed activities:

(i) By April 18, 2001, submit for NRC approval, a plan that describes the integrated safety analysis approach that will be used, the processes that will be analyzed, and the schedule for completing the analysis of each process.

(ii) By October 18, 2004, or in accordance with the approved plan submitted under § 70.62(c)(3)(i), complete an integrated safety analysis, correct all unacceptable performance deficiencies, and submit, for NRC approval, an integrated safety analysis summary, including a description of the management measures, in accordance with § 70.65. The Commission may approve a request for an alternative schedule for completing the correction of unacceptable performance deficiencies if the Commission determines that the alternative is warranted by consideration of the following:

(A) Adequate compensatory measures have been established;

(B) Whether it is technically feasible to complete the correction of the unacceptable performance deficiency within the allotted 4-year period;

(C) Other site-specific factors which the Commission may consider appropriate on a case-by-case basis and that are beyond the control of the licensee.

(iii) Pending the correction of unacceptable performance deficiencies identified during the conduct of the integrated safety analysis, the licensee shall implement appropriate compensatory measures to ensure adequate protection.
