
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 2 - AGENCY RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
#### Subpart A - Procedure for Issuance, Amendment, Transfer, or Renewal of a License, and Standard Design Approval
##### § 2.101 Filing of application.
###### Construction permit.

(1)The applicant for the construction permit may submit the information required of applicants by the provisions of this chapter in three parts:

(i) Part one shall include or be accompanied by any information required by §§ 50.34(a)(1) and 50.30(f) of this chapter which relates to the issue(s) of site suitability for which an early review, hearing, and partial decision are sought, except that information with respect to operation of the facility at the projected initial power level need not be supplied, and shall include the information required by §§ 50.33(a) through (e) and 50.37 of this chapter. The information submitted shall also include:

(A) Proposed findings on the issues of site suitability on which the applicant has requested review and a statement of the bases or the reasons for those findings,

(B) A range of postulated facility design and operation parameters that is sufficient to enable the Commission to perform the requested review of site suitability issues under the applicable provisions of parts 50, 51, and 100, and

(C) Information concerning the applicant's site selection process and long-range plans for ultimate development of the site required by § 2.603(b)(1).

(ii) Part two shall include or be accompanied by the remaining information required by §§ 50.30(f), 50.33, and 50.34(a)(1) of this chapter.

(iii) Part three shall include the remaining information required by §§ 50.34a and (in the case of a nuclear power reactor) 50.34(a) of this chapter.

(iv) The information required for part two or part three shall be submitted during the period the partial decision on part one is effective. Submittal of the information required for part three may precede by no more than 6 months or follow by no more than 6 months the submittal of the information required for part two.
