
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 71 - PACKAGING AND TRANSPORTATION OF RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### § 71.0 Purpose and scope.

(a) This part establishes-

(1) Requirements for packaging, preparation for shipment, and transportation of licensed material; and

(2) Procedures and standards for NRC approval of packaging and shipping procedures for fissile material and for a quantity of other licensed material in excess of a Type A quantity.

(b) The packaging and transport of licensed material are also subject to other parts of this chapter (e.g., 10 CFR parts 20, 21, 30, 40, 70, and 73) and to the regulations of other agencies (e.g., the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) and the U.S. Postal Service)having jurisdiction over means of transport. The requirements of this part are in addition to, and not in substitution for, other requirements.

(c) The regulations in this part apply to any licensee authorized by specific or general license issued by the Commission to receive, possess, use, or transfer licensed material, if the licensee delivers that material to a carrier for transport, transports the material outside the site of usage as specified in the NRC license, or transports that material on public highways. No provision of this part authorizes possession of licensed material.

(d)(1) Exemptions from the requirement for license in § 71.3 are specified in § 71.14. General licenses for which no NRC package approval is required are issued in §§ 71.21 through 71.23. The general license in § 71.17 requires that an NRC certificate of compliance or other package approval be issued for the package to be used under this general license.

(2) Application for package approval must be completed in accordance with subpart D of this part, demonstrating that the design of the package to be used satisfies the package approval standards contained in subpart E of this part, as related to the tests of subpart F of this part.

(3) A licensee transporting licensed material, or delivering licensed material to a carrier for transport, shall comply with the operating control requirements of subpart G of this part; the quality assurance requirements of subpart H of this part; and the general provisions of subpart A of this part, including DOT regulations referenced in § 71.5.

(e) The regulations of this part apply to any person holding, or applying for, a certificate of compliance, issued pursuant to this part, for a package intended for the transportation of radioactive material, outside the confines of a licensee's facility or authorized place of use.

(f) The regulations in this part apply to any person required to obtain a certificate of compliance, or an approved compliance plan, pursuant to part 76 of this chapter, if the person delivers radioactive material to a common or contract carrier for transport or transports the material outside the confines of the person's plant or other authorized place of use.

(g) This part also gives notice to all persons who knowingly provide to any licensee, certificate holder, quality assurance program approval holder, applicant for a license, certificate, or quality assurance program approval, or to a contractor, or subcontractor of any of them, components, equipment, materials, or other goods or services, that relate to a licensee's, certificate holder's, quality assurance program approval holder's, or applicant's activities subject to this part, that they may be individually subject to NRC enforcement action for violation of § 71.8.
