
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 71 - PACKAGING AND TRANSPORTATION OF RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL
#### Subpart C - General Licenses
##### ยง 71.23 General license: Plutonium-beryllium special form material.

(a) A general license is issued to any licensee of the Commission to transport fissile material in the form of plutonium-beryllium (Pu-Be) special form sealed sources, or to deliver Pu-Be sealed sources to a carrier for transport, if the material is shipped in accordance with this section. This material need not be contained in a package which meets the standards of subparts E and F of this part; however, the material must be contained in a Type A package. The Type A package must also meet the DOT requirements of 49 CFR 173.417(a).

(b) The general license applies only to a licensee who has a quality assurance program approved by the Commission as satisfying the provisions of subpart H of this part.

(c) The general license applies only when a package's contents:

(1) Contain no more than a Type A quantity of radioactive material; and

(2) Contain less than 1000 g of plutonium, provided that: plutonium-239, plutonium-241, or any combination of these radionuclides, constitutes less than 240 g of the total quantity of plutonium in the package.

(d) The general license applies only to packages labeled with a CSI which:

(1) Has been determined in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section;

(2) Has a value less than or equal to 100; and

(3) For a shipment of multiple packages containing Pu-Be sealed sources, the sum of the CSIs must be less than or equal to 50 (for shipment on a nonexclusive use conveyance) and less than or equal to 100 (for shipment on an exclusive use conveyance).

(e)(1) The value for the CSI must be greater than or equal to the number calculated by the following equation:

(2) The calculated CSI must be rounded up to the first decimal place.
