
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 71 - PACKAGING AND TRANSPORTATION OF RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL
#### Subpart E - Package Approval Standards
##### ยง 71.43 General standards for all packages.

(a) The smallest overall dimension of a package may not be less than 10 cm (4 in).

(b) The outside of a package must incorporate a feature, such as a seal, that is not readily breakable and that, while intact, would be evidence that the package has not been opened by unauthorized persons.

(c) Each package must include a containment system securely closed by a positive fastening device that cannot be opened unintentionally or by a pressure that may arise within the package.

(d) A package must be made of materials and construction that assure that there will be no significant chemical, galvanic, or other reaction among the packaging components, among package contents, or between the packaging components and the package contents, including possible reaction resulting from inleakage of water, to the maximum credible extent. Account must be taken of the behavior of materials under irradiation.

(e) A package valve or other device, the failure of which would allow radioactive contents to escape, must be protected against unauthorized operation and, except for a pressure relief device, must be provided with an enclosure to retain any leakage.

(f) A package must be designed, constructed, and prepared for shipment so that under the tests specified in ยง 71.71 ("Normal conditions of transport") there would be no loss or dispersal of radioactive contents, no significant increase in external surface radiation levels, and no substantial reduction in the effectiveness of the packaging.

(g) A package must be designed, constructed, and prepared for transport so that in still air at 38 &#xB0;C (100 &#xB0;F) and in the shade, no accessible surface of a package would have a temperature exceeding 50 &#xB0;C (122 &#xB0;F) in a nonexclusive use shipment, or 85 &#xB0;C (185 &#xB0;F) in an exclusive use shipment.

(h) A package may not incorporate a feature intended to allow continuous venting during transport.
