
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 71 - PACKAGING AND TRANSPORTATION OF RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL
#### Subpart E - Package Approval Standards
##### ยง 71.65 Additional requirements.
###### ยง 71.74 Accident conditions for air transport of plutonium.
####### Test conditions-Sequence of tests.

(a)A package must be physically tested to the following conditions in the order indicated to determine their cumulative effect.

(1) Impact at a velocity of not less than 129 m/sec (422 ft/sec) at a right angle onto a flat, essentially unyielding, horizontal surface, in the orientation (e.g., side, end, corner) expected to result in maximum damage at the conclusion of the test sequence.

(2) A static compressive load of 31,800 kg (70,000 lbs) applied in the orientation expected to result in maximum damage at the conclusion of the test sequence. The force on the package must be developed between a flat steel surface and a 5 cm (2 in) wide, straight, solid, steel bar. The length of the bar must be at least as long as the diameter of the package, and the longitudinal axis of the bar must be parallel to the plane of the flat surface. The load must be applied to the bar in a manner that prevents any members or devices used to support the bar from contacting the package.

(3) Packages weighing less than 227 kg (500 lbs) must be placed on a flat, essentially unyielding, horizontal surface, and subjected to a weight of 227 kg (500 lbs) falling from a height of 3 m (10 ft) and striking in the position expected to result in maximum damage at the conclusion of the test sequence. The end of the weight contacting the package must be a solid probe made of mild steel. The probe must be the shape of the frustum of a right circular cone, 30 cm (12 in) long, 20 cm (8 in) in diameter at the base, and 2.5 cm (1 in) in diameter at the end. The longitudinal axis of the probe must be perpendicular to the horizontal surface. For packages weighing 227 kg (500 lbs) or more, the base of the probe must be placed on a flat, essentially unyielding horizontal surface, and the package dropped from a height of 3 m (10 ft) onto the probe, striking in the position expected to result in maximum damage at the conclusion of the test sequence.

(4) The package must be firmly restrained and supported such that its longitudinal axis is inclined approximately 45&#xB0; to the horizontal. The area of the package that made first contact with the impact surface in paragraph (a)(1) of this section must be in the lowermost position. The package must be struck at approximately the center of its vertical projection by the end of a structural steel angle section falling from a height of at least 46 m (150 ft). The angle section must be at least 1.8 m (6 ft) in length with equal legs at least 13 cm (5 in) long and 1.3 cm (0.5 in) thick. The angle section must be guided in such a way as to fall end-on, without tumbling. The package must be rotated approximately 90&#xB0; about its longitudinal axis and struck by the steel angle section falling as before.

(5) The package must be exposed to luminous flames from a pool fire of JP-4 or JP-5 aviation fuel for a period of at least 60 minutes. The luminous flames must extend an average of at least 0.9 m (3 ft) and no more than 3 m (10 ft) beyond the package in all horizontal directions. The position and orientation of the package in relation to the fuel must be that which is expected to result in maximum damage at the conclusion of the test sequence. An alternate method of thermal testing may be substituted for this fire test, provided that the alternate test is not of shorter duration and would not result in a lower heating rate to the package. At the conclusion of the thermal test, the package must be allowed to cool naturally or must be cooled by water sprinkling, whichever is expected to result in maximum damage at the conclusion of the test sequence.

(6) Immersion under at least 0.9 m (3 ft) of water.
