
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 71 - PACKAGING AND TRANSPORTATION OF RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL
#### Subpart E - Package Approval Standards
##### § 71.65 Additional requirements.
###### § 71.75 Qualification of special form radioactive material.
####### Leaching assessment methods.

(c)(1) For indispersible solid material-

(i) The specimen must be immersed for 7 days in water at ambient temperature. The water must have a pH of 6-8 and a maximum conductivity of 10 micromho per centimeter at 20&#xB0; (68 &#xB0;F);

(ii) The water with specimen must then be heated to a temperature of 50 &#xB0;C +/-5 &#xB0;C (122 &#xB0;F +/-9 &#xB0;F) and maintained at this temperature for 4 hours.

(iii) The activity of the water must then be determined;

(iv) The specimen must then be stored for at least 7 days in still air of relative humidity not less than 90 percent at 30 &#xB0;C (86 &#xB0;F);

(v) The specimen must then be immersed in water under the same conditions as in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, and the water with specimen must be heated to 50 &#xB0;C +/-5 &#xB0;C (122 &#xB0;F +/-9 &#xB0;F) and maintained at that temperature for 4 hours;

(vi) The activity of the water must then be determined. The sum of the activities determined here and in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section must not exceed 2 kilobecquerels (kBq) (0.05 microcurie (µCi)).

(2) For encapsulated material-

(i) The specimen must be immersed in water at ambient temperature. The water must have a pH of 6-8 and a maximum conductivity of 10 micromho per centimeter;

(ii) The water and specimen must be heated to a temperature of 50 &#xB0;C +/-5 &#xB0;C (122 &#xB0;F +/-9 &#xB0;F) and maintained at this temperature for 4 hours;

(iii) The activity of the water must then be determined;

(iv) The specimen must then be stored for at least 7 days in still air at a temperature of 30 &#xB0;C (86 &#xB0;F) or greater;

(v) The process in paragraph (c)(2)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section must be repeated; and

(vi) The activity of the water must then be determined. The sum of the activities determined here and in paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section must not exceed 2 kilobecquerels (kBq) (0.05 microcurie (µCi)).

(d) A specimen that comprises or simulates radioactive material contained in a sealed capsule need not be subjected to-

(1) The impact test and the percussion test of this section, provided that the specimen is:

(i) Less than 200 grams and alternatively subjected to the Class 4 impact test prescribed in ISO 2919:1999(E), "Radiation protection-Sealed radioactive sources-General requirements and classification" (incorporated by reference, see § 71.70); or

(ii) Less than 500 grams and alternatively subjected to the Class 5 impact test prescribed in ISO 2919:1999(E), "Radioactive protection-Sealed radioactive sources-General requirements and classification" (incorporated by reference, see § 71.70); and

(2) The heat test of this section, provided the specimen is alternatively subjected to the Class 6 temperature test specified in ISO 2919:1999(E), "Radioactive protection-Sealed radioactive sources-General requirements and classification" (incorporated by reference, see § 71.70).
