
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 71 - PACKAGING AND TRANSPORTATION OF RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL
#### Subpart G - Operating Controls and Procedures
##### ยง 71.91 Records.

(a) Each licensee shall maintain, for a period of 3 years after shipment, a record of each shipment of licensed material not exempt under ยง 71.14, showing where applicable-

(1) Identification of the packaging by model number and serial number;

(2) Verification that there are no significant defects in the packaging, as shipped;

(3) Volume and identification of coolant;

(4) Type and quantity of licensed material in each package, and the total quantity of each shipment;

(5) For each item of irradiated fissile material-

(i) Identification by model number and serial number;

(ii) Irradiation and decay history to the extent appropriate to demonstrate that its nuclear and thermal characteristics comply with license conditions; and

(iii) Any abnormal or unusual condition relevant to radiation safety;

(6) Date of the shipment;

(7) For fissile packages and for Type B packages, any special controls exercised;

(8) Name and address of the transferee;

(9) Address to which the shipment was made; and

(10) Results of the determinations required by ยง 71.87 and by the conditions of the package approval.

(b) Each certificate holder shall maintain, for a period of 3 years after the life of the packaging to which they apply, records identifying the packaging by model number, serial number, and date of manufacture.

(c) The licensee, certificate holder, and an applicant for a CoC, shall make available to the Commission for inspection, upon reasonable notice, all records required by this part. Records are only valid if stamped, initialed, or signed and dated by authorized personnel, or otherwise authenticated.

(d) The licensee, certificate holder, and an applicant for a CoC shall maintain sufficient written records to furnish evidence of the quality of packaging. The records to be maintained include results of the determinations required by ยง 71.85; design, fabrication, and assembly records; results of reviews, inspections, tests, and audits; results of monitoring work performance and materials analyses; and results of maintenance, modification, and repair activities. Inspection, test, and audit records must identify the inspector or data recorder, the type of observation, the results, the acceptability, and the action taken in connection with any deficiencies noted. These records must be retained for 3 years after the life of the packaging to which they apply.
