
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 71 - PACKAGING AND TRANSPORTATION OF RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL
#### Subpart H - Quality Assurance
##### ยง 71.137 Audits.
######### Appendix A to Part 71 - Determination of Aand A

I. Values of Aand Afor individual radionuclides, which are the bases for many activity limits elsewhere in these regulations, are given in Table A-1. The curie (Ci) values specified are obtained by converting from the Terabecquerel (TBq) value. The Terabecquerel values are the regulatory standard. The curie values are for information only and are not intended to be the regulatory standard. Where values of Aand Aare unlimited, it is for radiation control purposes only. For nuclear criticality safety, some materials are subject to controls placed on fissile material.

II. a. For individual radionuclides whose identities are known, but which are not listed in Table A-1, the Aand Avalues contained in Table A-3 may be used. Otherwise, the licensee shall obtain prior Commission approval of the Aand Avalues for radionuclides not listed in Table A-1, before shipping the material.

b. For individual radionuclides whose identities are known, but which are not listed in Table A-2, the exempt material activity concentration and exempt consignment activity values contained in Table A-3 may be used. Otherwise, the licensee shall obtain prior Commission approval of the exempt material activity concentration and exempt consignment activity values for radionuclides not listed in Table A-2, before shipping the material.

c. The licensee shall submit requests for prior approval, described under paragraphs II.a. and II.b. of this Appendix, to the Commission, in accordance with ยง 71.1 of this part.

III. In the calculations of Aand Afor a radionuclide not in Table A-1, a single radioactive decay chain, in which radionuclides are present in their naturally occurring proportions, and in which no daughter radionuclide has a half-life either longer than 10 days, or longer than that of the parent radionuclide, shall be considered as a single radionuclide, and the activity to be taken into account, and the Aand Avalue to be applied, shall be those corresponding to the parent radionuclide of that chain. In the case of radioactive decay chains in which any daughter radionuclide has a half-life either longer than 10 days, or greater than that of the parent radionuclide, the parent and those daughter radionuclides shall be considered as mixtures of different radionuclides.

IV. For mixtures of radionuclides whose identities and respective activities are known, the following conditions apply:

a. For special form radioactive material, the maximum quantity transported in a Type A package is as follows:

b. For normal form radioactive material, the maximum quantity transported in a Type A package is as follows:

c. If the package contains both special and normal form radioactive material, the activity that may be transported in a Type A package is as follows:

d. Alternatively, the Avalue for mixtures of special form material may be determined as follows:

e. Alternatively, the Avalue for mixtures of normal form material may be determined as follows:

f. The exempt activity concentration for mixtures of nuclides may be determined as follows:

g. The activity limit for an exempt consignment for mixtures of radionuclides may be determined as follows:

V.a. When the identity of each radionuclide is known, but the individual activities of some of the radionuclides are not known, the radionuclides may be grouped, and the lowest Aor Avalue, as appropriate, for the radionuclides in each group may be used in applying the formulas in paragraph IV. Groups may be based on the total alpha activity and the total beta/gamma activity when these are known, using the lowest Aor Avalues for the alpha emitters and beta/gamma emitters.

b. When the identity of each radionuclide is known but the individual activities of some of the radionuclides are not known, the radionuclides may be grouped and the lowest [A] (activity concentration for exempt material) or A (activity limit for exempt consignment) value, as appropriate, for the radionuclides in each group may be used in applying the formulas in paragraph IV of this appendix. Groups may be based on the total alpha activity and the total beta/gamma activity when these are known, using the lowest [A] or A values for the alpha emitters and beta/gamma emitters, respectively.
