
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 72 - LICENSING REQUIREMENTS FOR THE INDEPENDENT STORAGE OF SPENT NUCLEAR FUEL, HIGH-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTE, AND REACTOR-RELATED GREATER THAN CLASS C WASTE
#### Subpart D - Records, Reports, Inspections, and Enforcement
##### ยง 72.76 Material status reports.
###### RidsNmssFcss@nrc.gov.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each licensee shall complete in computer-readable format and submit to the Commission a Material Balance Report and a Physical Inventory Listing Report as specified in the instructions in NUREG/BR-0007 and NMMSS Report D-24 "Personal Computer Data Input for NRC Licensees." Copies of these instructions may be obtained either by writing to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Division of Fuel Management, Washington, DC 20555-0001, or by e-mail toThese reports, as specified by ยง 74.13 or 40.64 of this chapter, provide information concerning the special nuclear material and/or source material possessed, received, transferred, disposed of, or lost by the licensee. Each report must be submitted within 60 days of the beginning of the physical inventory required by ยง 72.72(b). The Commission may, when good cause is shown, permit a licensee to submit Material Balance Reports and Physical Inventory Listing Reports at other times. Each licensee required to report material balance and inventory information as described in this part, shall resolve any discrepancies identified during the report review and reconciliation process within 30 calendar days of notification of a discrepancy identified by NRC. The Commission's copy of this report must be submitted to the address specified in the instructions. These prescribed, computer-readable forms replace the DOE/NRC Forms 742 and 742C previously submitted in paper form.

(b) Any licensee who is required to submit routine material status reports pursuant to ยง 75.35 of this chapter (pertaining to implementation of the US/IAEA Safeguards Agreement) shall prepare and submit such reports only as provided in that section instead of as provided in paragraph (a) of this section.
