
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 72 - LICENSING REQUIREMENTS FOR THE INDEPENDENT STORAGE OF SPENT NUCLEAR FUEL, HIGH-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTE, AND REACTOR-RELATED GREATER THAN CLASS C WASTE
#### Subpart D - Records, Reports, Inspections, and Enforcement
##### ยง 72.82 Inspections and tests.

(a) Each licensee under this part shall permit duly authorized representatives of the Commission to inspect its records, premises, and activities and of spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, or reactor-related GTCC waste in its possession related to the specific license as may be necessary to meet the objectives of the Act, including section 105 of the Act.

(b) Each licensee under this part shall make available to the Commission for inspection, upon reasonable notice, records kept by the licensee pertaining to its receipt, possession, packaging, or transfer of spent fuel, high-level radioactive waste, or reactor-related GTCC waste.

(c)(1) Each licensee under this part shall upon request by the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards or the appropriate NRC Regional Administrator provide rent-free office space for the exclusive use of the Commission inspection personnel. Heat, air conditioning, light, electrical outlets and janitorial services shall be furnished by each licensee. The office shall be convenient to and have full access to the installation and shall provide the inspector both visual and acoustic privacy.

(2) For a site with a single storage installation the space provided shall be adequate to accommodate a full-time inspector, a part-time secretary, and transient NRC personnel and will be generally commensurate with other office facilities at the site. A space of 250 sq. ft., either within the site's office complex or in an office trailer, or other onsite space, is suggested as a guide. For sites containing multiple facilities, additional space may be requested to accommodate additional full-time inspectors. The office space that is provided shall be subject to the approval of the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards or the appropriate NRC Regional Administrator. All furniture, supplies and Commission equipment will be furnished by the Commission.

(3) Each licensee under this part shall afford any NRC resident inspector assigned to that site, or other NRC inspectors identified by the Regional Administrator as likely to inspect the installation, immediate unfettered access, equivalent to access provided regular plant employees, following proper identification and compliance with applicable access control measures for security, radiological protection, and personal safety.

(d) Each licensee shall perform, or permit the Commission to perform, such tests as the Commission deems appropriate or necessary for the administrator of the regulations in this part.
