
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 72 - LICENSING REQUIREMENTS FOR THE INDEPENDENT STORAGE OF SPENT NUCLEAR FUEL, HIGH-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTE, AND REACTOR-RELATED GREATER THAN CLASS C WASTE
#### Subpart L - Approval of Spent Fuel Storage Casks
##### ยง 72.234 Conditions of approval.

(a) The certificate holder and applicant for a CoC shall ensure that the design, fabrication, testing, and maintenance of a spent fuel storage cask comply with the requirements in ยง 72.236.

(b) The certificate holder and applicant for a CoC shall ensure that the design, fabrication, testing, and maintenance of spent fuel storage casks are conducted under a quality assurance program that meets the requirements of subpart G of this part.

(c) An applicant for a CoC may begin fabrication of spent fuel storage casks before the Commission issues a CoC for the cask; however, applicants who begin fabrication of casks without a CoC do so at their own risk. A cask fabricated before the CoC is issued shall be made to conform to the issued CoC before being placed in service or before spent fuel is loaded.

(d)(1) The certificate holder shall ensure that a record is established and maintained for each spent fuel storage cask fabricated under the CoC.

(2) This record must include:

(i) The NRC CoC number;

(ii) The spent fuel storage cask model number;

(iii) The spent fuel storage cask identification number;

(iv) Date fabrication was started;

(v) Date fabrication was completed;

(vi) Certification that the spent fuel storage cask was designed, fabricated, tested, and repaired in accordance with a quality assurance program accepted by NRC;

(vii) Certification that inspections required by ยง 72.236(j) were performed and found satisfactory; and

(viii) The name and address of the licensee using the spent fuel storage cask.

(3) The certificate holder shall supply the original of this record to the licensees using the spent fuel storage cask. A current copy of a composite record of all spent fuel storage casks manufactured under a CoC, showing the information in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, must be initiated and maintained by the certificate holder for each model spent fuel storage cask. If the certificate holder permanently ceases production of spent fuel storage casks under a CoC, the certificate holder shall send this composite record to the Commission using instructions in ยง 72.4.

(e) The certificate holder and the licensees using the spent fuel storage cask shall ensure that the composite record required by paragraph (d) of this section is available to the Commission for inspection.

(f) The certificate holder shall ensure that written procedures and appropriate tests are established prior to use of the spent fuel storage casks. A copy of these procedures and tests must be provided to each licensee using the spent fuel storage cask.
