
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 4 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN FEDERALLY ASSISTED PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FROM THE COMMISSION
#### Subpart A - Regulations Implementing Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and Title IV of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974
##### Opportunity for Hearing
###### § 4.51 Notice of opportunity for hearing.

(a) Whenever an opportunity for hearing is required by § 4.48, the responsible NRC official shall serve on the applicant or recipient, by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice of opportunity for hearing which will:

(1) Inform the applicant or recipient of his right within twenty (20) days of the date of the notice of opportunity for hearing, or such other period as may be specified in the notice, to request a hearing;

(2) Set forth the alleged item or items of noncompliance with this subpart;

(3) Specify the issues;

(4) State that compliance with this subpart may be effected by an order providing for the termination of or refusal to grant or to continue assistance, as appropriate; and

(5) Provide that the applicant or recipient may file a written answer to the notice of opportunity for hearing under oath or affirmation within twenty (20) days of its date, or such other period as may be specified in the notice.

(b) The applicant or recipient may respond to a notice of opportunity for hearing by filing a written answer under oath or affirmation. The answer shall specifically admit or deny each allegation, or, where the applicant or recipient does not have knowledge or information sufficient to form a belief, the answer may so state and the statements shall have the effect of a denial. Allegations of fact not denied shall be deemed to be admitted. The answer shall separately state and identify matters alleged as affirmative defenses and may also set forth the matters of fact and law on which the applicant or recipient relies. The answer may request a hearing.

(c) If the answer requests a hearing, the Commission will issue a notice of hearing specifying:

(1) The time, place, and nature thereof;

(2) The legal authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing is to be held; and

(3) The matters of fact and law asserted or to be considered. The time and place of hearing will be fixed with due regard for the convenience and necessity of the parties or their representatives and for the public interest. An answer to a notice of hearing is not required.

(d) An applicant or recipient may file an answer, and waive or fail to request a hearing, without waiving the requirement for findings of fact and conclusions of law or the right to seek Commission review in accordance with the provisions of §§ 4.71 through 4.74. At the time an answer is filed the applicant or recipient may also submit written information or argument for the record if he does not request a hearing.

(e) An answer or stipulation may consent to the entry of an order in substantially the form set forth in the notice of opportunity for hearing; such order may be entered by the responsible Commission official. The consent of the applicant or recipient to the entry of an order shall constitute a waiver by him of a right to: (1) A hearing under the Act and § 4.48, (2) findings of fact and conclusions of law, and (3) seek Commission review.

(f) The failure of an applicant or recipient to file an answer within the period prescribed, or, if he requests a hearing, his failure to appear therefor, shall constitute a waiver by him of a right to: (1) A hearing under the Act and § 4.48, (2) conclusions of law, and (3) seek Commission review. In the event of such waiver, the responsible NRC official may find the facts on the basis of the record available and enter an order in substantially the form set forth in the notice of opportunity for hearing.

(g) An order entered in accordance with paragraph (e) or (f) of this section shall constitute the final decision of the Commission, unless the Commission, on its own motion, within forty-five (45) days after entry of the order, issues its own decision, which shall then constitute the final decision of the Commission.

(h) A copy of an order entered by the responsible NRC official shall be mailed to the applicant or recipient and to the complainant, if any.

(i) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to place the burden of proof on the applicant or recipient.
