
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 73 - PHYSICAL PROTECTION OF PLANTS AND MATERIALS
#### Subpart D - Protection of Safeguards Information
##### ยง 73.23 Protection of Safeguards Information - Modified Handling: Specific requirements.
###### Conditions for access.

(b)(1) Except as the Commission may otherwise authorize, no person may have access to Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling unless the person has an established "need to know" for the information and has undergone a Federal Bureau of Investigation criminal history records check using the procedures set forth in ยง 73.57.

(2) In addition, a person to be granted access to Safeguards Information must be trustworthy and reliable, based on a background check or other means approved by the Commission.

(3) The categories of individuals specified in 10 CFR 73.59 are exempt from the criminal history records check and background check requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section by virtue of their occupational status:

(4) For persons participating in an NRC adjudicatory proceeding, the "need to know" determination shall be made by the originator of the Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling upon receipt of a request for access to the Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling. Where the information is in the possession of the originator and the NRC staff, whether in its original form or incorporated into another document or other matter by the recipient, the NRC staff shall make the determination. In the event of a dispute regarding the "need to know" determination, the presiding officer of the proceeding shall determine whether the "need to know" findings in ยง 73.2 can be made.

(5) Except as the Commission may otherwise authorize, no person may disclose Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling to any other person except as set forth in this section.
