
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 73 - PHYSICAL PROTECTION OF PLANTS AND MATERIALS
#### Subpart D - Protection of Safeguards Information
##### ยง 73.23 Protection of Safeguards Information - Modified Handling: Specific requirements.
###### Processing of Safeguards Information-Modified Handling on electronic systems.

(g)(1) Safeguards Information designated for modified handling may be stored, processed or produced on a computer or computer system, provided that the system is assigned to the licensee's or contractor's facility. Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling files must be protected, either by a password or encryption, to prevent unauthorized individuals from gaining access. Word processors such as typewriters are not subject to these requirements as long as they do not transmit information off-site.

(2) Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling files may be transmitted over a network if the file is encrypted. In such cases, the licensee will select a commercially available encryption system that the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) has validated as conforming to Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) 140-2 or later. Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling files shall be properly labeled to indicate the presence of Safeguards Information with modified handling requirements and saved to removable matter and stored in a locked file drawer or cabinet.

(3) A mobile device (such as a laptop computer) may also be used for the processing of Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling provided the device is secured in an appropriate locked storage container when not in use. Other systems may be used if approved for security by the appropriate NRC office.

(4) Any electronic system that has been used for storage, processing or production of Safeguards Information must be free of recoverable Safeguards Information designated as Safeguards Information-Modified Handling prior to being returned to nonexclusive use.
