
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 73 - PHYSICAL PROTECTION OF PLANTS AND MATERIALS
#### Subpart E - Physical Protection Requirements of Special Nuclear Material and Spent Nuclear Fuel in Transit
##### ยง 73.26 Transportation physical protection systems, subsystems, components, and procedures.
###### Planning and scheduling.

(b)(1) Shipments shall be scheduled to avoid regular patterns and preplanned to avoid areas of natural disaster or civil disorders, such as strikes or riots. Such shipments shall be planned in order to avoid storage times in excess of 24 hours and to assure that deliveries occur at a time when the receiver at the final delivery point is present to accept the shipment.

(2) Arrangements shall be made with law enforcement authorities along the route of shipments for their response to an emergency or a call for assistance.

(3) Security arrangements for each shipment shall be approved by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission prior to the time for the seven-day notice required by ยง 73.72. Information to be supplied to the Commission in addition to the general security plan information is as follows:

(i) Shipper, consignee, carriers, transfer points, modes of shipment,

(ii) Point where escorts will relinquish responsibility or will accept responsibility for the shipment,

(iii) Arrangements made for transfer of shipment security, and

(iv) Security arrangements at point where escorts accept responsibility for an import shipment.

(4) Hand-to-hand receipts shall be completed at origin and destination and at all points enroute where there is a transfer of custody.
