
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 73 - PHYSICAL PROTECTION OF PLANTS AND MATERIALS
#### Subpart F - Physical Protection Requirements at Fixed Sites
##### ยง 73.45 Performance capabilities for fixed site physical protection systems.
###### Response.

(g)Each physical protection program shall provide a response capability to assure that the five capabilities described in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section are achieved and that adversary forces will be engaged and impeded until offsite assistance forces arrive. To achieve this capability a licensee shall:

(1) Establish a security organization to:

(i) Provide trained and qualified personnel to carry out assigned duties and responsibilities; and

(ii) Provide for routine security operations and planned and predetermined response to emergencies and safeguards contingencies.

(2) Establish a predetermined plan to respond to safeguards contingency events.

(3) Provide equipment for the security organization and facility design features to:

(i) Provide for rapid assessment of safeguards contingencies;

(ii) Provide for response by assigned security organization personnel which is sufficiently rapid and effective to achieve the predetermined objective of the response; and

(iii) Provide protection for the assessment and response personnel so that they can complete their assigned duties.

(4) Provide communications networks to:

(i) Transmit rapid and accurate security information among onsite forces for routine security operation, assessment of a contingency, and response to a contingency; and

(ii) Transmit rapid and accurate detection and assessment information to offsite assistance forces.

(5) Assure that a single adversary action cannot destroy the capability of the security organization to notify offsite response forces of the need for assistance.
