
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 73 - PHYSICAL PROTECTION OF PLANTS AND MATERIALS
#### Subpart F - Physical Protection Requirements at Fixed Sites
##### ยง 73.55 Requirements for physical protection of licensed activities in nuclear power reactors against radiological sabotage.
###### Physical barriers.

(e)Each licensee shall identify and analyze site-specific conditions to determine the specific use, type, function, and placement of physical barriers needed to satisfy the physical protection program design requirements of ยง 73.55(b).

(1) The licensee shall:

(i) Design, construct, install and maintain physical barriers as necessary to control access into facility areas for which access must be controlled or denied to satisfy the physical protection program design requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.

(ii) Describe in the physical security plan, physical barriers, barrier systems, and their functions within the physical protection program.

(2) The licensee shall retain, in accordance with ยง 73.70, all analyses and descriptions of the physical barriers and barrier systems used to satisfy the requirements of this section, and shall protect these records in accordance with the requirements of ยง 73.21.

(3) Physical barriers must:

(i) Be designed and constructed to:

(A) Protect against the design basis threat of radiological sabotage;

(B) Account for site-specific conditions; and

(C) Perform their required function in support of the licensee physical protection program.

(ii) Provide deterrence, delay, or support access control.

(iii) Support effective implementation of the licensee's protective strategy.

(4) Consistent with the stated function to be performed, openings in any barrier or barrier system established to meet the requirements of this section must be secured and monitored to prevent exploitation of the opening.
