
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 73 - PHYSICAL PROTECTION OF PLANTS AND MATERIALS
#### Subpart F - Physical Protection Requirements at Fixed Sites
##### ยง 73.55 Requirements for physical protection of licensed activities in nuclear power reactors against radiological sabotage.
###### Access controls.

(g)(1) Consistent with the function of each barrier or barrier system, the licensee shall control personnel, vehicle, and material access, as applicable, at each access control point in accordance with the physical protection program design requirements of ยง 73.55(b).

(i) To accomplish this, the licensee shall:

(A) Locate access control portals outside of, or concurrent with, the physical barrier system through which it controls access.

(B) Equip access control portals with locking devices, intrusion detection equipment, and surveillance equipment consistent with the intended function.

(C) Provide supervision and control over the badging process to prevent unauthorized bypass of access control equipment located at or outside of the protected area.

(D) Limit unescorted access to the protected area and vital areas, during non-emergency conditions, to only those individuals who require unescorted access to perform assigned duties and responsibilities.

(E) Assign an individual the responsibility for the last access control function (controlling admission to the protected area) and isolate the individual within a bullet-resisting structure to assure the ability of the individual to respond or summon assistance.

(ii) Where vehicle barriers are established, the licensee shall:

(A) Physically control vehicle barrier portals to ensure only authorized vehicles are granted access through the barrier.

(B) Search vehicles and materials for contraband or other items which could be used to commit radiological sabotage in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section.

(C) Observe search functions to ensure a response can be initiated if needed.

(2) Before granting access into the protected area, the licensee shall:

(i) Confirm the identity of individuals.

(ii) Verify the authorization for access of individuals, vehicles, and materials.

(iii) Confirm, in accordance with industry shared lists and databases that individuals are not currently denied access to another licensed facility.

(iv) Search individuals, vehicles, and materials in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section.
