
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 73 - PHYSICAL PROTECTION OF PLANTS AND MATERIALS
#### Subpart F - Physical Protection Requirements at Fixed Sites
##### ยง 73.55 Requirements for physical protection of licensed activities in nuclear power reactors against radiological sabotage.
###### Detection and assessment systems.

(i)(1) The licensee shall establish and maintain intrusion detection and assessment systems that satisfy the design requirements of ยง 73.55(b) and provide, at all times, the capability to detect and assess unauthorized persons and facilitate the effective implementation of the licensee's protective strategy.

(2) Intrusion detection equipment must annunciate and video assessment equipment shall display concurrently, in at least two continuously staffed onsite alarm stations, at least one of which must be protected in accordance with the requirements of the central alarm station within this section.

(3) The licensee's intrusion detection and assessment systems must be designed to:

(i) Provide visual and audible annunciation of the alarm.

(ii) Provide a visual display from which assessment of the detected activity can be made.

(iii) Ensure that annunciation of an alarm indicates the type and location of the alarm.

(iv) Ensure that alarm devices to include transmission lines to annunciators are tamper indicating and self-checking.

(v) Provide an automatic indication when the alarm system or a component of the alarm system fails, or when the system is operating on the backup power supply.

(vi) Support the initiation of a timely response in accordance with the security plans, licensee protective strategy, and associated implementing procedures.

(vii) Ensure intrusion detection and assessment equipment at the protected area perimeter remains operable from an uninterruptible power supply in the event of the loss of normal power.
