
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 73 - PHYSICAL PROTECTION OF PLANTS AND MATERIALS
#### Subpart F - Physical Protection Requirements at Fixed Sites
##### ยง 73.55 Requirements for physical protection of licensed activities in nuclear power reactors against radiological sabotage.
###### Surveillance, observation, and monitoring.

(5)(i) The physical protection program must include surveillance, observation, and monitoring as needed to satisfy the design requirements of ยง 73.55(b), identify indications of tampering, or otherwise implement the site protective strategy.

(ii) The licensee shall provide continuous surveillance, observation, and monitoring of the owner controlled area as described in the security plans to detect and deter intruders and ensure the integrity of physical barriers or other components and functions of the onsite physical protection program. Continuous surveillance, observation, and monitoring responsibilities may be performed by security personnel during continuous patrols, through use of video technology, or by a combination of both.

(iii) Unattended openings that intersect a security boundary such as underground pathways must be protected by a physical barrier and monitored by intrusion detection equipment or observed by security personnel at a frequency sufficient to detect exploitation.

(iv) Armed security patrols shall periodically check external areas of the protected area to include physical barriers and vital area portals.

(v) Armed security patrols shall periodically inspect vital areas to include the physical barriers used at all vital area portals.

(vi) The licensee shall provide random patrols of all accessible areas containing target set equipment.

(vii) Security personnel shall be trained to recognize obvious indications of tampering consistent with their assigned duties and responsibilities.

(viii) Upon detection of tampering, or other threats, the licensee shall initiate response in accordance with the security plans and implementing procedures.
