
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 73 - PHYSICAL PROTECTION OF PLANTS AND MATERIALS
#### Subpart G - Access Authorization and Access Control Requirements for the Physical Protection of Special Nuclear Material
##### ยง 73.56 Personnel access authorization requirements for nuclear power plants.
###### Information sharing.

(6)To meet the requirements of this section, licensees, applicants, and contractors or vendors may rely upon the information that other licensees, applicants, and contractors or vendors who are also subject to this section, have gathered about individuals who have previously applied for unescorted access or unescorted access authorization, and developed about individuals during periods in which the individuals maintained unescorted access or unescorted access authorization status.

(i) Maintaining unescorted access or unescorted access authorization.

(1) Individuals may maintain unescorted access or unescorted access authorization status under the following conditions:

(i) The individual remains subject to a behavioral observation program that complies with the requirements of ยง 73.56(f) of this section.

(ii) The individual successfully completes behavioral observation refresher training or testing on the nominal 12-month frequency required in ยง 73.56(f)(2)(ii) of this section.

(iii) The individual complies with the licensee's or applicant's access authorization program policies and procedures to which he or she is subject, including the self-reporting of legal actions responsibility specified in paragraph (g) of this section.

(iv) The individual is subject to an annual (within 365 calendar days) supervisory review conducted in accordance with the requirements of the licensee's or applicant's behavioral observation program. The individual shall be subject to a supervisory interview in accordance with the requirements of the licensee's or applicant's behavioral observation program, if the supervisor does not have the frequent interaction with the individual throughout the review period needed to form an informed and reasonable opinion regarding the individual's behavior, trustworthiness, and reliability.

(v) The licensee's or applicant's reviewing official determines that the individual continues to be trustworthy and reliable. This determination must, at a minimum, be based on the following:

(A) A criminal history update and credit history re-evaluation for any individual with unescorted access. The criminal history update and credit history re-evaluation must be completed within 5 years of the date on which these elements were last completed.

(B) For individuals who perform one or more of the job functions described in this paragraph, the trustworthiness and reliability determination must be based on a criminal history update and credit history re-evaluation within three years of the date on which these elements were last completed, or more frequently, based on job assignment as determined by the licensee or applicant, and a psychological re-assessment within 5 years of the date on which this element was last completed:
