
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 73 - PHYSICAL PROTECTION OF PLANTS AND MATERIALS
#### Subpart I - Enforcement
##### ยง 73.77 Cyber security event notifications.
###### Notification process.

(c)(1) Each licensee shall make telephonic notifications required by paragraph (a) of this section to the NRC Headquarters Operations Center via the ENS. If the ENS is inoperative or unavailable, the licensee shall make the notification via a commercial telephone service or other dedicated telephonic system or any other methods that will ensure a report is received by the NRC Headquarters Operations Center within the timeframe. Commercial telephone numbers for the NRC Headquarters Operations Center are specified in appendix A to this part.

(2) Notifications required by this section that contain Safeguards Information may be made to the NRC Headquarters Operations Center without using secure communications systems under the exception in ยง 73.22(f)(3) for emergency or extraordinary conditions.

(3) Notifications required by this section that contain Safeguards Information and/or classified national security information and/or restricted data must be made to the NRC Headquarters Operations Center using secure communications systems appropriate to the sensitivity/classification level of the message. Licensees making these types of telephonic notifications must contact the NRC Headquarters Operations Center at the commercial numbers specified in appendix A to this part and request a transfer to a secure telephone.

(i) If the licensee's secure communications capability is unavailable (e.g., due to the nature of the security event), the licensee must provide as much information to the NRC as is required by this section, without revealing or discussing any Safeguards Information and/or Classified Information, in order to meet the timeliness requirements of this section. The licensee must also indicate to the NRC that its secure communications capability is unavailable.

(ii) Licensees using a non-secure communications capability may be directed by the NRC Emergency Response management to provide classified information to the NRC over the non-secure system, due to the significance of the ongoing security event. In such circumstances, the licensee must document this direction and any information provided to the NRC over a non-secure communications capability in the written security follow-up report required in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.

(4) For events reported under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the NRC may request that the licensee maintain an open and continuous communication channel with the NRC Headquarters Operations Center.

(5) Licensees desiring to retract a previous security event report that has been determined to not meet the threshold of a reportable event must telephonically notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center and indicate the report being retracted and basis for the retraction.
