
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 73 - PHYSICAL PROTECTION OF PLANTS AND MATERIALS
#### Subpart I - Enforcement
##### § 73.77 Cyber security event notifications.
###### Written security follow-up reports.

(d)Each licensee making an initial telephonic notification of security events to the NRC according to the provisions of paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), and (a)(2)(ii) of this section must also submit a written security follow-up report to the NRC within 60 days of the telephonic notification in accordance with § 73.4.

(1) Licensees are not required to submit a written security follow-up report following a telephonic notification made under § 73.77(a)(2)(iii) or (a)(3).

(2) Each licensee shall submit to the NRC written security follow-up reports that are of a quality that will permit legible reproduction and processing.

(3) Licensees shall prepare the written security follow-up report on NRC Form 366.

(4) In addition to the addressees specified in § 73.4, the licensee shall also provide one copy of the written security follow-up report addressed to the Director, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response, or the Director's designee. Any written security follow-up reports containing classified information shall be transmitted to the NRC Headquarters' classified mailing address as specified in appendix A to this part.

(5) The written security follow-up report must include sufficient information for NRC analysis and evaluation.

(6) Significant supplemental information which becomes available after the initial telephonic notification to the NRC Headquarters Operations Center or after the submission of the written security follow-up report must be telephonically reported to the NRC Headquarters Operations Center under paragraph (c) of this section and also submitted in a revised written security follow-up report (with the revisions indicated) as required under this section.

(7) Errors discovered in a written security follow-up report must be corrected in a revised written security follow-up report with the revision(s) indicated.

(8) The revised written security follow-up report must replace the previous written security follow-up report; the update must be complete and not be limited to only supplementary or revised information.

(9) If the licensee subsequently retracts a telephonic notification made under this section as not meeting the threshold of a reportable event, and has not yet submitted a written security follow-up report then submission of a written security follow-up report is not required.

(10) If the licensee subsequently retracts a telephonic notification made under this section as not meeting the threshold of a reportable event after it has submitted a written security follow-up report required by this paragraph, then the licensee shall submit a revised written security follow-up report in accordance with this paragraph.

(11) Each written security follow-up report submitted containing Safeguards Information or Classified Information must be created, stored, marked, labeled, handled, and transmitted to the NRC according to the requirements of §§ 73.21 and 73.22 or with part 95 of this chapter, as applicable.

(12) Each licensee shall maintain a copy of the written security follow-up report of an event submitted under this section as a record for a period of three years from the date of the report or until the Commission terminates the license for which the records were developed, whichever comes first.
