
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 73 - PHYSICAL PROTECTION OF PLANTS AND MATERIALS
#### Subpart T - Security Notifications, Reports, and Recordkeeping
##### § 73.1200 Notification of physical security events.
###### One-hour notifications-facilities.

(c)(1) Each licensee subject to the provisions of § 73.20, § 73.45, § 73.46, § 73.50, § 73.51, § 73.55, § 73.60, or § 73.67 must notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center as soon as possible but no later than 1 hour after the time of discovery of the following significant facility security events involving-

(i) Any event in which there is reason to believe that a person has committed or caused, or attempted to commit or cause, or has made a threat to commit or cause:

(A) The theft or diversion of a Category I, II, or III quantity of SSNM or a Category II or III quantity of special nuclear material (SNM);

(B) Significant physical damage to any nuclear power reactor, to a facility possessing a Category I or II quantity of SSNM, or to a facility storing or disposing of SNF and/or HLW;

(C) The unauthorized operation, manipulation, or tampering with any nuclear power reactor's controls or with structures, systems, and components (SSCs) that results in the interruption of normal operation of the reactor; or

(D) The unauthorized operation, manipulation, or tampering with any Category I SSNM facility's SSCs that results in an accidental criticality.

(ii)(A) For licensees required to have a vehicle barrier system protecting their facility, the introduction beyond the vehicle barrier of a quantity of unauthorized explosives that meets or exceeds the relevant facility's adversary characteristics.

(B) This provision is applicable to facilities where the vehicle barrier system protecting the facility is located at the Protected Area boundary.

(iii) The licensee's notification by law enforcement or government officials of a potential hostile action or act of sabotage anticipated within greater than 12 hours against a licensee's facility.

(2) Notifications must be made according to paragraph (o) of this section, as applicable.

(3) Notifications made under paragraph (a) of this section are not required to be repeated under this paragraph.

(4) As an exemption, licensees subject to § 73.50, § 73.60, or § 73.67 are not required to make notifications for events listed under paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section.
