
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 73 - PHYSICAL PROTECTION OF PLANTS AND MATERIALS
#### Subpart T - Security Notifications, Reports, and Recordkeeping
##### § 73.1200 Notification of physical security events.
###### One-hour notifications-shipments.

(d)(1) Each licensee subject to the provisions of § 73.20, § 73.25, § 73.26, § 73.27, § 73.37, or § 73.67 or its designated movement control center must notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center as soon as possible but no later than 1 hour after the time of discovery of the following significant transportation security events involving-

(i) Any event in which there is reason to believe that a person has committed or caused, or attempted to commit or cause, or has made a threat to commit or cause:

(A) The theft or diversion of the Category I, II, or III quantity of SSNM; a Category II or III quantity of SNM; SNF; or HLW being transported;

(B) Significant physical damage to any vehicle transporting a Category I or II quantity of SSNM, a Category II quantity of SNM, SNF, or HLW; or

(C) Significant physical damage to the Category I or II quantity of SSNM, a Category II quantity of SNM, SNF, or HLW being transported.

(ii) The discovery of the loss of a shipment of Category I SSNM.

(iii) The recovery of, or accounting for, a lost shipment of Category I SSNM.

(iv) The licensee's notification by law enforcement or government officials of a potential hostile action or attempted act of sabotage anticipated within greater than the next 12 hours against a shipment of Category I quantities of SSNM, SNF, or HLW.

(2) Notifications must be made according to paragraph (o) of this section, as applicable.

(3) Notifications made under paragraph (b) of this section are not required to be repeated under this paragraph.
