
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 73 - PHYSICAL PROTECTION OF PLANTS AND MATERIALS
#### Subpart T - Security Notifications, Reports, and Recordkeeping
##### § 73.1200 Notification of physical security events.
###### Four-hour notifications-facilities.

(e)(1) Each licensee subject to the provisions of § 73.20, § 73.45, § 73.46, § 73.50, § 73.51, § 73.55, § 73.60, or § 73.67 of this part must notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center within 4 hours after time of discovery of the following facility security events involving-

(i) The actual access of an unauthorized person into a facility's protected area (PA), vital area (VA), material access area (MAA), or controlled access area (CAA);

(ii) The attempted access of an unauthorized person into a PA, VA, MAA, or CAA;

(iii) The actual introduction of contraband into a PA, VA, or MAA;

(iv) The attempted introduction of contraband into a PA, VA, or MAA.

(v)(A) The discovery that a weapon that is authorized by the licensee's security plan is lost or uncontrolled within a PA, VA, or MAA;

(B) Uncontrolled authorized weapons are defined as weapons that are authorized by the licensee's security plan and are not in the possession of authorized personnel or are not in an authorized weapons storage location;

(vi) The unauthorized operation, manipulation, or tampering with any nuclear reactor or Category I SSNM facility's controls or SSCs that could prevent the implementation of the licensee's protective strategy for protecting any target set;

(vii) The identification or discovery of a previously unrecognized or unidentified vulnerability that could prevent the implementation of the licensee's protective strategy for protecting any target set; or

(viii)(A) For licensees required to have a vehicle barrier system protecting their facility, the identification or discovery at or beyond the vehicle barrier of unauthorized explosives.

(B) This provision is applicable to facilities where the vehicle barrier system protecting the facility is located at a distance from the Protected Area boundary greater than that assumed in the facility's blast analysis.

(2) An event related to the licensee's implementation of their security program for which a notification was made to local, State, or Federal law enforcement officials provided that the event does not otherwise require a notification under paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section.

(3)(i) An event involving a law enforcement response to the facility that could reasonably be expected to result in public or media inquiries and that does not otherwise require a notification under paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section, or in other NRC regulations such as § 50.72(b)(2)(xi) of this chapter.

(ii) As an exemption, licensees need not report law enforcement responses to minor incidents, such as traffic accidents.

(4) For licensees subject to the provisions of § 73.55 of this part, an event involving the licensee's suspension of security measures.

(5) Notifications must be made according to paragraph (o) of this section, as applicable.

(6) Notifications made under paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section are not required to be repeated under this paragraph.
