
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 73 - PHYSICAL PROTECTION OF PLANTS AND MATERIALS
#### Subpart T - Security Notifications, Reports, and Recordkeeping
##### ยง 73.1200 Notification of physical security events.
###### Notification process.

(o)(1) Each licensee must make the telephonic notifications to the NRC required by paragraphs (a) through (n) of this section to the NRC Headquarters Operations Center via any available telephone system. Commercial telephone numbers for the NRC Headquarters Operations Center are specified in Table 1 of appendix A of this part.

(2) Licensees must make required telephonic notifications via any method that will ensure that a report is received by the NRC Headquarters Operations Center or other specified government officials within the timeliness requirements of paragraphs (a) through (n) of this section, as applicable.

(3) Notifications required by this section that contain Safeguards Information may be made to the NRC Headquarters Operations Center without using secure communications systems under the exception of ยง 73.22(f)(3) for the communication of emergency or extraordinary conditions.

(4)(i) Notifications required by this section that contain classified national security information and/or classified restricted data must be made to the NRC Headquarters Operations Center using secure communications systems appropriate to the classification level of the message. Licensees making classified telephonic notifications must contact the NRC Headquarters Operations Center at the commercial numbers specified in Table 1 of appendix A to this part and request a transfer to a secure telephone, as specified in paragraph III of appendix A to this part.
