
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 73 - PHYSICAL PROTECTION OF PLANTS AND MATERIALS
#### Subpart T - Security Notifications, Reports, and Recordkeeping
##### ยง 73.1215 Suspicious activity reports.
###### General requirements.

(c)(1)(i) Licensees subject to paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section must report suspicious activities that are applicable to their facility, material, or shipping activity.

(ii) If a suspicious activity requires a physical security event notification pursuant to ยง 73.1200, then the licensee is not required to also report the occurrence as a suspicious activity pursuant to this section.

(iii) If a suspicious activity report results in a LLEA response the licensee must notify the NRC in accordance with the requirements of ยง 73.1200.

(2)(i) Licensees must promptly assess whether an activity is suspicious. Licensees may review additional information as part of an assessment process, including interactions with their LLEA. However, such assessments and any subsequent reporting must be completed as soon as possible, but within 4 hours of the time of discovery. The licensee must base its assessment upon its best available information on the activity, which may include its knowledge of its locale and the local population.

(ii) The licensee's assessment of a potential suspicious activity, and any discussion of this activity with its LLEA, does not constitute a conclusion, in and of itself, that the activity is suspicious.

(iii) Licensees are not required to report activities that, based on their assessment, appear to be innocent or innocuous.

(3) For a suspicious activity specified under paragraph (d) of this section, the licensee must make the following reports:

(i) First, to their LLEA;

(ii) Second, to their applicable FBI local field office;

(iii) Third, to the NRC Headquarters Operations Center; and

(iv) Lastly, to the local FAA control tower if the suspicious activity involves aircraft overflights in proximity to the licensee's facility.

(4) For a suspicious activity specified under paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section, the licensee or its designated movement control center must make the following reports, in the order indicated:

(i) First, to the applicable LLEA;

(ii) Second, to the applicable FBI local field office; and

(iii) Lastly, to the NRC Headquarters Operations Center.

(iv) For licensees making such reports related to shipping activities, the licensee responsible for the security of the shipment must contact the applicable FBI local field office.

(v) For a movement control center making such reports related to shipping activities, the applicable FBI local field office is as requested by the FBI. As such, the FBI may direct the use of the FBI local field office applicable to the movement control center itself or to the FBI local field office applicable to the licensee responsible for the security of the shipment.

(5)(i) Licensees subject to paragraphs (d) and (f) of this section must establish a point of contact with their local FBI field office.

(ii) Licensees subject to paragraph (d) of this section must establish a point of contact with their local FAA control tower.

(6)(i) For licensees subject to paragraph (e) of this section who are responsible for the security of the shipment(s), the licensee must establish a point of contact with their local FBI field office.

(ii) For licensees subject to paragraph (e) of this section who are employing the services of a movement control center, the movement control center must establish a point of contact with its local FBI field office.

(7) Licensees and movement control centers reporting suspicious activities to the NRC must notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center via the telephone number specified in Table 1 of appendix A of this part.

(8)(i) Licensees and movement control centers reporting suspicious activities must document the LLEA and FBI points of contact in written security communication procedures or route approvals, as applicable.

(ii) Licensees reporting suspicious aircraft overflight activities must document the FAA point of contact in written communication procedures.
