
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 73 - PHYSICAL PROTECTION OF PLANTS AND MATERIALS
#### ยง 73.15 Authorization for use of enhanced weapons and preemption of firearms laws.
##### Application process for stand-alone preemption authority.

(d)(1) Only licensees included within the classes of facilities, radioactive material, and other property listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section may apply to the NRC for stand-alone preemption authority.

(2) Licensees applying for stand-alone preemption authority must submit an application to the NRC using the procedures specified in this section.

(3) The contents of the application must include the following information:

(i) A statement indicating that the licensee is applying for stand-alone preemption authority;

(ii) The Commission-designated facility, radioactive material, or other property to be protected by the licensee's security personnel using the covered weapons;

(iii) A description of the licensee's purposes and objectives in requesting stand-alone preemption authority. This description must include whether these covered weapons are currently employed as part of the licensee's existing protective strategy or whether these covered weapons will be used in a revised protective strategy; and

(iv) A description of the licensee's Firearms Background Check Plan, as required by ยง 73.17 of this part.

(4) Once a licensee has been notified that its application for stand-alone preemption authority has been accepted for review by the NRC, the licensee must provide the following supplemental information once it becomes available:

(i) A confirmation that a sufficient number of security personnel have completed a satisfactory firearms background check to meet the licensee's security personnel minimum staffing requirements, as specified in its physical security plan and any applicable fatigue requirements under part 26 of this chapter;

(ii) A confirmation that the necessary training modules and notification procedures have been developed under its Firearms Background Check Plan; and

(iii) A confirmation that all security personnel whose official duties require access to covered weapons have been trained on these modules and notification procedures.

(5) The licensee must submit both the application and the supplementary information to the NRC in writing, under oath or affirmation, and in accordance with ยง 73.4 of this part.

(6) Upon the effective date of the NRC's approval of its application for stand-alone preemption authority, the licensee must only assign security personnel who have completed a satisfactory firearms background check to duties requiring access to any covered weapons.
