
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 73 - PHYSICAL PROTECTION OF PLANTS AND MATERIALS
#### ยง 73.15 Authorization for use of enhanced weapons and preemption of firearms laws.
##### Transfer of enhanced weapons.

(m)(1)(i) A licensee's issuance of enhanced weapons to its security personnel is not considered a transfer of those weapons as specified under ATF's regulations in 27 CFR part 479, provided the enhanced weapons remain within the site of a facility.

(ii) Remaining within the site of a facility means within the site boundary, as defined by the licensee's safety analysis report submitted to the NRC.

(2) A licensee's issuance of enhanced weapons to its security personnel for the permissible reasons specified in paragraph (m)(3) of this section, for activities that are outside of the facility's site boundary, are not considered a transfer under the provisions of 26 U.S.C. chapter 53, as specified under ATF's regulations in 27 CFR part 479, provided-

(i) The security personnel possessing the enhanced weapons are employees of the licensee; or

(ii) The security personnel possessing the enhanced weapons are employees of a contractor providing security services to the licensee and these contractor security personnel are under the direction of, and accompanied by, an authorized licensee employee.

(3) Permissible reasons for removal of enhanced weapons from the licensee's facility include-

(i) Removal of enhanced weapons for use at a firing range or training facility that is used by the licensee in accordance with its NRC-approved training and qualification plan for enhanced weapons;

(ii) Removal of enhanced weapons for use in escorting shipments of radioactive material or other property designated under paragraph (c) of this section that are being transported to or from the licensee's facility; or

(iii) Removal of an enhanced weapon from a licensee's facility to a gunsmith for the purposes of repair or maintenance and the subsequent return of the enhanced weapon to the licensee's facility.

(4) A licensee that has authorized the removal of enhanced weapons from its facility for any of the permissible reasons listed under paragraph (m)(3) of this section must verify that these weapons are returned to the facility upon the completion of the authorized activity.

(5) Removal of enhanced weapons from and/or return of these weapons to the licensee's facility must be documented in accordance with the records requirements of paragraph (q) of this section.

(6) Removal of enhanced weapons from a licensee's facility for reasons other than those set forth in paragraph (m)(3) of this section are considered a transfer as specified under ATF's regulations in 27 CFR part 479.

(7) The licensee may only transfer enhanced weapons pursuant to an ATF application to transfer and register the weapons that is approved by ATF in advance of the transfer, as required by ATF's regulations under 27 CFR part 479. Examples of transfers include, but are not limited to:

(i) Sale or disposal of an enhanced weapon to another authorized NRC licensee;

(ii) Sale or disposal of an enhanced weapon to an authorized Federal firearms license holder, government agency, or official police organization; or

(iii) Abandonment of an enhanced weapon to ATF.

(8) Following the completion of their official duties, security personnel must either-

(i) Return issued enhanced weapons to a licensee's authorized enhanced weapons storage location, as specified in the licensee's physical security plan, or

(ii) Turn over responsibility for the issued enhanced weapon to another on-shift security personnel authorized to use enhanced weapons as part of their official duties.

(9) Enhanced weapons that are not returned to the licensee's facility, following permissible removal, must be considered a transfer of a weapon under this paragraph, or a stolen or lost weapon under paragraph (p) of this section, as applicable. Information on the transfer, theft, or loss of an enhanced weapon must be documented, as required under paragraph (q) of this section.
