
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 73 - PHYSICAL PROTECTION OF PLANTS AND MATERIALS
#### ยง 73.15 Authorization for use of enhanced weapons and preemption of firearms laws.
##### Transport of weapons.

(n)(1) Security personnel transporting enhanced weapons to or from a firing range or training facility used by the licensee must ensure that these weapons are unloaded and locked in a secure container during transport. Unloaded weapons and ammunition may be transported in the same locked secure container.

(2) Security personnel transporting enhanced weapons to or from a licensee's facility following the completion of, or in preparation for, escorting shipments of radioactive material or other property must ensure that these weapons are unloaded and locked in a secure container during transport. Security personnel may transport unloaded weapons and ammunition in the same locked secure container.

(3) Security personnel using enhanced weapons to protect shipments of radioactive material or other property that are being transported to or from the licensee's facility must ensure that these weapons are maintained in a state of loaded readiness and available for immediate use, except when otherwise prohibited by 18 U.S.C. 922(q).

(4) Security personnel transporting enhanced weapons to or from the licensee's facility must also comply with the requirements of ยง 73.17 of this part.

(5) Situations where security personnel transport enhanced weapons to or from the licensee's facility are not considered transfers of these weapons under ATF's regulations in 27 CFR part 479, provided-

(i) The security personnel transporting the enhanced weapons are employees of the licensee; or

(ii) The security personnel transporting the enhanced weapons are employees of a contractor providing security services to the licensee; and these contractor security personnel are under the direction of, and accompanied by, an authorized licensee employee.

(6) For the interstate transportation of enhanced weapons, pursuant to this section, the licensee must obtain prior written approval from ATF, as required by 27 CFR part 478.
