
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 73 - PHYSICAL PROTECTION OF PLANTS AND MATERIALS
#### ยง 73.15 Authorization for use of enhanced weapons and preemption of firearms laws.
##### Periodic inventories of enhanced weapons.

(o)(1) Licensees possessing enhanced weapons under this section must conduct the following periodic accountability inventories of the enhanced weapons in their possession to verify the continued presence of each enhanced weapon that the licensee is authorized to possess.

(2)(i) Licensees must conduct a monthly inventory to verify that the authorized quantity of enhanced weapons are present at the licensee's facility.

(ii) Licensees must verify the presence of each individual enhanced weapon.

(iii) Licensees that store enhanced weapons in a locked secure weapons container (e.g., a ready-service arms locker) located within a protected area, vital area, or material access area may verify the presence of an intact tamper-indicating device (TID) on the locked secure weapons container, instead of verifying the presence of each individual weapon.

(iv) Verification of the presence of enhanced weapons via the presence of an intact TID must be documented in the inventory records and include the serial number of the TID.

(v) Licensees may use electronic technology (e.g., bar-codes on the weapons) in conducting such inventories.

(vi) The time interval from the previous monthly inventory must not exceed 30 + 7 days.

(3)(i) Licensees must conduct an annual inventory to verify that each authorized enhanced weapon is present at the licensee's facility through the verification of the serial number of each enhanced weapon.

(ii) Licensees must verify the presence of each enhanced weapon located in a locked secure weapons container (e.g., a ready-service arms locker) through the verification of the serial number of each enhanced weapon located within the container.

(iii) The time interval from the previous annual inventory must not exceed 365 + 7 days.

(iv) Licensees conducting an annual inventory may substitute this annual inventory in lieu of conducting the normal monthly inventory for that particular month, as required under paragraph (o) of this section.

(4) Licensees must conduct periodic inventories of enhanced weapons using either a two-person team or a single individual, provided the individual is subject to the licensee's behavioral observation or human reliability programs.

(5) The results of any periodic inventories of enhanced weapons must be retained in accordance with the records requirements of paragraph (q) of this section.

(6) Licensees must inventory any locked secure weapons container that was sealed with a TID and has subsequently been opened and must verify the serial number for each of the enhanced weapons stored in the weapons container. The inventoried weapons container must be relocked and resealed with a new TID and the new TID's serial number must be recorded in the periodic inventory records. The inventory must be conducted in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (o)(4) of this section.

(i) Licensees must use TIDs with unique serial numbers on locked secure weapons containers containing enhanced weapons.

(ii) Licensees must store unused TIDs in a manner similar to other security access control devices (e.g., keys, lock cores, etc.) and must maintain a log of issued TID serial numbers.

(7) Licensees must resolve any discrepancies identified during periodic inventories within 24 hours of their identification; otherwise, the discrepancy must be treated as a stolen or lost enhanced weapon and notifications must be made in accordance with paragraph (p) of this section.

(8) As an exception, enhanced weapons that are offsite for authorized purposes, in accordance with paragraphs (m) and (n) of this section, are required to be included in a periodic inventory but are not considered lost or stolen solely because they are offsite. The licensee must document the absence of these weapon(s) from the licensee's facility in the report of the results of a completed periodic enhanced weapons inventory, as required under paragraph (q) of this section.
