
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 73 - PHYSICAL PROTECTION OF PLANTS AND MATERIALS
#### ยง 73.15 Authorization for use of enhanced weapons and preemption of firearms laws.
##### Records requirements.

(q)(1) Licensees possessing enhanced weapons under this section must maintain records relating to the receipt, transfer, transportation, and inventory of such enhanced weapons.

(2) Licensees must maintain the following minimum records regarding the receipt of each enhanced weapon, including-

(i) Date of receipt of the weapon;

(ii) Name and address of the transferor who transferred the weapon to the licensee;

(iii) Name of the manufacturer of the weapon, or the name of the importer (for weapons manufactured outside the U.S.); and

(iv) Serial number, type, and caliber or gauge of the weapon.

(3) Licensees must maintain the following minimum records regarding the transfer of each enhanced weapon-

(i) Date of shipment of the weapon;

(ii) Name and address of the transferee who received the weapon; and

(iii) Serial number, type, and caliber or gauge of the weapon.

(4) Licensees must maintain the following minimum records regarding the transportation of each enhanced weapon away from the licensee's facility-

(i) Date of departure of the weapon;

(ii) Date of return of the weapon;

(iii) Purpose of the weapon's removal from the facility;

(iv) Name(s) of the security personnel transporting the weapon;

(v) Name(s) of the licensee employee accompanying and directing the transportation, where the security personnel transporting the weapons are employees of a security contractor providing security services to the licensee;

(vi) Name of the person/facility to whom the weapon is being transported; and

(vii) Serial number, type, and caliber or gauge of the weapon.

(5) Licensees possessing enhanced weapons pursuant to this section must document in these records the discovery that any of these enhanced weapons are stolen or lost.

(6) Licensees possessing enhanced weapons pursuant to this section must maintain records relating to the inventories of enhanced weapons for a period of up to one year after the licensee's authority to possess enhanced weapons is terminated, suspended, or revoked under paragraph (r) of this section and all enhanced weapons have been transferred from the licensee's facility.

(7) Licensees may integrate any records required by this section with records maintained by the licensee pursuant to ATF's regulations.

(8) Licensees must make any records required by this section available to NRC staff and ATF staff upon request.
