
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 73 - PHYSICAL PROTECTION OF PLANTS AND MATERIALS
#### § 73.15 Authorization for use of enhanced weapons and preemption of firearms laws.
##### Termination, modification, suspension, or revocation of Section 161A authority.

(r)

(1)(i) Licensees seeking to terminate their stand-alone preemption authority must apply to the NRC in writing, under oath or affirmation, and in accordance with § 73.4.

(ii) Licensees seeking to terminate their combined enhanced weapons authority and preemption authority must apply to the NRC in writing, under oath or affirmation, and in accordance with § 73.4, and the license amendment provisions of § 50.90, § 70.34, or § 72.56 of this chapter, as applicable. These licensees must have transferred or disposed of any enhanced weapons, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (m) of this section, prior to the NRC approval of a request for termination of their authority.

(2) Licensees seeking to modify their combined preemption authority and enhanced weapons authority, issued under this section, must apply to the NRC in writing, under oath or affirmation, and in accordance with § 73.4, and the license amendment provisions of § 50.90, § 70.34, or § 72.56 of this chapter, as applicable. Licensees' applications to modify their enhanced weapons authority must provide the information required under paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section.

(i) Licensees seeking to replace their enhanced weapons with different types of enhanced weapons must amend their original application to include the different quantities, types, and calibers or gauges of the new enhanced weapons. This amended application must include a plan to transfer or dispose of their existing enhanced weapons once the new weapons are deployed.

(ii) Licensees adding additional quantities or types of enhanced weapons do not require a transfer or disposal plan.

(3) The Commission may revoke, suspend, or modify, in whole or in part, any approval issued under this section for any material false statement in the application or other statement of fact required of the licensee; or because of conditions revealed by the application or statement of fact or any report, record, inspection, or other means that would warrant the Commission refusing to grant approval of an original application; or for violation of, or for failure to observe, any of the terms and provisions of the act, regulations, license, permit, approval, or order of the Commission, or for any other reason that the Commission determines is appropriate.

(4) Licensees that have their stand-alone preemption authority or combined preemption authority and enhanced weapons authority terminated, suspended, or revoked may reapply for such authority by filing a new application under the provisions of this section.

(5) The NRC will notify ATF within 3 business days after taking action to terminate, modify, suspend, or revoke a licensee's stand-alone preemption authority or combined preemption authority and enhanced weapons authority issued under this section.
