
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 73 - PHYSICAL PROTECTION OF PLANTS AND MATERIALS
#### ยง 73.15 Authorization for use of enhanced weapons and preemption of firearms laws.
##### Withdrawal of orders.

(s)For licensees that received an order issued under Section 161A (42 U.S.C. 2201a) prior to April 13, 2023, the following provisions apply.

(1) Licensees are not required to reapply for this authority.

(2) The requirements of such orders are superseded in their entirety by the requirements of this section and ยง 73.17 of this part.

(3) Licensees must complete their transition from the confirmatory orders to the requirements of this rule by January 8, 2024.

(4) On January 8, 2024 the following orders are withdrawn:

(i) Order EA-13-092, "Order Designating an Interim Class of NRC-Licensed Facilities that are Eligible to Apply to the Commission for Authorization to Use the Authority Granted Under the Provisions of Section 161a of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as Amended" (78 FR 35984; June 14, 2013);

(ii) Confirmatory Order EA-15-006, "In the Matter of BWXT Nuclear Operations Group, Inc." (80 FR 53588; September 4, 2015);

(iii) Confirmatory Orders EA-14-135 and EA-14-136, "In the Matter of Entergy Nuclear Operations Inc.; Entergy Nuclear Indian Point 2, LLC; and Entergy Nuclear Indian Point 3, LLC (Indian Point Nuclear Generating Unit (Nos. 1, 2, and 3)" (81 FR 2247; January 15, 2016);

(iv) Confirmatory Order EA-14-137, "In the Matter of Entergy Nuclear Fitzpatrick, LLC and Entergy Nuclear Operations Inc. (James A. Fitzpatrick Nuclear Power Plant)" (81 FR 2247; January 15, 2016);

(v) Confirmatory Order EA-14-138, "In the Matter of Exelon Generation Company, LLC (Nine Mile Point Nuclear Station Units 1 and 2)" (81 FR 2247; January 15, 2016);

(vi) Confirmatory Order EA-14-139, "In the Matter of Exelon Generation Company, LLC (R.E. Ginna Nuclear Power Plant)" (81 FR 2247; January 15, 2016);

(vii) Confirmatory Order EA-14-134, "In the Matter of Pacific Gas and Electric Company (Diablo Canyon Nuclear Power Plant, Units 1 and 2, and DCPP Independent Spent Fuel Storage Installation)" (81 FR 2247; January 15, 2016); and

(viii) Confirmatory Order EA-14-140, "In the Mater of Southern California Edison Company (San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station, Units 2 and 3, and Independent Spent Fuel Storage Installation)" (81 FR 2247; January 15, 2016).
