
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 73 - PHYSICAL PROTECTION OF PLANTS AND MATERIALS
#### § 73.17 Firearms background checks for armed security personnel.
##### General Requirements.

(b)(1) Licensees that have applied to the NRC under § 73.15 of this part for stand-alone preemption authority or for combined preemption authority and enhanced weapons authority must comply with the provisions of this section. Such licensees must establish a Firearms Background Check Plan. Licensees must establish this plan as part of their overall NRC-approved Training and Qualification plan for security personnel whose official duties require access to covered weapons.

(2) For the purposes of § 73.15 and this section only, the term security personnel whose official duties require access to covered weapons includes, but is not limited to, the following groups of individuals:

(i) Security officers using covered weapons to protect a Commission-designated facility, radioactive material, or other property;

(ii) Security officers undergoing firearms training on covered weapons;

(iii) Firearms-training instructors conducting training on covered weapons;

(iv) Armorers conducting maintenance, repair, and testing of covered weapons;

(v) Individuals with access to armories and weapons storage lockers containing covered weapons;

(vi) Individuals conducting inventories of enhanced weapons;

(vii) Individuals removing enhanced weapons from the site for repair, training, and escort-duty purposes; and

(viii) Individuals whose duties require access to covered weapons, whether the individuals are employed directly by the licensee or employed by a security contractor who provides security services to the licensee.

(3) The Firearms Background Check Plan must describe how the licensee will accomplish the following objectives:

(i) Completing firearms background checks for all security personnel whose duties require, or will require, access to covered weapons;

(ii) Establishing a process for completing initial, periodic, and break-in-service firearms background checks;

(iii) Defining the training objectives and modules for security personnel who are subject to firearms background checks;

(iv) Completing the initial and periodic training for security personnel whose official duties require access to covered weapons;

(v) Maintaining records of completed firearms background checks, required training, and any supporting documents;

(vi) Maintaining records of a decision to remove security personnel from duties requiring access to covered weapons, due to the identification or occurrence of any Federal or State disqualifying status condition or disqualifying event; and

(vii) Developing and implementing procedures for notifying the NRC of the removal of security personnel from access to covered weapons, due to the identification or occurrence of any Federal or State disqualifying status condition or disqualifying event.

(4)(i) Licensees that have applied to the NRC for stand-alone preemption authority or for combined preemption authority and enhanced weapons authority under § 73.15 must ensure that a satisfactory firearms background check has been completed for all security personnel whose official duties require access to covered weapons.

(ii) Security personal may continue to have access to covered weapons pending the results of the initial firearms background check.

(5) Only licensees that have applied for Section 161A authority under § 73.15 may conduct the firearms background checks required by this section.

(6) The licensee must commence firearms background checks only after receiving notification from the NRC that the agency has accepted for review its application for stand-alone preemption authority or for combined preemption authority and enhanced weapons authority.

(7)(i) Applicants for a license who have also submitted an application for Section 161A authority must only commence firearms background checks after:

(A) The NRC has issued its license; and

(B) The NRC has accepted its application for stand-alone preemption authority or for combined preemption authority and enhanced weapons authority for review.

(ii) Subsequent to April 13, 2023, applicants for a license who have also applied for Section 161A authority and been issued their license must ensure that a satisfactory firearms background check (as defined in § 73.2) has been completed for all security personnel who require access to covered weapons, before the licensee's initial receipt of any source material, special nuclear material, or radioactive material specified under the license.

(8) In response to an adverse firearms background check (as defined in § 73.2),

(i) The licensee must remove, without delay, from duties requiring access to covered weapons, any security personnel who receive a "denied" or "delayed" NICS response.

(ii) If the security personnel to be removed is on duty at the time of removal, then the licensee must fill the vacated position within the timeframe specified in its physical security plan.

(9)(i) The licensee must complete a new satisfactory firearms background check for any of its security personnel that has had a break-in-service greater than 1 week.

(ii) The licensee must complete a new satisfactory firearms background check if the security personnel has transferred from a different licensee.

(iii) A break-in-service means the security personnel's cessation of employment with the licensee or its security contractor, notwithstanding that the previous licensee completed a satisfactory firearms background check on the individual within the last 5 years.

(iv) Exceptions: (A) For the purposes of this section, a break-in-service does not include a security personnel's temporary active duty with the U.S. military reserves or National Guard.

(B) The licensee, in lieu of completing a new satisfactory firearms background check, may instead verify, via an industry-wide information-sharing database, that the security personnel has completed a satisfactory firearms background check within the previous 12 months, provided that this previous firearms background check included a duty station location in the State or Territory where the licensee (who would otherwise be accomplishing the firearms background check) is located or the activity is solely occurring.

(10) Changes in the licensee's ownership or its security contractor services are not considered a break-in-service for current security personnel whose duties require access to covered weapons. Licensees are not required to conduct a new firearms background check for these security personnel.

(11) With regard to accomplishing the requirements for other background (e.g., criminal history records) checks or personnel security investigations under the NRC's access authorization or personal security clearance program requirements of this chapter, the licensee may not substitute a satisfactory firearms background check in lieu of completing these other required background checks or security investigations.

(12) If a licensee has completed initial satisfactory firearms background checks pursuant to an NRC order issued before April 13, 2023, then the licensee is not required to conduct a new initial firearms background check for its current security personnel. However, the licensee must conduct initial firearms background checks on new security personnel and periodic and break-in-service firearms background checks on current security personnel in accordance with the provisions of this section.

(13) A licensee who withdraws its application for Section 161A authority or who has its application disapproved by the NRC, must discontinue conducting firearms background checks.

(14) A licensee whose authority under Section 161A has been rescinded or whose authority has been revoked by the NRC must discontinue conducting firearms background checks.

(c) [Reserved]
