
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 73 - PHYSICAL PROTECTION OF PLANTS AND MATERIALS
#### ยง 73.17 Firearms background checks for armed security personnel.
##### Procedures for processing fingerprint checks.,https://www.nrc.gov/security/chp.html.

(k)(1) Licensees, using an appropriate method listed in ยง 73.4, must manually or electronically submit to the NRC one completed, legible standard fingerprint card (FBI Form FD-258, ORIMDNRCOOOZ) or, where practicable, other electronic fingerprint records for each individual requiring a firearms background check. Information on how to obtain FBI Form FD-258 and the process for manual or electronic submission of fingerprint records to the NRC is on the NRC's public website at:

(2) Licensees must indicate on the fingerprint card (or other electronic fingerprint records) that the submittal is part of a firearms background check for personnel whose duties require, or will require, access to covered weapons. Licensees must add the following information to the FBI Form FD-258 fingerprint card or the electronic fingerprint records submitted to the NRC:

(i) For fingerprints submitted to the NRC for the completion of a firearms background check only, the licensee must enter the terms "MDNRCNICZ" in the "ORI" field and "Firearms" in the "Reasons Fingerprinted" field of the FBI Form FD-258 or the electronic fingerprint records submitted to the NRC.

(ii) For fingerprints submitted to the NRC for the completion of both an access authorization check or personnel security clearance check and a firearms background check, the licensee must enter the terms "MDNRC000Z" in the "ORI" field and "Employment and Firearms" in the "Reasons Fingerprinted" field of the FBI Form FD-258 or the electronic fingerprint records submitted to the NRC.

(3) Licensees must establish procedures that produce high-quality fingerprint images, cards, and records with a minimal rejection rate.

(4) The NRC will review fingerprints for firearms background checks for completeness. Any FBI Form FD-258 or other electronic fingerprint records containing omissions or evident errors will be returned to the licensee for correction. The fee for processing fingerprint checks includes one free resubmission if the initial submission is returned by the FBI because the fingerprint impressions cannot be classified. The one free resubmission must have the FBI Transaction Control Number reflected on the resubmission. If additional submissions are necessary, they will be treated as an initial submittal and require a second payment of the processing fee. The payment of a new processing fee entitles the submitter to an additional free resubmittal, if necessary. Previously rejected submissions may not be included with the third submission because the submittal will be rejected automatically.

(5) The NRC will forward to the submitting licensee all data received from the FBI as a result of the licensee's application(s) for a firearms background check. This will include the FBI's "proceed," "delayed," or "denied" NICS response and the NICS transaction number.

(l) [Reserved]
