
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 73 - PHYSICAL PROTECTION OF PLANTS AND MATERIALS
#### ยง 73.17 Firearms background checks for armed security personnel.
##### Fees.,https://www.nrc.gov/security/chp.html.

(m)(1) Fees for the processing of firearms background checks are due upon application. The fee for the processing of a firearms background check consists of a fingerprint fee and a NICS check fee. Licensees must submit payment with the application for the processing of fingerprints, and payment must be made by corporate check, certified check, cashier's check, money order, or electronic payment, made payable to "U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission." Combined payment for multiple applications is acceptable. Licensees can find fee information for firearms background checks on the NRC's public website at:

(2) The application fee for the processing of fingerprint checks is the sum of the user fee charged by the FBI for each fingerprint card or other fingerprint records submitted by the NRC on behalf of a licensee, and an administrative processing fee assessed by the NRC. The NRC processing fee covers administrative costs associated with NRC handling of licensee fingerprint submissions.

(3) The application fee for the processing of NICS checks is an administrative processing fee assessed by the NRC.

(4) Licensees that are also Federal agencies and submit fingerprints and information contained in the NRC Form 754 directly to the FBI are not assessed an application fee by the NRC.
