
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 73 - PHYSICAL PROTECTION OF PLANTS AND MATERIALS
#### ยง 73.17 Firearms background checks for armed security personnel.
##### Protection of information.

(q)(1) Each licensee that obtains a firearms background check and NRC Form 754 information on individuals under this section shall establish and maintain a system of files and procedures to protect these records and any enclosed personally identifiable information (PII) from unauthorized disclosure.

(2) The licensee may not disclose these records or PII to persons other than the subject individual, his/her representative, or to those with a need to have access to the information in performing assigned duties in the process of granting access to covered weapons. No individual authorized to have access to this information may disseminate the information to any other individual who does not have a need to know.

(3) The record or PII may be disclosed to an appropriate Federal or State agency in the performance of its official duties, in the course of an administrative or judicial proceeding, or in response to a Congressional inquiry.

(4) The licensee must make firearms background check records and NRC Forms 754 obtained under this section available for examination by an authorized representative of the NRC to determine compliance with applicable regulations and laws.

(5) The record obtained on an individual from a firearms background check may be transferred to another licensee-

(i) Upon an individual's written request to transfer the individual's record to the licensee identified in the written request; and

(ii) Upon verification from the gaining licensee of the individual's name, date of birth, social security number, and sex.
