
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 73 - PHYSICAL PROTECTION OF PLANTS AND MATERIALS
#### Appendix C to Part 73 - Licensee Safeguards Contingency Plans

Licensees, applicants, and certificate holders, with the exception of those who are subject to the requirements of ยง 73.55 shall comply with the requirements of this section.

A licensee safeguards contingency plan is a documented plan to give guidance to licensee personnel in order to accomplish specific defined objectives in the event of threats, thefts, or radiological sabotage relating to special nuclear material or nuclear facilities licensed under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended. An acceptable safeguards contingency plan must contain:

(1) A predetermined set of decisions and actions to satisfy stated objectives;

(2) An identification of the data, criteria, procedures, and mechanisms necessary to efficiently implement the decisions; and

(3) A stipulation of the individual, group, or organizational entity responsible for each decision and action.

The goals of licensee safeguards contingency plans for responding to threats, thefts, and radiological sabotage are:

(1) To organize the response effort at the licensee level;

(2) To provide predetermined, structured responses by licensees to safeguards contingencies;

(3) To ensure the integration of the licensee response with the responses by other entities; and

(4) To achieve a measurable performance in response capability.

Licensee safeguards contingency planning should result in organizing the licensee's resources in such a way that the participants will be identified, their several responsibilities specified, and the responses coordinated. The responses should be timely.

It is important to note that a licensee's safeguards contingency plan is intended to be complementary to any emergency plans developed under appendix E to part 50 of this chapter, ยง 52.17 or ยง 52.79, or to ยง 70.22(i) of this chapter.

Each licensee safeguards contingency plan shall include five categories of information:

Although the implementing procedures (the fifth category of Plan information) are the culmination of the planning process, and therefore are an integral and important part of the safeguards contingency plan, they entail operating details subject to frequent changes. They need not be submitted to the Commission for approval, but will be inspected by NRC staff on a periodic basis. The licensee is responsible for ensuring that the implementing procedures reflect the information in the Responsibility Matrix, appropriately summarized and suitably presented for effective use by the responding entities.

The following paragraphs describe the contents of the safeguards contingency plan.
