
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 74 - MATERIAL CONTROL AND ACCOUNTING OF SPECIAL NUCLEAR MATERIAL
#### Subpart B - General Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements
##### § 74.13 Material status reports.
###### RidsNmssFcss@nrc.gov.

(a) Each licensee, including nuclear reactor licensees as defined in §§ 50.21 and 50.22 of this chapter, possessing, or who had possessed in the previous reporting period, at any one time and location, special nuclear material in a quantity totaling one gram or more of contained uranium-235, uranium-233, or plutonium shall complete and submit, in computer-readable format Material Balance Reports concerning special nuclear material that the licensee has received, produced, possessed, transferred, consumed, disposed, or lost. This prescribed computer-readable report replaces the DOE/NRC form 742 which has been previously submitted in paper form. The Physical Inventory Listing Report must be submitted with each Material Balance Report. This prescribed computer-readable report replaces the DOE/NRC Form 742C which has been previously submitted in paper form. Reports must be submitted for each Reporting Identification Symbol (RIS) account including all holding accounts. Each licensee shall prepare and submit the reports described in this paragraph as specified in the instructions in NUREG/BR-0007 and NMMSS Report D-24 "Personal Computer Data Input for NRC Licensees." Copies of these instructions may be obtained from the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Division of Fuel Management, Washington, DC 20555-0001, or by e-mail toEach licensee subject to the requirements of § 74.51 shall compile a report as of March 31 and September 30 of each year and file it within 30 days after the end of the period covered by the report. Licensees subject to the requirements of §§ 74.19(c), 74.31(c)(5), 74.33(c)(4), or 74.43(c)(6) shall submit a report within 60 calendar days of the beginning of the physical inventory. All other licensees shall submit a report no later than March 31 of each year. The Commission may permit a licensee to submit the reports at other times for good cause. Each licensee required to report material balance, and inventory information, as detailed in this part, shall resolve any discrepancies identified during the report review and reconciliation process within 30 calendar days of notification of a discrepancy identified by NRC.

(b) Any licensee who is required to submit routine Material Status Reports pursuant to § 75.35 of this chapter (pertaining to implementation of the US/IAEA Safeguards Agreement) shall prepare and submit these reports only as provided in that section (instead of as provided in paragraph (a) of this section).
