
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 74 - MATERIAL CONTROL AND ACCOUNTING OF SPECIAL NUCLEAR MATERIAL
#### Subpart B - General Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements
##### § 74.15 Nuclear material transaction reports.
###### RidsNmssFcss@nrc.gov.

(a) Each licensee who transfers or receives special nuclear material in a quantity of one gram or more of contained uranium-235, uranium-233, or plutonium shall complete in computer-readable format a Nuclear Material Transaction Report. In addition, each licensee who adjusts the inventory in any manner, other than for transfers and receipts, shall submit a Nuclear Material Transaction Report, in computer-readable format, to coincide with the submission of the Material Balance report. This shall be done as specified in the instructions in NUREG/BR-0006 and NMMSS Report D-24, "Personal Computer Data Input for NRC Licensees." Copies of these instructions NUREG/BR-0006 and NMMSS Report D-24, "Personal Computer Data Input for NRC Licensees" may be obtained either by writing the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Division of Fuel Management, Washington, DC 20555-0001, or by e-mail toEach licensee who transfers the material shall submit a Nuclear Material Transaction Report in computer-readable format as specified in the instructions no later than the close of business the next working day. Each licensee who receives the material shall submit a Nuclear Material Transaction Report in computer-readable format in accordance with instructions within ten (10) days after the material is received. This prescribed computer-readable format replaces the DOE/NRC Form 741 which has been previously submitted in paper form.

(b) Each licensee who receives 1 gram or more of contained uranium-235, uranium-233, or plutonium from a foreign source shall:

(1) Complete in computer-readable format both the supplier's and receiver's portion of the Nuclear Material Transaction Report;

(2) Perform independent tests to assure the accurate identification and measurement of the material received, including its weight and enrichment; and

(3) Indicate the results of these tests on the receiver's portion of the form.

(c) Each licensee who ships special nuclear material in a quantity of one gram or more of contained uranium-235, uranium-233, or plutonium to foreign recipient shall complete in computer-readable format the supplier's portion of the Nuclear Material Transaction Report. The licensee shall complete the receiver's portion of the Nuclear Material Transaction Report only if a significant shipper-receiver difference as described in §§ 74.31, 74.43, or 74.59, as applicable, is identified.

(d) Any licensee who is required to submit inventory change reports pursuant to § 75.34 of this chapter (pertaining to implementation of the US/International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) Safeguards Agreement) shall prepare and submit these reports only as provided in that section (instead of as provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section).
