
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 74 - MATERIAL CONTROL AND ACCOUNTING OF SPECIAL NUCLEAR MATERIAL
#### Subpart D - Special Nuclear Material of Moderate Strategic Significance
##### ยง 74.43 Internal controls, inventory, and records.
###### General.

(a)Licensees subject to ยง 74.41 shall maintain the internal control, inventory, and recordkeeping capabilities required in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section.

(b) Internal controls.

(1) A management structure shall be established, documented, and maintained that assures:

(i) Clear overall responsibility for material control and accounting (MC&A) functions;

(ii) Independence from production and manufacturing responsibilities; and

(iii) Separation of key responsibilities.

(2) The overall planning, coordination, and administration of the MC&A functions for special nuclear material (SNM) shall be vested in a single individual at an organizational level sufficient to assure independence of action and objectiveness of decisions.

(3) The licensee shall provide for the adequate review, approval, and use of written MC&A procedures that are identified in the approved FNMC plan as being critical to the effectiveness of the described system.

(4) The licensee shall assure that personnel who work in key positions where mistakes could degrade the effectiveness of the MC&A system are trained to maintain a high level of safeguards awareness and are qualified to perform their duties and/or responsibilities.

(5) The licensee shall establish, document, and maintain an item control program that:

(i) Provides current knowledge of SNM items with respect to identity, element and isotope content, and stored location; and

(ii) Assures that SNM items are stored and handled, or subsequently measured, in a manner such that unauthorized removal of 200 grams or more of plutonium or uranium-233 or 300 grams or more of uranium-235, as one or more whole items and/or as SNM removed from containers, will be detected.

(6) Exempted from the requirements of paragraph (b)(5) of this section are items that exist for less than 14 calendar days and licensee-identified items each containing less than 200 grams of plutonium or uranium-233 or 300 grams or more of uranium-235 up to a cumulative total of one formula kilogram of strategic SNM or 17 kilograms of uranium-235 contained in uranium enriched to 10.00 percent or more but less than 20.00 percent in the uranium-235 isotope.

(7) Conduct and document shipper-receiver comparisons for all SNM receipts, both on an individual batch basis and a total shipment basis, and ensure that any shipper-receiver difference that is statistically significant and exceeds twice the estimated standard deviation of the difference estimator and 200 grams of plutonium or uranium-233 or 300 grams of uranium-235 is investigated and resolved; and

(8) Perform independent assessments of the total MC&A system, at intervals not to exceed 18 months, that assess the performance of the system, review its effectiveness, and document management's action on prior assessment recommendations and identified deficiencies. These assessments must include a review and evaluation of any contractor who performs SNM accountability measurements for the licensee.
