
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 75 - SAFEGUARDS ON NUCLEAR MATERIAL - IMPLEMENTATION OF SAFEGUARDS AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND THE INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY
#### Information for Facilities, Locations, and Nuclear Material Outside Facilities
##### Material Accounting and Control
###### § 75.15 Facility attachments.

(a) The Facility Attachment or Transitional Facility Attachment will document the determinations referred to in § 75.10 and will contain other appropriate provisions.

(b) The NRC will issue license or certificate amendments, as necessary, to implement the U.S.-IAEA Safeguards Agreement and the Facility Attachment (as amended from time to time). The license or certificate amendments through reference to the Facility Attachment or Transitional Facility Attachment, or otherwise, will specify:

(1) IAEA material balance areas;

(2) Types of modifications for which information is required, under § 75.10, to be submitted in advance;

(3) Procedures, as referred to in § 75.21;

(4) The extent to which isotopic composition must be included in batch data (under § 75.22) and advance notification (§ 75.45);

(5) Items to be reported in the concise notes accompanying inventory change reports, as referred to in § 75.34;

(6) Loss limits and changes in containment, as referred to in § 75.36 (pertaining to special reports);

(7) Actions required to be taken under § 75.8(f) at the request of an IAEA inspector;

(8) Procedures to be used for documentation of requests under § 75.46 (pertaining to expenses); and

(9) Other appropriate matters.

(c) The NRC will also issue license or certificate amendments, as necessary, for implementing the Initial Protocol to the U.S.-IAEA Safeguards Agreement and the Transitional Facility Attachment (as amended from time to time).

(d) License or certificate amendments will be made under the NRC's rules of practice (part 2 of this chapter). Specifically, if the licensee or certificate holder does not agree to an amendment, an order modifying the license would be issued under § 2.204 of this chapter.

(e) Subject to constraints imposed by the U.S.-IAEA Safeguards Agreement, the NRC will afford the applicant, licensee, or certificate holder a reasonable opportunity to participate in the development of the Facility Attachment or Transitional Facility Attachment applicable to the facility, and any amendments thereto, and to review and comment upon any instrument before it has been agreed to by the United States. The NRC will provide to the applicant, licensee, or certificate holder a copy of any such instrument that has been completed under the U.S.-IAEA Safeguards Agreement.

(f) Locations reporting under the Additional Protocol, unless located in a facility selected under Article 39(b) of the main text of the U.S.-IAEA Safeguards Agreement, do not have Facility Attachments or Transitional Facility Attachments.
