
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 75 - SAFEGUARDS ON NUCLEAR MATERIAL - IMPLEMENTATION OF SAFEGUARDS AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND THE INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY
#### Information for Facilities, Locations, and Nuclear Material Outside Facilities
##### Reports
###### § 75.31 General requirements.

(a) Each licensee or certificate holder who has been given notice by the NRC under § 75.7 that its facility has been identified under the U.S.-IAEA Safeguards Agreement shall make, in an appropriate computer-readable format, an initial inventory report, and thereafter shall make accounting reports, with respect to the facility and, in addition, licensees or certificate holders who have been given notice, under § 75.7 that their facilities are subject to the application of IAEA safeguards, shall make the special reports described in § 75.36. These reports must be based on the records kept under § 75.21. At the request of the NRC, the licensee or certificate holder shall amplify or clarify any report with respect to any matter relevant to implementation of the U.S.-IAEA Safeguards Agreement. Any amplification or clarification must be in writing and must be submitted, to the address specified in the request, within 20 days of the date of the request or other time as may be specified by the NRC.

(b) Each possessor of nuclear material outside facilities (possessor) subject to the U.S.-IAEA Caribbean Territories Safeguards Agreement shall make, in an appropriate computer-readable format, an initial inventory report in accordance with § 75.32 of this report. Thereafter, that possessor shall make accounting reports as described in §§ 75.33 through 75.35 and special reports as described in § 75.36. These reports must be based on the records kept under § 75.21(b). At the request of the NRC, the possessor shall amplify or clarify any report with respect to any matter relevant to implementation of the U.S.-IAEA Caribbean Territories Safeguards Agreement. Any amplification or clarification must be in writing and must be submitted, to the address specified in the request, within 20 days of the date of the request or other time as may be specified by the NRC.
