
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 75 - SAFEGUARDS ON NUCLEAR MATERIAL - IMPLEMENTATION OF SAFEGUARDS AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND THE INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY
#### Information for Facilities, Locations, and Nuclear Material Outside Facilities
##### ยง 75.11 Locations.

(a) As required by the Additional Protocol, each applicant, licensee, or certificate holder shall submit location information to the NRC as specified in the instructions for DOC/NRC Form AP-1 and associated forms.

(b) Location information includes:

(1) Nuclear fuel cycle-related research and development information including a general description of the activity and information specifying the physical location of the activity.

(2) Nuclear fuel cycle-related manufacturing or construction information including a description of the scale of operations for the activity.

(3) Uranium and thorium mine and concentration plant information including information on the physical location, operational status, and the estimated annual production capacity and current annual production of the activity.

(4) Impure source material possession information including the quantities, the chemical composition, and the use or intended use of the material (e.g., nuclear or non-nuclear use).

(5) Imports and exports of source material for non-nuclear end uses including the physical location, quantities, chemical compositions, and use of the imported or exported material.

(6) IAEA-exempted and -terminated nuclear material information including information regarding the quantities, uses, and physical location of the nuclear material.

(7) Imports and exports of non-nuclear material and equipment including the physical location, quantity and description of the materials and equipment.

(c) Information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(7) of this section must be supplied as specified in the instructions for DOC/NRC Form AP-1 and associated forms. The Information provided on DOC/NRC Form AP-1 and associated forms must be submitted annually. If the information has not changed, a "No change" report must be provided. NRC should also be notified when the activity is no longer performed. The annual report must be submitted by January 31 of each succeeding year after the initial report. The initial report must be submitted no later than 30 calendar days following the date of publication of this rule.

(d) Information must be provided on the need to manage IAEA access to the location to protect health and safety or to protect classified, proprietary, or other sensitive information, and on other protective measures that should be implemented should an IAEA access be requested.
