
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 75 - SAFEGUARDS ON NUCLEAR MATERIAL - IMPLEMENTATION OF SAFEGUARDS AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND THE INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY
#### Information for Facilities, Locations, and Nuclear Material Outside Facilities
##### § 75.13 Communication of information to the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA).

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, the NRC will furnish to the IAEA all information submitted under §§ 75.10, 75.11, 75.12, and 75.31 through 75.43.

(b)(1) An applicant, licensee, certificate holder, or possessor of nuclear material outside facilities may request that information of particular sensitivity, that it customarily holds in confidence, not be transmitted physically to the IAEA. An applicant, licensee, certificate holder, or possessor of nuclear material outside facilities who makes this request shall, at the time the information is submitted, identify the pertinent document or part thereof and make a full statement of the reasons supporting the request.

(2) In considering such a request, it is the policy of the NRC to achieve an effective balance between legitimate concerns of licensees, applicants, certificate holders, or possessors of nuclear material outside facilities, including protection of the competitive position of the owner of the information, and the undertaking of the United States to cooperate with the IAEA to facilitate the implementation of the safeguards provided for in the Safeguards Agreements. The NRC will take into account the obligation of the IAEA to take every precaution to protect commercial and industrial secrets and other confidential information coming to its knowledge in the implementation of the safeguards agreements.

(3) A request made under § 2.390 of this chapter will not be treated as a request under this section unless the application makes specific reference to this section, nor shall a determination to withhold information from public disclosure necessarily require a determination that such information not be transmitted physically to the IAEA.

(4) If a request is granted, the NRC will determine a physical location where the information will remain readily available for examination by the IAEA and will so inform the applicant, licensee, certificate holder, or possessor of nuclear material outside facilities.

(c) A request made under § 2.390(b) of this chapter will not be treated as a request under this section unless the application makes specific reference to this section, nor shall a determination to withhold information from public disclosure necessarily require a determination that this information not be transmitted physically to the IAEA.

(d) Where consistent with the Safeguards Agreements, the NRC may at its own initiative, or at the request of a licensee, determine that any information submitted under §§ 75.10, 75.11, and 75.12 shall not be physically transmitted to, or made available for examination by, the IAEA.
