
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 4 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN FEDERALLY ASSISTED PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FROM THE COMMISSION
#### Subpart C - Regulations Implementing the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as Amended
##### Investigation, Conciliation, and Enforcement Procedures
###### ยง 4.332 Complaints.

(a) Any person, individually or as a member of a class or on behalf of others, may file a complaint with NRC, alleging discrimination prohibited by the Act or these regulations based on an action occurring on or after July 1, 1979. A complainant shall file a complaint within 180 days from the date the complainant first had knowledge of the alleged act of discrimination. However, for good cause shown, NRC may extend this time limit.

(b) NRC will attempt to facilitate the filing of complaints wherever possible, including taking the following measures:

(1) Accepting a complaint as sufficient for further processing that-

(i) Is made in writing;

(ii) Alleges a violation of the Act;

(iii) Identifies the parties involved and the date the complainant first had knowledge of the alleged violation;

(iv) Describes generally the action or practice complained of; and

(v) Is signed by the complainant.

(2) Freely permitting a complainant to add information to the complaint to meet the requirements of a sufficient complaint.

(3) Notifying the complainant and the recipient of their rights and obligations under the complaint procedure, including the right to have a representative at all stages of the complaint procedures.

(4) Notifying the complainant and the recipient (or their representatives) of their right to contact NRC for information and assistance regarding the complaint resolution process.

(c) Each recipient and complainant shall participate actively in efforts toward speedy resolution of the complaint.

(d) NRC will return to the complainant any complaint outside the jurisdiction of these regulations, and will state the reason(s) why it is outside the jurisdiction of these regulations.
