
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 76 - CERTIFICATION OF GASEOUS DIFFUSION PLANTS
#### Subpart B - Application
##### ยง 76.45 Application for amendment of certificate.
###### Request for review of a Director's decision.

(e)The Corporation, or any person whose interest may be affected and who filed a petition for review or filed a response to a petition for review under ยง 76.45(d), may file a petition requesting the Commission's review of a Director's decision on an amendment application.

(1) A petition requesting the Commission's review may not exceed 30 pages and must be filed within 30 days after the date of the Director's decision. A petition requesting the Commission's review may be either:

(i) Delivered to the Rulemakings and Adjudications Staff of the Office of the Secretary at One White Flint North, 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, MD 20852; or

(ii) Sent by mail or telegram to the Secretary, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001, Attention: Rulemakings and Adjudications Staff.

(2) Any person described in paragraph (e) of this section may file a written response to a petition requesting the Commission's review. This response may not exceed 30 pages and must be filed within 15 days after the filing date of the petition requesting the Commission's review.

(3) The Commission may adopt, by order, further procedures that, in its judgment, would serve the purpose of review of the Director's decision. The Commission may adopt, modify, or set aside the findings, conclusions, conditions, or terms in the Director's amendment review decision and will state the basis of its action in writing. If the Commission does not issue a decision or take other appropriate action within 90 days after receiving the petition for review, the Director's decision, under ยง 76.45(d), on the amendment application remains in effect.
