
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 4 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN FEDERALLY ASSISTED PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FROM THE COMMISSION
#### Subpart C - Regulations Implementing the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as Amended
##### Investigation, Conciliation, and Enforcement Procedures
###### ยง 4.333 Mediation.

(a) Referral of complaints for mediation. NRC will refer to a mediation agency designated by the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services all complaints that-

(1) Fall within the jurisdiction of the Act and these regulations; and

(2) Contain all information necessary for further processing.

(b) Both the complainant and the recipient shall participate in the mediation process to the extent necessary to reach an agreement or make an informed judgment that an agreement is not possible. There must be at least one meeting with the mediator before NRC will accept a judgment that an agreement is not possible. However, the recipient and the complainant need not meet with the mediator at the same time.

(c) If the complainant and the recipient reach an agreement, the mediator shall prepare a written statement of the agreement and have the complainant and recipient sign it. The mediator shall send a copy of the agreement to NRC. NRC will take no further action on the complaint unless the complainant or recipient fails to comply with the agreement.

(d) The mediator shall protect the confidentiality of all information obtained in the course of the mediation process. No mediator shall testify in any adjudicative proceeding, produce any document, or otherwise disclose any information obtained in the course of the mediation process without prior approval of the head of the agency appointing the mediator.

(e) NRC will use the mediation process for a maximum of 60 days after receiving a complaint. Mediation ends if-

(1) From the time NRC receives the complaint 60 days elapse; or

(2) Prior to the end of that 60-day period, the mediator determines an agreement is reached; or

(3) Prior to the end of that 60-day period, the mediator determines that an agreement cannot be reached.

(f) The mediator shall return unresolved complaints to NRC.
