
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 76 - CERTIFICATION OF GASEOUS DIFFUSION PLANTS
#### Subpart C - Certification
##### § 76.60 Regulatory requirements which apply.

The Nuclear Regulatory Commission will use the following requirements for certification of the Corporation for operation of the gaseous diffusion plants:

(a) The Corporation shall provide for adequate protection of the public health and safety and common defense and security.

(b) The Corporation shall comply with the provisions of this part.

(c) The Corporation shall comply with the applicable provisions of 10 CFR part 19, "Notices, Instructions and Reports to Workers: Inspection and Investigations," with the following modifications:

(1) [Reserved]

(2) The Corporation shall post NRC Form 3 during the term of the certificate and for 30 days following certificate termination.

(d) The Corporation shall comply with the applicable provisions of 10 CFR part 20, "Standards for Protection Against Radiation," with the following modifications:

(1) [Reserved]

(2) The Corporation shall comply with the requirements in this part or as specified in an approved plan for achieving compliance.

(e) The Corporation shall comply with the applicable provisions of 10 CFR part 21, "Reporting of Defects and Noncompliance," with the following modifications:

(1) The Corporation shall comply with the requirements in §§ 21.6 and 21.21.

(2) Under § 21.31, procurement documents issued by the Corporation must specify that the provisions of 10 CFR Part 21 apply.

(f) The Corporation shall comply with the applicable provisions of 10 CFR Part 26, "Fitness-for-Duty Programs." The requirements of this section apply only if the Corporation elects to engage in activities involving formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material. When applicable, the requirements apply only to the Corporation and personnel carrying out the activities specified in § 26.4(d)(1) through (5), of this chapter.

(g) The Corporation shall comply with the applicable provisions of 10 CFR part 71, "Packaging and Transportation of Radioactive Material."

(h) The Corporation shall comply with the applicable provisions for physical security and material control and accounting as specified in subpart E to this part and contained in 10 CFR part 70, "Domestic Licensing of Special Nuclear Material," part 73, "Physical Protection of Plants and Materials," and part 74, "Material Control and Accounting of Special Nuclear Material." The requirements in these parts address safeguards for three different kinds of nuclear material: Special nuclear material of low strategic significance (Category III), special nuclear material of moderate strategic significance (Category II), and formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material (Category I). The requirements for Category III material apply to the production of low enriched uranium. The requirements for Category II and Category I material apply only if the Corporation elects to engage in activities that involve these kinds of material and then only to the situations and locations that involve these kinds of material.

(i) The Corporation shall comply with the applicable provisions of 10 CFR part 95, "Security Facility Approval and Safeguarding of National Security Information and Restricted Data," as specified in subpart E to this part.
