
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 76 - CERTIFICATION OF GASEOUS DIFFUSION PLANTS
#### Subpart C - Certification
##### ยง 76.64 Denial of certificate or compliance plan.

(a) The Director may deny an application for a certificate of compliance or not approve a compliance plan upon a written finding that the application is in noncompliance with one or more of the Commission's requirements for the plant, or that the compliance plan is inadequate to protect the public health and safety or the common defense and security.

(b) The Director shall publish notice of the decision in the

(c) Before a denial of an application for a certificate of compliance, the Director shall advise the Corporation and the Department in writing of any areas of noncompliance with the Commission's regulations and offer the Department or the Corporation an opportunity to submit a proposed compliance plan prepared by the Department regarding the identified areas of noncompliance. The Director shall take this action even if the Department or the Corporation has previously submitted a proposed compliance plan addressing in whole or in part the identified areas of noncompliance.

(d) The Corporation, or any person whose interest may be affected, may file a petition for review, not to exceed 30 pages, requesting review of the Director's decision. This petition for review must be filed with the Commission not later than 30 days after publication of thenotice. Any person described in this paragraph may file a response to any petition for review, not to exceed 30 pages, within 15 days after the filing of the petition for review. If the Commission does not issue a decision or take other appropriate action within 90 days after the publication of thenotice, the Director's decision remains in effect. The Commission may adopt, by order, further procedures that, in its judgment, would serve the purpose of review of the Director's decision.

(e) The Commission may adopt, modify, or set aside the findings, conclusions, conditions, or terms in the Director's decision and will state the basis of its action in writing.
