
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 76 - CERTIFICATION OF GASEOUS DIFFUSION PLANTS
#### Subpart F - Reports and Inspections
##### ยง 76.121 Inspections.

(a) The Corporation shall afford to the Commission opportunity to inspect the premises and plants under the Corporation's control where radioactive material is used, produced, or stored.

(b) The Corporation shall make available to the Commission for inspection records kept pertaining to receipt, possession, use, acquisition, import, export, or transfer of radioactive material.

(c)(1) The Corporation shall provide rent-free office space for the exclusive use of Commission inspection personnel upon request by the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, or the NRC Region III Administrator. Heat, air conditioning, light, electrical outlets, and janitorial services must be furnished by the Corporation. The office must be convenient to and have full access to the plant, and must provide the inspector both visual and acoustic privacy.

(2) The space provided must be adequate to accommodate the NRC resident inspection staff, a part-time secretary, and transient NRC personnel. Space must be generally commensurate with other office facilities at the site. The office space that is provided must be subject to the approval of the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, or the NRC Region III Office. All furniture, supplies, and communication equipment will be furnished by the Commission.

(3) The Corporation shall afford any NRC resident inspector assigned to that site or other NRC inspectors identified by the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, or the NRC Region III Administrator, as likely to inspect the plant, immediate, unfettered access equivalent to access provided regular plant employees, following proper identification and compliance with applicable access control measures for security, radiological protection, and personal safety.
