
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 81 - STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS FOR THE GRANTING OF PATENT LICENSES
#### NRC-Owned Inventions - Patents and Applications
##### ยง 81.11 Policy.

(a) The inventions covered by the U.S. patents and patent applications vested in the Government of the United States of America, as represented by or in the custody of the Commission, normally will best serve the public interest when they are developed to the point of practical application and made available to the public in the shortest time possible.

(b) The Commission generally prefers to make these inventions available to all interested parties through the granting of nonexclusive licenses. However, the Commission recognizes that to obtain commercial utilization of an invention, it may be necessary to grant an exclusive license for a limited period of time as an incentive for the investment of risk capital to achieve practical application of an invention.

(c) Whenever the Commission deems it appropriate to grant an exclusive license, the license will be negotiated on terms and conditions most favorable to the interests of the public and the Government. In considering the accord of such a license, due weight will be given to assisting small business and minority business enterprises, as well as economically depressed, low income and labor surplus areas within the United States.

(d) All licenses shall be by express written instruments. No license shall be granted or implied in an NRC invention except as provided for in these regulations or in patent rights articles under Commission procurement regulations, pursuant to the Act, or pursuant to any existing or future treaty or agreement between the United States and any foreign government or intergovernmental organization.

(e) No grant of a license under this subpart shall be construed to confer upon any licensee any immunity from the antitrust laws or from liability for patent misuse, and the acquisition and use of rights pursuant to this subpart shall not be immunized from the operation of State or Federal law by reason of the source of the grant.

(f) No grant of a license under this subpart shall be construed to confer any authorization under chapters 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, or any other chapter or section of the Act (42 U.S.C., sec. 2011-2296) for which separate application for a license must be made in accordance with the Act or other Commission regulations.
