
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 95 - FACILITY SECURITY CLEARANCE AND SAFEGUARDING OF NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION AND RESTRICTED DATA
#### Physical Security
##### ยง 95.19 Changes to security practices and procedures.

(a) Except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, each licensee, certificate holder, or other person shall obtain prior CSA approval for any proposed change to the name, location, security procedures and controls, or floor plan of the approved facility. A written description of the proposed change must be furnished to the CSA and the NRC Regional Administrator of the cognizant Regional Office listed in appendix A to part 73 of this chapter, and, if the NRC is not the CSA, also to the Director, Division of Security Operations, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response; the communications to NRC personnel should be by an appropriate method listed in ยง 95.9. These substantive changes to the Standard Practice Procedures Plan that affect the security of the facility must be submitted to the NRC Division of Security Operations, or CSA, at least 30 days prior to the change so that they may be evaluated. The CSA shall promptly respond in writing to all such proposals. Some examples of substantive changes requiring prior CSA approval include-

(1) A change in the approved facility's classified mail address; or

(2) A temporary or permanent change in the location of the approved facility (e.g., moving or relocating NRC's classified interest from one room or building to another). Approved changes will be reflected in a revised Standard Practice Procedures Plan submission within 30 days of approval. Page changes rather than a complete rewrite of the plan may be submitted.

(b) A licensee, certificate holder, or other person may effect a minor, non-substantive change to an approved Standard Practice Procedures Plan for the safeguarding of classified information without receiving prior CSA approval. These minor changes that do not affect the security of the facility may be submitted to the addressees noted in paragraph (a) of this section within 30 days of the change. Page changes rather than a complete rewrite of the plan may be submitted. Some examples of minor, non-substantive changes to the Standard Practice Procedures Plan include-

(1) The designation/appointment of a new facility security officer; or

(2) A revision to a protective personnel patrol routine, provided the new routine continues to meet the minimum requirements of this part.

(c) A licensee, certificate holder, or other person must update its NRC facility clearance every five years either by submitting a complete Standard Practice Procedures Plan or a certification that the existing plan is fully current to the Division of Security Operations.
