
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 95 - FACILITY SECURITY CLEARANCE AND SAFEGUARDING OF NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION AND RESTRICTED DATA
#### Control of Information
##### ยง 95.39 External transmission of documents and material.
###### Preparation of documents.

(b)Documents containing classified information must be prepared in accordance with the following when transmitted outside an individual installation.

(1) The documents must be enclosed in two sealed opaque envelopes or wrappers.

(2) The inner envelope or wrapper must contain the addressee's classified mail address and the name of the intended recipient. The appropriate classification must be placed on both sides of the envelope (top and bottom) and the additional markings, as appropriate, referred to in ยง 95.37(e) must be placed on the side bearing the address.

(3) The outer envelope or wrapper must contain the addressee's classified mailing address. The outer envelope or wrapper may not contain any classification, additional marking or other notation that indicate that the enclosed document contains classified information. The Classified Mailing Address shall be uniquely designated for the receipt of classified information. The classified shipping address for the receipt of material (e.g., equipment) should be different from the classified mailing address for the receipt of classified documents.

(4) A receipt that contains an unclassified description of the document, the document number, if any, date of the document, classification, the date of transfer, the recipient and the person transferring the document must be enclosed within the inner envelope containing the document and be signed by the recipient and returned to the sender whenever the custody of a Secret document is transferred. This receipt process is at the option of the sender for Confidential information.
