
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 100 - REACTOR SITE CRITERIA
#### Subpart B - Evaluation Factors for Stationary Power Reactor Site Applications on or After January 10, 1997
##### ยง 100.20 Factors to be considered when evaluating sites.

The Commission will take the following factors into consideration in determining the acceptability of a site for a stationary power reactor:

(a) Population density and use characteristics of the site environs, including the exclusion area, the population distribution, and site-related characteristics must be evaluated to determine whether individual as well as societal risk of potential plant accidents is low, and that physical characteristics unique to the proposed site that could pose a significant impediment to the development of emergency plans are identified.

(b) The nature and proximity of man-related hazards (e.g., airports, dams, transportation routes, military and chemical facilities) must be evaluated to establish site characteristics for use in determining whether a plant design can accommodate commonly occurring hazards, and whether the risk of other hazards is very low.

(c) Physical characteristics of the site, including seismology, meteorology, geology, and hydrology.

(1) Section 100.23, "Geologic and seismic siting factors," describes the criteria and nature of investigations required to obtain the geologic and seismic data necessary to determine the suitability of the proposed site and the plant design bases.

(2) Meteorological characteristics of the site that are necessary for safety analysis or that may have an impact upon plant design (such as maximum probable wind speed and precipitation) must be identified and characterized.

(3) Factors important to hydrological radionuclide transport (such as soil, sediment, and rock characteristics, adsorption and retention coefficients, groundwater velocity, and distances to the nearest surface body of water) must be obtained from on-site measurements. The maximum probable flood along with the potential for seismically induced floods discussed in ยง 100.23 (d)(3) must be estimated using historical data.
