
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 110 - EXPORT AND IMPORT OF NUCLEAR EQUIPMENT AND MATERIAL
#### Subpart C - Licenses
##### § 110.21 General license for the export of special nuclear material.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, a general license is issued to any person to export the following to any country not listed in § 110.28:

(1) Low-enriched uranium as residual contamination (17.5 parts per million or less) in any item or substance.

(2) Plutonium containing 80 percent or more by weight of plutonium-238 in cardiac pacemakers.

(3) Special nuclear material, other than plutonium-236 and plutonium-238, in sensing components in instruments, if no more than 3 grams of enriched uranium or 0.1 gram of plutonium or uranium-233 are contained in each sensing component.

(4) Plutonium-236 and plutonium-238 when contained in a device, or a source for use in a device, in quantities of less than 3.7 x 10TBq (100 millicuries) of alpha activity (189 micrograms plutonium-236, 5.88 milligrams plutonium-238) per device or source.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, a general license is issued to any person to export the following to any country not listed in § 110.28 or § 110.29:

(1) Special nuclear material, other than plutonium-236 and plutonium-238, in individual shipments of 0.001 effective kilogram or less (e.g., 1.0 gram of plutonium, uranium-233 or uranium-235, or 10 kilograms of 1 percent enriched uranium), not to exceed 0.1 effective kilogram per calendar year to any one country.

(2) Special nuclear material in fuel elements as replacements for damaged or defective unirradiated fuel elements previously exported under a specific license, subject to the same terms as the original export license and the condition that the replaced fuel elements must be returned to the United States within a reasonable time period.

(3) Uranium, enriched to less than 20 percent in uranium-235, in the form of uranium hexafluoride (UF6) heels in cylinders being returned to suppliers in EURATOM or the United Kingdom.

(c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, a general license is issued to any person to export plutonium-236 or plutonium-238 to any country listed in § 110.30 in individual shipments of 1 gram or less, not to exceed 100 grams per calendar year to any one country.

(d) The general licenses in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section do not authorize the export of special nuclear material in radioactive waste.
