
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 110 - EXPORT AND IMPORT OF NUCLEAR EQUIPMENT AND MATERIAL
#### Subpart C - Licenses
##### § 110.22 General license for the export of source material.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, a general license is issued to any person to export the following to any country not listed in § 110.28:

(1) Uranium or thorium, other than uranium-230, uranium-232, thorium-227, and thorium-228, in any substance in concentrations of less than 0.05 percent by weight.

(2) Thorium, other than thorium-227 and thorium-228, in incandescent gas mantles or in alloys in concentrations of 5 percent or less.

(3) Thorium-227, thorium-228, uranium-230, and uranium-232 when contained in a device, or a source for use in a device, in quantities of less than 3.7 x 10TBq (100 millicuries) of alpha activity (3.12 micrograms thorium-227, 122 micrograms thorium-228, 3.7 micrograms uranium-230, 4.7 milligrams uranium-232) per device or source.

(4) A general license is issued to any person to export uranium, enriched to less than 20 percent in U-235, in the form of UF6 heels in cylinders being returned to suppliers in EURATOM or the United Kingdom.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, a general license is issued to any person to export uranium or thorium, other than uranium-230, uranium-232, thorium-227, or thorium-228, in individual shipments of 10 kilograms or less to any country not listed in § 110.28 or § 110.29, not to exceed 1,000 kilograms per calendar year to any one country or 500 kilograms per calendar year to any one country when the uranium or thorium is Canadian-obligated.

(c) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, a general license is issued to any person to export uranium or thorium, other than uranium-230, uranium-232, thorium-227, or thorium-228, in individual shipments of 1 kilogram or less to any country listed in § 110.29, not to exceed 100 kilograms per calendar year to any one country.

(d) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, a general license is issued to any person to export uranium-230, uranium-232, thorium-227, or thorium-228 in individual shipments of 10 kilograms or less to any country listed in § 110.30, not to exceed 1,000 kilograms per calendar year to any one country or 500 kilograms per calendar year to any one country when the uranium or thorium is Canadian-obligated.

(e) Paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this section do not authorize the export under general license of source material in radioactive waste.
