
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 110 - EXPORT AND IMPORT OF NUCLEAR EQUIPMENT AND MATERIAL
#### Subpart C - Licenses
##### § 110.23 General license for the export of byproduct material.

(a) A general license is issued to any person to export byproduct material (see Appendix L to this part) to any country not listed in § 110.28 and subject to the following limitations:

(1) The general license in this section does not authorize the export of byproduct material in the form of radioactive waste.

(2) The general license in this section does not authorize the export of the following radionuclides:

(3) For byproduct materials listed in Table 1 of Appendix P to this part, individual shipments under a general license for export must be less than the terabecquerel (TBq) values specified in Category 2 of Table 1 unless a more restrictive requirement applies.

(4) The general license authorizes exports of the following radionuclides when contained in a device, or a source for use in a device, in quantities less than 3.7 x 10TBq (100 millicuries) of alpha activity per device or source, unless the export is to a country listed in § 110.30:

(5)(i) For americium-241, exports under the general license to a country listed in § 110.29 must not exceed 3.7 x 10TBq (one curie) per shipment.

(ii) For americium-241, exports under the general license to a country listed in § 110.29 that exceed 3.7 x 10TBq (one curie) per shipment, must be contained in industrial process control equipment or petroleum exploration equipment in quantities not exceeding 0.60 TBq (16 curies) per device and not exceeding 7.4 TBq/calendar year (200 curies/calendar year) to any one country.

(iii) All exports of americium are subject to the reporting requirements listed in § 110.54(b).

(6) For neptunium-235 and -237, exports under the general license must not exceed one gram for individual shipment and must not exceed a cumulative total of 10 grams per calendar year to any one country. All exports of neptunium are subject to the reporting requirements listed in § 110.54(b).

(7) For polonium-210, exports under the general license, when contained in static eliminators, must not exceed 3.7 TBq (100 curies) per individual shipment.

(8)(i) For tritium in any dispersed form (e.g., luminescent light sources and paint, accelerator targets, calibration standards, labeled compounds), exports under the general license must not exceed 0.37 TBq (10 curies (1.03 milligrams)) per item, not to exceed 37 TBq (1,000 curies (103 milligrams)) per shipment, or 370 TBq (10,000 curies (1.03 grams)) per calendar year to any one country.

(ii) For tritium in any dispersed form (e.g., luminescent light sources and paint, accelerator targets, calibration standards, labeled compounds), exports under the general license to the countries listed in § 110.30 must not exceed the quantity of 1.48 TBq (40 curies (4.12 milligrams)) per item, not to exceed 37 TBq (1,000 curies (103 milligrams)) per shipment or 370 TBq (10,000 curies (1.03 grams)) per calendar year to any one country.

(iii) For tritium in luminescent safety devices installed in an aircraft, exports under the general license must not exceed 1.48 TBq (40 curies (4.12 milligrams)) per light source.

(iv) The general license in this section does not authorize the export of tritium for recovery or recycle purposes.

(b) [Reserved]
