
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 110 - EXPORT AND IMPORT OF NUCLEAR EQUIPMENT AND MATERIAL
#### Subpart C - Licenses
##### § 110.31 Application for a specific license.

(a) A person shall file an application for a specific license to export or import with the Deputy Director of the NRC's Office of International Programs, using an appropriate method listed in § 110.4.

(b) Applications for an export, import, amendment or renewal licenses or a request for an exemption from a licensing requirement under this part shall be filed on NRC Form 7.

(c) An application for a specific license to export or import or a request for an exemption from a licensing requirement must be accompanied by the appropriate fee in accordance with the fee schedules in § 170.21 and § 170.31 of this chapter. A license application will not be processed unless the specified fee is received.

(d) Each application on NRC Form 7 shall be signed by the applicant or licensee or a person duly authorized to act for and on behalf of the applicant or licensee.

(e) Each person shall provide in the license application, as appropriate, the information specified in § 110.32. The Commission also may require the submission of additional information if necessary to complete its review.

(f) An application may cover multiple shipments and destinations.

(g) The applicant shall withdraw an application when it is no longer needed. The Commission's official files retain all documents related to a withdrawn application.
