
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 110 - EXPORT AND IMPORT OF NUCLEAR EQUIPMENT AND MATERIAL
#### Subpart C - Licenses
##### ยง 110.32 Information required in an application for a specific license/NRC Form 7.

(a) Name and address of applicant.

(b) Name and address of any other party, including the supplier of equipment or material, if different from the applicant.

(c) Country of origin of equipment or material, and any other countries that have processed the material prior to its import into the U.S.

(d) Names and addresses of all intermediate and ultimate consignees, other than intermediate consignees performing shipping services only.

(e) Dates of proposed first and last shipments.

(f) Description of the equipment or material including, as appropriate, the following:

(1) Maximum quantity of material in grams or kilograms (terabecquerels or TBq for byproduct material) and its chemical and physical form.

(2) For enriched uranium, the maximum weight percentage of enrichment and maximum weight of contained uranium-235.

(3) For nuclear equipment, the name of the facility and its total dollar value.

(4) For nuclear reactors, the name of the facility, its design power level and its total dollar value.

(5) For proposed exports or imports of radioactive waste, the volume, physical and chemical characteristics, route of transit of shipment, classification (as defined in ยง 61.55 of this chapter) if imported or exported for direct disposal at part 61 or equivalent Agreement State licensed facility, and ultimate disposition (including forms of management or treatment) of the waste.

(6) For proposed imports of radioactive waste, the industrial or other process responsible for generation of the waste, and the status of the arrangements for disposition, including pertinent documentation of these arrangements.

(7) Description of end use by all consignees in sufficient detail to permit accurate evaluation of the justification for the proposed export or import, including the need for shipment by the dates specified.

(g)(1) For proposed exports of Category 1 quantities of material listed in Table 1 of appendix P to this part, pertinent documentation that the recipient of the material has the necessary authorization under the laws and regulations of the importing country to receive and possess the material.

(2) For proposed exports of Category 2 quantities of material listed in Table 1 of appendix P to this part, pertinent documentation that the recipient of the material has the necessary authorization under the laws and regulations of the importing country to receive and possess the material. This documentation must be provided to the NRC at least 24 hours prior to the shipment.

(3) Pertinent documentation shall consist of a copy of the recipient's authorization to receive and possess the material to be exported or a confirmation from the government of the importing country that the recipient is so authorized. The recipient authorization shall include the following information:

(i) Name of the recipient;

(ii) Recipient location and legal address or principal place of business;

(iii) Relevant radionuclides and radioactivity being imported or that the recipient is authorized to receive and possess;

(iv) Uses, if appropriate; and

(v) The expiration date of the recipient's authorization (if any).
