
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 110 - EXPORT AND IMPORT OF NUCLEAR EQUIPMENT AND MATERIAL
#### Subpart E - License Terms and Related Provisions
##### ยง 110.50 Terms.
###### General and specific licenses.

(a)(1) Each license is subject to all applicable provisions of the Atomic Energy Act and other applicable law and to all applicable rules, regulations, decisions and orders of the Commission.

(2) Each license is subject to amendment, suspension, revocation or incorporation of separate conditions when required by amendments of the Atomic Energy Act or other applicable law, or by other rules, regulations, decisions or orders issued in accordance with the terms of the Atomic Energy Act or other applicable law.

(3) A licensee authorized to export or import nuclear material is responsible for compliance with applicable requirements of this chapter, unless a domestic licensee of the Commission has assumed that responsibility and the Commission has been so notified.

(4) Each license authorizes export or import only and does not authorize any person to receive title to, acquire, receive, possess, deliver, use, transport or transfer any nuclear equipment or material subject to this part.

(5) Each license issued by the NRC for the export or import of nuclear material authorizes only the export or import of that nuclear material and accompanying packaging, fuel element, hardware, or other associated devices or products.

(6) No nuclear equipment license confers authority to export or import nuclear material.

(7) Each nuclear equipment export license authorizes the export of only those items required for use in the foreign nuclear installation for which the items are intended.

(8) A licensee shall not proceed to export or import and shall notify the Commission promptly if he knows or has reason to believe that the packaging requirements of part 71 of this chapter have not been met.
