
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 110 - EXPORT AND IMPORT OF NUCLEAR EQUIPMENT AND MATERIAL
#### Subpart E - License Terms and Related Provisions
##### ยง 110.50 Terms.
###### Advanced notification.,http://www.nrc.gov.

(c)(1) A licensee authorized to export or import the radioactive material listed in Appendix P to this part is responsible for notifying NRC and, in cases of exports, the government of the importing country in advance of each shipment. A list of points of contact in importing countries is available at NRC's Office of International Programs Web site, accessible on the NRC Public Web site at

(2) The NRC's office responsible for receiving advance notifications for all export and import shipments is the NRC Headquarters Operations Center. Notifications to the NRC Headquarters Operations Center are to be submitted by email (preferred method) or faxed using the contact information specified in appendix A to 10 CFR part 73 of this chapter. In the subject line of the email or on the fax cover page include "10 CFR 110.50(c) Notification." To contact the NRC Operations Center, use the same email address or call the telephone number in appendix A to 10 CFR part 73. For questions or concerns on submitting these advance notifications to the NRC, please contact the Office of International Programs at 301-287-9056.

(3) Notifications may be electronic or in writing on business stationery, and must contain or be accompanied by the information which follows.

(i) For export notifications:

(A) 10 CFR part 110 export license number and expiration date;

(B) Name of the individual and licensee making the notification, address, and telephone number;

(C) Foreign recipient name, address, and end use location(s) (if different than recipient's address);

(D) Radionuclides and activity level in TBq, both for single and aggregate shipments;

(E) Make, model and serial number, for any Category 1 and 2 sealed sources, if available;

(F) End use in the importing country, if known;

(G) Shipment date; and

(H) A copy of the foreign recipient's authorization or confirmation of that authorization from the government of the importing country as required by ยง 110.32(g) unless the authorization has already been provided to the NRC.

(ii) For import notifications:

(A) Name of individual and licensee making the notification, address, and telephone number;

(B) Recipient name, location, and address (if different than above);

(C) Name, location, address, contact name and telephone number for exporting facility;

(D) Radionuclides and activity level in TBq, both for single and aggregate shipments;

(E) Make, model and serial number, radionuclide, and activity level for any Category 1 and 2 sealed sources, if available;

(F) End use in the U.S.;

(G) Shipment date from exporting facility and estimated arrival date at the end use location; and

(H) NRC or Agreement State license number to possess the import in the U.S. and expiration date.

(4) Export notifications must be received by the NRC at least 7 days in advance of each shipment, to the extent practical, but in no case less than 24 hours in advance of each shipment. Import notifications must be received by the NRC at least 7 days in advance of each shipment.

(5) Advance notifications containing the above information must be controlled, handled, and transmitted in accordance with ยง 2.390 of this chapter and other applicable NRC requirements governing protection of sensitive information.

(d) A specific license may be transferred, disposed of or assigned to another person only with the approval of the Commission by license amendment.
