
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 110 - EXPORT AND IMPORT OF NUCLEAR EQUIPMENT AND MATERIAL
#### Subpart E - License Terms and Related Provisions
##### ยง 110.53 United States address, records, and inspections.

(a) Each licensee (general or specific) shall have an office in the United States where papers may be served and where records required by the Commission will be maintained.

(b)(1) Each license applicant or licensee (general or specific) shall maintain records concerning his exports or imports. The licensee shall retain these records for five years after each export or import except that byproduct material records must be retained for three years after the date of each export or import shipment.

(2) Records which must be maintained pursuant to this part may be the original or a reproduced copy or microform if such reproduced copy or microform is duly authenticated by authorized personnel and the microform is capable of producing a clear and legible copy after storage for the period specified by Commission regulations. The record may also be stored in electronic media with the capability for producing legible, accurate, and complete records during the required retention period. Records such as letters, drawings, specifications, must include all pertinent information such as stamps, initials, and signatures. The licensee shall maintain adequate safeguards against tampering with and loss of records.

(c) Each licensee shall permit the Commission to inspect his records, premises, and activities pertaining to his exports and imports when necessary to fulfill the requirements of the Atomic Energy Act.
