
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 110 - EXPORT AND IMPORT OF NUCLEAR EQUIPMENT AND MATERIAL
#### Subpart E - License Terms and Related Provisions
##### § 110.54 Reporting requirements.
###### aprp@bis.doc.gov,

(2) These required reports must be sent via facsimile to (202) 482-1731, emailed toor hand-delivered or submitted by courier to the Bureau of Industry and Security, in hard copy, to the following address: Treaty Compliance Division, Bureau of Industry and Security, U.S. Department of Commerce, Attn: AP Reports, 14th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Room 4515, Washington, DC 20230. Telephone: (202) 482-1001.

(b) Persons making exports under the general license established by § 110.23(a) or under a specific license shall submit by February 1 of each year one copy of a report of all americium and neptunium shipments during the previous calendar year. This report shall be submitted to the Deputy Director, Office of International Programs at the address provided in § 110.4. The report must include:

(1) A description of the material, including quantity in TBq and gram;

(2) Approximate shipment dates; and

(3) A list of recipient countries, end users, and intended use keyed to the items shipped.

(c) Persons making exports under the general license established by § 110.26(a) shall submit by February 1 of each year one copy of a report of all components shipped during the previous calendar year. This report shall be submitted to the Deputy Director, Office of International Programs at the address provided in § 110.4. This report must include:

(1) A description of the components keyed to the categories listed in appendix A to this part.

(2) Approximate shipment dates.

(3) A list of recipient countries and end users keyed to the items shipped.
