
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 110 - EXPORT AND IMPORT OF NUCLEAR EQUIPMENT AND MATERIAL
#### Subpart F - Violations and Enforcement
##### ยง 110.64 Civil penalty.

(a) In response to a violation, the Commission may institute a proceeding to impose a civil penalty under section 234 of the Atomic Energy Act by issuing a notice to the licensee:

(1) Stating the alleged violation and the amount of the proposed penalty;

(2) Informing the licensee of his right, within 20 days or other specified time, to file a written answer; and

(3) Advising that a delinquent payment for a subsequently imposed penalty may be referred to the Attorney General for collection pursuant to section 234c. of the Atomic Energy Act.

(b) If an answer is not filed within the time specified, the Commission will issue an order imposing the proposed penalty.

(c) If a timely answer is filed, the Commission, after considering the answer, will issue an order dismissing the proceeding or imposing a penalty subject to any required hearing.

(d) If an order imposing a civil penalty is issued, the licensee may request a hearing within 20 days or other specified time.

(e) Except when the matter has been referred to the Attorney General for collection, payment of penalties shall be made by check, draft, or money order payable to the Treasurer of the United States, and mailed to the Secretary, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001.

(f) An enforcement action to impose a civil penalty will not itself revoke, modify, or suspend any license under this part.
