
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 110 - EXPORT AND IMPORT OF NUCLEAR EQUIPMENT AND MATERIAL
#### Subpart J - Special Procedures for Classified Information in Hearings
##### ยง 110.121 Security clearances and access to classified information.

(a) No person without a security clearance will have access to classified information.

(b) Only the Commission will act upon an application for access to classified information.

(c) To the extent practicable, applications for access to classified information shall describe the information to which access is desired and its level of classification (confidential, secret or other); the reasons for requesting access; the names of individuals for whom access is requested; and the reasons why access is requested for those individuals.

(d) The Commission will consider requests for appropriate security clearances in reasonable numbers; conduct its review and grant or deny these in accordance with part 10 of this chapter; and make a reasonable charge to cover costs.

(e) The Commission will not grant security clearances for access to classified information, unless it determines that the available unclassified information is inadequate on the subject matter involved.

(f) When an application demonstrates that access to classified information not introduced into a hearing may be needed to prepare a participant's position on the hearing issues, the Commission may issue an order granting access to this information to the participant, his authorized representative or other persons. Access will be subject to the conditions in paragraphs (e) and (j) and will not be granted unless required security clearances have been obtained.

(g) Once classified information has been introduced into a hearing, the Commission will grant access to a participant, his authorized representative or such other persons as the Commission determines may be needed by the participant to prepare his position on the hearing issues. Access will be subject to the conditions in paragraphs (e) and (j) of this section and will not be granted unless required security clearances have been obtained.

(h) For good cause, the Commission may postpone action upon an application for access to classified information.

(i) The Commission will grant access to classified information only up to the level for which the persons described in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section are cleared and only upon an adequate commitment by them not to disclose such information subject to penalties as provided by law.

(j) The Commission will not in any circumstances grant access to classified information:

(1) Unless it determines that the grant is not inimical to the common defense and security; and

(2) Which it has received from another Government agency, without the prior consent of the originating agency.

(k) Upon completion of a hearing, the Commission will terminate all security clearances granted pursuant to the hearing and may require the disposal of classified information to which access has been granted or the observance of other procedures to safeguard this information.
