
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 110 - EXPORT AND IMPORT OF NUCLEAR EQUIPMENT AND MATERIAL
#### Appendix B to Part 110 - Illustrative List of Gas Centrifuge Enrichment Plant Components Under NRC's Export Licensing Authority
##### Assemblies and components especially designed or prepared for use in gas centrifuges.

1.

(a) Complete Rotor Assemblies: Thin-walled cylinders, or a number of interconnected thin-walled cylinders, manufactured from one of the high strength-to-density ratio materials described in the footnote to this section.

If interconnected, the cylinders are joined together by flexible bellows or rings as described in § 1.1(c) of this appendix. The rotor is fitted with an internal baffle(s) and end caps, as described in § 1.1(d) and (e) of this appendix, if in final form. However, the complete assembly may be delivered only partly assembled.

(b) Rotor Tubes: Especially designed or prepared thin-walled cylinders with thickness of 12 mm or less, a diameter of between 75 mm and 650 mm, and manufactured from one of the high strength-to-density ratio materials described in the footnote to this section.

(c) Rings or Bellows: Components especially designed or prepared to give localized support to the rotor tube or to join together a number of rotor tubes. The bellows in a short cylinder of wall thickness 3 mm or less, a diameter of between 75 mm and 650 mm, having a convolute, and manufactured from one of the high strength-to-density ratio materials described in the footnote to this section.

(d) Baffles: Disc shaped components of between 75 mm and 650 mm diameter especially designed or prepared to be mounted inside the centrifuge rotor tube, in order to isolate the take-off chamber from the main separation chamber and, in some cases, to assist the UFgas circulation within the main separation chamber of the rotor tube, and manufactured from one of the high strength-to-density ratio materials described in the footnote to this section.

(e) Top Caps/Bottom Caps: Disc shaped components of between 75 mm and 650 mm diameter especially designed or prepared to fit to the ends of the rotor tube, and so contain the UFwithin the rotor tube, and in some cases to support, retain or contain as an integrated part, an element of the upper bearing (top cap) or to carry the rotating elements of the motor and lower bearing (bottom cap), and manufactured from one of the high strength-to-density ratio materials described in the footnote to this section.

The materials used for centrifuge rotating components include the following:

(a) Maraging steel capable of an ultimate tensile strength of 1.95 GPa or more.

(b) Aluminum alloys capable of an ultimate tensile strength of 0.46 GPa or more.

(c) Filamentary materials suitable for use in composite structures and having a specific modulus of 3.18 x 10m or greater and a specific ultimate tensile strength of 7.62 x 10m or greater.

(a) Magnetic Suspension Bearings: 1. Especially designed or prepared bearing assemblies consisting of an annular magnet suspended within a housing containing a damping medium. The housing will be manufactured from a UFresistant material (see footnote to § 2 of this appendix). The magnet couples with a pole piece or a second magnet fitted to the top cap described in § 1.1(e) of this appendix. The magnet may be ring-shaped with a relation between outer and inner diameter smaller or equal to 1.6:1. The magnet may be in a form having an initial permeability of 0.15 Henry/meter or more, or a remanence of 98.5 percent or more, or an energy product of greater than 80,000 joules/m. In addition to the usual material properties, it is a prerequisite that the deviation of the magnetic axes from the geometrical axes is limited to very small tolerances (lower than 0.1 mm) or that homogeneity of the material of the magnet is specially called for.

2. Active magnetic bearings especially designed or prepared for use with gas centrifuges. These bearings usually have the following characteristics:

(i) Designed to keep centred a rotor spinning at 600 Hz or more; and

(ii) Associated to a reliable electrical power supply and/or to an uninterruptible power supply (UPS) unit in order to function for more than 1 hour.

(b) Bearings/Dampers: Especially designed or prepared bearings comprising a pivot/cup assembly mounted on a damper. The pivot is normally a hardened steel shaft polished into a hemisphere at one end with a means of attachment to the bottom cap described in § 1.1(e) of this appendix at the other. The shaft may, however, have a hydrodynamic bearing attached. The cup is pellet-shaped with hemispherical indentation in one surface. These components are often supplied separately to the damper.

(c) Molecular Pumps: Especially designed or prepared cylinders having internally machined or extruded helical grooves and internally machined bores. Typical dimensions are as follows: 75 mm to 650 mm internal diameter, 10 mm or more wall thickness, with a length equal to or greater than the diameter. The grooves are typically rectangular in cross-section and 2 mm or more in depth.

(d) Motor Stators: Especially designed or prepared ring shaped stators for high speed multi-phase alternating current (AC) hysteresis (or reluctance) motors for synchronous operation within a vacuum at a frequency of 600 Hz or greater and a power of 40 volts amps or greater. The stators may consist of multi-phase windings on a laminated low loss iron core comprised of thin layers typically 2.0 mm thick or less.

(e) Centrifuge housing/recipients: Components especially designed or prepared to contain the rotor tube assembly of a gas centrifuge. The housing consists of a rigid cylinder of wall thickness up to 30 mm with precision machined ends to locate the bearings and with one or more flanges for mounting. The machined ends are parallel to each other and perpendicular to the cylinder's longitudinal axis to within 0.05 degrees or less. The housing may also be a honeycomb type structure to accommodate several rotor tubes.

(f) Scoops: Especially designed or prepared tubes for the extraction of UFgas from within the rotor tube by a Pitot tube action (that is, with an aperture facing into the circumferential gas flow within the rotor tube, for example by bending the end of a radially disposed tube) and capable of being fixed to the central gas extraction system.
