
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 110 - EXPORT AND IMPORT OF NUCLEAR EQUIPMENT AND MATERIAL
#### Appendix B to Part 110 - Illustrative List of Gas Centrifuge Enrichment Plant Components Under NRC's Export Licensing Authority
##### Especially designed or prepared auxiliary systems, equipment, and components for gas centrifuge enrichment plants.

2.

Normally UFis evaporated from the solid using heated autoclaves and is distributed in gaseous form to the centrifuges by way of cascade header pipework. The "product" and "tails" of UFgaseous streams flowing from the centrifuges are also passed by way of cascade header pipework to cold traps (operating at about 203 K (-70 &#xB0;C)) where they are condensed prior to onward transfer into suitable containers for transportation or storage. Because an enrichment plant consists of many thousands of centrifuges arranged in cascades, there are many kilometers of cascade header pipework incorporating thousands of welds with a substantial amount of repetition of layout. The equipment, component and piping systems are fabricated to very high vacuum and cleanliness standards.

Some of the items listed below either come into direct contact with the UFprocess gas or directly control the centrifuges and the passage of the gas from centrifuge to centrifuge and cascade to cascade. Materials resistant to corrosion by UFinclude copper, copper alloys, stainless steel, aluminum, aluminum oxide, aluminum alloys, nickel or alloys containing 60 percent or more nickel, and fluorinated hydrocarbon polymers.

(a) Feed Systems/Product and Tails Withdrawal Systems: Especially designed or prepared process systems or equipment for enrichment plants made of or protected by materials resistant to corrosion by UFincluding:

1. Feed autoclaves, ovens, or systems used for passing UFto the enrichment process.

2. Desublimers, cold traps, or pumps used to remove UFfrom the enrichment process for subsequent transfer upon heating.

3. Solidification or liquefaction stations used to remove UFfrom the enrichment process by compressing and converting UFto a liquid or solid form.

4. "Product" and "tails" stations used for transferring UFinto containers.

(b) Machine Header Piping Systems: Especially designed or prepared piping systems and header systems for handling UFwithin the centrifuge cascades.

This piping network is normally of the "triple" header system with each centrifuge connected to each of the headers. There is therefore a substantial amount of repetition in its form. It is wholly made of or protected by UFresistant materials (see Note to this section) and is fabricated to very high vacuum and cleanliness standards.

(c) Special shut-off and control valves:

1. Shut-off valves especially designed or prepared to act on the feed, "product" or "tails" UFgaseous streams of an individual gas centrifuge.

2. Bellows-sealed valves, manual or automated, shut-off or control, made of or protected by materials resistant to corrosion by UF, with an inside diameter of 10 to 160 mm, especially designed or prepared for use in main or auxiliary systems of gas centrifuge enrichment plants.

Typical especially designed or prepared valves include bellow-sealed valves, fast acting closure-types, fast acting valves, and others.

(d) UFMass Spectrometers/Ion Sources: Especially designed or prepared mass spectrometers capable of taking on-line samples from UFgas streams and having all of the following:

1. Capable of measuring ions of 320 atomic mass units or greater and having a resolution of better than 1 part in 320.

2. Ion sources constructed of or protected by nickel, nickel-copper alloys with a nickel content of 60 percent or more by weight, or nickel-chrome alloys.

3. Electron bombardment ionization sources.

4. Having a collector system suitable for isotope analysis.

(e) Frequency Changers: Frequency changers (also known as converters or inverters) especially designed or prepared to supply motor stators as defined under ยง 1.2(d) of this appendix, or parts, components, and subassemblies of such frequency changers having all of the following characteristics:

1. A multiphase output of 600 Hz or greater; and

2. High stability (with frequency control better than 0.2 percent).

(f) Any other components especially designed or prepared for use in a gas centrifuge enrichment plant or in any of the components described in this appendix.
