
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 110 - EXPORT AND IMPORT OF NUCLEAR EQUIPMENT AND MATERIAL
#### Appendix D to Part 110 - Illustrative List of Aerodynamic Enrichment Plant Equipment and Components Under NRC Export Licensing Authority

The following items either come into direct contact with the UFprocess gas or directly control the flow within the cascade:

(1) Separation nozzles and assemblies.

Especially designed or prepared separation nozzles and assemblies thereof. The separation nozzles consist of slit-shaped, curved channels having a radius of curvature less than 1 mm, resistant to corrosion by UFand having a knife-edge within the nozzle that separates the gas flowing through the nozzle into two fractions.

(2) Vortex tubes and assemblies.

Especially designed or prepared vortex tubes and assemblies thereof. The vortex tubes are cylindrical or tapered, made of, or protected by, materials resistant to corrosion by UF, and with one or more tangential inlets. The tubes may be equipped with nozzle-type appendages at either or both ends.

The feed gas enters the vortex tube tangentially at one end or through swirl vanes or at numerous tangential positions along the periphery of the tube.

(3) Compressors and gas blowers.

Especially designed or prepared compressors or gas blowers made of, or protected by, materials resistant to corrosion by the UF/carrier gas (hydrogen or helium) mixture.

(4) Rotary shaft seals.

Especially designed or prepared rotary shaft seals, with seal feed and seal exhaust connections, for sealing the shaft connecting the compressor rotor or the gas blower rotor with the driver motor to ensure a reliable seal against out-leakage of process gas or in-leakage of air or seal gas into the inner chamber of the compressor or gas blower which is filled with a UF/carrier gas mixture.

(5) Heat exchangers for gas cooling.

Especially designed or prepared heat exchangers, made of, or protected by, materials resistant to corrosion by UF.

(6) Separation element housings.

Especially designed or prepared separation element housings, made of, or protected by, materials resistant to corrosion by UF, for containing vortex tubes or separation nozzles.

(7) Feed systems/product and tails withdrawal systems.

Especially designed or prepared process systems or equipment for enrichment plants made of, or protected by, materials resistant to corrosion by UF, including:

(i) Feed autoclaves, ovens, or systems used for passing UFto the enrichment process;

(ii) Desublimers (or cold traps) used to remove UFfrom the enrichment process for subsequent transfer upon heating;

(iii) Solidification or liquefaction stations used to remove UFfrom the enrichment process by compressing and converting UFto a liquid or solid form; and

(iv) "Product" or "tails" stations used for transferring UFinto containers.

(8) Header piping systems.

Especially designed or prepared header piping systems, made of or protected by materials resistant to corrosion by UF, for handling UFwithin the aerodynamic cascades. The piping network is normally of the "double" header design with each stage or group of stages connected to each of the headers.

(9) Vacuum systems and pumps.

(i) Especially designed or prepared vacuum systems consisting of vacuum manifolds, vacuum headers and vacuum pumps, and designed for service in UF-bearing atmospheres.

(ii) Especially designed or prepared vacuum pumps for service in UF-bearing atmospheres and made of, or protected by, materials resistant to corrosion by UF. These pumps may use fluorocarbon seals and special working fluids.

(10) Special shut-off and control valves.

Especially designed or prepared bellows-sealed valves, manual or automated, shut-off or control valves made of, or protected by, materials resistant to corrosion by UFwith a diameter of 40 mm or greater for installation in main and auxiliary systems of aerodynamic enrichment plants.

(11) UFmass spectrometers/ion sources.

Especially designed or prepared mass spectrometers capable of taking on-line samples from UFgas streams and having all of the following:

(i) Capable of measuring ions of 320 atomic mass units or greater and having a resolution of better than 1 part in 320;

(ii) Ion sources constructed of or protected by nickel, nickel-copper alloys with a nickel content of 60 percent or more by weight, or nickel-chrome alloys;

(iii) Electron bombardment ionization sources; and

(iv) Collector system suitable for isotopic analysis.

(12) UF/carrier gas separation systems.

Especially designed or prepared process systems for separating UFfrom carrier gas (hydrogen or helium).

These systems are designed to reduce the UFcontent in the carrier gas to 1 ppm or less and may incorporate equipment such as:

(i) Cryogenic heat exchangers and cryoseparators capable of temperatures of 153 K (-120 &#xB0;C) or less;

(ii) Cryogenic refrigeration units capable of temperatures of 153 K (-120 &#xB0;C) or less;

(iii) Separation nozzle or vortex tube units for the separation of UFfrom carrier gas; or

(iv) UF6 cold traps capable of freezing out UF.

(13) Any other components especially designed or prepared for use in an aerodynamic enrichment plant or in any of the components described in this appendix.
