
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 110 - EXPORT AND IMPORT OF NUCLEAR EQUIPMENT AND MATERIAL
#### Appendix F to Part 110 - Illustrative List of Laser-Based Enrichment Plant Equipment and Components Under NRC Export Licensing Authority

All surfaces that come into direct contact with the uranium or UFare wholly made of, or protected by, corrosion-resistant materials. For laser-based enrichment items, the materials resistant to corrosion by the vapor or liquid of uranium metal or uranium alloys include yttria-coated graphite and tantalum; and the materials resistant to corrosion by UFinclude copper, copper alloys, stainless steel, aluminum, aluminum oxide, aluminum alloys, nickel or alloys containing 60 percent or more nickel by weight, and fluorinated hydrocarbon polymers. Many of the following items come into direct contact with uranium metal vapor or liquid or with process gas consisting of UFor a mixture of UFand other gases:

(1) Uranium vaporization systems (atomic vapor based methods).

Especially designed or prepared uranium metal vaporization systems for use in laser enrichment.

These systems may contain electron beam guns and are designed to achieve a delivered power (1 kW or greater) on the target sufficient to generate uranium metal vapour at a rate required for the laser enrichment function.

(2) Liquid or vapor uranium metal handling systems and components (atomic vapor based methods).

Especially designed or prepared systems for handling molten uranium, molten uranium alloys, or uranium metal vapor.

The liquid uranium metal handling systems may consist of crucibles and cooling equipment for the crucibles. The crucibles and other system parts that come into contact with molten uranium, molten uranium alloys, or uranium metal vapor are made of, or protected by, materials of suitable corrosion and heat resistance, such as tantalum, yttria-coated graphite, graphite coated with other rare earth oxides, or mixtures thereof.

(3) Uranium metal "product" and "tails" collector assemblies (atomic vapor based methods).

Especially designed or prepared "product" and "tails" collector assemblies for uranium metal in liquid or solid form.

Components for these assemblies are made of or protected by materials resistant to the heat and corrosion of uranium metal vapor or liquid, such as yttria-coated graphite or tantalum, and may include pipes, valves, fittings, "gutters," feed-throughs, heat exchangers and collector plates for magnetic, electrostatic, or other separation methods.

(4) Separator module housings (atomic vapor based methods).

Especially designed or prepared cylindrical or rectangular vessels for containing the uranium metal vapor source, the electron beam gun, and the "product" and "tails" collectors. These housings have multiplicity of ports for electrical and water feed-throughs, laser beam windows, vacuum pump connections, and instrumentation diagnostics and monitoring with opening and closure provisions to allow refurbishment of internal components.

(5) Supersonic expansion nozzles (molecular based methods).

Especially designed or prepared supersonic expansion nozzles for cooling mixtures of UFand carrier gas to 150 K (-123 &#xB0;C) or less which are corrosion resistant to UF.

(6) "Product" or "tails" collectors (molecular based methods).

Especially designed or prepared components or devices for collecting uranium product material or uranium tails material following illumination with laser light.

In one example of molecular laser isotope separation, the product collectors serve to collect enriched uranium pentafluoride (UF) solid material. The product collectors may consist of filter, impact, or cyclone-type collectors, or combinations thereof, and must be corrosion resistant to the UF/UFenvironment.

(7) UF/carrier gas compressors (molecular based methods).

Especially designed or prepared compressors for UF/carrier gas mixtures, designed for long term operation in a UFenvironment. Components of these compressors that come into contact with process gas are made of, or protected by, materials resistant to UFcorrosion.

(8) Rotary shaft seals (molecular based methods).

Especially designed or prepared rotary shaft seals, with seal feed and seal exhaust connections, for sealing the shaft connecting the compressor rotor with the driver motor to ensure a reliable seal against out-leakage of process gas or in-leakage of air or seal gas into the inner chamber of the compressor which is filled with a UF/carrier gas mixture.

(9) Fluorination systems (molecular based methods).

Especially designed or prepared systems for fluorinating UF(solid) to UF(gas).

These systems are designed to fluorinate the collected UFpowder to UFfor subsequent collection in product containers or for transfer as feed for additional enrichment. In one approach, the fluorination reaction may be accomplished within the isotope separation system to react and recover directly off the "product" collectors. In another approach, the UFpowder may be removed/transferred from the "product" collectors into a suitable reaction vessel (e.g., fluidized-bed reactor, screw reactor or flame tower) for fluorination. In both approaches, equipment is used for storage and transfer of fluorine (or other suitable fluorinating agents) and for collection and transfer of UF.

(10) UFmass spectrometers/ion sources (molecular based methods).

Especially designed or prepared mass spectrometers capable of taking on-line samples from UFgas streams and having all of the following characteristics:

(i) Capable of measuring ions of 320 atomic mass units or greater and having a resolution of better than 1 part in 320;

(ii) Ion sources constructed of or protected by nickel, nickel-copper alloys with a nickel content of 60 percent or more by weight, or nickel-chrome alloys;

(iii) Electron bombardment ionization sources; and

(iv) Collector system suitable for isotopic analysis.

(11) Feed systems/product and tails withdrawal systems (molecular based methods).

Especially designed or prepared process systems or equipment for enrichment plants made of or protected by materials resistant to corrosion by UF, including:

(i) Feed autoclaves, ovens, or systems used for passing UFto the enrichment process;

(ii) Desublimers (or cold traps) used to remove UFfrom the enrichment process for subsequent transfer upon heating;

(iii) Solidification or liquefaction stations used to remove UFfrom the enrichment process by compressing and converting UFto a liquid or solid; and

(iv) "Product" or "tails" stations used to transfer UFinto containers.

(12) UF/carrier gas separation systems (molecular based methods).

Especially designed or prepared process systems for separating UFfrom carrier gas.

These systems may incorporate equipment such as:

(i) Cryogenic heat exchangers or cryoseparators capable of temperatures of 153 K (-120 &#xB0;C) or less;

(ii) Cryogenic refrigeration units capable of temperatures of 153 K (-120 &#xB0;C) or less; or

(iii) UFcold traps capable of freezing out UF.

(13) Lasers or Laser systems.

Especially designed or prepared for the separation of uranium isotopes.

The laser system typically contains both optical and electronic components for the management of the laser beam (or beams) and the transmission to the isotope separation chamber. The laser system for atomic vapor based methods usually consists of tunable dye lasers pumped by another type of laser (e.g., copper vapor lasers or certain solid-state lasers). The laser system for molecular based methods may consist of COlasers or excimer lasers and a multi-pass optical cell. Lasers or laser systems for both methods require spectrum frequency stabilization for operation over extended periods of time.

(14) Any other components especially designed or prepared for use in a laser-based enrichment plant or in any of the components described in this appendix.
