
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 110 - EXPORT AND IMPORT OF NUCLEAR EQUIPMENT AND MATERIAL
#### Appendix G to Part 110 - Illustrative List of Plasma Separation Enrichment Plant Equipment and Components Under NRC Export Licensing Authority

(1) Microwave power sources and antennae.

Especially designed or prepared microwave power sources and antennae for producing or accelerating ions having the following characteristics: Greater than 30 GHz frequency and greater than 50 kW mean power output for ion production.

(2) Ion excitation coils.

Especially designed or prepared radio frequency ion excitation coils for frequencies of more than 100 kHz and capable of handling more than 40 kW mean power.

(3) Uranium plasma generation systems.

Especially designed or prepared systems for the generation of uranium plasma for use in plasma separation plants.

(4) Uranium metal "product" and "tails" collector assemblies.

Especially designed or prepared "product" and "tails" collector assemblies for uranium metal in solid form. These collector assemblies are made of, or protected by, materials resistant to the heat and corrosion of uranium metal vapor, such as yttria-coated graphite or tantalum.

(5) Separator module housings.

Especially designed or prepared cylindrical vessels for use in plasma separation enrichment plants for containing the uranium plasma source, radio-frequency drive coil, and the "product" and "tails" collectors.

These housings have a multiplicity of ports for electrical feed-throughs, diffusion pump connections, and instrumentation diagnostics and monitoring. They have provisions for opening and closure to allow for refurbishment of internal components and are constructed of a suitable non-magnetic material such as stainless steel.

(6) Any other components especially designed or prepared for use in a plasma separation enrichment plant or in any of the components described in this appendix.
