
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 110 - EXPORT AND IMPORT OF NUCLEAR EQUIPMENT AND MATERIAL
#### Appendix J to Part 110 - Illustrative List of Uranium Conversion Plant Equipment and Plutonium Conversion Plant Equipment Under NRC Export Licensing Authority

(a) Uranium Conversion Plant Equipment.

(1) Especially designed or prepared systems for the conversion of uranium ore concentrates to UO3.

Conversion of uranium ore concentrates to UO3 can be performed by first dissolving the ore in nitric acid and extracting purified uranyl nitrate using a solvent such as tributyl phosphate. Next, the uranyl nitrate is converted to UO3 either by concentration and denitration or by neutralization with gaseous ammonia to produce ammonium diuranate with subsequent filtering, drying, and calcining.

(2) Especially designed or prepared systems for the conversion of UO3 to UF6.

Conversion of UO3 to UF6 can be performed directly by fluorination. The process requires a source of fluorine gas or chlorine trifluoride.

(3) Especially Designed or Prepared Systems for the conversion of UO3 to UO2.

Conversion of UO3 to UO2 can be performed through reduction of UO3 with cracked ammonia gas or hydrogen.

(4) Especially Designed or Prepared Systems for the conversion of UO2 to UF4.

Conversion of UO2 to UF4 can be performed by reacting UO2 with hydrogen fluoride gas (HF) at 300-500 &#xB0;C.

(5) Especially Designed or Prepared Systems for the conversion of UF4 to UF6.

Conversion of UF4 to UF6 is performed by exothermic reaction with fluorine in a tower reactor. UF6 is condensed from the hot effluent gases by passing the effluent stream through a cold trap cooled to -10 &#xB0;C. The process requires a source of fluorine gas.

(6) Especially Designed or Prepared Systems for the conversion of UF4 to U metal.

Conversion of UF4 to U metal is performed by reduction with magnesium (large batches) or calcium (small batches). The reaction is carried out at temperatures above the melting point of uranium (1130 &#xB0;C).

(7) Especially designed or prepared systems for the conversion of UF6 to UO2.

Conversion of UF6 to UO2 can be performed by one of three processes. In the first, UF6 is reduced and hydrolyzed to UO2 using hydrogen and steam. In the second, UF6 is hydrolyzed by solution in water, ammonia is added to precipitate ammonium diuranate, and the diuranate is reduced to UO2 with hydrogen at 820 &#xB0;C. In the third process, gaseous UF6, CO2, and NH3 are combined in water, precipitating ammonium uranyl carbonate. The ammonium uranyl carbonate is combined with steam and hydrogen at 500-600 &#xB0;C to yield UO2. UF6 to UO2 conversion is often performed as the first stage of a fuel fabrication plant.

(8) Especially Designed or Prepared Systems for the conversion of UF6 to UF4. Conversion of UF6 to UF4 is performed by reduction with hydrogen.

(9) Especially designed or prepared systems for the conversion of UOto UClas feed for electromagnetic enrichment.

(b) Plutonium Conversion Plant Equipment

(1) Especially designed or prepared systems for the conversion of plutonium nitrate to oxide.

The main functions involved in this process are: process feed storage and adjustment, precipitation and solid/liquor separation, calcination, product handling, ventilation, waste management, and process control. The process systems are particularly adapted so as to avoid criticality and radiation effects and to minimize toxicity hazards. In most reprocessing facilities, this process involves the conversion of plutonium nitrate to plutonium dioxide. Other processes can involve the precipitation of plutonium oxalate or plutonium peroxide.

(2) Especially designed or prepared systems for plutonium metal production.

This process usually involves the fluorination of plutonium dioxide, normally with highly corrosive hydrogen fluoride, to produce plutonium fluoride, which is subsequently reduced using high purity calcium metal to produce metallic plutonium and a calcium fluoride slag. The main functions involved in this process are the following: fluorination (e.g., involving equipment fabricated or lined with a precious metal), metal reduction (e.g., employing ceramic crucibles), slag recovery, product handling, ventilation, waste management and process control. The process systems are particularly adapted so as to avoid criticality and radiation effects and to minimize toxicity hazards. Other processes include the fluorination of plutonium oxalate or plutonium peroxide followed by reduction to metal.

(c) Any other components especially designed or prepared for use in a uranium conversion plant or plutonium conversion plant or in any of the components described in this appendix.
