
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 110 - EXPORT AND IMPORT OF NUCLEAR EQUIPMENT AND MATERIAL
#### Appendix K to Part 110 - Illustrative List of Equipment and Components Under NRC Export Licensing Authority for Use in a Plant for the Production of Heavy Water, Deuterium and Deuterium Compounds
##### i.e.,i.e.

Single stage, low head (, 0.2 MPa or 30 psi) centrifugal blowers or compressors for hydrogen-sulphide gas circulation (, gas containing more than 70 percent H2S). The blowers or compressors have a throughput capacity greater than or equal to 56 m/second (120,000 standard cubic feet per minute) while operating at pressures greater than or equal to 1.8 MPa (260 psi) suction and have seals designed for wet H2S service.

(iii) Ammonia-Hydrogen Exchange Towers.

Ammonia-hydrogen exchange towers greater than or equal to 35 m (114.3 ft) in height with diameters of 1.5 m (4.9 ft) to 2.5 m (8.2 ft) capable of operating at pressures greater than 15 MPa (2225 psi). The towers have at least one flanged, axial opening of the same diameter as the cylindrical part through which the tower internals can be inserted or withdrawn.

(iv) Tower Internals and Stage Pumps Used in the Ammonia-hydrogen Exchange Process.

Tower internals include especially designed stage contactors which promote intimate gas/liquid contact. Stage pumps include especially designed submersible pumps for circulation of liquid ammonia within a contacting stage internal to the stage towers.

(v) Ammonia Crackers Utilizing the Ammonia-hydrogen Exchange Process.

Ammonia crackers with operating pressures greater than or equal to 3 MPa (450 psi) especially designed or prepared for heavy water production utilizing the ammonia-hydrogen exchange process.

(vi) Ammonia Synthesis Converters or Synthesis Units.

Ammonia synthesis converters or synthesis units especially designed or prepared for heavy water production utilizing the ammonia-hydrogen exchange process.

These converters or units take synthesis gas (nitrogen and hydrogen) from an ammonia/hydrogen high-pressure exchange column (or columns), and the synthesized ammonia is returned to the exchange column (or columns).

(vii) Infrared Absorption Analyzers.

Infrared absorption analyzers capable of "on-line" hydrogen/deuterium ratio analysis where deuterium concentrations are equal to or greater than 90 percent.

(viii) Catalytic Burners Used in the Ammonia-hydrogen Exchange Process.

Catalytic burners for the conversion of enriched deuterium gas into heavy water especially designed or prepared for heavy water production utilizing the ammonia-hydrogen exchange process.

(ix) Complete Heavy Water Upgrade Systems or Columns.
