
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 140 - FINANCIAL PROTECTION REQUIREMENTS AND INDEMNITY AGREEMENTS
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 140.2 Scope.

(a) The regulations in this part apply:

(1) To each person who is an applicant for or holder of a license issued under 10 CFR parts 50, 52, or 54 to operate a nuclear reactor, and

(2) With respect to an extraordinary nuclear occurrence, to each person who is an applicant for or holder of a license to operate a production facility or a utilization facility (including an operating license issued under part 50 of this chapter and a combined license under part 52 of this chapter), and to other persons indemnified with respect to the involved facilities.

(3) To each person licensed pursuant to part 70 of this chapter to possess and use plutonium in a plutonium processing and fuel fabrication plant.

(4) To each person licensed pursuant to parts 40 and 70 of this chapter to construct and operate a uranium enrichment facility.

(b)(1) Subpart B of this part does not apply to any person subject to subparts C or D of this part. Subpart C of this part applies only to persons found by the Commission to be Federal agencies. Subpart D of this part applies only to persons found by the Commission to be nonprofit educational institutions with respect to licenses and applications for licenses for the conduct of educational activities.

(2) Any applicant or licensee subject to this part may apply for a finding that such applicant or licensee is subject to the provisions of subparts C or D of this part. The application should state the grounds for the requested finding. Any application for a finding pursuant to this paragraph may be included in an application for a license.

(c) Subpart E of this part sets forth the procedures the Commission will follow and the criteria the Commission will apply in making a determination as to whether or not there has been an extraordinary nuclear occurrence. The form of nuclear energy liability policy for facilities (appendix A) and the forms of indemnity agreements with licensees (appendices B, C, D, and E) include provisions requiring the waiver of certain defenses with respect to an extraordinary nuclear occurrence. These provisions and subpart E are incorporated in this part pursuant to Pub. L. 89-645 (80 Stat. 891). They provide additional assurance of prompt compensation under available indemnity and underlying financial protection for injury or damage resulting from the hazardous properties of radioactive materials or radiation, and they in no way detract from the protection to the public otherwise provided under this part.
