
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 140 - FINANCIAL PROTECTION REQUIREMENTS AND INDEMNITY AGREEMENTS
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 140.7 Fees.

(a)(1) Each reactor licensee shall pay a fee to the Commission based on the following schedule:

(i) For indemnification from $500 million to $400 million inclusive, a fee of $30 per year per thousand kilowatts of thermal capacity authorized in the license;

(ii) For indemnification from $399 million to $300 million inclusive, a fee of $24 per year per thousand kilowatts of thermal capacity authorized in the license;

(iii) For indemnification from $299 million to $200 million inclusive, a fee of $18 per year per thousand kilowatts of thermal capacity authorized in the license;

(iv) For indemnification from $199 million to $100 million inclusive, a fee of $12 per year per thousand kilowatts of thermal capacity authorized in the license; and

(v) For indemnification from $99 million to $1 million inclusive, a fee of $6 per year per thousand kilowatts of thermal capacity authorized in the license.

(2) No fee will be less than $100 per annum for any nuclear reactor. This fee is for the period beginning with the date on which the applicable indemnity agreement is effective. The various levels of indemnity fees are set forth in the schedule in this paragraph. The amount of indemnification for determining indemnity fees will be computed by subtracting from the statutory limit of liability the amount of financial protection required of the licensee. In the case of licensees subject to the provision of ยง 140.11(a)(4), this total amount will be the amount, as determined by the Commission, of the financial protection available to licensees at the close of the calendar year preceding the one in which the fee becomes due. For those instances in which a certified financial statement is provided as a guarantee of payment of deferred premiums in accordance with ยง 140.21(e), a fee of $1,000 or the indemnity fee, whichever is greater, is required.

(b) Where a licensee manufactures a number of nuclear reactors each having a power level not exceeding 3megawatts, for sale to others and operates them at the licensee's location temporarily prior to delivery, the licensee shall report to the Commission the maximum number of such reactors to be operated at that location at any one time. In such cases, the fee shall equal $100 multiplied by the number of reactors reported by the licensee. In the event the number of reactors operated at any one time exceed the estimate so reported, the licensee shall report the additional number of reactors to the Commission and additional charges will be made. If experience shows that less than the estimated number of reactors have been operated, appropriate adjustment in subsequent bills will be made by the Commission.

(c) Each person licensed to possess and use plutonium in a plutonium processing and fuel fabrication plant shall pay to the Commission a fee of $5,000 per year for indemnification. This fee is for the period beginning with the date on which the applicable indemnity agreement is effective.

(d) Indemnity fee payments, made payable to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, are to be made in U.S. funds by check, draft, money order, credit card, or electronic funds transfer such as ACH (Automated Clearing House) using EDI (Electronic Data Interchange). Federal agencies may also make payments by the On-Line Payment and Collections System (OPAC's). Where specific payment instructions are provided on the invoices, payment should be made accordingly, e.g. invoices of $5,000 or more should be paid via ACH through NRC's Lockbox Bank at the address indicated on the invoice. Credit card payments should be made up to the limit established by the credit card bank, in accordance with specific instructions provided with the invoices, to the Lockbox Bank designated for credit card payments.
