
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 140 - FINANCIAL PROTECTION REQUIREMENTS AND INDEMNITY AGREEMENTS
#### Subpart B - Provisions Applicable Only to Applicants and Licensees Other Than Federal Agencies and Nonprofit Educational Institutions
##### ยง 140.15 Proof of financial protection.
###### Provided,

(2) Such proof may alternatively, consist of a copy of the declarations page of a nuclear energy liability policy in the form set forth in ยง 140.91 and issued to the licensee:That such policy form has been filed by the insurers with the Commission. The declarations page shall be accompanied by a certificate by the insurers stating that said copy is a true copy of the declarations page of a currently effective policy and identifying the policy (including endorsements) by reference to the policy form which has been filed by them with the Commission.

(3) The Commission will accept any other form of nuclear energy liability insurance as proof of financial protection if it determines that the provisions of such insurance provide financial protection under the requirements of the Commission's regulations and the Act.

(b) Proof of financial protection in the case of licensees who maintain financial protection in whole or in part in the form specified in ยง 140.14(a)(2) shall consist of a showing that the licensee clearly has adequate resources to provide the financial protection required under this part. For this purpose the applicant or licensee shall file with the Commission:

(1) Annual financial statements for the three complete calendar or fiscal years preceding the date of filing, together with an opinion thereon by a certified public accountant. The financial statements shall include balance sheets, operating statements and such supporting schedules as may be needed for interpretation of the balance sheets and operating statements.

(2) If the most recent statements required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section have been prepared as of a date more than 90 days prior to the date of filing, similar financial statements, prepared as of a date not more than 90 days prior to the date of filing, should be included. These statements need not be reviewed by a certified public accountant.

(c) The Commission may require any licensee to file with the Commission such additional proof of financial protection or other financial information as the Commission determines to be appropriate for the purpose of determining whether the licensee is maintaining financial protection as required under this part.

(d) Proof of financial protection shall be subject to the approval of the Commission.

(e) The licensee shall promptly notify the Commission of any material change in proof of financial protection or in other financial information filed with the Commission under this part.
