
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 150 - EXEMPTIONS AND CONTINUED REGULATORY AUTHORITY IN AGREEMENT STATES AND IN OFFSHORE WATERS UNDER SECTION 274
#### Continued Commission Regulatory Authority in Offshore Waters
##### § 150.8 Information collection requirements: OMB approval.
###### et seq.

(a) The Nuclear Regulatory Commission has submitted the information collection requirements contained in this part to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for approval as required by the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501). The NRC may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number. OMB has approved the information collection requirements contained in this part under control number 3150-0032.

(b) The approved information collection requirements contained in this part appear in §§ 150.16, 150.17, 150.17a, 150.19, 150.20, and 150.31.

(c) This part contains information collection requirements in addition to those approved under the control number specified in paragraph (a) of this section. These information collection requirements and the control numbers under which they are approved are as follows:

(1) In § 150.16, DOE/NRC FORM 741 and its computer-readable format are approved under control number 3150-0003.

(2) In § 150.17, DOE/NRC Form 742 and its computer-readable format are approved under control number 3150-0004, and DOE/NRC Form 742C and its computer-readable format are approved under control number 3150-0058.

(3) In § 150.17a, Form N-71 and associated forms are approved under OMB control number 3150-0056 and DOC/NRC Forms AP-1 or AP-A and associated forms are approved under OMB control number 0694-0135.

(4) In § 150.20, NRC Form 241 is approved under control number 3150-0013.
