
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 150 - EXEMPTIONS AND CONTINUED REGULATORY AUTHORITY IN AGREEMENT STATES AND IN OFFSHORE WATERS UNDER SECTION 274
#### Continued Commission Regulatory Authority in Agreement States
##### ยง 150.15 Persons not exempt.
###### operation

(1) The construction and operation of any production or utilization facility. As used in this subparagraph,of a facility includes, but is not limited to (i) the storage and handling of radioactive wastes at the facility site by the person licensed to operate the facility, and (ii) the discharge of radioactive effluents from the facility site.

(2) The export from or import into the United States of byproduct, source, or special nuclear material, or of any production or utilization facility.

(3) The disposal into the ocean or sea of byproduct, source, or special nuclear waste materials, as defined in regulations or orders of the Commission. For purposes of this part, ocean or sea means any part of the territorial waters of the United States and any part of the international waters.

(4) The transfer, storage or disposal of radioactive waste material resulting from the separation in a production facility of special nuclear material from irradiated nuclear reactor fuel. This subparagraph does not apply to the transfer, storage or disposal of contaminated equipment.

(5) The disposal of such other byproduct, source, or special nuclear material as the Commission determines by regulation or order should, because of the hazards or potential hazards thereof, not be so disposed of without a license from the Commission.

(6) The transfer of possession or control by the manufacturer, processor, or producer of any equipment, device, commodity, or other product containing source material or byproduct material whose subsequent possession, use, transfer, and disposal by all other persons are exempted from licensing and regulatory requirements of the Commission under Parts 30 and 40 of this chapter.

(7) The storage of:

(i) Spent fuel in an independent spent fuel storage installation (ISFSI) licensed under part 72 of this chapter,

(ii) Spent fuel and high-level radioactive waste in a monitored retrievable storage installation (MRS) licensed under part 72 of this chapter, or

(iii) Greater than Class C waste, as defined in part 72 of this chapter, in an ISFSI or an MRS licensed under part 72 of this chapter; the GTCC waste must originate in, or be used by, a facility licensed under part 50 or 52 of this chapter.

(8) Greater than Class C waste, as defined in part 72 of this chapter, that originates in, or is used by, a facility licensed under part 50 or part 52 of this chapter and is licensed under part 30 and/or part 70 of this chapter.

(9) The requirements for the protection of Safeguards information in ยง 73.21 of this chapter and the requirements in ยง 73.22 or ยง 73.23 of this chapter, as applicable.

(b) Notwithstanding any exemptions provided in this part, the Commission may from time to time by rule, regulation, or order, require that the manufacturer, processor, or producer of any equipment, device, commodity, or other product containing source, byproduct, or special nuclear material shall not transfer possession or control of such product except pursuant to a license or an exemption from licensing issued by the Commission.
