
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 150 - EXEMPTIONS AND CONTINUED REGULATORY AUTHORITY IN AGREEMENT STATES AND IN OFFSHORE WATERS UNDER SECTION 274
#### Continued Commission Authority in Agreement States
##### § 150.16 Submission to Commission of nuclear material transaction reports.
###### RidsNmssFcss@nrc.gov.

(a)(1) Each person who transfers or receives special nuclear material in a quantity of one gram or more of contained uranium-235, uranium-233, or plutonium under an Agreement State license shall complete and submit in computer-readable format Nuclear Material Transaction Reports as specified in the instructions in NUREG/BR-0006 and NMMSS Report D-24, "Personal Computer Data Input for NRC Licensees." In addition, each person who adjusts the inventory in any manner, other than for transfers and receipts, shall submit in computer-readable format Nuclear Material Transaction Reports as specified in the instructions in NUREG/BR-0006 and NMMSS Report D-24, "Personal Computer Data Input for NRC Licensees." Each licensee who receives special nuclear material in a quantity of one gram or more of contained uranium-235, uranium-233, or plutonium from a foreign source, or who ships special nuclear material in a quantity of one gram or more of contained uranium-235, uranium-233, or plutonium to a foreign source, shall submit the licensee portion of this information as specified in the instructions in this part. The applicable foreign facility portion of the form must be completed and submitted for imports. The foreign facility portion of the form must be completed for exports only if a significant shipper-receiver difference as described in §§ 74.31, 74.43, or 74.59 of this part, as applicable, is identified. Each person who transfers the material shall submit a Nuclear Material Transaction Report in computer-readable format as specified in the instructions no later than the close of business the next working day. Each person who receives special nuclear material shall submit a Nuclear Material Transaction Report in the computer-readable format as specified in the instructions within ten (10) days after the special nuclear material is received. Copies of these instructions may be obtained either by writing to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Division of Fuel Management, Washington, DC 20555-0001, or by e-mail toThese prescribed computer-readable formats replace the DOE/NRC Form 741 which have been previously submitted in paper form.
