
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 150 - EXEMPTIONS AND CONTINUED REGULATORY AUTHORITY IN AGREEMENT STATES AND IN OFFSHORE WATERS UNDER SECTION 274
#### Continued Commission Authority in Agreement States
##### § 150.16 Submission to Commission of nuclear material transaction reports.
###### RidsNmssFcss@nrc.gov.

(2) Except as specified in §§ 150.17(d) and 150.17a, each person who, under an Agreement State specific license transfers, receives, or adjusts the inventory in any manner, of uranium or thorium source material with foreign obligations by one kilogram or more; imports or exports one kilogram or more of uranium or thorium source material; or uses one kilogram or more of any uranium or thorium source material in enrichment services, downblending uranium that has an initial enrichment of the Uisotope of 10 percent or more, or in the fabrication of mixed-oxide fuels, shall complete and submit in computer-readable format Nuclear Material Transaction Reports as specified in the instructions in NUREG/BR-0006 and NMMSS Report D-24, "Personal Computer Data Input for NRC Licensees." Each person who, under an Agreement State specific license exports one kilogram or more of uranium or thorium source material shall complete in the format listed above the licensee's portion of the Nuclear Material Transaction Report unless there is indication of loss, theft, or diversion as discussed in § 40.64(c)(1) of this chapter is identified, in which case both the licensee's and the foreign facility's information shall be reported. For imports, the shipper's portion of the form must also be completed. Copies of the instructions may be obtained either by writing to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Division of Fuel Management, Washington, DC 20555-0001, or by e-mail toEach licensee who transfers the material shall submit a Nuclear Material Transaction Report in computer-readable format as specified in the instructions no later than the close of business the next working day. Each licensee who receives the material shall submit a Nuclear Material Transaction Report in computer-readable format in accordance with instructions within ten (10) days after the material is received. The Commission's copy of the report must be submitted to the address specified in the instructions. These prescribed computer-readable forms replace the DOE/NRC Form 741 which have been previously submitted in paper form.

(b)(1) Each person who, pursuant to an Agreement State License, possesses 1 gram or more of contained uranium-235, uranium-233, or plutonium shall report immediately to the Regional Administrator of the appropriate NRC Regional Office listed in appendix A of part 73 of this chapter, by telephone, any theft or other unlawful diversion of special nuclear material which the licensee is licensed to possess or any incident in which an attempt has been made, or is believed to have been made, to commit a theft or unlawful diversion of special nuclear material.

(2) Within 15 days, the licensee shall follow the initial report with a written report that sets forth the details of the incident. The report must be sent by an appropriate method listed in § 150.4 to the Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, with a copy to the appropriate NRC Regional Office, shown in appendix A to part 73 of this chapter.

(3) Subsequent to the submission of the written report required by this paragraph, each licensee shall promptly inform the Regional Administrator of the appropriate NRC Regional Office by means of a written report of any substantive additional information which becomes available to the licensee concerning an attempted or apparent theft or unlawful diversion of special nuclear material.
