
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 150 - EXEMPTIONS AND CONTINUED REGULATORY AUTHORITY IN AGREEMENT STATES AND IN OFFSHORE WATERS UNDER SECTION 274
#### Continued Commission Authority in Agreement States
##### ยง 150.17 Submission to Commission of nuclear material status reports.
###### RidsNmssFcss@nrc.gov.

(a) Except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section and ยง 150.17a, each person possessing, or who had possessed in the previous reporting period, at any one time and location, under an Agreement State license, special nuclear material in a quantity totaling one gram or more of contained uranium-235, uranium-233, or plutonium, shall complete and submit, in computer-readable format Material Balance Reports concerning special nuclear material that the licensee has received, produced, possessed, transferred, consumed, disposed of, or lost. This prescribed computer-readable report replaces the DOE/NRC Form 742 which has been previously submitted in paper form. The Physical Inventory Listing Report must be submitted with each Material Balance Report. This prescribed computer-readable report replaces the DOE/NRC Form 742C which has been previously submitted in paper form. Each licensee shall prepare and submit the reports described in this paragraph as specified in the instructions in NUREG/BR-0007 and NMMSS Report D-24 "Personal Computer Data Input for NRC Licensees." Copies of these instructions may be obtained from the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Division of Fuel Management, Washington, DC 20555-0001, or by e-mail toEach person subject to this requirement shall submit a report no later than March 31 of each year. The Commission may, when good cause is shown, permit a licensee to submit Material Balance Reports and Physical Inventory Listing Reports at other times. Each licensee required to report material balance, and inventory information, as described in this part, shall resolve any discrepancies identified during the report review and reconciliation process within 30 calendar days of notification of a discrepancy identified by NRC.

(b) Except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section and ยง 150.17a, each person possessing, or who had possessed in the previous reporting period, at any one time and location, under an Agreement State license:

(1) One kilogram or more of uranium or thorium source material with foreign obligations, shall document holdings as of September 30 of each year and submit to the Commission within 30 days. Alternatively, these reports may be submitted with the licensee's material status reports on special nuclear material filed under part 72 or 74 of this chapter. This statement must be submitted to the address specified in the reporting instructions in NUREG/BR-0007, and include the Reporting Identification Symbol (RIS) assigned by the Commission.
