
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 170 - FEES FOR FACILITIES, MATERIALS, IMPORT AND EXPORT LICENSES, AND OTHER REGULATORY SERVICES UNDER THE ATOMIC ENERGY ACT OF 1954, AS AMENDED
#### General Provisions
##### ยง 170.12 Payment of fees.
###### Licensing fees.

(b)(1) Licensing fees will be assessed to recover full costs for-

(i) The review of applications for new licenses and approvals;

(ii) The review of applications for amendments to and renewal of existing licenses or approvals;

(iii) Preapplication consultations and reviews; and

(iv) The full cost for project managers assigned to a specific plant or facility, excluding leave time and time spent on generic activities (such as rulemaking).

(2) Full cost fees will be determined based on the professional staff time and appropriate contractual support services expended. The full cost fees for professional staff time will be determined at the professional hourly rates in effect the time the service was provided. The full cost fees are payable upon notification by the Commission.

(3) The NRC intends to bill each applicant or licensee at quarterly intervals for all accumulated costs for each application the applicant or licensee has on file for NRC review, until the review has been brought to an end, whether by issuance of a permit, license, approval, certificate, exemption, or other form of permission; by denial, withdrawal, or suspension of review of the application; or by postponement of action on the application by the applicant.

(4) The NRC intends to bill each applicant or licensee for costs related to project manager time on a quarterly basis. Each bill will identify the costs related to project manager time.
