
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 170 - FEES FOR FACILITIES, MATERIALS, IMPORT AND EXPORT LICENSES, AND OTHER REGULATORY SERVICES UNDER THE ATOMIC ENERGY ACT OF 1954, AS AMENDED
#### General Provisions
##### ยง 170.12 Payment of fees.
###### Special project fees.

(d)(1) All special projects performed by the Commission, unless otherwise exempt from fees or for which fees are otherwise specified in this part, will be assessed fees to recover the full cost of the service provided. Special projects means specific services provided by the Commission, including but not limited to-

(i) Topical reports;

(ii) Financial assurance submittals that do not require a license amendment;

(iii) Responses to Confirmatory Action Letters;

(iv) Uranium recovery licensees' land-use survey reports;

(v) 10 CFR 50.71 final safety analysis reports;

(vi) Contested hearings on licensing actions directly involving U.S Government national security initiatives, as determined by the NRC; and

(vii) Responses to Touhy requests that require the NRC staff to expend more than 50 hours of official time. Fees for Touhy requests will be billed at the appropriate hourly rate established in ยง 170.20.

(2) The NRC intends to bill each applicant or licensee at quarterly intervals until the special project is completed. Each bill will identify the special project, including any documents submitted for review or the specific contested hearing, and the related costs. The fees are payable upon notification by the Commission.
