
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 171 - ANNUAL FEES FOR REACTOR LICENSES AND FUEL CYCLE LICENSES AND MATERIALS LICENSES, INCLUDING HOLDERS OF CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE, REGISTRATIONS, AND QUALITY ASSURANCE PROGRAM APPROVALS AND GOVERNMENT AGENCIES LICENSED BY THE NRC
#### ยง 171.5 Definitions.
##### Bundled unit

means the cumulative licensed thermal power rating of a number of SMR reactors on the same site that, for 10 CFR part 171 purposes only, is considered a single fee unit. The maximum capacity of a bundled unit is 4,500 MWt. A single SMR reactor can be part of two bundled units if it completes the capacity of one unit and begins the capacity of an additional unit. For a given site, the use of the bundled unit concept is independent of the number of SMR plants, the number of SMR licenses issued, or the sequencing of the SMR licenses that have been issued. The first bundled unit on a site is assessed a minimum fee for capacity less than or equal to 250 MWt, plus a variable fee for capacity greater than 250 MWt and less than or equal to 2,000 MWt. Bundled units with capacities greater than 2,000 MWt and less than or equal to 4,500 MWt are assessed a maximum fee that is equivalent to the annual fee paid by the current reactor fleet. The maximum fee replaces the minimum and variable fee for the first bundled unit. Each additional increment of 4,500 MWt of SMR capacity on the same site constitutes an additional bundled unit. No minimum fee is assessed to additional bundled units. For any additional bundled unit, a variable fee applies to capacities less than or equal to 2,000 MWt and the maximum fee applies to capacities greater than 2,000 MWt and less than or equal to 4,500 MWT. For additional bundled units, the maximum fee replaces the variable fee.
