
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 171 - ANNUAL FEES FOR REACTOR LICENSES AND FUEL CYCLE LICENSES AND MATERIALS LICENSES, INCLUDING HOLDERS OF CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE, REGISTRATIONS, AND QUALITY ASSURANCE PROGRAM APPROVALS AND GOVERNMENT AGENCIES LICENSED BY THE NRC
#### ยง 171.11 Exemptions.

(a) All requests for exemptions must be filed with the NRC within 90 days from the effective date of the final rule establishing the annual fees for which the exemption is sought in order to be considered. Absent extraordinary circumstances, any exemption requests filed beyond that date will not be considered. The filing of an exemption request does not extend the date on which the bill is payable. Only timely payment in full ensures avoidance of interest and penalty charges. If a partial or full exemption is granted, any overpayment will be refunded. Requests for clarification of or questions relating to an annual fee bill must also be filed within 90 days from the date of the initial invoice to be considered.

(b) An annual fee is not required for:

(1) A construction permit or license applied for by, or issued to, a nonprofit educational institution for a production or utilization facility, other than a power reactor, or for the possession and use of byproduct material, source material, or special nuclear material. This exemption does not apply to those byproduct, source, or special nuclear material licenses which authorize:

(i) Human use;

(ii) Remunerated services to other persons;

(iii) Distribution of byproduct material, source material, or special nuclear material or products containing byproduct material, source material, or special nuclear material; or

(iv) Activities performed under a Government contract.

(2) Federally-owned and State-owned research reactors used primarily for educational training and academic research purposes. For purposes of this exemption, the term research reactor means a nuclear reactor that-

(i) Is licensed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission under section 104c. of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2134(c)) for operation at a thermal power level of 10 megawatts or less; and

(ii) If so licensed for operation at a thermal power level of more than 1 megawatt, does not contain-

(A) A circulating loop through the core in which the licensee conducts fuel experiments;

(B) A liquid fuel loading; or

(C) An experimental facility in the core in excess of 16 square inches in cross-section.

(c) The Commission may, upon application by an interested person or on its own initiative, grant an exemption from the requirements of this part that it determines is authorized by law and otherwise in the public interest.

(d) An exemption for reactors licensed to operate may be granted by the Commission taking into consideration each of the following factors:

(1) Age of the reactor;

(2) Number of customers in rate base;

(3) Net increase in KWh cost for each customer directly related to the annual fee assessed under this part; and

(4) Any other relevant matter which the licensee believes justifies the reduction of the annual fee.

(e) The Commission may grant a materials licensee an exemption from the annual fee if it determines that the annual fee is not based on a fair and equitable allocation of the NRC costs. The following factors must be fulfilled as determined by the Commission for an exemption to be granted:

(1) There are data specifically indicating that the assessment of the annual fee will result in a significantly disproportionate allocation of costs to the licensee, or class of licensees; or

(2) There is clear and convincing evidence that the budgeted generic costs attributable to the class of licensees are neither directly or indirectly related to the specific class of licensee nor explicitly allocated to the licensee by Commission policy decisions; or

(3) Any other relevant matter that the licensee believes shows that the annual fee was not based on a fair and equitable allocation of NRC costs.
