
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - Oil
#### PART 205 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES AND SANCTIONS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 205.4 Filing of documents.

(a) Any document, including, but not limited to, an application, request, complaint, petition and other documents submitted in connection therewith, filed with the DOE or a State Office under this chapter is considered to be filed when it has been received by the DOE National Office, a Regional Office or a State Office. Documents transmitted to the DOE must be addressed as required by § 205.12. All documents and exhibits submitted become part of an DOE or a State Office file and will not be returned.

(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, an appeal, a response to a denial of an appeal or application for modification or recision in accordance with §§ 205.106(a)(3) and 205.135(a)(3), respectively, a reply to a notice of probable violation, the appeal of a remedial order or remedial order for immediate compliance, a response to denial of a claim of confidentiality, or a comment submitted in connection with any proceeding transmitted by registered or certified mail and addressed to the appropriate office is considered to be filed upon mailing.

(c) Hand-delivered documents to be filed with the Office of Exceptions and Appeals shall be submitted to Room 8002 at 2000 M Street, NW., Washington, D.C. All other hand-delivered documents to be filed with the DOE National Office shall be submitted to the Executive Secretariat at 12th and Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, D.C. Hand-delivered documents to be filed with a Regional Office shall be submitted to the Office of the Regional Administrator. Hand-delivered documents to be filed with a State Office shall be submitted to the office of the chief executive officer of such office.

(d) Documents received after regular business hours are deemed filed on the next regular business day. Regular business hours for the DOE National Office are 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Regular business hours for a Regional Office or a State Office shall be established independently by each.
