
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - Oil
#### PART 205 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES AND SANCTIONS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 205.9 General filing requirements.
####### Request for confidential treatment.

(f)(1) If any person filing a document with the DOE or a State Office claims that some or all the information contained in the document is exempt from the mandatory public disclosure requirements of the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552 (1970)), is information referred to in 18 U.S.C. 1905 (1970), or is otherwise exempt by law from public disclosure, and if such person requests the DOE or a State Office not to disclose such information, such person shall file together with the document a second copy of the document from which has been deleted the information for which such person wishes to claim confidential treatment. The person shall indicate in the original document that it is confidential or contains confidential information and may file a statement specifying the justification for non-disclosure of the information for which confidential treatment is claimed. If the person states that the information comes within the exception in 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4) for trade secrets and commercial or financial information, such person shall include a statement specifying why such information is privileged or confidential. If the person filing a document does not submit a second copy of the document with the confidential information deleted, the DOE or a State Office may assume that there is no objection to public disclosure of the document in its entirety.

(2) The DOE or a State Office retains the right to make its own determination with regard to any claim of confidentiality. Notice of the decision by the DOE or a State Office to deny such claim, in whole or in part, and an opportunity to respond shall be given to a person claiming confidentiality of information no less than five days prior to its public disclosure.
