
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - Oil
#### PART 205 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES AND SANCTIONS
##### Subpart M - Conferences, Hearings, and Public Hearings
###### ยง 205.171 Conferences.

(a) The DOE in its discretion may direct that a conference be convened, on its own initiative or upon request by a person, when it appears that such conference will materially advance the proceeding. The determination as to who may attend a conference convened under this subpart shall be in the discretion of the DOE, but a conference will usually not be open to the public.

(b) A conference may be requested in connection with any proceeding of the DOE by any person who might be aggrieved by that proceeding. The request may be made in writing or verbally, but must include a specific showing as to why such conference will materially advance the proceeding. The request shall be addressed to the DOE office that is conducting the proceeding.

(c) A conference may only be convened after actual notice of the time, place, and nature of the conference is provided to the person who requested the conference.

(d) When a conference is convened in accordance with this section, each person may present views as to the issue or issues involved. Documentary evidence may be presented at the conference, but will be treated as if submitted in the regular course of the proceedings. A transcript of the conference will not usually be prepared. However, the DOE in its discretion may have a verbatim transcript prepared.

(e) Because a conference is solely for the exchange of views incident to a proceeding, there will be no formal reports or findings unless the DOE in its discretion determines that such would be advisable.
