
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - Oil
#### PART 205 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES AND SANCTIONS
##### Subpart M - Conferences, Hearings, and Public Hearings
###### ยง 205.172 Hearings.

(a) The DOE in its discretion may direct that a hearing be convened on its own initiative or upon request by a person, when it appears that such hearing will materially advance the proceedings. The determination as to who may attend a hearing convened under this subpart shall be in the discretion of DOE, but a hearing will usually not be open to the public. Where the hearing involves a matter arising under part 213, the Director of Oil Imports shall be notified as to its time and place, in order that he or his representative may present views as to the issue or issues involved.

(b) A hearing may only be requested in connection with an application for an exception or an appeal. Such request may be by the applicant, appellant, or any other person who might be aggrieved by the DOE action sought. The request shall be in writing and shall include a specific showing as to why such hearing will materially advance the proceeding. The request shall be addressed to the DOE office that is considering the application for an exception or the appeal.

(c) The DOE will designate an agency official to conduct the hearing, and will specify the time and place for the hearing.

(d) A hearing may only be convened after actual notice of the time, place, and nature of the hearing is provided both to the applicant or appellant and to any other person readily identifiable by the DOE as one who will be aggrieved by the DOE action involved. The notice shall include, as appropriate:

(1) A statement that such person may participate in the hearing; or

(2) A statement that such person may request a separate conference or hearing regarding the application or appeal.

(e) When a hearing is convened in accordance with this section, each person may present views as to the issue or issues involved. Documentary evidence may be presented at the hearing, but will be treated as if submitted in the regular course of the proceedings. A transcript of the hearing will not usually be prepared. However, the DOE in its discretion may have a verbatim transcript prepared.

(f) The official conducting the hearing may administer oaths and affirmations, rule on the presentation of information, receive relevant information, dispose of procedural requests, determine the format of the hearing, and otherwise regulate the course of the hearing.

(g) Because a hearing is solely for the exchange of views incident to a proceeding, there will be no formal reports or findings unless the DOE in its discretion determines that such would be advisable.
