
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - Oil
#### PART 205 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES AND SANCTIONS
##### Subpart M - Conferences, Hearings, and Public Hearings
###### ยง 205.173 Public hearings.

(a) A public hearing shall be convened incident to a rulemaking:

(1) When the proposed rule or regulation is likely to have a substantial impact on the Nation's economy or large numbers of individuals or businesses; or

(2) When the DOE determines that a public hearing would materially advance the consideration of the issue. A public hearing may be requested by any interested person in connection with a rulemaking proceeding, but shall only be convened on the initiative of the DOE unless otherwise required by statute.

(b) A public hearing may be convened incident to any proceeding when the DOE in its discretion determines that such public hearing would materially advance the consideration of the issue.

(c) A public hearing may only be convened after publication of a notice in thewhich shall include a statement of the time, place, and nature of the public hearing.

(d) Interested persons may file a request to participate in the public hearing in accordance with the instructions in the notice published in theThe request shall be in writing and signed by the person making the request. It shall include a description of the person's interest in the issue or issues involved and of the anticipated content of the presentation. It shall also contain a statement explaining why the person would be an appropriate spokesperson for the particular view expressed.

(e) The DOE shall appoint a presiding officer to conduct the public hearing. An agenda shall be prepared that shall provide, to the extent practicable, for the presentation of all relevant views by competent spokespersons.

(f) A verbatim transcript shall be made of the hearing. The transcript, together with any written comments submitted in the course of the proceeding, shall be made available for public inspection and copying in the public docket room, as provided in ยง 205.15.

(g) The information presented at the public hearing, together with the written comments submitted and other relevant information developed during the course of the proceeding, shall provide the basis for the DOE decision.
