
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - Oil
#### PART 205 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES AND SANCTIONS
##### Subpart O - Notice of Probable Violation, Remedial Order, Notice of Proposed Disallowance, and Order of Disallowance
###### ยง 205.193 Notice of Objection.

(a) Within 15 days after publication of the notice of a Proposed Remedial Order in theany aggrieved person may file a Notice of Objection to the Proposed Remedial Order with the Office of Hearings and Appeals. The Notice shall be filed in duplicate, shall briefly describe how the person would be aggrieved by issuance of the Proposed Remedial Order as a final order and shall state the person's intention to file a Statement of Objections. No confidential information shall be included in a Notice of Objection. The DOE shall place one copy of the Notice in the Office of Hearings and Appeals Public Docket Room.

(b) A person who fails to file a timely Notice of Objection shall be deemed to have admitted the findings of fact and conclusions of law as stated in the Proposed Remedial Order. If a Notice of Objection is not filed as provided by paragraph (a) of this section, the Proposed Remedial Order may be issued as a final order.

(c) A person who files a Notice of Objection shall on the same day serve a copy of the Notice upon the person to whom the Proposed Remedial Order is directed, the DOE Office that issued the Proposed Remedial Order, and the DOE Assistant General Counsel for Administrative Litigation.

(d) The Notice shall include a certification of compliance with the provisions of this section, the names and addresses of each person served with a copy of the Notice, and the date and manner of service.

(e) If no person files a timely Notice of Objection, ERA may request the Office of Hearings and Appeals to issue the Proposed Remedial Order as a final Remedial Order.

(f) In order to exhaust administrative remedies with respect to a Remedial Order proceeding, a person must file a timely Notice of Objection and Statement of Objections with the Office of Hearings and Appeals.
