
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - Oil
#### PART 205 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES AND SANCTIONS
##### Subpart O - Notice of Probable Violation, Remedial Order, Notice of Proposed Disallowance, and Order of Disallowance
###### ยง 205.198 Discovery.

(a) If a person intends to file a Motion for Discovery, he must file it at the same time that he files his Statement of Objections or at the same time he files his Response to a Statement of Objections, whichever is earlier. All Motions for Discovery and related filings must be served upon the person to whom the discovery is directed. If the person to whom the discovery is directed is not on the official service list, the documents served upon him shall include a copy of this section, the address of the Office of Hearings and Appeals and a statement that objections to the Motion may be filed with the Office of Hearings and Appeals.

(b) A Motion for Discovery may request that:

(1) A person produce for inspection and photocopying non-privileged written material in his possession;

(2) A person respond to written interrogatories;

(3) A person admit to the genuineness of any relevant document or the truth of any relevant fact; or

(4) The deposition of a material witness be taken.

(c) A Motion for Discovery shall set forth the reasons why the particular discovery is necessary in order to obtain relevant and material evidence and shall explain why such discovery would not unduly delay the proceeding.

(d) Within 20 days after a Motion for Discovery is served, a participant or a person to whom the discovery is directed may file a request that the Motion be denied in whole or in part, stating the reasons which support the request.

(e) Discovery may be conducted only pursuant to an Order issued by the Office of Hearings and Appeals. A Motion for Discovery will be granted if it is concluded that discovery is necessary for the party to obtain relevant and material evidence and that discovery will not unduly delay the proceeding. Depositions will be permitted if a convincing showing is made that the participant cannot obtain the material sought through one of the other discovery means specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(f) The Director of the Office of Hearings and Appeals or his designee may issue subpoenas in accordance with ยง 205.8 in support of Discovery Orders, except that ยง 205.8 (h)(2), (3), and (4) shall not apply to such subpoenas.

(g) The Office of Hearings and Appeals may order that any direct expenses incurred by a person to produce evidence pursuant to a Motion for Discovery be charged to the person who filed the Motion.

(h)(1) If a person fails to comply with an order relating to discovery, the Office of Hearings and Appeals may order appropriate sanctions.

(2) It shall be the duty of aggrieved participants to request that appropriate relief be fashioned in such situations.

(i) Any order issued by the Office of Hearings and Appeals with respect to discovery shall be subject to further administrative review or appeal only upon issuance of the determination referred to in ยง 205.199B.
