
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - Oil
#### PART 205 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES AND SANCTIONS
##### Subpart O - Notice of Probable Violation, Remedial Order, Notice of Proposed Disallowance, and Order of Disallowance
###### ยง 205.199 Evidentiary hearing.
####### Conduct of Evidentiary Hearing.

(g)All evidentiary hearings convened pursuant to this section shall be conducted by the Director of the Office of Hearings and Appeals or his designee. At any evidentiary hearing the parties shall have the opportunity to present material evidence which directly relates to a particular issue of fact set forth for hearing. The presiding officer shall afford the parties an opportunity to cross examine all witnesses. The presiding officer may administer oaths and affirmations, rule on objections to the presentation of evidence, receive relevant material, rule on any motion to conform the Proposed Remedial Order to the evidence presented, rule on motions for continuance, dispose of procedural requests, determine the format of the hearing, modify any order granting a Motion for Evidentiary Hearing, direct that written motions or briefs be provided with respect to issues raised during the course of the hearing, issue subpoenas, and otherwise regulate the conduct of the hearing. The presiding officer may take reasonable measures to exclude duplicative material from the hearing, and may place appropriate limitations on the number of witnesses that may be called by a party. The presiding officer may also require that evidence be submitted through affidavits or other documents if the direct testimony of witnesses will unduly delay the orderly progress of the hearing and would not contribute to resolving the issues involved in the hearing. The provisions of ยง 205.8 which relate to subpoenas and witness fees shall apply to any evidentiary hearing, except that subsection ยง 205.8(h) (2), (3), and (4) shall not apply.
