
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - Oil
#### PART 205 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES AND SANCTIONS
##### Subpart U - Procedures for Electricity Export Cases
###### ยง 205.270 Off-the-record communications.

(a) In any proceeding which is subject to this subpart-

(1) No interested person shall make an off-the-record communication or knowingly cause an off-the-record communication to be made to any decisional employee.

(2) No decisional employee shall make an off-the-record communication or knowingly cause an off-the-record communication to be made to any interested person.

(3) A decisional employee who receives, makes, or knowingly causes to be made an oral communication prohibited by this section shall prepare a memorandum stating the substance of the communication and any responses made to it.

(4) With 48 hours of receiving, making or knowingly causing to be made a communication prohibited by this section, a decisional employee shall deliver all written off-the-record communications and all memoranda prepared in compliance with paragraph (a)(3) of this section to the Director of the Coal and Electricity Division, ERA, who will immediately place the materials described above in the public record associated with the adjudication, available for public inspection.

(5) Upon receipt of a communication knowingly made or knowingly caused to be made by a participant in violation of this section, the Administrator or presiding officer may, to the extent consistent with the interests of justice and the applicable statutory policy, require the participant to show cause why his or her claim or interest in the adjudication should not be dismissed, denied, disregarded, or otherwise adversely affected on account of the violation.

(6) The prohibitions of this section shall apply beginning at the time an adjudication is noticed for hearing (or the person responsible for the communication acquires knowledge that it will be noticed), a protest is filed, or a petition or notice to intervene in opposition to the requested Department action is filed, whichever occurs first.

(b) The prohibition, cited at 18 CFR 1.30(f), against participation in the decision-making process by Department employees who perform investigative or trial functions in an adjudication, shall no longer be applicable to ERA.
