
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - Oil
#### PART 205 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES AND SANCTIONS
##### Subpart V - Special Procedures for Distribution of Refunds
###### ยง 205.282 Evaluation of petition by the Office of Hearings and Appeals.

(a) After considering the Petition, the Director of the Office of Hearings and Appeals or his designee shall issue a Proposed Decision and Order. The Proposed Decision and Order shall generally describe the nature of the particular refund proceeding and shall set forth the standards and procedures that the Office of Hearings and Appeals intends to apply in evaluating refund claims.

(b) The Proposed Decision and Order shall be published in thetogether with a statement that any member of the public may submit written comments to the Office of Hearings and Appeals with respect to the matter. At least 30 days following publication in theshall be provided for the submission of comments.

(c) After considering the comments submitted, the Director of the Office of Hearings and Appeals or his designee shall issue a final Decision and Order which shall govern the disposition of the refunds. The final Decision and Order shall also be published in the

(d) The final Decision and Order shall set forth the standards and procedures that will be used in evaluating individual Applications for Refunds and distributing the refund amount. Those standards and procedures shall be consistent with the provisions of this subpart.

(e) In establishing standards and procedures for implementing refund distributions, the Office of Hearings and Appeals shall take into account the desirability of distributing the refunds in an efficient, effective and equitable manner and resolving to the maximum extent practicable all outstanding claims. In order to do so, the standards for evaluation of individual claims may be based upon appropriate presumptions.
