
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - Oil
#### PART 205 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES AND SANCTIONS
##### Subpart V - Special Procedures for Distribution of Refunds
###### ยง 205.283 Applications for refund.

(a) Any person entitled to a refund pursuant to a final Decision and Order issued pursuant to ยง 205.282 may file an Application for Refund. All Applications must be signed by the applicant and specify the DOE order to which they pertain. Any Application for a refund in excess of $100 must be file in duplicate, and a copy of that Application will be available for public inspection in the DOE Public Docket Room at 2000 M Street, NW., Washington, DC. Any applicant who believes that his Application contains confidential information must so indicate on the first page of his Application and submit two additional copies of his Application from which the information that the applicant claims is confidential has been deleted, together with a statement specifying why any such information is privileged or confidential.

(b) The contents of an Application for Refund shall be specified in the final Decision and Order referred to in ยง 205.282(c). A filing deadline for Applications shall also be specified in the final Decision and Order, and shall be no less than 90 days after the publication of the Order in the

(c) Each Application shall be in writing and signed by the applicant, and shall indicate whether the applicant or any person acting on his instructions has filed or intends to file any other Application or claim of whatever nature regarding the matters at issue in the underlying enforcement proceeding. Each Application shall also include a sworn statement by the applicant that all information in his Application is true and correct to the best of his knowledge and belief.
