
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - Oil
#### PART 205 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES AND SANCTIONS
##### Application for Authorization to Transmit Electric Energy to a Foreign Country
###### ยง 205.302 Contents of application.

Every application shall contain the following information set forth in the order indicated below:

(a) The exact legal name of the applicant.

(b) The exact legal name of all partners.

(c) The name, title, post office address, and telephone number of the person to whom correspondence in regard to the application shall be addressed.

(d) The state or territory under the laws of which the applicant is organized or incorporated, or authorized to operate. If the applicant is authorized to operate in more than one state, all pertinent facts shall be included.

(e) The name and address of any known Federal, State or local government agency which may have any jurisdiction over the action to be taken in this application and a brief description of that authority.

(f) A description of the transmission facilities through which the electric energy will be delivered to the foreign country, including the name of the owners and the location of any remote facilities.

(g) A technical discussion of the proposed electricity export's reliability, fuel use and system stability impact on the applicant's present and prospective electric power supply system. Applicant must explain why the proposed electricity export will not impair the sufficiency of electric supply on its system and why the export will not impede or tend to impede the regional coordination of electric utility planning or operation.

(h) The original application shall be signed and verified under oath by an officer of the applicant having knowledge of the matters set forth therein.
