
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - Oil
#### PART 205 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES AND SANCTIONS
##### Application for Presidential Permit Authorizing the Construction, Connection, Operation, and Maintenance of Facilities for Transmission of Electric Energy at International Boundaries
###### ยง 205.322 Contents of application.
####### Information regarding the transmission lines to be covered by the Presidential Permit.

(b)(1)(i) A technical description providing the following information: (A) Number of circuits, with identification as to whether the circuit is overhead or underground; (B) the operating voltage and frequency; and (C) conductor size, type and number of conductors per phase.

(ii) If the proposed interconnection is an overhead line the following additional information must also be provided: (A) The wind and ice loading design parameters; (B) a full description and drawing of a typical supporting structure including strength specifications; (C) structure spacing with typical ruling and maximum spans; (D) conductor (phase) spacing; and (E) the designed line to ground and conductor side clearances.

(iii) If an underground or underwater interconnection is proposed, the following additional information must also be provided: (A) Burial depth; (B) type of cable and a description of any required supporting equipment, such as insulation medium pressurizing or forced cooling; and (C) cathodic protection scheme. Technical diagrams which provide clarification of any of the above items should be included.

(2) A general area map with a scale not greater than 1 inch = 40 kilometers (1 inch = 25 miles) showing the overall system, and a detailed map at a scale of 1 inch = 8 kilometers (1 inch = 5 miles) showing the physical location, longitude and latitude of the facility on the international border. The map shall indicate ownership of the facilities at or on each side of the border between the United States and the foreign country. The maps, plans, and description of the facilities shall distinguish the facilities or parts thereof already constructed from those to be constructed.

(3) Applications for the bulk power supply facility which is proposed to be operated at 138 kilovolts or higher shall contain the following bulk power system information:

(i) Data regarding the expected power transfer capability, using normal and short time emergency conductor ratings;

(ii) System power flow plots for the applicant's service area for heavy summer and light spring load periods, with and without the proposed international interconnection, for the year the line is scheduled to be placed in service and for the fifth year thereafter. The power flow plots submitted can be in the format customarily used by the utility, but the ERA requires a detailed legend to be included with the power flow plots;

(iii) Data on the line design features for minimizing television and/or radio interference caused by operation of the subject transmission facilities;

(iv) A description of the relay protection scheme, including equipment and proposed functional devices;

(v) After receipt of the system power flow plots, the ERA may require the applicant to furnish system stability analysis for the applicant's system.

(c) Information regarding the environmental impacts shall be provided as follows for each routing alternative:

(1) Statement of the environmental impacts of the proposed facilities including a list of each flood plain, wetland, critical wildlife habitat, navigable waterway crossing, Indian land, or historic site which may be impacted by the proposed facility with a description of proposed activities therein.

(2) A list of any known Historic Places, as specified in 36 CFR part 800, which may be eligible for the National Register of Historic Places.

(3) Details regarding the minimum right-of-way width for construction, operation and maintenance of the transmission lines and the rationale for selecting that right-of-way width.

(4) A list of threatened or endangered wildlife or plant life which may be located in the proposed alternative.

(d) A brief description of all practical alternatives to the proposed facility and a discussion of the general environmental impacts of each alternative.

(e) The original of each application shall be signed and verified under oath by an officer of the applicant, having knowledge of the matters therein set forth.
