
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - Oil
#### PART 205 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES AND SANCTIONS
##### Emergency Interconnection of Electric Facilities and the Transfer of Electricity To Alleviate an Emergency Shortage of Electric Power
###### ยง 205.373 Application procedures.

Every application for an emergency order shall set forth the following information as required. This information shall be considered by the DOE in determining that an emergency exists and in deciding to issue an order pursuant to sections 202(c) and 202(d) of the Federal Power Act.

(a) The exact legal name of the applicant and of all other "entities" named in the application.

(b) The name, title, post office address, and telephone number of the person to whom correspondence in regard to the application shall be addressed.

(c) The political subdivision in which each "entity" named in the application operates, together with a brief description of the area served and the business conducted in each location.

(d) Each application for a section 202(c) order shall include the following baseline data:

(1) Daily peak load and energy requirements for each of the past 30 days and projections for each day of the expected duration of the emergency;

(2) All capacity and energy receipts or deliveries to other electric utilities for each of the past 30 days, indicating the classification for each transaction;

(3) The status of all interruptible customers for each of the past 30 days and the anticipated status of these customers for each day of the expected duration of the emergency, assuming both the granting and the denial of the relief requested herein;

(4) All scheduled capacity and energy receipts or deliveries to other electric utilities for each day of the expected duration of the emergency.

(e) A description of the situation and a discussion of why this is an emergency, including any necessary background information. This should include any contingency plan of the applicant and the current level of implementation.

(f) A showing that adequate electric service to firm customers cannot be maintained without additional power transfers.

(g) A description of any conservation or load reduction actions that have been implemented. A discussion of the achieved or expected results or these actions should be included.

(h) A description of efforts made to obtain additional power through voluntary means and the results of such efforts; and a showing that the potential sources of power and/or transmission services designated pursuant to paragraphs (i) through (k) of this section informed that the applicant believed that an emergency existed within the meaning of ยง 205.371.

(i) A listing of proposed sources and amounts of power necessary from each source to alleviate the emergency and a listing of any other "entities" that may be directly affected by the requested order.

(j) Specific proposals to compensate the supplying "entities" for the emergency services requested and to compensate any transmitting "entities" for services necessary to deliver such power.

(k) A showing that, to the best of the applicant's knowledge, the requested relief will not unreasonably impair the reliability of any "entity" directly affected by the requested order to render adequate service to its customers.

(l) Description of the facilities to be used to transfer the requested emergency service to the applicant's system.

(1) If a temporary interconnection under the provisions of section 202(c) is proposed independently, the following additional information shall be supplied for each such interconnection:

(i) Proposed location;

(ii) Required thermal capacity or power transfer capability of the interconnection;

(iii) Type of emergency services requested, including anticipated duration;

(iv) An electrical one line diagram;

(v) A description of all necessary materials and equipment; and

(vi) The projected length of time necessary to complete the interconnection.

(2) If the requested emergency assistance is to be supplied over existing facilities, the following information shall be supplied for each existing interconnection:

(i) Location;

(ii) Thermal capacity of power transfer capability of interconnection facilities; and

(iii) Type and duration of emergency services requested.

(m) A general or key map on a scale not greater than 100 kilometers to the centimeter showing, in separate colors, the territory serviced by each "entity" named in the application; the location of the facilities to be used for the generation and transmission of the requested emergency service; and all connection points between systems.

(n) An estimate of the construction costs of any proposed temporary facilities and a statement estimating the expected operation and maintenance costs on an annualized basis. (Not required on section 202(d) applications.)

(o) Applicants may be required to furnish such supplemental information as the DOE may deem pertinent.
