
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - Oil
#### PART 205 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES AND SANCTIONS
##### Emergency Interconnection of Electric Facilities and the Transfer of Electricity To Alleviate an Emergency Shortage of Electric Power
###### ยง 205.374 Responses from "entities" designated in the application.

Each "entity" designated as a potential source of emergency assistance or as a potential supplier of transmission services and which has received a copy of the application under ยง 205.373, shall have three (3) calendar days from the time of receipt of the application to file the information designated below with the DOE. The DOE will grant extensions of the filing period when appropriate. The designated "entities" shall provide an analysis of the impact the requested action would have on its system reliability and its ability to supply its own interruptible and firm customers. The effects of the requested action on the ability to serve firm loads shall be clearly distinguished from the ability to serve contractually interruptible loads. The designated "entity" also may provide other information relevant to the requested action, which is not included in the reliability analysis. Copies of any response shall be provided to the applicant, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, any State Regulatory Agency having responsibility for service standards or rates of any "entity" that may be directly involved in the proposed action, and the appropriate Regional Electric Reliability Council. Pursuant to section 202(c) of the Federal Power Act, DOE may issue an emergency order even though a designated "entity" has failed to file a timely response.
