
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - Oil
#### PART 207 - COLLECTION OF INFORMATION
##### Subpart A - Collection of Information Under the Energy Supply and Environmental Coordination Act of 1974
###### ยง 207.6 Notice of probable violation and remedial order.
####### Notice of probable violation.

(b)(1) The DOE may begin a proceeding under this subpart by issuing a notice of probable violation if the DOE has reason to believe that a violation has occurred, is continuing, or is about to occur.

(2) Within 10 days of the service of a notice of probable violation, the person upon whom the notice is served may file a reply with the DOE office that issued the notice of probable violation at the address provided in ยง 205.12 of this chapter. The DOE may extend the 10-day period for good cause shown.

(3) The reply shall be in writing and signed by the person filing it. The reply shall contain a full and complete statement of all relevant facts pertaining to the act or transaction that is the subject of the notice of probable violation. Such facts shall include a complete statement of the business or other reasons that justify the act or transaction, it appropriate; a detailed description of the act or transaction; and a full discussion of the pertinent provisions and relevant facts reflected in any documents submitted with the reply. Copies of all relevant documents shall be submitted with the reply.

(4) The reply shall include a discussion of all relevant authorities, including, but not limited to, DOE rulings, regulations, interpretations, and decisions on appeals and exceptions relied upon to support the particular position taken.

(5) The reply should indicate whether the person requests or intends to request a conference regarding the notice. Any request not made at the time of the reply shall be made as soon thereafter as possible to insure that the conference is held when it will be most beneficial. A request for a conference must conform to the requirements of subpart M of part 205 of this chapter.

(6) If a person has not filed a reply with the DOE within the 10-day period provided, and the DOE has not extended the 10-day period, the person shall be deemed to have conceded the accuracy of the factual allegations and legal conclusions stated in the notice of probable violation.

(7) If the DOE finds, after the 10-day period provided in ยง 207.6(b)(2), that no violation has occurred, is continuing, or is about to occur, or that for any reason the issuance of a remedial order would not be appropriate, it shall notify, in writing, the person to whom a notice of probable violation has been issued that the notice is rescinded.
