
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - Oil
#### PART 207 - COLLECTION OF INFORMATION
##### Subpart A - Collection of Information Under the Energy Supply and Environmental Coordination Act of 1974
###### ยง 207.6 Notice of probable violation and remedial order.
####### Remedial order for immediate compliance.

(d)(1) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the DOE may issue a remedial order for immediate compliance, which shall be effective upon issuance and until rescinded or suspended, if it finds:

(i) There is a strong probability that a violation has occurred, is continuing or is about to occur;

(ii) Irreparable harm will occur unless the violation is remedied immediately; and

(iii) The public interest requires the avoidance of such irreparable harm through immediate compliance and waiver of the procedures afforded under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.

(2) A remedial order for immediate compliance shall be served promptly upon the person against whom such order is issued by telex or telegram, with a copy served by registered or certified mail. The copy shall contain a written statement of the relevant facts and the legal basis for the remedial order for immediate compliance, including the findings required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(3) The DOE may rescind or suspend a remedial order for immediate compliance if it appears that the criteria set forth in paragraph (d)(1) of this section are no longer satisfied. When appropriate, however, such a suspension or rescission may be accompanied by a notice of probable violation issued under paragraph (b) of this section.

(4) If at any time in the course of a proceeding commenced by a notice of probable violation the criteria set forth in paragraph (d)(1) of this section are satisfied, the DOE may issue a remedial order for immediate compliance, even if the 10-day period for reply specified in ยง 207.6(b)(2) of this part has not expired.

(5) At any time after a remedial order for immediate compliance has become effective the DOE may refer such order to the Department of Justice for appropriate action in accordance with ยง 207.7 of this part.
