
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - Oil
#### PART 216 - MATERIALS ALLOCATION AND PRIORITY PERFORMANCE UNDER CONTRACTS OR ORDERS TO MAXIMIZE DOMESTIC ENERGY SUPPLIES
##### ยง 216.1 Introduction.

(a) This part describes and establishes the procedures to be used by the Department of Energy (DOE) in considering and making certain findings required by section 101(c)(2)(A) of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended, 50 U.S.C. app. 2071(c)(2)(A) (DPA). Section 101(c) authorizes the allocation of, or priority performance under contracts or orders (other than contracts of employment) relating to, materials and equipment, services, or facilities in order to maximize domestic energy supplies if the findings described in section 101(c)(2) are made. Among these findings are that such supplies of materials and equipment, services, or facilities are critical and essential to maintain or further exploration, production, refining, transportation or the conservation of energy supplies or for the construction or maintenance of energy facilities. The function of finding that supplies are critical and essential was delegated to the Secretary of Energy pursuant to E.O. 12919 (59 FR 29525, June 7, 1994) and Department of Commerce Defense Priorities and Allocations System Delegation No. 2, 15 CFR part 700.

(b) The purpose of these regulations is to establish the procedures and criteria to be used by DOE in determining whether programs or projects maximize domestic energy supplies and whether or not supplies of materials and equipment, services, or facilities are critical and essential, as required by DPA section 101(c)(2)(A). The critical and essential finding will be made only for supplies of materials and equipment, services, or facilities related to those programs or projects determined by DOE to maximize domestic energy supplies. These regulations do not require or imply that the findings, on which the exercise of such authority is conditioned, will be made in any particular case.

(c) If DOE determines that a program or project maximizes domestic energy supplies and finds that supplies of materials and equipment, services, or facilities are critical and essential to maintain or further the exploration, production, refining, transportation or conservation of energy supplies or for the construction or maintenance of energy facilities, such determination and finding will be communicated to the Department of Commerce (DOC). If not, the applicant will be so informed. If the determination and finding described in this paragraph are made, DOC, pursuant to DPA section 101(c) and section 203 of E.O. 12919, will find whether or not: The supplies of materials and equipment, services, or facilities in question are scarce; and maintenance or furtherance of exploration, production, refining, transportation, or conservation of energy supplies or the construction or maintenance of energy facilities cannot be reasonably accomplished without exercising the authority specified in DPA section 101(c). If these additional two findings are made, DOC will notify DOE, and DOE will inform the applicant that it has been granted the right to use priority ratings under the Defense Priorities and Allocations System (DPAS) regulation established by the DOC, 15 CFR part 700.
