
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - Oil
#### PART 216 - MATERIALS ALLOCATION AND PRIORITY PERFORMANCE UNDER CONTRACTS OR ORDERS TO MAXIMIZE DOMESTIC ENERGY SUPPLIES
##### ยง 216.3 Requests for assistance.

(a) Persons who believe that they perform work associated with a program or project which may qualify as an eligible energy program or project and wishing to receive assistance as authorized by DPA section 101(c)(1) may submit an application to DOE requesting DOE to determine whether a program or project maximizes domestic energy supplies and to find whether or not specific supplies of materials and equipment, services, or facilities identified in the application are critical and essential for a purpose identified in section 101(c). The application shall be sent to: U.S. Department of Energy, Attn: Office of Electricity, Forrestal Building, 1000 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20585. The application shall contain the following information:

(1) The name and address of the applicant and of its duly authorized representative.

(2) A description of the energy program or project for which assistance is requested and an assessment of its impact on the maximization of domestic energy supplies.

(3) The amount of energy to be produced by the program or project which is directly affected by the supplies of the materials and equipment, services, or facilities in question.

(4) A statement explaining why the materials and equipment, services, or facilities for which assistance is requested are critical and essential to the construction or operation of the energy project or program.

(5) A detailed description of the specific supplies of materials and equipment, services, or facilities in connection with which assistance is requested, including: Components, performance data (capacity, life duration, etc.), standards, acceptable tolerances in dimensions and specifications, current inventory, present and expected rates of use, anticipated deliveries and substitution possibilities (feasibility of using other materials and equipment, services, or facilities).

(6) A detailed description of the sources of supply, including: The name of the regular supplying company or companies, other companies capable of supplying the materials and equipment, services, or facilities; location of supplying plants or plants capable of supplying the needed materials and equipment, services, or facilities; possible suppliers for identical or substitutable materials and equipment, services, or facilities and possible foreign sources of supply.

(7) A detailed description of the delivery situation, including: Normal delivery times, promised delivery time without priorities assistance, and delivery time required for expeditious fulfillment or completion of the program or project.

(8) Evidence of the applicant's unsuccessful efforts to obtain on a timely basis the materials and equipment, services, or facilities in question through normal business channels from current or other known suppliers.

(9) A detailed estimate of the delay in fulfilling or completing the energy program or project which will be caused by inability to obtain the specified materials and equipment, services, or facilities in the usual course of business.

(10) Any known conflicts with rated orders already issued pursuant to the DPA for supplies of the described materials and equipment, services, or facilities.

(b) DOE, on consultation with the DOC, may prescribe standard forms of application or letters of instruction for use by all persons seeking assistance.

(c) In addition to the information described above, DOE may from time to time request whatever additional information it reasonably believes is relevant to the discharge of its functions pursuant to DPA section 101(c).
