
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - Oil
#### PART 217 - ENERGY PRIORITIES AND ALLOCATIONS SYSTEM
##### Subpart D - Special Priorities Assistance
###### ยง 217.40 General provisions.

(a) The EPAS is designed to be largely self-executing. However, from time-to-time production or delivery problems will arise. In this event, a person should immediately contact the Office of Electricity, for guidance or assistance (Contact the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Department of Energy overseeing the Defense Production Act program, as listed in ยง 217.93). If the problem(s) cannot otherwise be resolved, special priorities assistance should be sought from the Department of Energy through the Office of Electricity (Contact the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Department of Energy overseeing the Defense Production Act program, as listed in ยง 217.93). If the Department of Energy is unable to resolve the problem or to authorize the use of a priority rating and believes additional assistance is warranted, the Department of Energy may forward the request to another agency with resource jurisdiction, as appropriate, for action. Special priorities assistance is provided to alleviate problems that do arise.

(b) Special priorities assistance is available for any reason consistent with this part. Generally, special priorities assistance is provided to expedite deliveries, resolve delivery conflicts, place rated orders, locate suppliers, or to verify information supplied by customers and vendors. Special priorities assistance may also be used to request rating authority for items that are not normally eligible for priority treatment.

(c) A request for special priorities assistance or priority rating authority must be submitted on Form DOE F 544 (05-11) (OMB control number 1910-5159) to the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Department of Energy overseeing the Defense Production Act program, as listed in ยง 217.93. Form DOE F 544 (05-11) may be obtained from the Department of Energy or a Delegate Agency. A sample Form DOE F 544 (05-11) is attached at appendix I to this part.
