
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - Oil
#### PART 217 - ENERGY PRIORITIES AND ALLOCATIONS SYSTEM
##### Subpart G - Compliance
###### ยง 217.74 Violations, penalties, and remedies.

(a) Willful violation of the provisions of title I or sections 705 or 707 of the Defense Production Act, the priorities provisions of the Selective Service Act and related statutes (when applicable), this part, or an official action, is a crime and upon conviction, a person may be punished by fine or imprisonment, or both. The maximum penalties provided by the Defense Production Act are a $10,000 fine, or one year in prison, or both. The maximum penalties provided by the Selective Service Act and related statutes are a $50,000 fine, or three years in prison, or both.

(b) The Government may also seek an injunction from a court of appropriate jurisdiction to prohibit the continuance of any violation of, or to enforce compliance with, the Defense Production Act, this part, or an official action.

(c) In order to secure the effective enforcement of the Defense Production Act and other applicable statutes, this part, and official actions, the following are prohibited:

(1) No person may solicit, influence or permit another person to perform any act prohibited by, or to omit any act required by, the Defense Production Act and other applicable statutes, this part, or an official action.

(2) No person may conspire or act in concert with any other person to perform any act prohibited by, or to omit any act required by, the Defense Production Act and other applicable statutes, this part, or an official action.

(3) No person shall deliver any item if the person knows or has reason to believe that the item will be accepted, redelivered, held, or used in violation of the Defense Production Act and other applicable statutes, this part, or an official action. In such instances, the person must immediately notify the Department of Energy that, in accordance with this provision, delivery has not been made.
