
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - Oil
#### PART 217 - ENERGY PRIORITIES AND ALLOCATIONS SYSTEM
##### Subpart H - Adjustments, Exceptions, and Appeals
###### ยง 217.81 Appeals.

(a) Any person who has had a request for adjustment or exception denied by the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Department of Energy overseeing the Defense Production Act program, as listed in section 217.93, under ยง 217.80, may appeal to the Assistant Secretary, Office of Electricity who shall review and reconsider the denial.

(b)(1) Except as provided in this paragraph (b)(2), an appeal must be received by the Assistant Secretary, Office of Electricity no later than 45 days after receipt of a written notice of denial from the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Department of Energy overseeing the Defense Production Act program, as listed in ยง 217.93. After this 45-day period, an appeal may be accepted at the discretion of the Assistant Secretary, Office of Electricity for good cause shown.

(2) For requests for adjustment or exception involving rated orders placed for the purpose of emergency preparedness (see 217.14(d)), an appeal must be received by the Assistant Secretary, Office of Electricity, no later than 15 days after receipt of a written notice of denial from the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Department of Energy overseeing the Defense Production Act program, as listed in ยง 217.93. Contract performance under the order shall not be stayed pending resolution of the appeal.

(c) Each appeal must be in writing and contain a complete statement of all the facts and circumstances related to the action appealed from and a full and precise statement of the reasons the decision should be modified or reversed.

(d) In addition to the written materials submitted in support of an appeal, an appellant may request, in writing, an opportunity for an informal hearing. This request may be granted or denied at the discretion of the Assistant Secretary, Office of Electricity.

(e) When a hearing is granted, the Assistant Secretary, Office of Electricity may designate an employee to conduct the hearing and to prepare a report. The hearing officer shall determine all procedural questions and impose such time or other limitations deemed reasonable. In the event that the hearing officer decides that a printed transcript is necessary, all expenses shall be borne by the appellant.

(f) When determining an appeal, the Assistant Secretary, Office of Electricity may consider all information submitted during the appeal as well as any recommendations, reports, or other relevant information and documents available to the Department of Energy or consult with any other persons or groups.

(g) The submission of an appeal under this section shall not relieve any person from the obligation of complying with the provision of this part or official action in question while the appeal is being considered unless such relief is granted in writing by the Assistant Secretary, Office of Electricity.

(h) The decision of the Assistant Secretary, Office of Electricity shall be made within five (5) days after receipt of the appeal, or within one (1) day for appeals pertaining to emergency preparedness and shall be the final administrative action. It shall be issued to the appellant in writing with a statement of the reasons for the decision.
