
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - Oil
#### PART 218 - STANDBY MANDATORY INTERNATIONAL OIL ALLOCATION
##### Subpart D - Procedures
###### ยง 218.32 Review.
####### DOE evaluation,Processing.

(g)-(1)(i) The DOE may initiate an investigation of any statement in an application and utilize in its evaluation any relevant facts obtained by such investigation. The DOE may solicit and accept submissions from third parties relevant to any application for review provided that the applicant is afforded an opportunity to respond to all third party submissions. In evaluating an application for review, the DOE may convene a conference, on its own initiative, if, in its discretion, it considers that a conference will advance its evaluation of the application.

(ii) If the DOE determines that there is insufficient information upon which to base a decision and if upon request the necessary additional information is not submitted, the DOE may dismiss the application without prejudice. If the failure to supply additional information is repeated or willful, the DOE may dismiss the application with prejudice. If the applicant fails to provide the notice required by paragraph (e) of this section, the DOE may dismiss the application without prejudice.

(iii) An order dismissing an application for any of the reasons specified in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section shall contain a statement of the grounds for the dismissal. The order shall become final within 5 days of its service upon the applicant, unless within such 5-day period the applicant files an amendment correcting the deficiencies identified in the order. Within 5 days of the filing of such amendment, the DOE shall notify the applicant whether the amendment corrects the specified deficiencies. If the amendment does not correct the deficiencies specified in the order, the order shall become a final order of the DOE of which the applicant may seek judicial review.

(2) An application for review of an order shall be processed only if the applicant demonstrates that-

(i) There is probable cause to believe that the supply order is erroneous, inequitable, or unduly burdensome; or

(ii) There has been discovered a law, regulation, interpretation, ruling, order or decision that was in effect at the time of the application which, if it had been made known to the DOE, would have been relevant to the supply order and would have substantially altered the supply order; or

(iii) There has been a substantial change in the facts or circumstances affecting the applicant, which change has occurred during the interval between issuance of the supply order and the date of the application and was caused by forces or circumstances beyond the control of the applicant.
