
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - Oil
#### PART 218 - STANDBY MANDATORY INTERNATIONAL OIL ALLOCATION
##### Subpart E - Investigations, Violations, Sanctions and Judicial Actions
###### ยง 218.40 Investigations.

(a) The DOE may initiate and conduct investigations relating to the scope, nature and extent of compliance by any person with the rules, regulations or statutes of the DOE or any order promulgated by the DOE under the authority of section 251 of EPCA, or any court decree.

(b) Any duly designated and authorized representative of DOE has the authority to conduct an investigation and to take such action as he deems necessary and appropriate to the conduct of the investigation including any action pursuant to ยง 205.8.

(c) There are no parties, as that term is used in adjudicative proceedings, in an investigation under this subpart, and no person may intervene or participate as a matter of right in any investigation under this subpart.

(d) Any person may request the DOE to initiate an investigation pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section. A request for an investigation shall set forth the subject matter to be investigated as fully as possible and include supporting documentation and information. No particular forms or procedures are required.

(e) Any person who is requested to furnish documentary evidence or testimony in an investigation, upon written request, shall be informed of the general purpose of the investigation.

(f) DOE shall not disclose information or documents that are obtained during any investigation unless (1) DOE directs or authorizes the public disclosure of the investigation; (2) the information or documents are a matter of public record; or (3) disclosure is not precluded by the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552 and 10 CFR part 1004.

(g) During the course of an investigation any person may submit at any time any document, statement of facts or memorandum of law for the purpose of explaining the person's position or furnish evidence which the person considers relevant to a matter under investigation.

(h) If facts disclosed by an investigation indicate that further action is unnecessary or unwarranted, the investigative file may be closed without prejudice to further investigation by the DOE at any time that circumstances so warrant.
