
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter A - Oil
#### PART 221 - PRIORITY SUPPLY OF CRUDE OIL AND PETROLEUM PRODUCTS TO THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE UNDER THE DEFENSE PRODUCTION ACT
##### Subpart D - Administrative Procedures and Sanctions
###### ยง 221.32 Evaluation of DOD request.

(a) Upon receipt of a request from DOD for a priority rating as provided in ยง 221.31, it shall be reviewed promptly by ERA. The ERA will assess the request in terms of:

(1) The information provided under ยง 221.31;

(2) Whether DOD's national defense needs for crude oil or petroleum products can reasonably be satisfied without exercising the authority specified in this part;

(3) The capability of the proposed supplier to supply the crude oil or petroleum product in the amounts required;

(4) The known capabilities of alternative suppliers;

(5) The feasibility to DOD of converting to and using a product other than that requested; and

(6) Any other relevant information.

(b) The ERA promptly shall notify the proposed supplier of DOD's request for a priority rating specified under this part. The proposed supplier shall have a period specified in the notice, not to exceed fifteen (15) days from the date it is notified of DOD's request, to show cause in writing why it cannot supply the requested quantity and quality of crude oil or petroleum products. ERA shall consider this information in determining whether to issue the priority rating.

(c) If acceptance by a supplier of a rated order would create a conflict with another rated order of the supplier, it shall include all pertinent information regarding such conflict in its response to the show cause order provided for in subsection (b), and ERA, in consultation with DOD and the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall determine the priorities for meeting all such requirements.

(d) ERA may waive some or all of the requirements of ยง 221.31 or this section where the Secretary of Defense or his designee certifies, and has so notified the Federal Emergency Management Agency, that a fuel shortage for DOD exists or is imminent and that compliance with such requirements would have a substantial negative impact on the national defense.
