
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Climate Change
#### PART 300 - VOLUNTARY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING PROGRAM: GENERAL GUIDELINES
##### § 300.1 General.
###### Registration requirements.

(c)Entities that seek to register reductions must meet the additional requirements in this paragraph; although these requirements differ depending on whether the entity is a large or small emitter.

(1) To be eligible for registration, a reduction must have been achieved after 2002, unless the entity has committed under the Climate Leaders or Climate VISION programs to reduce its entity-wide emissions relative to a base period that ends earlier 2002, but no earlier than 2000.

(2) A large emitter must submit an entity-wide emission inventory that meets or exceeds the minimum quality requirements specified in § 300.6(b) and the Technical Guidelines (incorporated by reference, see § 300.13). Registered reductions of a large emitter must be based on an entity-wide assessment of net emission reductions, determined in accordance with § 300.8 and the Technical Guidelines.

(3) A small emitter must also submit an emission inventory that meets minimum quality requirements specified in § 300.6(b) and the Technical Guidelines (incorporated by reference, see § 300.13) and base its registered reductions on an assessment of annual changes in net emissions. A small emitter, however, may restrict its inventory and assessment to a single type of activity, such as forest management, building operations or agricultural tillage.

(4) Reporting entities may, under certain conditions, register reductions achieved by other entities:

(i) Reporting entities that have met the requirements for registering their own reductions may also register offset reductions achieved by other entities if:

(A) They have an agreement with the third-party entities to do so and these third-party entities have met all of the requirements for registration; or

(B) They were the result of qualified demand management or other programs and are calculated in accordance with the action-specific method identified in § 300.8(h)(5).

(ii) Small emitters that serve as an aggregator may register offset reductions achieved by non-reporting entities without reporting on their own emissions, as long as they have an agreement with the third-party entities to do so and these third-party entities have met all of the requirements for registration.
