
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Climate Change
#### PART 300 - VOLUNTARY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING PROGRAM: GENERAL GUIDELINES
##### ยง 300.6 Emissions inventories.
###### Units for reporting.,e.g.,e.g.

(j)Emissions and sequestration should be reported in terms of the mass (not volume) of each gas, using metric units (, metric tons of methane). Entity-wide and subentity summations of emissions and reductions from multiple sources must be converted into COequivalent units using the global warming potentials for each gas in the International Panel on Climate Change's Third Assessment (or most recent) Report, as specified in the Technical Guidelines (incorporated by reference, see ยง 300.13). Entities should specify the units used (, kilograms, or metric tons). Entities may need to use the standard conversion factors specified in the Technical Guidelines to convert existing data into the common units required in the entity-level report. Emissions from the consumption of purchased electricity must be calculated by region (from the list provided by DOE in the Technical Guidelines) or country, if outside the United States. Consumption of purchased steam or chilled/hot water must be reported according to the type of system and fuel used to generate it (from the list provided by DOE in the Technical Guidelines). Entities must convert purchased energy to COequivalents using the conversion factors in the Technical Guidelines. Entities should also provide the physical quantities of each type of purchased energy covered by their reports.
