
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter B - Climate Change
#### PART 300 - VOLUNTARY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING PROGRAM: GENERAL GUIDELINES
##### ยง 300.8 Calculating emission reductions.
###### Choosing appropriate emission reduction calculation methods.

(a)(1) An entity must choose the method or methods it will use to calculate emission reductions from the list provided in paragraph (h) of this section. Each of the calculation methods has special characteristics that make it applicable to only certain types of emissions and activities. An entity should select the appropriate calculation method based on several factors, including:

(i) How the entity's subentities are defined;

(ii) How the reporter will gather and report emissions data; and

(iii) The availability of other types of data that might be needed, such as production or output data.

(2) For some entities, a single calculation method will be sufficient, but many entities may need to apply more than one method because discrete components of the entity require different calculation methods. In such a case, the entity will need to select a method for each subentity (or discrete component of the entity with identifiable emission or reductions). The emissions and output measure (generally a physical measure) of each subentity must be clearly distinguished and reported separately. Guidance on the selection and specification of calculation methods is provided in Chapter 2 of the Technical Guidelines (incorporated by reference, see ยง 300.13).
