
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 429 - CERTIFICATION, COMPLIANCE, AND ENFORCEMENT FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS AND COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Certification
###### ยง 429.14 Consumer refrigerators, refrigerator-freezers and freezers.
####### Product category determination.

(d)Each basic model shall be certified according to the appropriate product category as defined in ยง 430.2 of this chapter based on compartment volumes and compartment temperatures. If one or more compartments could be classified as both a fresh food compartment and a freezer compartment, the model must be certified to each applicable product category based on the operation of the compartment(s) as both fresh food and freezer compartments.

(1) Compartment volume used to determine product category shall be, for each compartment, the mean of the volumes of that specific compartment for the sample of tested units of the basic model, measured according to the provisions in section 4.1 of appendix A of subpart B of part 430 of this chapter for refrigerators and refrigerator-freezers and section 4.1 of appendix B of subpart B of part 430 of this chapter for freezers, or, for each compartment, the volume of that specific compartment calculated for the basic model in accordance with ยง 429.72(c).

(2) Determination of the compartment temperature ranges shall be based on operation under the conditions specified and using measurement of compartment temperature as specified in appendix A of subpart B of part 430 of this chapter for refrigerators and refrigerator-freezers and appendix B of subpart B of part 430 of this chapter for freezers. The determination of compartment status may require evaluation of a model at the extremes of the range of user-selectable temperature control settings. If the temperature ranges for the same compartment of multiple units of a sample are different, the maximum and minimum compartment temperatures for compartment status determination shall be based on the mean measurements for the units in the sample.
