
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 429 - CERTIFICATION, COMPLIANCE, AND ENFORCEMENT FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS AND COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Certification
###### ยง 429.16 Central air conditioners and central air conditioning heat pumps.
####### Refrigerants.

(3)(i) If a model of outdoor unit (used in a single-split, multi-split, multi-circuit, multi-head mini-split, and/or outdoor unit with no match system) is distributed in commerce and approved for use with multiple refrigerants, a manufacturer must determine all represented values for that model using each refrigerant that can be used in an individual combination of the basic model (including outdoor units with no match or "tested combinations"). This requirement may apply across the listed categories in the table in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. A refrigerant is considered approved for use if it is listed on the nameplate of the outdoor unit. If any of the refrigerants approved for use is HCFC-22 or has a 95 &#xB0;F midpoint saturation absolute pressure that is +/- 18 percent of the 95 &#xB0;F saturation absolute pressure for HCFC-22, or if there are no refrigerants designated as approved for use, a manufacturer must determine represented values (including SEER, EER, HSPF, SEER2, EER2, HSPF2, P, cooling capacity, and heating capacity, as applicable) for, at a minimum, an outdoor unit with no match. If a model of outdoor unit is not charged with a specified refrigerant from the point of manufacture or if the unit is shipped requiring the addition of more than two pounds of refrigerant to meet the charge required for testing per section 2.2.5 of appendix M or appendix M1 (unless either (a) the factory charge is equal to or greater than 70% of the outdoor unit internal volume times the liquid density of refrigerant at 95 &#xB0;F or (b) an A2L refrigerant is approved for use and listed in the certification report), a manufacturer must determine represented values (including SEER, EER, HSPF, SEER2, EER2, HSPF2, P, cooling capacity, and heating capacity, as applicable) for, at a minimum, an outdoor unit with no match.

(ii) If a model is approved for use with multiple refrigerants, a manufacturer may make multiple separate representations for the performance of that model (all within the same individual combination or outdoor unit with no match) using the multiple approved refrigerants. In the alternative, manufacturers may certify the model (all within the same individual combination or outdoor unit with no match) with a single representation, provided that the represented value is no more efficient than its performance using the least-efficient refrigerant. If a manufacturer certifies a single model with multiple representations for the different approved refrigerants, it may use an AEDM to determine the represented values for all other refrigerants besides the refrigerant used for testing. A single representation made for multiple refrigerants may not include equipment in multiple categories or equipment subcategories listed in the table in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
