
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 429 - CERTIFICATION, COMPLIANCE, AND ENFORCEMENT FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS AND COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Certification
###### ยง 429.18 Consumer furnaces.
####### Certification reports.

(b)(1) The requirements of ยง 429.12 are applicable to residential furnaces; and

(2) Pursuant to ยง 429.12(b)(13), a certification report shall include the following public product-specific information:

(i) For consumer furnaces and boilers: The annual fuel utilization efficiency (AFUE) in percent (%) and the input capacity in British thermal units per hour (Btu/h).

(ii) For non-weatherized oil-fired furnaces (including mobile home furnaces), electric furnaces, and boilers: The standby mode power consumption (P) and off mode power consumption (P) in watts.

(3) Pursuant to ยง 429.12(b)(13), a certification report shall include the following additional product-specific information:

(i) For cast-iron sectional boilers: A declaration of whether certification is based on linear interpolation or testing.

(ii) For gas-fired hot water boilers and gas-fired steam boilers: A declaration that the manufacturer has not incorporated a constant-burning pilot.

(iii) For gas-fired hot water boilers, oil-fired hot water boilers, and electric hot water boilers: Whether the boiler is equipped with tankless domestic water heating coils, and if not, a declaration that the manufacturer has incorporated an automatic means for adjusting water temperature).

(4) For multi-position furnaces, the annual fuel utilization efficiency (AFUE) reported for each basic model must be based on testing in the least efficient configuration. Manufacturers may also report and make representations of additional AFUE values based on testing in other configurations.
