
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 429 - CERTIFICATION, COMPLIANCE, AND ENFORCEMENT FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS AND COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Certification
###### ยง 429.32 Ceiling fans.
####### Certification reports.

(b)(1) The requirements of ยง 429.12 are applicable to ceiling fans; and

(2) Pursuant to ยง 429.12(b)(13), a certification report shall include the following public product-specific information:

(i) For all ceiling fans: Blade span (in), and the number of speed control settings.

(ii) For small-diameter ceiling fans: A declaration of whether the ceiling fan is a multi-head ceiling fan, and the ceiling fan efficiency (CFM/W).

(iii) For large-diameter ceiling fans: Ceiling fan energy index (CFEI) for high speed, and 40 percent speed or the nearest speed that is not less than 40 percent speed.

(3) Pursuant to ยง 429.12(b)(13), a certification report shall include the following additional product-specific information:

(i) For all ceiling fans: A declaration that the manufacturer has incorporated the applicable design requirements.

(ii) For small-diameter ceiling fans: Standby power, blade edge thickness (in), airflow (CFM) at high speed, and blade revolutions per minute (RPM) at high speed.

(iii) For low-speed small-diameter ceiling fans: The distance (in) between the ceiling and the lowest point on the fan blades (in both hugger and standard configurations for multi-mount fans).
