
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 429 - CERTIFICATION, COMPLIANCE, AND ENFORCEMENT FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS AND COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Certification
###### § 429.33 Ceiling fan light kits.
####### Determination of represented value.

(a)Manufacturers must determine represented values, which includes certified ratings, for each basic model of ceiling fan light kit in accordance with following sampling provisions.

(1) The requirements of § 429.11 are applicable to ceiling fan light kits, and

(2) For each basic model of ceiling fan light kit, the following sample size requirements are applicable to demonstrate compliance with the January 1, 2007 energy conservation standards:

(i) For ceiling fan light kits with medium screw base sockets that are packaged with compact fluorescent lamps, determine the represented values of each basic model of lamp packaged with the ceiling fan light kit in accordance with § 429.35.

(ii) For ceiling fan light kits with medium screw base sockets that are packaged with integrated light-emitting diode lamps, determine the represented values of each basic model of lamp packaged with the ceiling fan light kit in accordance with § 429.56.

(iii) For ceiling fan light kits with pin-based sockets that are packaged with fluorescent lamps, determine the represented values of each basic model of lamp packaged with the ceiling fan light kit in accordance with the sampling requirements in § 429.35.

(iv) For ceiling fan light kits with medium screw base sockets that are packaged with incandescent lamps, determine the represented values of each basic model of lamp packaged with the ceiling fan light kit in accordance with § 429.40, § 429.55 or § 429.66, as applicable.

(v) For ceiling fan light kits with sockets or packaged with lamps other than those described in paragraphs (a)(2)(i), (ii), (iii), or (iv) of this section, each unit must comply with the applicable design standard in § 430.32(s)(5) of this chapter.

(3) For ceiling fan light kits that require compliance with the January 21, 2020 energy conservation standards:

(i) Determine the represented values of each basic model of lamp packaged with each basic model of ceiling fan light kit, in accordance with the specified section:

(A) For compact fluorescent lamps, § 429.35;

(B) For general service fluorescent lamps, § 429.27;

(C) For incandescent lamps, § 429.40, § 429.55 or § 429.66, as applicable;

(D) For integrated LED lamps, § 429.56.

(E) For other fluorescent lamps (not compact fluorescent lamps or general service fluorescent lamps), § 429.35; and

(F) For other SSL lamps (not integrated LED lamps), § 429.56.

(ii) Determine the represented value of each basic model of integrated SSL circuitry that is incorporated into each basic model of ceiling fan light kit by randomly selecting a sample of sufficient size and testing to ensure that any represented value of the energy efficiency of the integrated SSL circuitry basic model is less than or equal to the lower of:

(A) The mean of the sample, where:

and, xis the sample mean; n is the number of samples; and xis the isample; Or,

(B) The lower 95 percent confidence limit (LCL) of the true mean divided by 0.90, where:

And xis the sample mean; s is the sample standard deviation; n is the number of samples; and tis the t statistic for a 95% one-tailed confidence interval with n-1 degrees of freedom (from appendix A to subpart B).
