
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 429 - CERTIFICATION, COMPLIANCE, AND ENFORCEMENT FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS AND COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Certification
###### ยง 429.44 Commercial water heating equipment.
####### i.e.,

(vi) Commercial unfired hot water storage tanks: The thermal insulation (R-value) and stored volume in gallons (gal).

(3) Pursuant to ยง 429.12(b)(13), a certification report must include the following additional, equipment-specific information:

(i) Whether the basic model is engineered-to-order; and

(ii) For any basic model rated with an AEDM, whether the manufacturer elects the witness test option for verification testing. (See ยง 429.70(c)(5)(iii) for options.) However, the manufacturer may not select more than 10 percent of AEDM-rated basic models to be eligible for witness testing.

(4) Pursuant to ยง 429.12(b)(13), a certification report may include supplemental testing instructions in PDF format. If necessary to run a valid test, the equipment-specific, supplemental information must include any additional testing and testing set-up instructions (e.g., whether a bypass loop was used for testing) for the basic model and all other information (e.g., operational codes or overrides for the control settings) necessary to operate the basic model under the required conditions specified by the relevant test procedure. A manufacturer may also include with a certification report other supplementary items in PDF format for DOE's consideration in performing testing under subpart C of this part. For example, for oil-fired commercial water heating equipment (other than residential-duty commercial water heaters): The allowable range for COreading in percent (%) and the fuel pump pressure in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
