
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 429 - CERTIFICATION, COMPLIANCE, AND ENFORCEMENT FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS AND COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Certification
###### ยง 429.56 Integrated light-emitting diode lamps.
####### Certification reports.

(b)(1) The requirements of ยง 429.12 are applicable to integrated light-emitting diode lamps;

(2) Values reported in certification reports are represented values. Pursuant to ยง 429.12(b)(13), a certification report must include the following public product-specific information: The testing laboratory's NVLAP identification number or other NVLAP-approved accreditation identification, the date of manufacture, initial lumen output in lumens (lm), input power in watts (W), lamp efficacy in lumens per watt (lm/W), CCT in kelvin (K), power factor, lifetime in years (and whether value is estimated), and life (and whether value is estimated). For lamps with multiple modes of operation (such as variable CCT or CRI), the certification report must also list which mode was selected for testing and include detail such that another laboratory could operate the lamp in the same mode. Lifetime and life are estimated values until testing is complete. When reporting estimated values, the certification report must specifically describe the prediction method, which must be generally representative of the methods specified in appendix BB. Manufacturers are required to maintain records per ยง 429.71 of the development of all estimated values and any associated initial test data.
