
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 429 - CERTIFICATION, COMPLIANCE, AND ENFORCEMENT FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS AND COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Certification
###### ยง 429.63 Compressors.
####### Certification reports.

(b)(1) The requirements of ยง 429.12 are applicable to compressors; and

(2) Pursuant to ยง 429.12(b)(13), a certification report will include the following public product-specific information:

(i) Full-load package isentropic efficiency or part-load package isentropic efficiency, as applicable (dimensionless).

(ii) Full-load actual volume flow rate (in cubic feet per minute).

(iii) Compressor motor nominal horsepower (in horsepower).

(iv) Full-load operating pressure (in pounds per square inch, gauge).

(v) Maximum full-flow operating pressure (in pounds per square inch, gauge).

(vi) Pressure ratio at full-load operating pressure (dimensionless).

(vii) For any ancillary equipment that is installed for test, but is not part of the compressor package as distributed in commerce (per the requirements of 10 CFR part 431, subpart T, appendix A, section I(B)(4)), the following must be reported:

(A) A general description of the ancillary equipment, based on the list provided in the first column of Table 1 of 10 CFR part 431, subpart T, appendix A, section I(B)(4).

(B) The manufacturer of the ancillary equipment.

(C) The brand of the ancillary equipment (if different from the manufacturer).

(D) The model number of the ancillary equipment.

(E) The serial number of the ancillary equipment (if applicable).

(F) The following electrical characteristics, if applicable:
