
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 429 - CERTIFICATION, COMPLIANCE, AND ENFORCEMENT FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS AND COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Certification
###### ยง 429.64 Electric motors.
####### Applicability.

(a)When a party determines the energy efficiency of an electric motor in order to comply with an obligation imposed on it by or pursuant to Part C of Title III of EPCA, 42 U.S.C. 6311-6316, this section applies. This section does not apply to enforcement testing conducted pursuant to ยง 431.383 of this subchapter. This section applies to electric motors that are subject to requirements in subpart B of part 431 of this subchapter and does not apply to dedicated-purpose pool pump motors subject to requirements in subpart Z of part 431.

(1) Prior to the date described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, manufacturers of electric motors subject to energy conservation standards in subpart B of part 431 must make representations of energy efficiency, including representations for certification of compliance, in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.

(2) On and after the compliance date for any new or amended standards for electric motors published after January 1, 2021, manufacturers of electric motors subject to energy conservation standards in subpart B of part 431 of this subchapter must make representations of energy efficiency, including representations for certification of compliance, in accordance with paragraphs (d) through (f) of this section.

(3) On or after April 17, 2023, manufacturers of electric motors subject to the test procedures in appendix B of subpart B of part 431 but are subject to the energy conservation standards in subpart B of part 431 of this subchapter, must, if they chose to voluntarily make representations of energy efficiency, follow the provisions in paragraph (e) of this section.
