
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 429 - CERTIFICATION, COMPLIANCE, AND ENFORCEMENT FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS AND COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Certification
###### ยง 429.70 Alternative methods for determining energy efficiency and energy use.
####### 2,2,2

(F) DOE will review the certification submissions from the manufacturer that were on file as of the date DOE purchased a basic model (under paragraph (c)(5)(iii)(D) of this section) or the date DOE notifies the manufacturer that the basic model has been selected for testing (under paragraph (c)(5)(iii)(E) of this section) to determine if the manufacturer has indicated that it intends to witness the test set-up of the selected basic model. DOE will also verify that the manufacturer has not exceeded the allowable limit of witness testing selections as specified in paragraph (c)(5)(iii)(B)() of this section. If DOE discovers that the manufacturer exceeded the limits specified in paragraph (c)(5)(iii)(B)(), DOE will notify the manufacturer of this fact and deny its request to be present for the test set-up of the selected basic model. The manufacturer must update its certification submission to ensure it has not exceeded the allowable limit of witness testing selections as specified in paragraph (c)(5)(iii)(B)() to be present at set-up for future selections. At this time DOE will also review the supplemental PDF submission(s) for the selected basic model to determine that all necessary information has been provided to the Department.

(G) If DOE determines, pursuant to paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section, that the model should be tested at the manufacturer's facility, a DOE representative will be present on site to observe the test set-up and testing with the manufacturer's representative. All testing will be conducted at DOE's direction, which may include DOE-contracted personnel from a third-party lab, as well as the manufacturer's technicians.

(H) As further explained in paragraph (c)(5)(v)(B) of this section, if a manufacturer's representative is present for the initial test set-up for any reason, the manufacturer forfeits any opportunity to request a retest of the basic model. Furthermore, if the manufacturer requests to be on-site for test set-up pursuant to paragraph (c)(5)(iii)(B) of this section but is not present on site, the manufacturer forfeits any opportunity to request a retest of the basic model.
