
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 429 - CERTIFICATION, COMPLIANCE, AND ENFORCEMENT FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS AND COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Certification
###### § 429.74 Department of Energy recognition of accreditation bodies for electric motors, including dedicated-purpose pool pump motors.
####### Evaluation criteria.

(b)To be classified as an accreditation body by the Department, the organization must meet the following criteria:

(1) It must have satisfactory standards and procedures for conducting and administering an accreditation system and for granting accreditation. This must include provisions for periodic audits to verify that the laboratories receiving its accreditation continue to conform to the criteria by which they were initially accredited, and for withdrawal of accreditation where such conformance does not occur, including failure to provide accurate test results.

(2) It must be independent (as defined at § 429.2) of electric motor manufacturers, importers, distributors, private labelers or vendors for which it is providing accreditation.

(3) It must be qualified to perform the accrediting function in a highly competent manner.

(4)(i) In the case of electric motors subject to requirements in subpart B of part 431 of this subchapter, the organization must be an expert in the content and application of the test procedures and methodologies at § 431.16 of this subchapter and § 429.64.

(ii) In the case of dedicated-purpose pool pump motors subject to requirements in subpart Z of part 431 of this subchapter, the organization must be an expert in the content and application of the test procedures and methodologies at § 431.484 of this subchapter and § 429.65.
