
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 429 - CERTIFICATION, COMPLIANCE, AND ENFORCEMENT FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS AND COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart C - Enforcement
###### ยง 429.134 Product-specific enforcement provisions.
####### Dedicated-purpose pool pumps.

(2)(i) The rated hydraulic horsepower of each tested unit of the basic model of dedicated-purpose pool pump will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of ยง 431.464(b) of this chapter and the result of the measurement(s) will be compared to the value of rated hydraulic horsepower certified by the manufacturer. The certified rated hydraulic horsepower will be considered valid only if the measurement(s) (either the measured rated hydraulic horsepower for a single unit sample or the average of the measured rated hydraulic horsepower values for a multiple unit sample) is within 5 percent of the certified rated hydraulic horsepower.

(A) If the representative value of rated hydraulic horsepower is found to be valid, the value of rated hydraulic horsepower certified by the manufacturer will be used to determine the standard level for that basic model.

(B) If the representative value of rated hydraulic horsepower is found to be invalid, the mean of all the measured rated hydraulic horsepower values determined from the tested unit(s) will be used to determine the standard level for that basic model.

(ii) To verify the self-priming capability of non-self-priming pool filter pumps and of self-priming pool filter pumps that are not certified with NSF/ANSI 50-2015 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 429.4) as self-priming, the vertical lift and true priming time of each tested unit of the basic model of self-priming or non-self-priming pool filter pump will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of ยง 431.464(b) of this chapter.

(A) For self-priming pool filter pumps that are not certified with NSF/ANSI 50-2015 as self-priming, at a vertical lift of 5.0 feet, the result of the true priming time measurement(s) will be compared to the value of true priming time certified by the manufacturer. The certified value of true priming time will be considered valid only if the measurement(s) (either the measured true priming time for a single unit sample or the average of true priming time values for a multiple unit sample) is within 5 percent of the certified value of true priming time.
