
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 429 - CERTIFICATION, COMPLIANCE, AND ENFORCEMENT FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS AND COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart C - Enforcement
###### ยง 429.134 Product-specific enforcement provisions.
####### Circulator pumps.

(3)(i) The flow rate at BEP and maximum speed of each tested unit of the basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of ยง 431.464(c) of this chapter, where the value of flow rate at BEP and maximum speed certified by the manufacturer will be treated as the expected BEP flow rate at maximum speed. The resulting measurement(s) will be compared to the value of flow rate at BEP and maximum speed certified by the manufacturer. The certified flow rate at BEP and maximum speed will be considered valid only if the measurement (either the measured flow rate at BEP and maximum speed for a single unit sample or the average of the measured flow rates for a multiple unit sample) is within 5 percent of the certified flow rate at BEP and maximum speed.

(A) If the representative value of flow rate is found to be valid, the measured flow rate at BEP and maximum speed will be used in subsequent calculations of circulator energy rating (CER) and circulator energy index (CEI) for that basic model.

(B) If the representative value of flow rate at BEP and maximum speed is found to be invalid, the mean of all the measured values of flow rate at BEP and maximum speed determined from the tested unit(s) will serve as the new expected BEP flow rate and the unit(s) will be retested until such time as the measured flow rate at BEP and maximum speed is within 5 percent of the expected BEP flow rate.

(ii) The rated hydraulic horsepower of each tested unit of the basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of ยง 431.464(c) of this chapter. The resulting measurement will be compared to the rated hydraulic horsepower certified by the manufacturer. The certified rated hydraulic horsepower will be considered valid only if the measurement (either the measured rated hydraulic horsepower for a single unit sample or the average of the measured rated hydraulic horsepower values for a multiple unit sample) is within 5 percent of the certified rated hydraulic horsepower.

(A) If the certified rated hydraulic horsepower is found to be valid, the certified rated hydraulic horsepower will be used as the basis for determining scope of applicability for that model.

(B) If the certified rated hydraulic horsepower is found to be invalid, the arithmetic mean of all the hydraulic horsepower values resulting from DOE's testing will be used as the basis for determining scope of applicability for that model.

(iii) DOE will test each circulator pump unit according to the control setting with which the unit was rated. If no control setting is specified and no controls were available, DOE will test using the full speed test. If no control setting is specified and a variety of controls are available, DOE will test using the test method for any one of the control varieties available on board.

(iv) DOE will test each circulator pump using the description and equation for the control curve with which it was rated, if available.
