
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 2 - AGENCY RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
#### Subpart C - Rules of General Applicability: Hearing Requests, Petitions To Intervene, Availability of Documents, Selection of Specific Hearing Procedures, Presiding Officer Powers, and General Hearing Management for NRC Adjudicatory Hearings
##### ยง 2.305 Service of documents, methods, proof.
###### Method of service accompanying a filing.

(c)Service must be made electronically to the E-Filing system. Upon an order from the Commission or presiding officer permitting alternative filing methods under ยง 2.302(g)(4), service may be made by personal delivery, courier, expedited delivery service, or by first-class, express, certified or registered mail. As to each participant that cannot serve electronically, the Commission or presiding officer shall require service by the most expeditious means permitted under this paragraph that are available to the participant, unless the Commission or presiding officer finds that this requirement would impose undue burden or expense on the participant.

(1) Unless otherwise provided in this section, a participant will serve documents on the other participants by the same method by which those participants filed.

(2) A participant granted an exemption under ยง 2.302(g)(2) will serve the presiding officer and the participants in the proceeding that filed electronically by physically delivering or mailing optical storage media containing the electronic document.

(3) A participant granted an exemption under ยง 2.302(g)(3) will serve the presiding officer and the other participants in the proceeding by physically delivering or mailing a paper copy.

(4) Each document served (as may be required by law, rule, or order of the presiding officer) upon a participant to the proceeding must be accompanied by a signed certificate of service.

(i) If a document is served on participants through only the E-filing system, then the certificate of service must state that the document has been filed through the E-Filing system.

(ii) If a document is served on participants by only a method other than the E-Filing system, then the certificate of service must state the name, address, and method and date of service for all participants served.

(iii) If a document is served on some participants through the E-Filing system and other participants by another method of service, then the certificate of service must include a list of participants served through the E-filing system, and it must state the name, address, and method and date of service for all participants served by the other method of service.
