
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 429 - CERTIFICATION, COMPLIANCE, AND ENFORCEMENT FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS AND COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart C - Enforcement
###### ยง 429.134 Product-specific enforcement provisions.
####### Commercial packaged boilers,Verification of fuel input rate.

(m)-(1)The fuel input rate of each tested unit will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of ยง 431.86 of this chapter. The results of the measurement(s) will be compared to the value of rated input certified by the manufacturer. The certified rated input will be considered valid only if the measurement(s) (either the measured fuel input rate for a single unit sample or the average of the measured fuel input rates for a multiple unit sample) is within two percent of the certified rated input.

(i) If the measured fuel input rate is within two-percent of the certified rated input, the certified rated input will serve as the basis for determination of the appropriate equipment class(es) and the mean measured fuel input rate will be used as the basis for calculation of combustion and/or thermal efficiency for the basic model.

(ii) If the measured fuel input rate for a gas-fired commercial packaged boiler is not within two-percent of the certified rated input, DOE will first attempt to increase or decrease the gas manifold pressure within the range specified in manufacturer's installation and operation manual shipped with the commercial packaged boiler being tested (or, if not provided in the manual, in supplemental instructions provided by the manufacturer pursuant to ยง 429.60(b)(4) of this chapter) to achieve the certified rated input (within two-percent). If the fuel input rate is still not within two-percent of the certified rated input, DOE will attempt to increase or decrease the gas inlet pressure within the range specified in manufacturer's installation and operation manual shipped with the commercial packaged boiler being tested (or, if not provided in the manual, in supplemental instructions provided by the manufacturer pursuant to ยง 429.60(b)(4)) to achieve the certified rated input (within two-percent). If the fuel input rate is still not within two-percent of the certified rated input, DOE will attempt to modify the gas inlet orifice if the unit is equipped with one. If the fuel input rate still is not within two percent of the certified rated input, the mean measured fuel input rate (either for a single unit sample or the average of the measured fuel input rates for a multiple unit sample) will serve as the basis for determination of the appropriate equipment class(es) and calculation of combustion and/or thermal efficiency for the basic model.

(iii) If the measured fuel input rate for an oil-fired commercial packaged boiler is not within two-percent of the certified rated input, the mean measured fuel input rate (either for a single unit sample or the average of the measured fuel input rates for a multiple unit sample) will serve as the basis for determination of the appropriate equipment class(es) and calculation of combustion and/or thermal efficiency for the basic model.
