
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 429 - CERTIFICATION, COMPLIANCE, AND ENFORCEMENT FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS AND COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart C - Enforcement
###### ยง 429.134 Product-specific enforcement provisions.
####### Commercial water heating equipment other than residential-duty commercial water heaters,Verification of fuel input rate.

(n)-(1)The fuel input rate of each tested unit of the basic model will be measured pursuant to the test requirements of ยง 431.106 of this chapter. The measured fuel input rate (either the measured fuel input rate for a single unit sample or the average of the measured fuel input rates for a multiple unit sample) will be compared to the rated input certified by the manufacturer. The certified rated input will be considered valid only if the measured fuel input rate is within two percent of the certified rated input.

(i) If the certified rated input is found to be valid, then the certified rated input will serve as the basis for determination of the appropriate equipment class and calculation of the standby loss standard (as applicable).

(ii) If the measured fuel input rate for gas-fired commercial water heating equipment is not within two percent of the certified rated input, DOE will first attempt to increase or decrease the gas outlet pressure within 10 percent of the value specified on the nameplate of the model of commercial water heating equipment being tested to achieve the certified rated input (within 2 percent). If the fuel input rate is still not within two percent of the certified rated input, DOE will attempt to increase or decrease the gas supply pressure within the range specified on the nameplate of the model of commercial water heating equipment being tested. If the measured fuel input rate is still not within two percent of the certified rated input, DOE will attempt to modify the gas inlet orifice, if the unit is equipped with one. If the measured fuel input rate still is not within two percent of the certified rated input, the measured fuel input rate will serve as the basis for determination of the appropriate equipment class and calculation of the standby loss standard (as applicable).

(iii) If the measured fuel input rate for oil-fired commercial water heating equipment is not within two percent of the certified rated input, the measured fuel input rate will serve as the basis for determination of the appropriate equipment class and calculation of the standby loss standard (as applicable).

(2) [Reserved]
