
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 429 - CERTIFICATION, COMPLIANCE, AND ENFORCEMENT FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS AND COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart C - Enforcement
###### ยง 429.134 Product-specific enforcement provisions.
####### Verification of door surface area.

(3)The surface area of a display door or non-display door basic model will be measured pursuant to the requirements of 10 CFR part 431, subpart R, appendix A for each unit tested. The results of the measurement(s) will be averaged and compared to the value of the surface area certified by the manufacturer. The certified surface area will be considered valid only if the average measured surface area is within plus or minus three percent of the certified surface area.

(i) If the certified surface area is found to be valid, the certified surface area will be used as the basis for calculating the maximum energy consumption (kWh/day) of the basic model.

(ii) If the certified surface area is found to be invalid, the average measured surface area will serve as the basis for calculating the maximum energy consumption (kWh/day) of the basic model.

(4) For each basic model of walk-in cooler and walk-in freezer door, DOE will calculate the door's energy consumption using the power listed on the nameplate of each electricity consuming device shipped with the door. If an electricity consuming device shipped with a walk-in door does not have a nameplate or such nameplate does not list the device's power, then DOE will use the device's "rated power" included in the door's certification report.
