
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 429 - CERTIFICATION, COMPLIANCE, AND ENFORCEMENT FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS AND COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart C - Enforcement
###### ยง 429.134 Product-specific enforcement provisions.
####### Manufacturer involvement in heating tests and IEER cooling tests.

(ii)All control settings other than critical parameters must be set by a member of the third-party laboratory consistent with the provisions of section 5.1 of appendix D1 to subpart F of 10 CFR part 431. In heating tests and IEER cooling tests, critical parameters may be manually controlled by a manufacturer's representative and initially set to their certified values as described in section 5.1 of appendix D1 to subpart F of 10 CFR part 431. During IEER cooling mode tests only, a manufacturer's representative may also make additional adjustments to the critical parameters as described in section 5.2 of appendix D1 to subpart F of 10 CFR part 431. Setting and adjustment of critical parameters by a manufacturer's representative must be monitored by third-party laboratory personnel using a service tool. Other than critical parameter adjustments made in accordance with section 5.3 of appendix D1 to subpart F of 10 CFR part 431, the manufacturer's representative must not make any other adjustments to the VRF multi-split system under test. If a manufacturer's representative is not present for testing, a member of the third-party laboratory must set and adjust critical parameters using the means of control provided by the manufacturer, as described in ยง 429.110(b)(1)(iv) for enforcement testing and ยง 429.104 for assessment testing.
