
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 430.5 Error correction procedures for energy conservation standards rules.
####### Request for correction.

(d)(1) A person identifying an Error in a rule subject to this section may request that the Secretary correct the Error. Such a request must be submitted within 45 calendar days of the posting of the rule pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(2)(i) A request under this section must identify an Error with particularity. The request must state what text is claimed to be erroneous. The request must also provide text that the requester argues would be a correct substitute. If a requester is unable to identify a correct substitute, the requester may submit a request that states that the requester is unable to determine what text would be correct and explains why the requester is unable to do so. The request must also substantiate the claimed Error by citing evidence from the existing record of the rulemaking that the text of the rule as issued is inconsistent with what the Secretary intended the text to be.

(ii) A person's disagreement with a policy choice that the Secretary has made will not, on its own, constitute a valid basis for a request under this section.

(3) The evidence to substantiate a request (or evidence of the Error itself) must be in the record of the rulemaking at the time of the rule's posting, which may include the preamble accompanying the rule. The Secretary will not consider new evidence submitted in connection with a request.

(4) A request under this section must be filed in electronic format by email to the address that the rule designates for correction requests. Should filing by email not be feasible, the requester should contact the program point of contact designated in the rule regarding an appropriate alternative means of filing a request.

(5) A request that does not comply with the requirements of this section will not be considered.
