
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 430.5 Error correction procedures for energy conservation standards rules.
####### Publication in the,Federal Register.

(f)(1) If, after receiving one or more properly filed requests for correction, the Secretary decides not to undertake any corrections, the Secretary will submit the rule for publication to the Office of the Federal Register as it was posted pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(2) If the Secretary receives no properly filed requests after posting a rule and identifies no Errors on the Secretary's own initiative, the Secretary will in due course submit the rule, as it was posted pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, to the Office of the Federal Register for publication. This will occur after the period prescribed by paragraph (c)(2) of this section has elapsed.

(3) If the Secretary receives a properly filed request after posting a rule pursuant to (c)(1) and determines that a correction is necessary, the Secretary will, absent extenuating circumstances, submit a corrected rule for publication in thewithin 30 days after the period prescribed by paragraph (c)(2) of this section has elapsed.

(4) Consistent with the Act, compliance with an energy conservation standard will be required upon the specified compliance date as published in the relevant rule in the.

(5) Consistent with the Administrative Procedure Act, and other applicable law, the Secretary will ordinarily designate an effective date for a rule under this section that is no less than 30 days after the publication of the rule in the.

(6) When the Secretary submits a rule for publication, the Secretary will make publicly available a written statement indicating how any properly filed requests for correction were handled.
