
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### ยง 430.23 Test procedures for the measurement of energy and water consumption.
####### Cooking products.

(i)(1) Determine the standby power for microwave ovens, excluding any microwave oven component of a combined cooking product, according to section 3.2.3 of appendix I to this subpart. Round standby power to the nearest 0.1 watt.

(2)(i) Determine the integrated annual energy consumption of a conventional electric cooking top, including any conventional cooking top component of a combined cooking product, according to section 4.3.1 of appendix I1 to this subpart. Round the result to the nearest 1 kilowatt-hour (kWh) per year.

(ii) Determine the integrated annual energy consumption of a conventional gas cooking top, including any conventional cooking top component of a combined cooking product, according to section 4.3.2 of appendix I1 to this subpart. Round the result to the nearest 1 kilo-British thermal unit (kBtu) per year.

(3) Determine the total annual gas energy consumption of a conventional gas cooking top, including any conventional cooking top component of a combined cooking product, according to section 4.1.2.2.1 of appendix I1 to this subpart. Round the result to the nearest 1 kBtu per year.

(4)(i) Determine the total annual electrical energy consumption of a conventional electric cooking top, including any conventional cooking top component of a combined cooking product, as the integrated annual energy consumption of the conventional electric cooking top, as determined in paragraph (i)(2)(i) of this section.

(ii) Determine the total annual electrical energy consumption of a conventional gas cooking top, including any conventional cooking top component of a combined cooking product, as follows, rounded to the nearest 1 kWh per year:

(5) Determine the estimated annual operating cost corresponding to the energy consumption of a conventional cooking top, including any conventional cooking top component of a combined cooking product, as follows, rounded to the nearest dollar per year:

(6) Other useful measures of energy consumption for conventional cooking tops shall be the measures of energy consumption that the Secretary determines are likely to assist consumers in making purchasing decisions and that are derived from the application of appendix I1 to this subpart.
