
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### ยง 430.23 Test procedures for the measurement of energy and water consumption.
####### Coolers and combination cooler refrigeration products.

(ff)(1) The estimated annual operating cost for models without an anti-sweat heater switch shall be the product of the following three factors, with the resulting product then being rounded to the nearest dollar per year:

(i) The representative average-use cycle of 365 cycles per year;

(ii) The average per-cycle energy consumption for the standard cycle in kilowatt-hours per cycle, determined according to appendix A of this subpart; and

(iii) The representative average unit cost of electricity in dollars per kilowatt-hour as provided by the Secretary.

(2) The estimated annual operating cost for models with an anti-sweat heater switch shall be the product of the following three factors, with the resulting product then being rounded to the nearest dollar per year:

(i) The representative average-use cycle of 365 cycles per year;

(ii) Half the sum of the average per-cycle energy consumption for the standard cycle and the average per-cycle energy consumption for a test cycle type with the anti-sweat heater switch in the position set at the factory just before shipping, each in kilowatt-hours per cycle, determined according to appendix A of this subpart; and

(iii) The representative average unit cost of electricity in dollars per kilowatt-hour as provided by the Secretary.

(3) The estimated annual operating cost for any other specified cycle type shall be the product of the following three factors, with the resulting product then being rounded to the nearest dollar per year:

(i) The representative average-use cycle of 365 cycles per year;

(ii) The average per-cycle energy consumption for the specified cycle type, determined according to appendix A of this subpart; and

(iii) The representative average unit cost of electricity in dollars per kilowatt-hour as provided by the Secretary.

(4) The energy factor, expressed in cubic feet per kilowatt-hour per cycle, shall be:

(i) For models without an anti-sweat heater switch, the quotient of:

(A) The adjusted total volume in cubic feet, determined according to appendix A of this subpart, divided by-

(B) The average per-cycle energy consumption for the standard cycle in kilowatt-hours per cycle, determined according to appendix A of this subpart, the resulting quotient then being rounded to the second decimal place; and

(ii) For models having an anti-sweat heater switch, the quotient of:

(A) The adjusted total volume in cubic feet, determined according to appendix A of this subpart, divided by-

(B) Half the sum of the average per-cycle energy consumption for the standard cycle and the average per-cycle energy consumption for a test cycle type with the anti-sweat heater switch in the position set at the factory just before shipping, each in kilowatt-hours per cycle, determined according to appendix A of this subpart, the resulting quotient then being rounded to the second decimal place.

(5) The annual energy use, expressed in kilowatt-hours per year and rounded to the nearest kilowatt-hour per year, shall be determined according to appendix A of this subpart.

(6) Other useful measures of energy consumption shall be those measures of energy consumption that the Secretary determines are likely to assist consumers in making purchasing decisions which are derived from the application of appendix A of this subpart.

(7) The following principles of interpretation shall be applied to the test procedure. The intent of the energy test procedure is to simulate operation in typical room conditions (72 &#xB0;F (22.2 &#xB0;C)) with door openings by testing at 90 &#xB0;F (32.2 &#xB0;C) ambient temperature without door openings. Except for operating characteristics that are affected by ambient temperature (for example, compressor percent run time), the unit, when tested under this test procedure, shall operate in a manner equivalent to the unit's operation while in typical room conditions.

(i) The energy used by the unit shall be calculated when a calculation is provided by the test procedure. Energy consuming components that operate in typical room conditions (including as a result of door openings, or a function of humidity), and that are not excluded by this test procedure, shall operate in an equivalent manner during energy testing under this test procedure, or be accounted for by all calculations as provided for in the test procedure. Examples:

(A) Energy saving features that are designed to operate when there are no door openings for long periods of time shall not be functional during the energy test.

(B) The defrost heater shall neither function nor turn off differently during the energy test than it would when in typical room conditions. Also, the product shall not recover differently during the defrost recovery period than it would in typical room conditions.

(C) Electric heaters that would normally operate at typical room conditions with door openings shall also operate during the energy test.

(D) Energy used during adaptive defrost shall continue to be measured and adjusted per the calculation provided for in this test procedure.

(ii) DOE recognizes that there may be situations that the test procedures do not completely address. In such cases, a manufacturer must obtain a waiver in accordance with the relevant provisions of this part if:

(A) A product contains energy consuming components that operate differently during the prescribed testing than they would during representative average consumer use; and

(B) Applying the prescribed test to that product would evaluate it in a manner that is unrepresentative of its true energy consumption (thereby providing materially inaccurate comparative data).

(8) For non-compressor models, "compressor" and "compressor cycles" as used in appendix A of this subpart shall be interpreted to mean "refrigeration system" and "refrigeration system cycles," respectively.
