
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### ยง 430.27 Petitions for waiver and interim waiver.
####### Compliance certification and representations.

(i)(1) If the interim waiver test procedure methodology is different than the decision and order test procedure methodology, certification reports to DOE required under 10 CFR 429.12 and any representations must be based on either of the two methodologies until 180 days after the publication date of the decision and order. Thereafter, certification reports and any representations must be based on the decision and order test procedure methodology, unless otherwise specified by DOE. Once a manufacturer uses the decision and order test procedure methodology in a certification report or any representation, all subsequent certification reports and any representations must be made using the decision and order test procedure methodology while the waiver is valid.

(2) When DOE publishes a new or amended test procedure, certification reports to DOE required under 10 CFR 429.12 and any representations must be based on the testing methodology of an applicable waiver or interim waiver, or the new or amended test procedure until the date on which use of such test procedure is required to demonstrate compliance, unless otherwise specified by DOE in the test procedure final rule. Thereafter, certification reports and any representations must be based on the test procedure final rule methodology. Once a manufacturer uses the test procedure final rule methodology in a certification report or any representation, all subsequent certification reports and any representations must be made using the test procedure final rule methodology.

(3) If DOE publishes a decision and order modifying an existing waiver, certification reports to DOE required under 10 CFR 429.12 and any representations must be based on either of the two methodologies until 180 days after the publication date of the decision and order modifying the waiver. Thereafter, certification reports and any representations must be based on the modified test procedure methodology unless otherwise specified by DOE. Once a manufacturer uses the modified test procedure methodology in a certification report or any representation, all subsequent certification reports and any representations must be made using the modified test procedure methodology while the modified waiver is valid.
