
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Refrigerators, Refrigerator-Freezers, and Miscellaneous Refrigeration Products
####### Energy Consumption,

Section 5.8.2,of HRF-1-2019 applies to this test procedure, except as follows:

(a)(i) For refrigerators and refrigerator-freezers: To demonstrate compliance with the energy conservation standards at 10 CFR 430.32(a) applicable to products manufactured on or after September 15, 2014, IET, expressed in kilowatt-hours per cycle, equals 0.23 for a product with one or more automatic icemakers and otherwise equals 0 (zero).

(ii) For miscellaneous refrigeration products: To demonstrate compliance with the energy conservation standards at 10 CFR 430.32(aa) applicable to products manufactured on or after October 28, 2019, IET, expressed in kilowatt-hours per cycle, equals 0.23 for a product with one or more automatic icemakers and otherwise equals 0 (zero).

(b) In place of section 5.8.2.1.2 of HRF-1-2019, use the calculations provided in this section. For units with long-time automatic defrost control using the two-part test period, the test cycle energy shall be calculated as:

(c) In place of sections 5.8.2.1.3 and 5.8.2.1.4 of HRF-1-2019, use the calculations provided in this section. For units with variable defrost control, the test cycle energy shall be calculated as set forth in section 5.3(a) of this appendix with the following addition:

CT shall be calculated equivalent to:

(d) In place of section 5.8.2.1.5 of HRF-1-2019, use the calculations provided in this section. For multiple-compressor products with automatic defrost, the two-part test method in section 5.7.2.1 of HRF-1-2019 shall be used, and the test cycle energy shall be calculated as:

(e) In place of section 5.8.2.1.6 of HRF-1-2019, use the calculations provided in this section. For units with long-time automatic defrost control and variable defrost control with multiple defrost cycle types, the two-part test method in section 5.7.2.1 of HRF-1-2019 shall be used, and the test cycle energy shall be calculated as:

(i) For long-time automatic defrost control, CTi shall be equal to a fixed time in hours rounded to the nearest tenth of an hour. For cases in which there are more than one fixed CT value for a given defrost cycle type, an average fixed CT value shall be selected for this cycle type.

(ii) For variable defrost control, CTi shall be calculated equivalent to:

(f) If the three-point interpolation method of section 5.2(b) of this appendix is used for setting temperature controls, the average per-cycle energy consumption shall be defined as follows:

To the extent that the procedures contained in this appendix do not provide a means for determining the energy consumption of a basic model, a manufacturer must obtain a waiver under ยง 430.27 to establish an acceptable test procedure for each such basic model. Such instances could, for example, include situations where the test setup for a particular basic model is not clearly defined by the provisions of this appendix. For details regarding the criteria and procedures for obtaining a waiver, please refer to ยง 430.27.
