
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix B to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Freezers
####### Method for Determining the Energy Consumption of Consumer Refrigeration Products,

Determine the annual energy use ("AEU") in kilowatt-hours per year (kWh/yr), for freezers in accordance with section 5,of HRF-1-2019, except as follows.

(a) In section 5.3.1 of HRF-1-2019, the top of the unit shall be determined by the refrigerated cabinet height, excluding any accessories or protruding components on the top of the unit.

(b) The ambient temperature and vertical ambient temperature gradient requirements specified in section 5.3.1 of HRF-1-2019 shall be maintained during both the stabilization period and the test period.

(c) The power supply requirements as specified in section 5.5.1 of HRF-1-2019 shall be maintained based on measurement intervals not to exceed one minute.

(d) The ice storage compartment temperature requirement as specified in section 5.5.6.5 in HRF-1-2019 is not required.

(e) For cases in which setup is not clearly defined by this test procedure, manufacturers must submit a petition for a waiver (See section 6 of this appendix).

(f) If the interior arrangements of the unit under test do not conform with those shown in Figure 5-2 of HRF-1-2019, as appropriate, the unit must be tested by relocating the temperature sensors from the locations specified in the figures to avoid interference with hardware or components within the unit, in which case the specific locations used for the temperature sensors shall be noted in the test data records maintained by the manufacturer in accordance with 10 CFR 429.71, and the certification report shall indicate that non-standard sensor locations were used. If any temperature sensor is relocated by any amount from the location prescribed in Figure 5-2 of HRF-1- 2019 in order to maintain a minimum 1-inch air space from adjustable shelves or other components that could be relocated by the consumer, except in cases in which the Figure prescribes a temperature sensor location within 1 inch of a shelf or similar feature, this constitutes a relocation of temperature sensors that must be recorded in the test data and reported in the certification report as described in this paragraph.

(a) For the purposes of comparing compartment temperatures with standardized temperatures, as described in section 5.6 of HRF-1-2019, the freezer compartment temperature shall be as specified in section 5.8.1.2.5 of HRF-1-2019.

(b) In place of Table 5-1 in HRF-1-2019, refer to Table 1 of this section.
