
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix C1 to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Dishwashers
####### Detergent.

2.5

The detergent requirements described in section 2.10 of AHAM DW-1-2020 are applicable to all dishwashers. For any dishwasher that does not have a main wash detergent compartment and the manufacturer does not recommend a location to place the main wash detergent, determine the amount of main wash detergent (in grams) according to section 2.10 of AHAM DW-1-2020, or as specified below, and place the detergent directly into the dishwasher chamber.

Additionally, the following detergent and dosage may also be used for all dishwashers. Note that if the detergent specified in section 2.10 of AHAM DW-1-2020 is used, then the dosage requirements specified in section 2.10 of AHAM DW-1-2020 must be used. Alternately, if the detergent specified below is used, the dosage requirements specified below must be used.

Use Cascade with the Grease Fighting Power of Dawn powder as the detergent formulation. For all dishwashers other than water re-use system dishwashers determine the amount of detergent (in grams) to be added to the prewash compartment (if provided) or elsewhere in the dishwasher (if recommended by the manufacturer) and the main wash compartment according to sections 2.6.1 and 2.6.2 of this appendix.
