
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 9 - PUBLIC RECORDS
#### Subpart A - Freedom of Information Act Regulations
##### ยง 9.25 Initial disclosure determination.
###### Multiple-Track processing.

(d)To ensure the most equitable treatment possible of all requesters, the NRC will process requests on a first-in, first-out basis, using multiple tracking systems based upon the estimated time it will take to process the request.

(1) NRC uses a three-track system.

(i) The first track is for requests of simple to moderate complexity that are expected to be completed within 20 working days.

(ii) The second track is for requests involving "unusual circumstances" that are expected to take between 21-30 working days to complete (e.g. requests involving possible records from two or three offices and/or various types of files of moderate volume, of which, some are expected to be exempt)

(iii) The third track is for requests that, because of their unusual volume or other complexity, are expected to take more than 30 working days to complete (e.g. requests involving several offices, regional offices, another agency's records, classified records requiring declassification review, records from businesses that are required to be referred to the submitter for their proprietary review prior to disclosure, records in large volumes which require detailed review because of the sensitive nature of the records such as investigative records or legal opinions and recordings of internal deliberations of agency staff).

(2) Upon receipt of requests, NRC will notify requesters of the track in which the request has been placed for processing and the estimated time for completion. Should subsequent information substantially change the estimated time to process a request, the requester will be notified telephonically or in writing. A requester may modify the request to allow it to be processed faster or to reduce the cost of processing. Partial responses may be sent to requesters as documents are obtained by the FOIA office from the supplying offices.
