
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix C2 to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Dishwashers
####### Determination of most energy-intensive cycle.

4.1.1

If the most energy-intensive cycle is not known and needs to be determined via testing, ensure the filter is cleaned as specified in the manufacturer's instructions and test each available cycle type, selecting the default cycle options for that cycle type. In the absence of manufacturer recommendations on washing and drying temperature options, the highest energy consumption options must be selected. Following the completion of each test cycle, the machine electrical energy consumption and water consumption shall be measured according to sections 4.1.1 and 4.1.4 of AHAM DW-1-2020, respectively. The total cycle energy consumption, E, of each tested cycle type shall be calculated according to section 5.2 of this appendix. The most energy-intensive cycle is the cycle type with the highest value of E.

For standard dishwashers, test each cycle with a clean load of eight place settings plus six serving pieces, as specified in section 2.7 of AHAM DW-1-2020. For compact dishwashers, test each cycle with a clean load of four place settings plus six serving pieces, as specified in section 2.7 of AHAM DW-1-2020. If the capacity of the dishwasher, as stated by the manufacturer, is less than four place settings, then the test load must be the stated capacity.
