
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix D1 to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Clothes Dryers
####### i.e.,

1.13 "Initial moisture content" ("IMC") means the ratio of the weight of water contained by the damp test load (prior to completion of the drying cycle) to the bone-dry weight of the test load, expressed as a percent.

1.14 "Moisture content" means the ratio of the weight of water contained by the test load to the bone-dry weight of the test load, expressed as a percent.

1.15 "Off mode" means a mode in which the clothes dryer is connected to a main power source and is not providing any active or standby mode function, and where the mode may persist for an indefinite time. An indicator that only shows the user that the product is in the off position is included within the classification of an off mode.

1.16 "Standard size" means a clothes dryer with a drum capacity of 4.4 cubic feet or greater.

1.17 "Standby mode" means any product modes where the energy using product is connected to a main power source and offers one or more of the following user-oriented or protective functions which may persist for an indefinite time:

(a) To facilitate the activation of other modes (including activation or deactivation of active mode) by remote switch (including remote control), internal sensor, or timer.

(b) Continuous functions, including information or status displays (including clocks) or sensor-based functions. A timer is a continuous clock function (which may or may not be associated with a display) that provides regular scheduled tasks (e.g., switching) and that operates on a continuous basis.

1.18 "Vented clothes dryer" means a clothes dryer that exhausts the evaporated moisture from the cabinet.

1.19 "Ventless clothes dryer" means a clothes dryer that uses a closed-loop system with an internal condenser to remove the evaporated moisture from the heated air. The moist air is not discharged from the cabinet.
