
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix D2 to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Clothes Dryers

DOE incorporated by reference in ยง 430.3 the entire standard for AHAM HLD-1 and IEC 62301, however, only enumerated provisions of those documents are applicable to this appendix. In cases where there is a conflict between any industry standard(s) and this appendix, the language of the test procedure in this appendix takes precedence over the industry standard(s).

(1) AHAM HLD-1:

(i) Section 3.3.5.1 "Standard Simulator" as referenced in sections 2.1.2 through 2.1.3 of this appendix.

(ii) [Reserved]

(2) IEC 62301:

(i) Section 5, Paragraph 5.1, Note 1 as referenced in section 3.5.2 of this appendix.

(ii) Section 5, Paragraph 5.3.2 "Sampling Method" as referenced in section 3.5.3 of this appendix.

1.1 "Active mode" means a mode in which the clothes dryer is connected to a main power source, has been activated and is performing the main function of tumbling the clothing with or without heated or unheated forced air circulation to remove moisture from the clothing, remove wrinkles or prevent wrinkling of the clothing, or both.

1.2 "AHAM" means the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers.

1.3 "AHAM HLD-1" means the test standard published by the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, titled "Household Tumble Type Clothes Dryers," ANSI-approved June 11, 2010, ANSI/AHAM HLD-1-2010.

1.4 "Automatic termination control" means a dryer control system with a sensor which monitors either the dryer load temperature or its moisture content and with a controller which automatically terminates the drying process. A mark, detent, or other visual indicator or detent which indicates a preferred automatic termination control setting must be present if the dryer is to be classified as having an "automatic termination control." A mark is a visible single control setting on one or more dryer controls.

1.5 "Automatic termination control dryer" means a clothes dryer which can be preset to carry out at least one sequence of operations to be terminated by means of a system assessing, directly or indirectly, the moisture content of the load. An automatic termination control dryer with supplementary timer or that may also be manually controlled shall be tested as an automatic termination control dryer.

1.6 "Bone dry" means a condition of a load of test cloths which has been dried in a dryer at maximum temperature for a minimum of 10 minutes, removed, and weighed before cool down, and then dried again for 10-minute periods until the final weight change of the load is 1 percent or less.

1.7 "Compact" or "compact size" means a clothes dryer with a drum capacity of less than 4.4 cubic feet.

1.8 "Cool down" means that portion of the clothes drying cycle when the added gas or electric heat is terminated and the clothes continue to tumble and dry within the drum.

1.9 "Cycle" means a sequence of operation of a clothes dryer which performs a clothes drying operation, and may include variations or combinations of the functions of heating, tumbling, and drying.

1.10 "Drum capacity" means the volume of the drying drum in cubic feet.
