
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix D2 to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Clothes Dryers
####### Automatic termination control dryers.

3.3.2For automatic termination control dryers, a "normal" program shall be selected for the test cycle. For dryers that do not have a "normal" program, the cycle recommended by the manufacturer for drying cotton or linen clothes shall be selected. Where the drying temperature setting can be chosen independently of the program, it shall be set to the maximum. Where the dryness level setting can be chosen independently of the program, it shall be set to the "normal" or "medium" dryness level setting. If such designation is not provided, then the dryness level shall be set at the mid-point between the minimum and maximum settings. If an even number of discrete settings are provided, use the next-highest setting above the midpoint, in the direction of the maximum dryness setting or next-lowest setting below the midpoint, in the direction of the minimum dryness setting. Any other optional cycle settings that do not affect the program, temperature or dryness settings shall be tested in the as-shipped position, except that if the clothes dryer has network capabilities, the network settings must be disabled throughout testing if such settings can be disabled by the end-user and the product's user manual provides instructions on how to do so. If the network settings cannot be disabled by the end-user, or the product's user manual does not provide instruction for disabling network settings, then the unit must be tested with the network settings in the factory default configuration for the test cycle.
