
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix E to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Water Heaters
####### Water Heater Mounting.

4.1A water heater designed to be freestanding shall be placed on ainch (2 cm) thick plywood platform supported by three 2x4 inch (5 cmx10 cm) runners. If the water heater is not approved for installation on combustible flooring, suitable non-combustible material shall be placed between the water heater and the platform. Counter-top water heaters shall be placed against a simulated wall section. Wall-mounted water heaters shall be supported on a simulated wall in accordance with the manufacturer-published installation instructions. When a simulated wall is used, the construction shall be 2x4 inch (5 cmx10 cm) studs, faced withinch (2 cm) plywood. For heat pump water heaters not delivered as a single package, the units shall be connected in accordance with the manufacturer-published installation instructions and the overall system shall be placed on the above-described plywood platform. If installation instructions are not provided by the heat pump manufacturer, uninsulated 8 foot (2.4 m) long connecting hoses having an inside diameter ofinch (1.6 cm) shall be used to connect the storage tank and the heat pump water heater. The testing of the water heater shall occur in an area that is protected from drafts of more than 50 ft/min (0.25 m/s) from room ventilation registers, windows, or other external sources of air movement.
