
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix E to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Water Heaters
####### Tanks with Two or More Temperature Controllers.

5.2.2.2.2Verify the temperature controller set-point while removing water in accordance with the procedure set forth for the first-hour rating test in section 5.3.3 of this appendix. The following criteria must be met to ensure that all temperature controllers are set to deliver water at 125 &#xB0;F +/-5 &#xB0;F (51.7 &#xB0;C +/-2.8 &#xB0;C):

(a) At least 50 percent of the water drawn during the first draw of the first-hour rating test procedure shall be delivered at a temperature of 125 &#xB0;F +/-5 &#xB0;F (51.7 &#xB0;C +/-2.8 &#xB0;C).

(b) No water is delivered above 130 &#xB0;F (54.4 &#xB0;C) during first-hour rating test.

(c) The delivery temperature measured 15 seconds after commencement of each draw begun prior to an elapsed time of 60 minutes from the start of the test shall be at 125 &#xB0;F +/-5 &#xB0;F (51.7 &#xB0;C +/-2.8 &#xB0;C).

If these conditions are not met, turn off the water heater, adjust the temperature controllers, and then drain and refill the tank with supply water. Repeat the procedure described at the start of section 5.2.2.2.2 until the criteria for setting the temperature controllers is met.

If the conditions stated above are met, the data obtained during the process of verifying the temperature control set-points may be used in determining the first-hour rating provided that all other conditions and methods required in sections 2 and 5.2.4 in preparing the water heater were followed.
