
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix E to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Water Heaters
####### [object Object]

Initiate a draw after a maximum mean tank temperature (the maximum of the mean temperatures of the individual sensors) has been observed following a cut-out. Record the time when the draw is initiated and designate it as an elapsed time of zero (θ* = 0). (The superscript * is used to denote variables pertaining to the first-hour rating test). Record the outlet water temperature beginning 15 seconds after the draw is initiated and at 5-second intervals thereafter until the draw is terminated. Determine the maximum outlet temperature that occurs during this first draw and record it as T*. For the duration of this first draw and all successive draws, in addition, monitor the inlet temperature to the water heater to ensure that the required 58 &#xB0;F +/-2 &#xB0;F (14.4 &#xB0;C +/-1.1 &#xB0;C) test condition is met. Terminate the hot water draw when the outlet temperature decreases to T*- 15 &#xB0;F (T*- 8.3 &#xB0;C). (Note, if the outlet temperature does not decrease to T*- 15 &#xB0;F (T*- 8.3 &#xB0;C) during the draw, then hot water would be drawn continuously for the duration of the test. In this instance, the test would end when the temperature decreases to T*- 15 &#xB0;F (T*- 8.3 &#xB0;C) after the electrical power and/or fuel supplied to the water heater is shut off, as described in the following paragraphs.) Record this temperature as T*. Following draw termination, determine the average outlet water temperature and the mass or volume removed during this first draw and record them as*and M*or V*, respectively.
