
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 9 - PUBLIC RECORDS
#### Subpart A - Freedom of Information Act Regulations
##### ยง 9.35 Duplication fees.
###### http://www.nrc.gov/reading-rm/pdr/copy-service.html,pdr@nrc.gov

(a)(1) The charges by the duplicating service contractor for the duplication of records made available under ยง 9.21 at the NRC Public Document Room (PDR), One White Flint North, 11555 Rockville Pike, Room O-1F23, Rockville, Maryland, may be found on the NRC's Web site ator by calling the PDR at 1-800-397-4209 or 301-415-4737, by e-mailand are as follows:

(i) Paper-to-paper reproduction is $0.30 per page for standard size (up to and including 11&#x2033; x 14&#x2033; reduced). Pages 11&#x2033; x 17&#x2033; are $0.30 per page. Pages larger than 11&#x2033; x 17&#x2033;, including engineering drawings, are $1.50 per square foot.

(ii) Pages larger than 11&#x2033; x 17&#x2033; are $1.50 per square foot.

(iii) Microfiche-to-paper reproduction is $0.30 per page. Aperture card blowback to paper is $3.00 per square foot.

(iv) Microfiche card duplication is $5.00 per card; CD-ROM duplication is $10.00 each.

(v) The charges for Electronic Full Text (EFT) (ADAMS documents) copying are as follows:

(A) Electronic Full Text (EFT) copying of ADAMS documents to paper (applies to images, OCR TIFF, and PDF text) is $0.30 per page.

(B) EFT copying of ADAMS documents to CD-ROM is $5.00 per CD plus $0.15 per page.

(C) CD-ROM-to-paper reproduction is $0.30 per page.

(vi) Priority rates (rush processing) are as follows:

(A) The priority rate offered for standard size paper-to-paper reproduction is $0.35, microfiche-to-paper reproduction is $0.40, EFT copying of ADAMS documents to paper and CD-ROM-to-paper production is $0.35 per page.

(B) The priority rate for aperture cards is $3.50 per square foot. The priority rate for copying EFT to CD-ROM is $6.00 per CD-ROM plus $0.20 per page.

(vii) Facsimile charges are $1.00 per page for local calls; $2.00 per page for U.S. long distance calls, and $6.00 per page for foreign long distance calls, plus the regular per page copying charge.

(2) A requester may submit mail-order requests for contractor duplication of NRC records made by writing to the NRC Public Document Room. The charges for mail-order duplication of records are the same as those set out in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, plus mailing or shipping charges.

(3) A requester may open an account with the duplicating service contractor. A requester may obtain the name and address and billing policy of the contractor from the NRC Public Document Room.

(4) Any change in the costs specified in this section will become effective immediately pending completion of the final rulemaking that amends this section to reflect the new charges. The Commission will post the charges that will be in effect for the interim period at the NRC Public Document Room. The Commission will publish a final rule in thethat includes the new charges within 15 working days from the beginning of the interim period.

(b) The NRC will assess the following charges for copies of records to be duplicated by the NRC at locations other than the NRC Public Document Room located at One White Flint North, 11555 Rockville Pike (first floor), Rockville, Maryland.

(1) Sizes up to 8x 14 inches made on office copying machines-$0.20 per page of copy; and

(2) The charge for duplicating records other than those specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section is computed on the basis of NRC's direct costs.

(c) In compliance with the Federal Advisory Committee Act, a requester may purchase copies of transcripts of testimony in NRC Advisory Committee proceedings, which are transcribed by a reporting firm under contract with the NRC directly from the reporting firm at the cost of reproduction as provided for in the contract with the reporting firm. A requester may also purchase transcripts from the NRC at the cost of reproduction as set out in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.

(d) Copyrighted material may not be reproduced in violation of the copyright laws. Requesters will be given the citation to any copyrighted publication and advised to contact the NRC Public Document Room to arrange to view the publication.
