
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 9 - PUBLIC RECORDS
#### Subpart A - Freedom of Information Act Regulations
##### § 9.39 Search and duplication provided without charge.

(a) The NRC will search for agency records requested under § 9.23(b) without charges when agency records are not sought for commercial use and the records are requested by an educational or noncommercial scientific institution, or a representative of the news media.

(b) The NRC will search for agency records requested under § 9.23(b) without charges for the first two hours of search for any request not sought for commercial use and not covered in paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) The NRC will duplicate agency records requested under § 9.23(b) without charge for the first 100 pages of standard paper copies, or the equivalent cost of 100 pages of standard paper copies when providing the requester copies in microfiche or electronic form such as computer disks, if the requester is not a commercial use requester.

(d) The NRC may not bill any requester for fees if the cost of collecting the fee would be equal to or greater than the fee itself.

(e) The NRC may aggregate requests in determining search and duplication to be provided without charge as provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, if the NRC finds a requester or group of requesters acting in concert, has filed multiple requests that actually constitute a single request, and that the requests involve clearly-related matters.

(f)(1) Except as described in paragraphs (f)(2), (3), and (4) of this section, if the NRC fails to comply with any time limit under §§ 9.25 or 9.29, it may not charge search fees or, in the case of requests from requesters described in § 9.33(a)(2), may not charge duplication fees.

(2) If the NRC has determined that unusual circumstances, as defined in § 9.13, apply and the NRC provided timely written notice to the requester in accordance with the Freedom of Information Act, a failure to comply with the time limit shall be excused for an additional 10 days.

(3) If the NRC has determined that unusual circumstances, as defined in § 9.13, apply and more than 5,000 pages are necessary to respond to the request, the NRC may charge search fees or, in the case of requests from requesters described in § 9.33(a)(2), may charge duplication fees, if the NRC has provided timely written notice to the requester in accordance with the Freedom of Information Act and the NRC has discussed with the requester via written mail, email, or telephone (or made not less than three good-faith attempts to do so) how the requester could effectively limit the scope of the request in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(B)(ii).

(4) If a court has determined that exceptional circumstances exist, as defined by 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(C), a failure to comply with the time limit shall be excused for the length of time provided by the court order.
