
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix I1 to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Conventional Cooking Products
####### Potential simmering setting pre-selection test.

3.1.4.3The potential simmering setting for each cooking zone may be determined using the potential simmering setting pre-selecting test. If a potential simmering setting is already known, it may be used instead of completing sections 3.1.4.3.1 through 3.1.4.3.4 of this appendix.

3.1.4.3.1 Use the test vessel with water load for the cooking zone under test, selected, prepared, and positioned as specified in sections 3.1.1 and 3.1.4.1 of this appendix. The temperature of the conventional cooking top is not required to meet the specification for the product temperature in section 2.5 of this appendix for the potential simmering setting pre-selection test. Operate the cooking zone under test with the lowest available power setting. Measure the energy consumption for 10 minutes +/-2 seconds.

3.1.4.3.2 Calculate the power density of the power setting, j, on a conventional electric cooking top, Qe, in watts per square centimeter, as:

3.1.4.3.3 Calculate the power density of the power setting, j, on a conventional gas cooking top, Qg, in Btu/h per square centimeter, as:

3.1.4.3.4 Repeat the measurement for each successively higher power setting until Qeexceeds 0.8 W/cmfor conventional electric cooking tops or Qgexceeds 4.0 Btu/h&#xB7;cmfor conventional gas cooking tops.

For conventional cooking tops with rotating knobs for selecting the power setting, the selection knob shall be turned to the maximum power setting in between each test, to avoid hysteresis. The selection knob shall be turned in the direction from higher power to lower power to select the power setting for the test. If the appropriate power setting is passed, the selection knob shall be turned to the maximum power setting again before repeating the power setting selection.

Of the last two power settings tested, the potential simmering setting is the power setting that produces a power density closest to 0.8 W/cmfor conventional electric cooking tops or 4.0 Btu/h&#xB7;cmfor conventional gas cooking tops. The closest power density may be higher or lower than the applicable threshold value.
