
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix I1 to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Conventional Cooking Products
####### Standby mode and off mode.

3.3.2Make measurements as specified in section 3.2 of this appendix. If the product is capable of operating in inactive mode, as defined in section 1 of this appendix, record the average inactive mode power, P, in watts as specified in section 3.2.1 of this appendix. If the product is capable of operating in off mode, as defined in section 1 of this appendix, record the average off mode power, P, in watts as specified in section 3.2.2 of this appendix.

4.1. Active mode energy consumption of conventional cooking tops and any conventional cooking top component of a combined cooking product.

4.1.1 Per-cycle active mode energy consumption of a conventional cooking top and any conventional cooking top component of a combined cooking product.

4.1.1.1 Conventional electric cooking top per-cycle active mode energy consumption.

4.1.1.1.1 Conventional electric cooking top per-cooking zone normalized active mode energy consumption. For each cooking zone, calculate the per-cooking zone normalized active mode energy consumption of a conventional electric cooking top, E, in watt-hours, using the following equation:

4.1.1.1.2 Calculate the per-cycle active mode total energy consumption of a conventional electric cooking top, E, in watt-hours, using the following equation:

4.1.1.2 Conventional gas cooking top per-cycle active mode energy consumption.

4.1.1.2.1 Gas correction factor to standard temperature and pressure. Calculate the gas correction factor to standard temperature and pressure, which converts between standard cubic feet and measured cubic feet of gas for a given set of test conditions:

4.1.1.2.2 Conventional gas cooking top per-cooking zone normalized active mode gas energy consumption. For each cooking zone, calculate the per-cooking zone normalized active mode gas energy consumption of a conventional gas cooking top, E, in Btu, using the following equation:

4.1.1.2.3 Conventional gas cooking top per-cooking zone active mode normalized electrical energy consumption. For each cooking zone, calculate the per-cooking zone normalized active mode electrical energy consumption of a conventional gas cooking top, E, in watt-hours, using the following equation:

4.1.1.2.4 Conventional gas cooking top per-cycle active mode gas energy consumption. Calculate the per-cycle active mode gas energy consumption of a conventional gas cooking top, E, in Btu, using the following equation:

4.1.1.2.5 Conventional gas cooking top per-cycle active mode electrical energy consumption. Calculate the per-cycle active mode electrical energy consumption of a conventional gas cooking top, E, in watt-hours, using the following equation:

4.1.1.2.6 Conventional gas cooking top per-cycle active-mode total energy consumption. Calculate the per-cycle active mode total energy consumption of a conventional gas cooking top, E, in Btu, using the following equation:

4.1.2 Annual active mode energy consumption of a conventional cooking top and any conventional cooking top component of a combined cooking product.

4.1.2.1 Conventional electric cooking top annual active mode energy consumption. Calculate the annual active mode total energy consumption of a conventional electric cooking top, E, in kilowatt-hours per year, using the following equation:

4.1.2.2 Conventional gas cooking top annual active mode energy consumption.

4.1.2.2.1 Conventional gas cooking top annual active mode gas energy consumption. Calculate the annual active mode gas energy consumption of a conventional gas cooking top, E, in kBtu per year, using the following equation:

4.1.2.2.2 Conventional gas cooking top annual active mode electrical energy consumption. Calculate the annual active mode electrical energy consumption of a conventional gas cooking top, E, in kilowatt-hours per year, using the following equation:

4.1.2.2.3 Conventional gas cooking top annual active mode total energy consumption. Calculate the annual active mode total energy consumption of a conventional gas cooking top, E, in kBtu per year, using the following equation:

4.2 Annual combined low-power mode energy consumption of a conventional cooking top and any conventional cooking top component of a combined cooking product.

4.2.1 Conventional cooking top annual combined low-power mode energy consumption. Calculate the annual combined low-power mode energy consumption for a conventional cooking top, E, in kilowatt-hours per year, using the following equation:

4.2.2 Conventional cooking top component of a combined cooking product annual combined low-power mode energy consumption. Calculate the annual combined low-power mode energy consumption for the conventional cooking top component of a combined cooking product, E, in kilowatt-hours per year, using the following equation:

4.3 Integrated annual energy consumption of a conventional cooking top and any conventional cooking top component of a combined cooking product.

4.3.1 Conventional electric cooking top integrated annual energy consumption. Calculate the integrated annual energy consumption, IAEC, of a conventional electric cooking top, in kilowatt-hours per year, using the following equation:

4.3.2 Conventional gas cooking top integrated annual energy consumption. Calculate the integrated annual energy consumption, IAEC, of a conventional gas cooking top, in kBtu per year, defined as:

IAEC = E+ (Ex K)
