
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 9 - PUBLIC RECORDS
#### Subpart B - Privacy Act Regulations
##### determinations and appeals
###### ยง 9.65 Access determinations; appeals.
####### Initial determinations.

(a)For agency records located in the Office of the Inspector General, the Assistant Inspector General for Investigations shall determine whether access to the record is available under the Privacy Act. For all other agency records, the Freedom of Information Act and Privacy Act Officer with the advice of the system manager having control of the record to which access is requested, shall determine whether access to the record is available under the Privacy Act. The Freedom of Information Act and Privacy Act Officer shall notify the requesting individual in person or in writing of the determination. Unless the request presents unusual difficulties or involves extensive numbers of records, individuals shall be notified of determinations to grant or deny access within 30 working days after receipt of the request.

(1) Notices granting access shall inform the individual when and where the requested record may be seen, how copies may be obtained, and of any fees or anticipated charges which may be incurred pursuant to ยง 9.85 of this subpart.

(2) Notices denying access must state the reasons for the denial, and advise the individual that the denial may be appealed to the Inspector General, for agency records located in the Office of Inspector General, or the Executive Director for Operations, for all other agency records, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section.
