
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 9 - PUBLIC RECORDS
#### Subpart B - Privacy Act Regulations
##### determinations and appeals
###### ยง 9.65 Access determinations; appeals.
####### Final determinations.

(c)(1) The Inspector General, or the Executive Director for Operations or the EDO's designee, shall make a final determination within 30 working days of the receipt of the request for final review, unless the time is extended for good cause shown such as the need to obtain additional information, the volume of records involved, or the complexity of the issue. The extension of time may not exceed 30 additional working days. The requester shall be advised in advance of any extension of time and of the reasons therefor.

(2) If the Inspector General, or the Executive Director for Operations or the EDO's designee, determines that access was properly denied because the information requested has been exempted from disclosure, the Inspector General, or the Executive Director for Operations or the EDO's designee shall undertake a review of the exemption to determine whether the information should continue to be exempt from disclosure. The Inspector General, or the Executive Director for Operations or the EDO's designee, shall notify the individual in writing of the final agency determination to grant or deny the request for access. Notices denying access must state the reasons therefor and must advise the individual of his/her right to judicial review pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(g).
