
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 9 - PUBLIC RECORDS
#### Subpart B - Privacy Act Regulations
##### determinations and appeals
###### ยง 9.66 Determinations authorizing or denying correction of records; appeals.
####### Initial determinations.

(a)(1) For agency records located in the Office of the Inspector General, the Assistant Inspector General for Investigations shall determine whether to authorize or refuse correction or amendment of a record. For all other agency records, the Freedom of Information Act and Privacy Act Officer with the advice of the system manager having control of the record, shall determine whether to authorize or refuse correction or amendment of a record. The Freedom of Information Act and Privacy Act Officer shall notify the requesting individual. Unless the request presents unusual difficulties or involves extensive numbers of records, individuals must be notified of determinations to authorize or refuse correction or amendment of a record within 30 working days after receipt of the request. In making this determination, the NRC official shall be guided by the following standards:

(i) Records shall contain only such information about an individual as is relevant and necessary to accomplish an NRC function required to be accomplished by statute or by executive order of the President;

(ii) Records used by NRC in making any determination about any individual shall be as accurate, relevant, current, and complete as is reasonably necessary to assure fairness to the individual in the determination;

(iii) No record shall describe how any individual has exercised rights guaranteed by the First Amendment unless such record is expressly authorized by statute or by the individual about whom the record is maintained, or is pertinent to and within the scope of an authorized law enforcement activity.

(2) For agency records located in the Office of Inspector General, if correction or amendment of a record is authorized, the Assistant Inspector General for Investigations shall correct or amend the record. For all other agency records, the Freedom of Information Act and Privacy Act Officer shall correct or amend the record. The Freedom of Information Act and Privacy Act Officer shall notify the requesting individual in writing that the correction or amendment has been made and provide the individual with a courtesy copy of the corrected record.

(3) If correction or amendment of a record is refused, the Freedom of Information Act and Privacy Act Officer shall notify the requesting individual in writing of the refusal and the reasons therefor, and shall advise the individual that the refusal may be appealed to the Inspector General or the Executive Director for Operations, as appropriate, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section.
