
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter I - Nuclear Regulatory Commission
### PART 9 - PUBLIC RECORDS
#### Subpart B - Privacy Act Regulations
##### determinations and appeals
###### ยง 9.66 Determinations authorizing or denying correction of records; appeals.
####### Final determinations.

(c)(1) The Inspector General, for agency records located in the Office of the Inspector General, or the Executive Director for Operations or the EDO's designee, for all other agency records, shall make a final agency determination within 30 working days of receipt of the request for final review, unless the time is extended for good cause shown such as the need to obtain additional information, the volume of records involved, or the complexity of the issue. The extension of time may not exceed 30 additional working days. The requester shall be advised in advance of any extension of time and of the reasons therefor.

(2) For agency records located in the Office of the Inspector General, if the Inspector General makes a final determination that an amendment or correction of the record is warranted on the facts, the Inspector General or the IG's designee, shall correct or amend the record pursuant to the procedures in ยง 9.66(a)(2). For all other agency records, if the Executive Director for Operations, or the EDO's designee, makes a final determination that an amendment or correction of the record is warranted on the facts, the EDO or the EDO's designee, shall notify the Freedom of Information Act and Privacy Act Officer to correct or amend the record to the procedures in ยง 9.66(a)(2).

(3) If the Inspector General, or the Executive Director for Operations or the EDO's designee, makes a final determination that an amendment or correction of the record is not warranted on the facts, the individual shall be notified in writing of the refusal to authorize correction or amendment of the record in whole or in part, and of the reasons therefor, and the individual shall be advised of his/her right to provide a "Statement of Disagreement" for the record and of his/her right to judicial review pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(g).
