
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix J2 to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Automatic and Semi-automatic Clothes Washers
####### Water and air temperature measuring devices.

2.5.4The temperature devices used to measure water and air temperature must have an error no greater than +/-1 &#xB0;F (+/-0.6 &#xB0;C) over the range being measured.

2.5.4.1 Non-reversible temperature indicator labels, adhered to the inside of the clothes container, may be used to confirm that an extra-hot wash temperature greater than 135 &#xB0;F has been achieved during the wash cycle, under the following conditions. The label must remain waterproof, intact, and adhered to the wash drum throughout an entire wash cycle; provide consistent maximum temperature readings; and provide repeatable temperature indications sufficient to demonstrate that a wash temperature of greater than 135 &#xB0;F has been achieved. The label must have been verified to consistently indicate temperature measurements with an accuracy of +/-1 &#xB0;F if the label provides a temperature indicator at 135 &#xB0;F. If the label does not provide a temperature indicator at 135 &#xB0;F, the label must have been verified to consistently indicate temperature measurements with an accuracy of +/-1 &#xB0;F if the next-highest temperature indicator is greater than 135 &#xB0;F and less than 140 &#xB0;F, or +/-3 &#xB0;F if the next-highest temperature indicator is 140 &#xB0;F or greater. If the label does not provide a temperature indicator at 135 &#xB0;F, failure to activate the next-highest temperature indicator does not necessarily indicate the lack of an extra-hot wash temperature. However, such a result would not be conclusive due to the lack of verification of the water temperature requirement, in which case an alternative method must be used to confirm that an extra-hot wash temperature greater than 135 &#xB0;F has been achieved during the wash cycle. If using a temperature indicator label to test a front-loading clothes washer, adhere the label along the interior surface of the clothes container drum, midway between the front and the back of the drum, adjacent to one of the baffles. If using a temperature indicator label to test a top-loading clothes washer, adhere the label along the interior surface of the clothes container drum, on the vertical portion of the sidewall, as close to the bottom of the container as possible.

2.5.4.2 Submersible temperature loggers placed inside the wash drum may be used to confirm that an extra-hot wash temperature greater than 135 &#xB0;F has been achieved during the wash cycle, under the following conditions. The submersible temperature logger must have a time resolution of at least 1 data point every 5 seconds and a temperature measurement accuracy of +/-1 &#xB0;F. Due to the potential for a waterproof capsule to provide a thermal insulating effect, failure to measure a temperature of 135 &#xB0;F does not necessarily indicate the lack of an extra-hot wash temperature. However, such a result would not be conclusive due to the lack of verification of the water temperature requirement, in which case an alternative method must be used to confirm that an extra-hot wash temperature greater than 135 &#xB0;F has been achieved during the wash cycle.
