
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix J2 to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Automatic and Semi-automatic Clothes Washers
####### Energy consumption for the purpose of determining the cycle selection(s) to be included in the energy test cycle.

3.1This section is implemented only in cases where the energy test cycle flowcharts in section 2.12 require the determination of the wash/rinse temperature selection with the highest energy consumption.

3.10.1 For the wash/rinse temperature selection being considered under this section, establish the testing conditions set forth in section 2 of this appendix. Select the applicable cycle selection and wash/rinse temperature selection. For all wash/rinse temperature selections, the manufacturer default settings shall be used as described in section 3.2.7 of this appendix.

3.10.2 Use the clothes washer's maximum test load size, determined from Table 5.1 of this appendix, for testing under this section.

3.10.3 For clothes washers with a manual fill control system, user-adjustable automatic water fill control system, or automatic water fill control system with alternate manual water fill control system, use the water fill selector setting resulting in the maximum water level available for each cycle selection for testing under this section.

3.10.4 Each wash cycle tested under this section shall include the entire active washing mode and exclude any delay start or cycle finished modes.

3.10.5 Measure each wash cycle's electrical energy consumption (E) and hot water consumption (H). Calculate the total energy consumption for each cycle selection (E), as follows:
