
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix J3 to Subpart B of Part 430 - Energy Test Cloth Specifications and Procedures for Determining Correction Coefficients of New Energy Test Cloth Lots
####### Bone-dryer.

4.2The dryer used for drying the cloth to bone-dry must heat the test cloth and energy stuffer cloths above 210 &#xB0;F (99 &#xB0;C).

Use the following instructions for performing pre-conditioning of new energy test cloths and energy stuffer cloths as specified throughout section 7 and section 8 of this appendix, and before any clothes washer testing using appendix J or appendix J2 to this subpart: Perform five complete wash-rinse-spin cycles, the first two with current AHAM Standard detergent Formula 3 and the last three without detergent. Place the test cloth in a clothes washer set at the maximum water level. Wash the load for ten minutes in soft water (17 ppm hardness or less) using 27.0 grams + 4.0 grams per pound of cloth load of AHAM Standard detergent Formula 3. The wash temperature is to be controlled to 135 &#xB0;F +/- 5 &#xB0;F (57.2 &#xB0;C +/- 2.8 &#xB0;C) and the rinse temperature is to be controlled to 60 &#xB0;F +/- 5 &#xB0;F (15.6 &#xB0;C +/- 2.8 &#xB0;C). Dry the load to bone-dry between each of the five wash-rinse-spin cycles. The maximum shrinkage after preconditioning must not be more than 5 percent of the length and width. Measure per AATCC Test Method 135-2010 (incorporated by reference; see ยง 430.3).

Use the following instructions for performing each of the extractor runs specified throughout section 7 and section 8 of this appendix:
