
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix J3 to Subpart B of Part 430 - Energy Test Cloth Specifications and Procedures for Determining Correction Coefficients of New Energy Test Cloth Lots
####### Test load size.

6.1Use a test load size of 8.4 lbs.

6.2 Measure the average RMC for each sample loads as follows:

6.2.1 Dry the test cloth until it is bone-dry according to the definition in section 2 of this appendix. Record the bone-dry weight of the test load (WI).

6.2.2 Prepare the test load for soak by grouping four test cloths into loose bundles. Create the bundles by hanging four cloths vertically from one corner and loosely wrapping the test cloth onto itself to form the bundle. Bundles should be wrapped loosely to ensure consistency of water extraction. Then place the bundles into the water to soak. Eight to nine bundles will be formed depending on the test load. The ninth bundle may not equal four cloths but can incorporate energy stuffer cloths to help offset the size difference.

6.2.3 Soak the test load for 20 minutes in 10 gallons of soft (<17 ppm) water. The entire test load must be submerged. Maintain a water temperature of 100 &#xB0;F +/- 5 &#xB0;F (37.8 &#xB0;C +/- 2.8 &#xB0;C) at all times between the start and end of the soak.

6.2.4 Remove the test load and allow each of the test cloth bundles to drain over the water bath for a maximum of 5 seconds.

6.2.5 Manually place the test cloth bundles in the basket of the extractor, distributing them evenly by eye. The draining and loading process must take no longer than 1 minute. Spin the load at a fixed speed corresponding to the intended centripetal acceleration level (measured in units of the acceleration of gravity, g) +/- 1g for the intended time period +/- 5 seconds. Begin the timer when the extractor meets the required spin speed for each test.

6.2.6 Record the weight of the test load immediately after the completion of the extractor spin cycle (WC).

6.2.7 Calculate the remaining moisture content of the test load as (WC-WI)/WI.

6.2.8 Draining the soak tub is not necessary if the water bath is corrected for water level and temperature before the next extraction.

6.2.9 Drying the test load in between extraction runs is not necessary. However, the bone-dry weight must be checked after every 12 extraction runs to make sure the bone-dry weight is within tolerance (8.4 +/- 0.1 lbs). Following this, the test load must be soaked and extracted once before continuing with the remaining extraction runs. Perform this extraction at the same spin speed used for the extraction run prior to checking the bone-dry weight, for a time period of 4 minutes. Either warm or cold soak temperature may be used.
