
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix J3 to Subpart B of Part 430 - Energy Test Cloth Specifications and Procedures for Determining Correction Coefficients of New Energy Test Cloth Lots
####### Distribution of samples.

7.2.2Test loads must be comprised of cloth from three different rolls from the sample lot. Each roll from a lot must be marked in the run order that it was made. The three rolls are selected based on the run order such that the first, middle, and last rolls are used. As the rolls are cut into cloth, fabric must be selected from the beginning, middle, and end of the roll to create separate loads from each location, for a total of nine sample loads according to Table 7.2.2.

7.2.3 Measure the remaining moisture content of each of the nine sample test loads, as specified in section 6 of this appendix, using a centripetal acceleration of 350g (corresponding to 1111 +/- 1 RPM) and a spin duration of 15 minutes +/- 5 seconds.

7.2.4 Repeat section 7.2.3 of this appendix an additional two times and calculate the arithmetic average of the three RMC values to determine the average RMC value for each sample load. It is not necessary to dry the load to bone-dry the load before the second and third replications.

7.2.5 Calculate the coefficient of variation (CV) of the nine average RMC values from each sample load. The CV must be less than or equal to 1 percent for the test cloth lot to be considered acceptable and to perform the standard extractor RMC testing.
