
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix J3 to Subpart B of Part 430 - Energy Test Cloth Specifications and Procedures for Determining Correction Coefficients of New Energy Test Cloth Lots
####### Distribution of samples.

8.2Test loads must be comprised of randomly selected cloth at the beginning, middle and end of a lot. Two test loads may be used, with each load used for half of the total number of required tests. Separate test loads must be used from the loads used for uniformity verification.

8.3 Measure the remaining moisture content of the test load, as specified in section 6 of this appendix at five g-force levels: 100 g, 200 g, 350 g, 500 g, and 650 g, using two different spin times at each g level: 4 minutes and 15 minutes. Table 4.1 of this appendix provides the corresponding spin speeds for each g-force level.

8.4 Repeat section 8.3 of this appendix using soft (<17 ppm) water at 60 &#xB0;F +/- 5 &#xB0;F (15.6 &#xB0;C +/- 2.8 &#xB0;C).

8.5 Repeat sections 8.3.3 and 8.3.4 of this appendix an additional two times, so that three replications at each extractor condition are performed. When this procedure is performed in its entirety, a total of 60 extractor RMC test runs are required.

8.6 Average the values of the 3 replications performed for each extractor condition specified in section 8.3 of this appendix.

8.7 Perform a linear least-squares fit to determine coefficients A and B such that the standard RMC values shown in Table 8.7 of this appendix (RMC) are linearly related to the average RMC values calculated in section 8.6 of this appendix (RMC):

8.8 Perform an analysis of variance with replication test using two factors, spin speed and lot, to check the interaction of speed and lot. Use the values from section 8.6 of this appendix and Table 8.7 of this appendix in the calculation. The "P" value of the F-statistic for interaction between spin speed and lot in the variance analysis must be greater than or equal to 0.1. If the "P" value is less than 0.1, the test cloth is unacceptable. "P" is a theoretically based measure of interaction based on an analysis of variance.

9.1 Using the coefficients A and B calculated in section 8.7 of this appendix:

9.2 Apply this RMC correction curve to measured RMC values in appendix J and appendix J2 to this subpart.
