
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix M to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Central Air Conditioners and Heat Pumps
####### NGIFS,L,W,N,[object Object]

= 2 xxx&#xF7;(95)

&#x192;. If the outdoor unit or the outdoor portion of a single-package unit has a drain pan heater to prevent freezing of defrost water, the heater shall be energized, subject to control to de-energize it when not needed by the heater's thermostat or the unit's control system, for all tests.

g. If pressure measurement devices are connected to a cooling/heating heat pump refrigerant circuit, the refrigerant charge Mthat could potentially transfer out of the connected pressure measurement systems (transducers, gauges, connections, and lines) between operating modes must be less than 2 percent of the factory refrigerant charge listed on the nameplate of the outdoor unit. If the outdoor unit nameplate has no listed refrigerant charge, or the heat pump is shipped without a refrigerant charge, use a factory refrigerant charge equal to 30 ounces per ton of certified cooling capacity. Use Equation 2.2-1 to calculate Mfor heat pumps that have a single expansion device located in the outdoor unit to serve each indoor unit, and use Equation 2.2-2 to calculate Mfor heat pumps that have two expansion devices per indoor unit.

Calculate the internal volume of each pressure measurement system using internal volume reported for pressure transducers and gauges in product literature, if available. If such information is not available, use the value of 0.1 cubic inches internal volume for each pressure transducer, and 0.2 cubic inches for each pressure gauge.

In addition, for heat pumps that have a single expansion device located in the outdoor unit to serve each indoor unit, the internal volume of the pressure system at location 2 (as indicated in Table 2) must be no more than 1 cubic inch. Once the pressure measurement lines are set up, no change should be made until all tests are finished.

Set heat pump defrost controls at the normal settings which most typify those encountered in generalized climatic region IV. (Refer to Figure 1 and Table 20 of section 4.2 of this appendix for information on region IV.) For heat pumps that use a time-adaptive defrost control system (see section 1.2 of this appendix, Definitions), the manufacturer must specify in the certification report the frosting interval to be used during frost accumulation tests and provide the procedure for manually initiating the defrost at the specified time.

Configure the multiple-speed outdoor fan according to the installation manual included with the unit by the manufacturer, and thereafter, leave it unchanged for all tests. The controls of the unit must regulate the operation of the outdoor fan during all lab tests except dry coil cooling mode tests. For dry coil cooling mode tests, the outdoor fan must operate at the same speed used during the required wet coil test conducted at the same outdoor test conditions.

Because these systems will have more than one indoor blower and possibly multiple outdoor fans and compressor systems, references in this test procedure to a singular indoor blower, outdoor fan, and/or compressor means all indoor blowers, all outdoor fans, and all compressor systems that are energized during the test.
