
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix M to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Central Air Conditioners and Heat Pumps
####### i.e.,

b. In the event of conflicting information between charging instructions (multiple conditions given for charge adjustment where all conditions specified cannot be met), follow the following hierarchy.

(1) For fixed orifice systems:

(i) Superheat

(ii) High side pressure or corresponding saturation or dew-point temperature

(iii) Low side pressure or corresponding saturation or dew-point temperature

(iv) Low side temperature

(v) High side temperature

(vi) Charge weight

(2) For expansion valve systems:

(i) Subcooling

(ii) High side pressure or corresponding saturation or dew-point temperature

(iii) Low side pressure or corresponding saturation or dew-point temperature

(iv) Approach temperature (difference between temperature of liquid leaving condenser and condenser average inlet air temperature)

(v) Charge weight

c. If there are no installation instructions and/or they do not provide parameters and target values, set superheat to a target value of 12 &#xB0;F for fixed orifice systems or set subcooling to a target value of 10 &#xB0;F for expansion valve systems.

a. If the manufacturer's installation instructions specify tolerances on target values for the charging parameters, set the values within these tolerances.

b. Otherwise, set parameter values within the following test condition tolerances for the different charging parameters:

If, using the initial charge set in the A or Atest, the conditions are not within the range specified in manufacturer's installation instructions for the H1 or H1test, make as small as possible an adjustment to obtain conditions for this test in the specified range. After this adjustment, recheck conditions in the A or Atest to confirm that they are still within the specified range for the A or Atest.

Unless otherwise directed by the manufacturer's installation instructions, install one or more refrigerant line pressure gauges during the setup of the unit, located depending on the parameters used to verify or set charge, as described:

(1) Install a pressure gauge at the location of the service valve on the liquid line if charging is on the basis of subcooling, or high side pressure or corresponding saturation or dew point temperature;

(2) Install a pressure gauge at the location of the service valve on the suction line if charging is on the basis of superheat, or low side pressure or corresponding saturation or dew point temperature.

Use methods for installing pressure gauge(s) at the required location(s) as indicated in manufacturer's instructions if specified.

Perform charging of near-azeotropic and zeotropic refrigerants only with refrigerant in the liquid state.

After charging the system as described in this test procedure, use the set refrigerant charge for all tests used to determine performance. Do not adjust the refrigerant charge at any point during testing. If measurements indicate that refrigerant charge has leaked during the test, repair the refrigerant leak, repeat any necessary set-up steps, and repeat all tests.

If a unit's controls allow for overspeeding the indoor blower (usually on a temporary basis), take the necessary steps to prevent overspeeding during all tests.
