
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix M to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Central Air Conditioners and Heat Pumps
####### i.e.

b. For ducted units with constant-air-volume indoor blowers, conduct all tests that specify the cooling minimum air volume rate-(, the A, B, C, F, and GTests)-at an external static pressure that does not cause an automatic shutdown of the indoor blower or air volume rate variation Q, defined in section 3.1.4.1.1.b of this appendix, greater than 10 percent, while being as close to, but not less than the target minimum external static pressure. Additional test steps as described in section 3.3(e) of this appendix are required if the measured external static pressure exceeds the target value by more than 0.03 inches of water.

c. For ducted two-capacity coil-only systems, the cooling minimum air volume rate is the higher of (1) the rate specified by the installation instructions included with the unit by the manufacturer or (2) 75 percent of the cooling full-load air volume rate. During the laboratory tests on a coil-only (fanless) system, obtain this cooling minimum air volume rate regardless of the pressure drop across the indoor coil assembly.

d. For non-ducted units, the cooling minimum air volume rate is the air volume rate that results during each test when the unit operates at an external static pressure of zero inches of water and at the indoor blower setting used at low compressor capacity (two-capacity system) or minimum compressor speed (variable-speed system). For units having a single-speed compressor and a variable-speed variable-air-volume-rate indoor blower, use the lowest fan setting allowed for cooling.

e. For ducted systems having multiple indoor blowers within a single indoor section, operate the indoor blowers such that the lowest air volume rate allowed by the unit's controls is obtained when operating the lone single-speed compressor or when operating at low compressor capacity while meeting the requirements of section 2.2.3.b of this appendix for the minimum number of blowers that must be turned off. Using the target external static pressure and the certified air volume rates, follow the procedures described in section 3.1.4.2.a of this appendix if the indoor blowers are not constant-air-volume indoor blowers or as described in section 3.1.4.2.b of this appendix if the indoor blowers are constant-air-volume indoor blowers. The sum of the individual "on" indoor blowers' air volume rates is the cooling minimum air volume rate for the system.

Identify the certified cooling intermediate air volume rate and certified instructions for setting fan speed or controls. If there is no certified cooling intermediate air volume rate, use the final indoor blower control settings as determined when setting the cooling full load air volume rate, and readjust the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus if necessary to reset to the cooling full load air volume obtained in section 3.1.4.1 of this appendix. Otherwise, calculate target minimum external static pressure as described in section 3.1.4.2 of this appendix, and set the air volume rate as follows.

a. For a ducted blower coil system without a constant-air-volume indoor blower, adjust for external static pressure as described in section 3.1.4.2.a of this appendix for cooling minimum air volume rate.

b. For a ducted blower coil system with a constant-air-volume indoor blower, conduct the ETest at an external static pressure that does not cause an automatic shutdown of the indoor blower or air volume rate variation Q, defined in section 3.1.4.1.1.b of this appendix, greater than 10 percent, while being as close to, but not less than the target minimum external static pressure. Additional test steps as described in section 3.3(e) of this appendix are required if the measured external static pressure exceeds the target value by more than 0.03 inches of water.

c. For non-ducted units, the cooling intermediate air volume rate is the air volume rate that results when the unit operates at an external static pressure of zero inches of water and at the fan speed selected by the controls of the unit for the ETest conditions.

a. Use the Cooling full-load air volume rate as the heating full-load air volume rate for:

(1) Ducted blower coil system heat pumps that do not have a constant-air-volume indoor blower, and that operate at the same airflow-control setting during both the A (or A) and the H1 (or H1) Tests;

(2) Ducted blower coil system heat pumps with constant-air-flow indoor blowers that provide the same air flow for the A (or A) and the H1 (or H1) Tests; and

(3) Ducted heat pumps that are tested with a coil-only indoor unit (except two-capacity northern heat pumps that are tested only at low capacity cooling-see section 3.1.4.4.2 of this appendix).

b. For heat pumps that meet the above criteria "1" and "3," no minimum requirements apply to the measured external or internal, respectively, static pressure. Use the final indoor blower control settings as determined when setting the Cooling full-load air volume rate, and readjust the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus if necessary to reset to the cooling full-load air volume obtained in section 3.1.4.1 of this appendix. For heat pumps that meet the above criterion "2," test at an external static pressure that does not cause an automatic shutdown of the indoor blower or air volume rate variation Q, defined in section 3.1.4.1.1.b of this appendix, greater than 10 percent, while being as close to, but not less than, the same Table 4 minimum external static pressure as was specified for the A (or A) cooling mode test. Additional test steps as described in section 3.9.1(c) of this appendix are required if the measured external static pressure exceeds the target value by more than 0.03 inches of water.

Identify the certified heating full-load air volume rate and certified instructions for setting fan speed or controls. If there is no certified heating full-load air volume rate, use the final indoor blower control settings as determined when setting the cooling full-load air volume rate, and readjust the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus if necessary to reset to the cooling full load air volume obtained in section 3.1.4.1 of this appendix. Otherwise, calculate target minimum external static pressure as described in section 3.1.4.2 of this appendix and set the air volume rate as follows.

a. For ducted blower coil system heat pumps that do not have a constant-air-volume indoor blower, adjust for external static pressure as described in section 3.1.4.2.a of this appendix for cooling minimum air volume rate.

b. For ducted heat pumps tested with constant-air-volume indoor blowers installed, conduct all tests that specify the heating full-load air volume rate at an external static pressure that does not cause an automatic shutdown of the indoor blower or air volume rate variation Q, defined in section 3.1.4.1.1.b of this appendix, greater than 10 percent, while being as close to, but not less than the target minimum external static pressure. Additional test steps as described in section 3.9.1(c) of this appendix are required if the measured external static pressure exceeds the target value by more than 0.03 inches of water.

c. When testing ducted, two-capacity blower coil system northern heat pumps (see section 1.2 of this appendix, Definitions), use the appropriate approach of the above two cases. For coil-only system northern heat pumps, the heating full-load air volume rate is the lesser of the rate specified by the manufacturer in the installation instructions included with the unit or 133 percent of the cooling full-load air volume rate. For this latter case, obtain the heating full-load air volume rate regardless of the pressure drop across the indoor coil assembly.

d. For ducted systems having multiple indoor blowers within a single indoor section, obtain the heating full-load air volume rate using the same "on" indoor blowers as used for the Cooling full-load air volume rate. Using the target external static pressure and the certified air volume rates, follow the procedures as described in section 3.1.4.4.2.a of this appendix if the indoor blowers are not constant-air-volume indoor blowers or as described in section 3.1.4.4.2.b of this appendix if the indoor blowers are constant-air-volume indoor blowers. The sum of the individual "on" indoor blowers' air volume rates is the heating full load air volume rate for the system.

Identify the certified heating full-load air volume rate and certified instructions for setting fan speed or controls. If there is no certified heating full-load air volume rate, use a value equal to the certified heating capacity of the unit times 400 scfm per 12,000 Btu/h. If there are no instructions for setting fan speed or controls, use the as-shipped settings.

a. For all ducted heating-only blower coil system heat pumps, except those having a constant-air-volume-rate indoor blower. Conduct the following steps only during the first test, the H1 or H1Test:

Step (1) Adjust the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus to achieve the certified heating full-load air volume rate.

Step (2) Measure the external static pressure.

Step (3) If this pressure is equal to or greater than the Table 4 minimum external static pressure that applies given the heating-only heat pump's rated heating capacity, the pressure requirement is satisfied; proceed to step 7 of this section. If this pressure is not equal to or greater than the applicable Table 4 minimum external static pressure, proceed to step 4 of this section;

Step (4) Increase the external static pressure by adjusting the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus until either (i) the pressure is equal to the applicable Table 4 minimum external static pressure or (ii) the measured air volume rate equals 90 percent or less of the heating full-load air volume rate, whichever occurs first;

Step (5) If the conditions of step 4(i) of this section occur first, the pressure requirement is satisfied; proceed to step 7 of this section. If the conditions of step 4(ii) of this section occur first, proceed to step 6 of this section;
