
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix M to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Central Air Conditioners and Heat Pumps
####### i.e.,

b. For ducted heat pumps tested with constant-air-volume indoor blowers installed, conduct all tests that specify the heating minimum air volume rate-(the H0, H1, H2, and H3Tests)-at an external static pressure that does not cause an automatic shutdown of the indoor blower while being as close to, but not less than the air volume rate variation Q, defined in section 3.1.4.1.1.b of this appendix, greater than 10 percent, while being as close to, but not less than the target minimum external static pressure. Additional test steps as described in section 3.9.1.c of this appendix are required if the measured external static pressure exceeds the target value by more than 0.03 inches of water.

c. For ducted two-capacity blower coil system northern heat pumps, use the appropriate approach of the above two cases.

d. For ducted two-capacity coil-only system heat pumps, use the cooling minimum air volume rate as the heating minimum air volume rate. For ducted two-capacity coil-only system northern heat pumps, use the cooling full-load air volume rate as the heating minimum air volume rate. For ducted two-capacity heating-only coil-only system heat pumps, the heating minimum air volume rate is the higher of the rate specified by the manufacturer in the test setup instructions included with the unit or 75 percent of the heating full-load air volume rate. During the laboratory tests on a coil-only system, obtain the heating minimum air volume rate without regard to the pressure drop across the indoor coil assembly.

e. For non-ducted heat pumps, the heating minimum air volume rate is the air volume rate that results during each test when the unit operates at an external static pressure of zero inches of water and at the indoor blower setting used at low compressor capacity (two-capacity system) or minimum compressor speed (variable-speed system). For units having a single-speed compressor and a variable-speed, variable-air-volume-rate indoor blower, use the lowest fan setting allowed for heating.

f. For ducted systems with multiple indoor blowers within a single indoor section, obtain the heating minimum air volume rate using the same "on" indoor blowers as used for the cooling minimum air volume rate. Using the target external static pressure and the certified air volume rates, follow the procedures as described in section 3.1.4.5.2.a of this appendix if the indoor blowers are not constant-air-volume indoor blowers or as described in section 3.1.4.5.2.b of this appendix if the indoor blowers are constant-air-volume indoor blowers. The sum of the individual "on" indoor blowers' air volume rates is the heating full-load air volume rate for the system.

Identify the certified heating intermediate air volume rate and certified instructions for setting fan speed or controls. If there is no certified heating intermediate air volume rate, use the final indoor blower control settings as determined when setting the heating full-load air volume rate, and readjust the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus if necessary to reset to the cooling full load air volume obtained in section 3.1.4.2 of this appendix. Calculate the target minimum external static pressure as described in section 3.1.4.2 of this appendix.

a. For ducted blower coil system heat pumps that do not have a constant-air-volume indoor blower, adjust for external static pressure as described in section 3.1.4.2.a of this appendix for cooling minimum air volume rate.

b. For ducted heat pumps tested with constant-air-volume indoor blowers installed, conduct the H2Test at an external static pressure that does not cause an automatic shutdown of the indoor blower or air volume rate variation Q, defined in section 3.1.4.1.1.b of this appendix, greater than 10 percent, while being as close to, but not less than the target minimum external static pressure. Additional test steps as described in section 3.9.1(c) of this appendix are required if the measured external static pressure exceeds the target value by more than 0.03 inches of water.

c. For non-ducted heat pumps, the heating intermediate air volume rate is the air volume rate that results when the heat pump operates at an external static pressure of zero inches of water and at the fan speed selected by the controls of the unit for the H2Test conditions.

The manufacturer must specify the heating nominal air volume rate and the instructions for setting fan speed or controls. Calculate target minimum external static pressure as described in section 3.1.4.2 of this appendix. Make adjustments as described in section 3.1.4.6 of this appendix for heating intermediate air volume rate so that the target minimum external static pressure is met or exceeded.

If using a test set-up where air is ducted directly from the air reconditioning apparatus to the indoor coil inlet (see Figure 2, Loop Air-Enthalpy Test Method Arrangement, of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 430.3)), maintain the dry bulb temperature within the test room within +/-5.0 &#xB0;F of the applicable sections 3.2 and 3.6 dry bulb temperature test condition for the air entering the indoor unit. Dew point shall be within 2 &#xB0;F of the required inlet conditions.

For all steady-state tests and for frost accumulation (H2, H2, H2, H2) tests, calculate the air volume rate through the indoor coil as specified in sections 7.7.2.1 and 7.7.2.2 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009. When using the outdoor air enthalpy method, follow sections 7.7.2.1 and 7.7.2.2 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 to calculate the air volume rate through the outdoor coil. To express air volume rates in terms of standard air, use:

Before making test measurements used to calculate performance, operate the equipment for the "break-in" period specified in the certification report, which may not exceed 20 hours. Each compressor of the unit must undergo this "break-in" period. When testing a ducted unit (except if a heating-only heat pump), conduct the A or ATest first to establish the cooling full-load air volume rate. For ducted heat pumps where the heating and cooling full-load air volume rates are different, make the first heating mode test one that requires the heating full-load air volume rate. For ducted heating-only heat pumps, conduct the H1 or H1Test first to establish the heating full-load air volume rate. When conducting a cyclic test, always conduct it immediately after the steady-state test that requires the same test conditions. For variable-speed systems, the first test using the cooling minimum air volume rate should precede the ETest, and the first test using the heating minimum air volume rate must precede the H2Test. The test laboratory makes all other decisions on the test sequence.

For at least the first cooling mode test and the first heating mode test, monitor the temperature distribution of the air leaving the indoor coil using the grid of individual sensors described in sections 2.5 and 2.5.4 of this appendix. For the 30-minute data collection interval used to determine capacity, the maximum spread among the outlet dry bulb temperatures from any data sampling must not exceed 1.5 &#xB0;F. Install the mixing devices described in section 2.5.4.2 of this appendix to minimize the temperature spread.

Monitor the temperatures of the air entering the outdoor coil using air sampling devices and/or temperature sensor grids, maintaining the required tolerances, if applicable, as described in section 2.11 of this appendix.

Except as noted, disable heat pump resistance elements used for heating indoor air at all times, including during defrost cycles and if they are normally regulated by a heat comfort controller. For heat pumps equipped with a heat comfort controller, enable the heat pump resistance elements only during the below-described, short test. For single-speed heat pumps covered under section 3.6.1 of this appendix, the short test follows the H1 or, if conducted, the H1C Test. For two-capacity heat pumps and heat pumps covered under section 3.6.2 of this appendix, the short test follows the H1Test. Set the heat comfort controller to provide the maximum supply air temperature. With the heat pump operating and while maintaining the heating full-load air volume rate, measure the temperature of the air leaving the indoor-side beginning 5 minutes after activating the heat comfort controller. Sample the outlet dry-bulb temperature at regular intervals that span 5 minutes or less. Collect data for 10 minutes, obtaining at least 3 samples. Calculate the average outlet temperature over the 10-minute interval, T

This set of tests is for single-speed-compressor units that do not have a cooling minimum air volume rate or a cooling intermediate air volume rate that is different than the cooling full load air volume rate. Conduct two steady-state wet coil tests, the A and B Tests. Use the two optional dry-coil tests, the steady-state C Test and the cyclic D Test, to determine the cooling mode cyclic degradation coefficient, C. If the two optional tests are conducted but yield a tested Cthat exceeds the default Cor if the two optional tests are not conducted, assign Cthe default value of 0.25 (for outdoor units with no match) or 0.20 (for all other systems). Table 5 specifies test conditions for these four tests.

Conduct four steady-state wet coil tests: The A, A, B, and Btests. Use the two optional dry-coil tests, the steady-state Ctest and the cyclic Dtest, to determine the cooling mode cyclic degradation coefficient, C. If the two optional tests are conducted but yield a tested Cc that exceeds the default Cc or if the two optional tests are not conducted, assign Cc the default value of 0.20.

The testing requirements are the same as specified in section 3.2.1 of this appendix and Table 5. Use a cooling full-load air volume rate that represents a normal installation. If performed, conduct the steady-state C Test and the cyclic D Test with the unit operating in the same S/T capacity control mode as used for the B Test.

a. Conduct four steady-state wet coil tests: the A, B, B, and FTests. Use the two optional dry-coil tests, the steady-state CTest and the cyclic DTest, to determine the cooling-mode cyclic-degradation coefficient, C. If the two optional tests are conducted but yield a tested Cc that exceeds the default Cc or if the two optional tests are not conducted, assign Cc the default value of 0.20. Table 6 specifies test conditions for these six tests.

b. For units having a variable speed indoor blower that is modulated to adjust the sensible to total (S/T) cooling capacity ratio, use cooling full-load and cooling minimum air volume rates that represent a normal installation. Additionally, if conducting the dry-coil tests, operate the unit in the same S/T capacity control mode as used for the BTest.

c. Test two-capacity, northern heat pumps (see section 1.2 of this appendix, Definitions) in the same way as a single speed heat pump with the unit operating exclusively at low compressor capacity (see section 3.2.1 of this appendix and Table 5).

d. If a two-capacity air conditioner or heat pump locks out low-capacity operation at higher outdoor temperatures, then use the two dry-coil tests, the steady-state CTest and the cyclic DTest, to determine the cooling-mode cyclic-degradation coefficient that only applies to on/off cycling from high capacity, C(k=2). If the two optional tests are conducted but yield a tested CD(k = 2) that exceeds the default CD(k = 2) or if the two optional tests are not conducted, assign CD(k = 2) the default value. The default C(k=2) is the same value as determined or assigned for the low-capacity cyclic-degradation coefficient, C[or equivalently, C(k=1)].

a. Conduct five steady-state wet coil tests: The A, E, B, B, and FTests. Use the two optional dry-coil tests, the steady-state GTest and the cyclic ITest, to determine the cooling mode cyclic degradation coefficient, C. If the two optional tests are conducted but yield a tested Cc that exceeds the default Cc or if the two optional tests are not conducted, assign Cc the default value of 0.25. Table 8 specifies test conditions for these seven tests. The compressor shall operate at the same cooling full speed, measured by RPM or power input frequency (Hz), for both the Aand Btests. The compressor shall operate at the same cooling minimum speed, measured by RPM or power input frequency (Hz), for the B, F, G, and Itests. Determine the cooling intermediate compressor speed cited in Table 8 using:

b. For units that modulate the indoor blower speed to adjust the sensible to total (S/T) cooling capacity ratio, use cooling full-load, cooling intermediate, and cooling minimum air volume rates that represent a normal installation. Additionally, if conducting the dry-coil tests, operate the unit in the same S/T capacity control mode as used for the FTest.

c. For multiple-split air conditioners and heat pumps (except where noted), the following procedures supersede the above requirements: For all Table 8 tests specified for a minimum compressor speed, at least one indoor unit must be turned off. The manufacturer shall designate the particular indoor unit(s) that is turned off. The manufacturer must also specify the compressor speed used for the Table 8 ETest, a cooling-mode intermediate compressor speed that falls withinandof the difference between the full and minimum cooling-mode speeds. The manufacturer should prescribe an intermediate speed that is expected to yield the highest EER for the given ETest conditions and bracketed compressor speed range. The manufacturer can designate that one or more indoor units are turned off for the ETest.

Test triple-capacity, northern heat pumps for the cooling mode in the same way as specified in section 3.2.3 of this appendix for units having a two-capacity compressor.

Conduct the cooling mode tests specified in section 3.2.3 of this appendix.

a. For the pretest interval, operate the test room reconditioning apparatus and the unit to be tested until maintaining equilibrium conditions for at least 30 minutes at the specified section 3.2 test conditions. Use the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus and, if installed, the indoor blower of the test unit to obtain and then maintain the indoor air volume rate and/or external static pressure specified for the particular test. Continuously record (see section 1.2 of this appendix, Definitions):

(1) The dry-bulb temperature of the air entering the indoor coil,

(2) The water vapor content of the air entering the indoor coil,

(3) The dry-bulb temperature of the air entering the outdoor coil, and

(4) For the section 2.2.4 of this appendix cases where its control is required, the water vapor content of the air entering the outdoor coil.

Refer to section 3.11 of this appendix for additional requirements that depend on the selected secondary test method.
