
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix M to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Central Air Conditioners and Heat Pumps
####### e.g.

c. Calculate indoor-side total cooling capacity and sensible cooling capacity as specified in sections 7.3.3.1 and 7.3.3.3 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3). To calculate capacity, use the averages of the measurements (inlet and outlet dry bulb and wet bulb temperatures measured at the psychrometers) that are continuously recorded for the same 30-minute interval used as described above to evaluate compliance with test tolerances. Do not adjust the parameters used in calculating capacity for the permitted variations in test conditions. Evaluate air enthalpies based on the measured barometric pressure. Use the values of the specific heat of air given in section 7.3.3.1 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3) for calculation of the sensible cooling capacities. Assign the average total space cooling capacity, average sensible cooling capacity, and electrical power consumption over the 30-minute data collection interval to the variables Q(T), Q(T) and E(T), respectively. For these three variables, replace the "T" with the nominal outdoor temperature at which the test was conducted. The superscript k is used only when testing multi-capacity units.

Use the superscript k=2 to denote a test with the unit operating at high capacity or full speed, k=1 to denote low capacity or minimum speed, and k=v to denote the intermediate speed.

d. For coil-only system tests, decrease Q(T) by

and increase E(T) by,

e. For air conditioners and heat pumps having a constant-air-volume-rate indoor blower, the five additional steps listed below are required if the average of the measured external static pressures exceeds the applicable sections 3.1.4 minimum (or target) external static pressure (ΔP) by 0.03 inches of water or more.

(1) Measure the average power consumption of the indoor blower motor (E) and record the corresponding external static pressure (ΔP) during or immediately following the 30-minute interval used for determining capacity.

(2) After completing the 30-minute interval and while maintaining the same test conditions, adjust the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus until the external static pressure increases to approximately ΔP+ (ΔP-ΔP).

(3) After re-establishing steady readings of the fan motor power and external static pressure, determine average values for the indoor blower power (E) and the external static pressure (ΔP) by making measurements over a 5-minute interval.

(4) Approximate the average power consumption of the indoor blower motor at ΔPusing linear extrapolation:

(5) Increase the total space cooling capacity, Q(T), by the quantity (E-E), when expressed on a Btu/h basis. Decrease the total electrical power, E(T), by the same fan power difference, now expressed in watts.

a. Except for the modifications noted in this section, conduct the steady-state dry coil cooling mode tests as specified in section 3.3 of this appendix for wet coil tests. Prior to recording data during the steady-state dry coil test, operate the unit at least one hour after achieving dry coil conditions. Drain the drain pan and plug the drain opening. Thereafter, the drain pan should remain completely dry.
