
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix M to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Central Air Conditioners and Heat Pumps
####### i.e.,

Use the two dry-coil tests to determine the cooling-mode cyclic-degradation coefficient, C. Append "(k=2)" to the coefficient if it corresponds to a two-capacity unit cycling at high capacity. If the two optional tests are conducted but yield a tested CDthat exceeds the default CDor if the two optional tests are not conducted, assign CDthe default value of 0.25 for variable-speed compressor systems and outdoor units with no match, and 0.20 for all other systems. The default value for two-capacity units cycling at high capacity, however, is the low-capacity coefficient,C(k=2) = C. Evaluate Cusing the above results and those from the section 3.4 dry-coil steady-state test.

This set of tests is for single-speed-compressor heat pumps that do not have a heating minimum air volume rate or a heating intermediate air volume rate that is different than the heating full load air volume rate. Conduct the optional high temperature cyclic (H1C) test to determine the heating mode cyclic-degradation coefficient, C. If this optional test is conducted but yields a tested Cthat exceeds the default Cor if the optional test is not conducted, assign Cthe default value of 0.25. Test conditions for the four tests are specified in Table 10.

Conduct five tests: Two high temperature tests (H1and H1), one frost accumulation test (H2), and two low temperature tests (H3and H3). Conducting an additional frost accumulation test (H2) is optional. Conduct the optional high temperature cyclic (H1C) test to determine the heating mode cyclic-degradation coefficient, C. If this optional test is conducted but yields a tested Cthat exceeds the default Cor if the optional test is not conducted, assign Cthe default value of 0.25. Test conditions for the seven tests are specified in Table 12. If the optional H2test is not performed, use the following equations to approximate the capacity and electrical power of the heat pump at the H2test conditions:

The quantities Q(47), E(47), Q(47), and E(47) are determined from the H1and H1tests and evaluated as specified in section 3.7 of this appendix; the quantities Q(35) and E(35) are determined from the H2test and evaluated as specified in section 3.9 of this appendix; and the quantities Q(17), E(17), Q(17), and E(17), are determined from the H3and H3tests and evaluated as specified in section 3.10 of this appendix.

a. Conduct one maximum temperature test (H0), two high temperature tests (H1and H1), one frost accumulation test (H2), and one low temperature test (H3). Conduct an additional frost accumulation test (H2) and low temperature test (H3) if both of the following conditions exist:

(1) Knowledge of the heat pump's capacity and electrical power at low compressor capacity for outdoor temperatures of 37 &#xB0;F and less is needed to complete the section 4.2.3 of this appendix seasonal performance calculations; and

(2) The heat pump's controls allow low-capacity operation at outdoor temperatures of 37 &#xB0;F and less.

If the above two conditions are met, an alternative to conducting the H2frost accumulation is to use the following equations to approximate the capacity and electrical power:

Determine the quantities Q(47) and E(47) from the H1test and evaluate them according to section 3.7 of this appendix. Determine the quantities Q(17) and E(17) from the H3test and evaluate them according to section 3.10 of this appendix.

b. Conduct the optional high temperature cyclic test (H1C) to determine the heating mode cyclic-degradation coefficient, C. If this optional test is conducted but yields a tested Cthat exceeds the default Cor if the optional test is not conducted, assign Cthe default value of 0.25. If a two-capacity heat pump locks out low capacity operation at lower outdoor temperatures, conduct the high temperature cyclic test (H1C) to determine the high-capacity heating mode cyclic-degradation coefficient, C(k=2). If this optional test at high capacity is conducted but yields a tested C(k = 2) that exceeds the default C(k = 2) or if the optional test is not conducted, assign Cthe default value. The default C(k=2) is the same value as determined or assigned for the low-capacity cyclic-degradation coefficient, C[or equivalently, C(k=1)]. Table 13 specifies test conditions for these nine tests.

a. Conduct one maximum temperature test (H0), two high temperature tests (H1and H1), one frost accumulation test (H2), and one low temperature test (H3). Conducting one or both of the following tests is optional: An additional high temperature test (H1) and an additional frost accumulation test (H2). If desired, conduct the optional maximum temperature cyclic (H0C) test to determine the heating mode cyclic-degradation coefficient, C. If this optional test is conducted but yields a tested Cthat exceeds the default Cor if the optional test is not conducted, assign Cthe default value of 0.25. Test conditions for the eight tests are specified in Table 14 to this appendix. The compressor shall operate at the same heating full speed, measured by RPM or power input frequency (Hz), for the H1, H2and H3tests. For a cooling/heating heat pump, the compressor shall operate for the H1test at a speed, measured by RPM or power input frequency (Hz), no lower than the speed used in the Atest if the tested H1heating capacity is less than the tested Acooling capacity. The compressor shall operate at the same heating minimum speed, measured by RPM or power input frequency (Hz), for the H0, H1C, and H1tests. Determine the heating intermediate compressor speed cited in Table 14 using the heating mode full and minimum compressors speeds and:

b. If the H1test is conducted, set the 47 &#xB0;F capacity and power input values used for calculation of HSPF equal to the measured values for that test:

Q(47) and E(47) are the capacity and power input representing full-speed operation at 47 &#xB0;F for the HSPF calculations,

Q(47) is the capacity measured in the H1test, and

E(47) is the power input measured in the H1test.

Evaluate the quantities Q(47) and from E(47) according to section 3.7.

Otherwise, if the H1test is conducted using the same compressor speed (RPM or power input frequency) as the H3test, set the 47 &#xB0;F capacity and power input values used for calculation of HSPF equal to the measured values for that test:

Evaluate the quantities Q(47) and from E(47) according to section 3.7.

Otherwise (if no high temperature test is conducted using the same speed (RPM or power input frequency) as the H3test), calculate the 47 &#xB0;F capacity and power input values used for calculation of HSPF as follows:

c. If the H2test is not done, use the following equations to approximate the capacity and electrical power at the H2test conditions:

d. Determine the quantities Q(17) and E(17) from the H3test, determine the quantities Q(5) and E(5) from the H4test, and evaluate all four according to section 3.10.

Test any heat pump that has a heat comfort controller (see section 1.2 of this appendix, Definitions) according to section 3.6.1, 3.6.2, or 3.6.3, whichever applies, with the heat comfort controller disabled. Additionally, conduct the abbreviated test described in section 3.1.10 of this appendix with the heat comfort controller active to determine the system's maximum supply air temperature. (Heat pumps having a variable speed compressor and a heat comfort controller are not covered in the test procedure at this time.)

Test triple-capacity, northern heat pumps for the heating mode as follows:

a. Conduct one maximum-temperature test (H0), two high-temperature tests (H1and H1), one frost accumulation test (H2), two low-temperature tests (H3, H3), and one minimum-temperature test (H4). Conduct an additional frost accumulation test (H2) and low-temperature test (H3) if both of the following conditions exist: (1) Knowledge of the heat pump's capacity and electrical power at low compressor capacity for outdoor temperatures of 37 &#xB0;F and less is needed to complete the section 4.2.6 seasonal performance calculations; and (2) the heat pump's controls allow low-capacity operation at outdoor temperatures of 37 &#xB0;F and less. If the above two conditions are met, an alternative to conducting the H2frost accumulation test to determine Q(35) and E(35) is to use the following equations to approximate this capacity and electrical power:

In evaluating the above equations, determine the quantities Q(47) from the H1test and evaluate them according to section 3.7 of this appendix. Determine the quantities Q(17) and E(17) from the H3test and evaluate them according to section 3.10 of this appendix. Use the paired values of Q(35) and E(35) derived from conducting the H2frost accumulation test and evaluated as specified in section 3.9.1 of this appendix or use the paired values calculated using the above default equations, whichever contribute to a higher Region IV HSPF based on the DHRmin.

b. Conducting a frost accumulation test (H2) with the heat pump operating at its booster capacity is optional. If this optional test is not conducted, determine Q(35) and E(35) using the following equations to approximate this capacity and electrical power:

Determine the quantities Q(47) and E(47) from the H1test and evaluate them according to section 3.7 of this appendix. Determine the quantities Q(35) and E(35) from the H2test and evaluate them according to section 3.9.1 of this appendix. Determine the quantities Q(17) and E(17) from the H3test, determine the quantities Q(17) and E(17) from the H3test, and determine the quantities Q(5) and E(5) from the H4test. Evaluate all six quantities according to section 3.10 of this appendix. Use the paired values of Q(35) and E(35) derived from conducting the H2frost accumulation test and calculated as specified in section 3.9.1 of this appendix or use the paired values calculated using the above default equations, whichever contribute to a higher Region IV HSPF based on the DHRmin.

c. Conduct the optional high-temperature cyclic test (H1C) to determine the heating mode cyclic-degradation coefficient, C. A default value for Cmay be used in lieu of conducting the cyclic. The default value of Cis 0.25. If a triple-capacity heat pump locks out low capacity operation at lower outdoor temperatures, conduct the high-temperature cyclic test (H1C) to determine the high-capacity heating mode cyclic-degradation coefficient, C(k=2). The default C(k=2) is the same value as determined or assigned for the low-capacity cyclic-degradation coefficient, C[or equivalently, C(k=1)]. Finally, if a triple-capacity heat pump locks out both low and high capacity operation at the lowest outdoor temperatures, conduct the low-temperature cyclic test (H3C) to determine the booster-capacity heating mode cyclic-degradation coefficient, C(k=3). The default C(k=3) is the same value as determined or assigned for the high-capacity cyclic-degradation coefficient, C[or equivalently, C(k=2)]. Table 15 specifies test conditions for all 13 tests.

Conduct the heating mode tests specified in section 3.6.3 of this appendix.
