
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix M to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Central Air Conditioners and Heat Pumps
####### e.g.

b. Calculate indoor-side total heating capacity as specified in sections 7.3.4.1 and 7.3.4.3 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3). To calculate capacity, use the averages of the measurements (inlet and outlet dry bulb temperatures measured at the psychrometers) that are continuously recorded for the same 30-minute interval used as described above to evaluate compliance with test tolerances. Do not adjust the parameters used in calculating capacity for the permitted variations in test conditions. Assign the average space heating capacity and electrical power over the 30-minute data collection interval to the variables Qand E(T) respectively. The "T" and superscripted "k" are the same as described in section 3.3 of this appendix. Additionally, for the heating mode, use the superscript to denote results from the optional H1test, if conducted.

c. For coil-only system heat pumps, increase Q(T) by

d. If conducting the cyclic heating mode test, which is described in section 3.8 of this appendix, record the average indoor-side air volume rate, V, specific heat of the air, C(expressed on dry air basis), specific volume of the air at the nozzles, v&#x2032; (or v), humidity ratio at the nozzles, W, and either pressure difference or velocity pressure for the flow nozzles. If either or both of the below criteria apply, determine the average, steady-state, electrical power consumption of the indoor blower motor (E):

(1) The section 3.8 cyclic test will be conducted and the heat pump has a variable-speed indoor blower that is expected to be disabled during the cyclic test; or

(2) The heat pump has a (variable-speed) constant-air volume-rate indoor blower and during the steady-state test the average external static pressure (ΔP) exceeds the applicable section 3.1.4.4 minimum (or targeted) external static pressure (ΔP) by 0.03 inches of water or more.

Determine Eby making measurements during the 30-minute data collection interval, or immediately following the test and prior to changing the test conditions. When the above "2" criteria applies, conduct the following four steps after determining E(which corresponds to ΔP):

(i) While maintaining the same test conditions, adjust the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus until the external static pressure increases to approximately ΔP+ (ΔP- ΔP).

(ii) After re-establishing steady readings for fan motor power and external static pressure, determine average values for the indoor blower power (E) and the external static pressure (ΔP) by making measurements over a 5-minute interval.

(iii) Approximate the average power consumption of the indoor blower motor if the 30-minute test had been conducted at ΔPusing linear extrapolation:

(iv) Decrease the total space heating capacity, Q(T), by the quantity (E- E), when expressed on a Btu/h basis. Decrease the total electrical power, E(T) by the same fan power difference, now expressed in watts.

e. If the temperature sensors used to provide the primary measurement of the indoor-side dry bulb temperature difference during the steady-state dry-coil test and the subsequent cyclic dry-coil test are different, include measurements of the latter sensors among the regularly sampled data. Beginning at the start of the 30-minute data collection period, measure and compute the indoor-side air dry-bulb temperature difference using both sets of instrumentation, ΔT (Set SS) and ΔT (Set CYC), for each equally spaced data sample. If using a consistent data sampling rate that is less than 1 minute, calculate and record minutely averages for the two temperature differences. If using a consistent sampling rate of one minute or more, calculate and record the two temperature differences from each data sample. After having recorded the seventh (i=7) set of temperature differences, calculate the following ratio using the first seven sets of values:

a. Except as noted below, conduct the cyclic heating mode test as specified in section 3.5 of this appendix. As adapted to the heating mode, replace section 3.5 references to "the steady-state dry coil test" with "the heating mode steady-state test conducted at the same test conditions as the cyclic heating mode test." Use the test tolerances in Table 17 rather than Table 10. Record the outdoor coil entering wet-bulb temperature according to the requirements given in section 3.5 of this appendix for the outdoor coil entering dry-bulb temperature. Drop the subscript "dry" used in variables cited in section 3.5 of this appendix when referring to quantities from the cyclic heating mode test. Determine the total space heating delivered during the cyclic heating test, q, as specified in section 3.5 of this appendix except for making the following changes:

(1) When evaluating Equation 3.5-1, use the values of V, C,v&#x2032;, (or v), and Wthat were recorded during the section 3.7 steady-state test conducted at the same test conditions.

(2) Calculate &#x393; using

b. For ducted coil-only system heat pumps (excluding the special case where a variable-speed fan is temporarily removed), increase qby the amount calculated using Equation 3.5-3. Additionally, increase eby the amount calculated using Equation 3.5-2. In making these calculations, use the average indoor air volume rate (V) determined from the section 3.7 steady-state heating mode test conducted at the same test conditions.

c. For non-ducted heat pumps, subtract the electrical energy used by the indoor blower during the 3 minutes after compressor cutoff from the non-ducted heat pump's integrated heating capacity, q.

d. If a heat pump defrost cycle is manually or automatically initiated immediately prior to or during the OFF/ON cycling, operate the heat pump continuously until 10 minutes after defrost termination. After that, begin cycling the heat pump immediately or delay until the specified test conditions have been re-established. Pay attention to preventing defrosts after beginning the cycling process. For heat pumps that cycle off the indoor blower during a defrost cycle, make no effort here to restrict the air movement through the indoor coil while the fan is off. Resume the OFF/ON cycling while conducting a minimum of two complete compressor OFF/ON cycles before determining qand e.
