
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix M to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Central Air Conditioners and Heat Pumps
####### i.e.,

Use the results from the required cyclic test and the required steady-state test that were conducted at the same test conditions to determine the heating mode cyclic-degradation coefficient C. Add "(k=2)" to the coefficient if it corresponds to a two-capacity unit cycling at high capacity. For the below calculation of the heating mode cyclic degradation coefficient, do not include the duct loss correction from section 7.3.3.3 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3) in determining Q(T) (or q). If the optional cyclic test is conducted but yields a tested Cthat exceeds the default Cor if the optional test is not conducted, assign Cthe default value of 0.25. The default value for two-capacity units cycling at high capacity, however, is the low-capacity coefficient,C(k=2) = C. The tested Cis calculated as follows:

Round the calculated value for Cto the nearest 0.01. If Cis negative, then set it equal to zero.

a. Confirm that the defrost controls of the heat pump are set as specified in section 2.2.1 of this appendix. Operate the test room reconditioning apparatus and the heat pump for at least 30 minutes at the specified section 3.6 test conditions before starting the "preliminary" test period. The preliminary test period must immediately precede the "official" test period, which is the heating and defrost interval over which data are collected for evaluating average space heating capacity and average electrical power consumption.

b. For heat pumps containing defrost controls which are likely to cause defrosts at intervals less than one hour, the preliminary test period starts at the termination of an automatic defrost cycle and ends at the termination of the next occurring automatic defrost cycle. For heat pumps containing defrost controls which are likely to cause defrosts at intervals exceeding one hour, the preliminary test period must consist of a heating interval lasting at least one hour followed by a defrost cycle that is either manually or automatically initiated. In all cases, the heat pump's own controls must govern when a defrost cycle terminates.

c. The official test period begins when the preliminary test period ends, at defrost termination. The official test period ends at the termination of the next occurring automatic defrost cycle. When testing a heat pump that uses a time-adaptive defrost control system (see section 1.2 of this appendix, Definitions), however, manually initiate the defrost cycle that ends the official test period at the instant indicated by instructions provided by the manufacturer. If the heat pump has not undergone a defrost after 6 hours, immediately conclude the test and use the results from the full 6-hour period to calculate the average space heating capacity and average electrical power consumption.

For heat pumps that turn the indoor blower off during the defrost cycle, take steps to cease forced airflow through the indoor coil and block the outlet duct whenever the heat pump's controls cycle off the indoor blower. If it is installed, use the outlet damper box described in section 2.5.4.1 of this appendix to affect the blocked outlet duct.

d. Defrost termination occurs when the controls of the heat pump actuate the first change in converting from defrost operation to normal heating operation. Defrost initiation occurs when the controls of the heat pump first alter its normal heating operation in order to eliminate possible accumulations of frost on the outdoor coil.

e. To constitute a valid frost accumulation test, satisfy the test tolerances specified in Table 18 during both the preliminary and official test periods. As noted in Table 18, test operating tolerances are specified for two sub-intervals:

(1) When heating, except for the first 10 minutes after the termination of a defrost cycle (sub-interval H, as described in Table 18) and

(2) When defrosting, plus these same first 10 minutes after defrost termination (sub-interval D, as described in Table 18). Evaluate compliance with Table 18 test condition tolerances and the majority of the test operating tolerances using the averages from measurements recorded only during sub-interval H. Continuously record the dry bulb temperature of the air entering the indoor coil, and the dry bulb temperature and water vapor content of the air entering the outdoor coil. Sample the remaining parameters listed in Table 18 at equal intervals that span 5 minutes or less.

f. For the official test period, collect and use the following data to calculate average space heating capacity and electrical power. During heating and defrosting intervals when the controls of the heat pump have the indoor blower on, continuously record the dry-bulb temperature of the air entering (as noted above) and leaving the indoor coil. If using a thermopile, continuously record the difference between the leaving and entering dry-bulb temperatures during the interval(s) that air flows through the indoor coil. For coil-only system heat pumps, determine the corresponding cumulative time (in hours) of indoor coil airflow, ΔθSample measurements used in calculating the air volume rate (refer to sections 7.7.2.1 and 7.7.2.2 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009) at equal intervals that span 10 minutes or less. (In the first printing of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009, the second IP equation for Qshould read:) Record the electrical energy consumed, expressed in watt-hours, from defrost termination to defrost termination, e(35), as well as the corresponding elapsed time in hours, Δθ

a. Evaluate average space heating capacity, Q(35), when expressed in units of Btu per hour, using:

To account for the effect of duct losses between the outlet of the indoor unit and the section 2.5.4 dry-bulb temperature grid, adjust Q(35) in accordance with section 7.3.4.3 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3).

b. Evaluate average electrical power, E(35), when expressed in units of watts, using:

For coil-only system heat pumps, increase Q(35) by,

c. For heat pumps having a constant-air-volume-rate indoor blower, the five additional steps listed below are required if the average of the external static pressures measured during sub-interval H exceeds the applicable section 3.1.4.4, 3.1.4.5, or 3.1.4.6 minimum (or targeted) external static pressure (ΔP) by 0.03 inches of water or more:

(1) Measure the average power consumption of the indoor blower motor (E) and record the corresponding external static pressure (ΔP) during or immediately following the frost accumulation heating mode test. Make the measurement at a time when the heat pump is heating, except for the first 10 minutes after the termination of a defrost cycle.

(2) After the frost accumulation heating mode test is completed and while maintaining the same test conditions, adjust the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus until the external static pressure increases to approximately ΔP+ (ΔP- ΔP).

(3) After re-establishing steady readings for the fan motor power and external static pressure, determine average values for the indoor blower power (E) and the external static pressure (ΔP) by making measurements over a 5-minute interval.

(4) Approximate the average power consumption of the indoor blower motor had the frost accumulation heating mode test been conducted at ΔPusing linear extrapolation:

(5) Decrease the total heating capacity, Q(35), by the quantity [(E-E) &#xB7; (Δθ/Δθ], when expressed on a Btu/h basis. Decrease the total electrical power, E(35), by the same quantity, now expressed in watts.

a. Assign the demand defrost credit, F, that is used in section 4.2 of this appendix to the value of 1 in all cases except for heat pumps having a demand-defrost control system (see section 1.2 of this appendix, Definitions). For such qualifying heat pumps, evaluate Fusing,

b. For two-capacity heat pumps and for section 3.6.2 units, evaluate the above equation using the Δθthat applies based on the frost accumulation test conducted at high capacity and/or at the heating full-load air volume rate. For variable-speed heat pumps, evaluate Δθbased on the required frost accumulation test conducted at the intermediate compressor speed.

Except for the modifications noted in this section, conduct the low temperature heating mode test using the same approach as specified in section 3.7 of this appendix for the maximum and high temperature tests. After satisfying the section 3.7 requirements for the pretest interval but before beginning to collect data to determine Q(17) and E(17), conduct a defrost cycle. This defrost cycle may be manually or automatically initiated. The defrost sequence must be terminated by the action of the heat pump's defrost controls. Begin the 30-minute data collection interval described in section 3.7 of this appendix, from which Q(17) and E(17) are determined, no sooner than 10 minutes after defrost termination. Defrosts should be prevented over the 30-minute data collection interval.

a. For all cooling mode and heating mode tests, first conduct a test without the outdoor air-side test apparatus described in section 2.10.1 of this appendix connected to the outdoor unit ("free outdoor air" test).

b. For the first section 3.2 steady-state cooling mode test and the first section 3.6 steady-state heating mode test, conduct a second test in which the outdoor-side apparatus is connected ("ducted outdoor air" test). No other cooling mode or heating mode tests require the ducted outdoor air test so long as the unit operates the outdoor fan during all cooling mode steady-state tests at the same speed and all heating mode steady-state tests at the same speed. If using more than one outdoor fan speed for the cooling mode steady-state tests, however, conduct the ducted outdoor air test for each cooling mode test where a different fan speed is first used. This same requirement applies for the heating mode tests.

a. For the free outdoor air test, connect the indoor air-side test apparatus to the indoor coil; do not connect the outdoor air-side test apparatus. Allow the test room reconditioning apparatus and the unit being tested to operate for at least one hour. After attaining equilibrium conditions, measure the following quantities at equal intervals that span 5 minutes or less:

(1) The section 2.10.1 evaporator and condenser temperatures or pressures;

(2) Parameters required according to the indoor air enthalpy method.
