
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix M to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Central Air Conditioners and Heat Pumps
####### P,P2,P2,P2

For coil-only split systems and blower coil split systems for which a furnace or a modular blower is the designated air mover, subtract the low-voltage power () from the heating season total off mode power () and divide by the number of compressors to calculate, the heating season per-compressor off mode power. Round to the nearest watt. The expression for calculatingis as follows:

Additionally, for sections 4.1.2, 4.1.3, and 4.1.4 of this appendix, use a building cooling load, BL(T). When referenced, evaluate BL(T) for cooling using,

Q(95) = the space cooling capacity determined from the Atest and calculated as specified in section 3.3 of this appendix, Btu/h.

The temperatures 95 &#xB0;F and 65 &#xB0;F in the building load equation represent the selected outdoor design temperature and the zero-load base temperature, respectively.

a. Evaluate the seasonal energy efficiency ratio, expressed in units of Btu/watt-hour, using:

b. Refer to section 3.3 of this appendix regarding the definition and calculation of Q(82) and E(82). Evaluate the cooling mode cyclic degradation factor Cas specified in section 3.5.3 of this appendix.

The manufacturer must provide information on how the indoor air volume rate or the indoor blower speed varies over the outdoor temperature range of 67 &#xB0;F to 102 &#xB0;F. Calculate SEER using Equation 4.1-1. Evaluate the quantity q(T)/N in Equation 4.1-1 using,

a. For the space cooling season, assign n/N as specified in Table 19. Use Equation 4.1-2 to calculate the building load, BL(T). Evaluate Q(T) using,

b. For units where indoor blower speed is the primary control variable, FPdenotes the fan speed used during the required Aand Btests (see section 3.2.2.1 of this appendix), FPdenotes the fan speed used during the required Aand Btests, and FP(T) denotes the fan speed used by the unit when the outdoor temperature equals TFor units where indoor air volume rate is the primary control variable, the three FP's are similarly defined only now being expressed in terms of air volume rates rather than fan speeds. Refer to sections 3.2.2.1, 3.1.4 to 3.1.4.2, and 3.3 of this appendix regarding the definitions and calculations of Q(82), Q(95), Q(82), and Q(95).

c. The quantities X(T) and n/N are the same quantities as used in Equation 4.1.2-1. Evaluate the cooling mode cyclic degradation factor Cas specified in section 3.5.3 of this appendix.

d. Evaluate E(T) using,

e. The parameters FP, and FP, and FP(T) are the same quantities that are used when evaluating Equation 4.1.2-2. Refer to sections 3.2.2.1, 3.1.4 to 3.1.4.2, and 3.3 of this appendix regarding the definitions and calculations of E(82), E(95), E(82), and E(95).

Calculate SEER as specified in section 4.1.1 of this appendix.

Calculate SEER using Equation 4.1-1. Evaluate the space cooling capacity, Q(T), and electrical power consumption, E(T), of the test unit when operating at low compressor capacity and outdoor temperature Tusing,

The calculation of Equation 4.1-1 quantities q(T)/N and e(T)/N differs depending on whether the test unit would operate at low capacity (section 4.1.3.1 of this appendix), cycle between low and high capacity (section 4.1.3.2 of this appendix), or operate at high capacity (sections 4.1.3.3 and 4.1.3.4 of this appendix) in responding to the building load. For units that lock out low capacity operation at higher outdoor temperatures, the outdoor temperature at which the unit locks out must be that specified by the manufacturer in the certification report so that the appropriate equations are used. Use Equation 4.1-2 to calculate the building load, BL(T), for each temperature bin.

Obtain the fractional bin hours for the cooling season, n/N, from Table 19. Use Equations 4.1.3-1 and 4.1.3-2, respectively, to evaluate Q(T) and E(T). Evaluate the cooling mode cyclic degradation factor Cas specified in section 3.5.3 of this appendix.

Obtain the fractional bin hours for the cooling season, n/N, from Table 19. Use Equations 4.1.3-1 and 4.1.3-2, respectively, to evaluate Q(T) and E(T). Use Equations 4.1.3-3 and 4.1.3-4, respectively, to evaluate Q(T) and E(T).

Obtain the fractional bin hours for the cooling season, n/N, from Table 19. Use Equations 4.1.3-3 and 4.1.3-4, respectively, to evaluate Q(T) and E(T).

Calculate SEER using Equation 4.1-1. Evaluate the space cooling capacity, Q(T), and electrical power consumption, E(T), of the test unit when operating at minimum compressor speed and outdoor temperature TUse,

where Q(82) and E(82) are determined from the Btest, Q(67) and E(67) are determined from the F1 test, and all four quantities are calculated as specified in section 3.3 of this appendix.

Evaluate the space cooling capacity, Q(T), and electrical power consumption, E(T), of the test unit when operating at full compressor speed and outdoor temperature TUse Equations 4.1.3-3 and 4.1.3-4, respectively, where Q(95) and E(95) are determined from the Atest, Q(82) and E(82) are determined from the Btest, and all four quantities are calculated as specified in section 3.3 of this appendix. Calculate the space cooling capacity, Q(T), and electrical power consumption, E(T), of the test unit when operating at outdoor temperature Tand the intermediate compressor speed used during the section 3.2.4 (and Table 8) Etest of this appendix using,

where Q(87) and E(87) are determined from the Etest and calculated as specified in section 3.3 of this appendix. Approximate the slopes of the k=v intermediate speed cooling capacity and electrical power input curves, Mand M, as follows:

Use Equations 4.1.4-1 and 4.1.4-2, respectively, to calculate Q(87) and E(87).

Obtain the fractional bin hours for the cooling season, n/N, from Table 19. Use Equations 4.1.3-1 and 4.1.3-2, respectively, to evaluate Q(T) and E(T). Evaluate the cooling mode cyclic degradation factor Cas specified in section 3.5.3 of this appendix.
