
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix M to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Central Air Conditioners and Heat Pumps
####### [object Object],T,[object Object],T,[object Object],T,[object Object],T,[object Object],T,[object Object],T,[object Object],T

c. Except for using the above values of(),(),(),(), CD, and CD(K=2), calculate the quantities q(T)/N and e(T)/N as specified in section 4.1.3.1 of this appendix for cases where() ≥BL(T). For all other outdoor bin temperatures, T, calculate q(Tj)/N and e(Tj)/N as specified in section 4.1.3.3 of this appendix if() >BL (T) or as specified in section 4.1.3.4 of this appendix if() &#x2264;BL(T).

Obtain the fractional bin hours for the cooling season, n/N, from Table 19. For each temperature bin where the unit operates at an intermediate compressor speed, determine the energy efficiency ratio EER(T) using the following equations,

For each temperature bin where Q(T) <BL(T) <Q(T),

For each temperature bin where Q(T) &#x2264;BL(T) <Q(T),

Unless an approved alternative efficiency determination method is used, as set forth in 10 CFR 429.70(e), HSPF must be calculated as follows: Six generalized climatic regions are depicted in Figure 1 and otherwise defined in Table 20. For each of these regions and for each applicable standardized design heating requirement, evaluate the heating seasonal performance factor using,

Evaluate the building heating load using

Calculate the minimum and maximum design heating requirements for each generalized climatic region as follows:

a. For a single-speed heat pump tested as per section 3.6.1 of this appendix, Q(47) = Q(47), the space heating capacity determined from the H1 test.

b. For a section 3.6.2 single-speed heat pump or a two-capacity heat pump not covered by item d, Q(47) = Q(47), the space heating capacity determined from the H1 or H1test.

c. For a variable-speed heat pump, Q(47) = Q(47), the space heating capacity determined from the H1test.

d. For two-capacity, northern heat pumps (see section 1.2 of this appendix, Definitions), Q(47) = Q(47), the space heating capacity determined from the H1test.

For all heat pumps, HSPF accounts for the heating delivered and the energy consumed by auxiliary resistive elements when operating below the balance point. This condition occurs when the building load exceeds the space heating capacity of the heat pump condenser. For HSPF calculations for all heat pumps, see either section 4.2.1, 4.2.2, 4.2.3, or 4.2.4 of this appendix, whichever applies.

For heat pumps with heat comfort controllers (see section 1.2 of this appendix, Definitions), HSPF also accounts for resistive heating contributed when operating above the heat-pump-plus-comfort-controller balance point as a result of maintaining a minimum supply temperature. For heat pumps having a heat comfort controller, see section 4.2.5 of this appendix for the additional steps required for calculating the HSPF.

Use Equation 4.2-2 to determine BL(T). Obtain fractional bin hours for the heating season, n/N, from Table 20. Evaluate the heating mode cyclic degradation factor Cas specified in section 3.8.1 of this appendix.

Determine the low temperature cut-out factor using

Calculate Q(T) and E(T) using,

The manufacturer must provide information about how the indoor air volume rate or the indoor blower speed varies over the outdoor temperature range of 65 &#xB0;F to -23 &#xB0;F. Calculate the quantities

For units where indoor blower speed is the primary control variable, FPdenotes the fan speed used during the required H1and H3tests (see Table 12), FPdenotes the fan speed used during the required H1, H2, and H3tests, and FP(T) denotes the fan speed used by the unit when the outdoor temperature equals TFor units where indoor air volume rate is the primary control variable, the three FP's are similarly defined only now being expressed in terms of air volume rates rather than fan speeds. Determine Q(47) and E(47) from the H1test, and Q(47) and E(47) from the H1test. Calculate all four quantities as specified in section 3.7 of this appendix. Determine Q(35) and E(35) as specified in section 3.6.2 of this appendix; determine Q(35) and E(35) and from the H2test and the calculation specified in section 3.9 of this appendix. Determine Q(17) and E(17) from the H3test, and Q(17) and E(17) from the H3test. Calculate all four quantities as specified in section 3.10 of this appendix.

The calculation of the Equation 4.2-1 to this appendix quantities differ depending upon whether the heat pump would operate at low capacity (section 4.2.3.1 of this appendix), cycle between low and high capacity (section 4.2.3.2 of this appendix), or operate at high capacity (sections 4.2.3.3 and 4.2.3.4 of this appendix) in responding to the building load. For heat pumps that lock out low capacity operation at low outdoor temperatures, the outdoor temperature at which the unit locks out must be that specified by the manufacturer in the certification report so that the appropriate equations can be selected.

a. Evaluate the space heating capacity and electrical power consumption of the heat pump when operating at low compressor capacity and outdoor temperature Tusing

b. Evaluate the space heating capacity and electrical power consumption (Q(T) and E(T)) of the heat pump when operating at high compressor capacity and outdoor temperature Tj by solving Equations 4.2.2-3 and 4.2.2-4, respectively, for k=2. Determine Q(62) and E(62) from the H0test, Q(47) and E(47) from the H1test, and Q(47) and E(47) from the H1test. Calculate all six quantities as specified in section 3.7 of this appendix. Determine Q(35) and E(35) from the H2test and, if required as described in section 3.6.3 of this appendix, determine Q(35) and E(35) from the H2test. Calculate the required 35 &#xB0;F quantities as specified in section 3.9 of this appendix. Determine Q(17) and E(17) from the H3test and, if required as described in section 3.6.3 of this appendix, determine Q(17) and E(17) from the H3test. Calculate the required 17 &#xB0;F quantities as specified in section 3.10 of this appendix.

Evaluate the heating mode cyclic degradation factor Cas specified in section 3.8.1 of this appendix.

Determine the low temperature cut-out factor using

a. The heat pump locks out low capacity operation at low outdoor temperatures and

b. Tis below this lockout threshold temperature.

Determine the low temperature cut-out factor, δ&#x2032;(T), using Equation 4.2.3-3.

This section applies to units that lock out low compressor capacity operation at low outdoor temperatures.

If the H1Ctest described in section 3.6.3 and Table 13 of this appendix is not conducted, set C(k=2) equal to the default value specified in section 3.8.1 of this appendix.

Determine the low temperature cut-out factor, δ(T), using Equation 4.2.3-3.

Calculate HSPF using Equation 4.2-1. Evaluate the space heating capacity, Q(T), and electrical power consumption, E(T), of the heat pump when operating at minimum compressor speed and outdoor temperature Tusing

Evaluate the space heating capacity, Q(T), and electrical power consumption, E(T), of the heat pump when operating at full compressor speed and outdoor temperature Tby solving Equations 4.2.2-3 and 4.2.2-4, respectively, for k=2. For Equation 4.2.2-3, use Q(47) to represent Q(47), and for Equation 4.2.2-4, use E(47) to represent E(47)-evaluate Q(47) and E(47) as specified in section 3.6.4b of this appendix.

Evaluate the Equation 4.2-1 quantities

For each temperature bin where the heat pump operates at an intermediate compressor speed, determine COP(T) using the following equations,

For each temperature bin where Q(T) <BL(T) <Q(T),

For each temperature bin where Q(T) &#x2264;BL(T) <Q(T),

Evaluate the Equation 4.2-1 Quantities
