
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix M to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Central Air Conditioners and Heat Pumps
####### i.e.,

Case 3. For outdoor bin temperatures where T(T) is equal to or greater than T, determine Q(T) and E(T) as specified in section 4.2.3 of this appendix (Q(T) = Q(T) and E(T) = E(T)).

Case 4. For outdoor bin temperatures where T(T) <T, determine Q(T) and E(T) using,







The only triple-capacity heat pumps covered are triple-capacity, northern heat pumps. For such heat pumps, the calculation of the Eq. 4.2-1 quantities

a. Evaluate the space heating capacity and electrical power consumption of the heat pump when operating at low compressor capacity and outdoor temperature Tj using the equations given in section 4.2.3 of this appendix for Q(T) and E(T)) In evaluating the section 4.2.3 equations, Determine Q(62) and E(62) from the H0test, Q(47) and E(47) from the H1test, and Q(47) and E(47) from the H1test. Calculate all four quantities as specified in section 3.7 of this appendix. If, in accordance with section 3.6.6 of this appendix, the H3test is conducted, calculate Q(17) and E(17) as specified in section 3.10 of this appendix and determine Q(35) and E(35) as specified in section 3.6.6 of this appendix.

b. Evaluate the space heating capacity and electrical power consumption (Q(T) and E(T)) of the heat pump when operating at high compressor capacity and outdoor temperature Tj by solving Equations 4.2.2-3 and 4.2.2-4, respectively, for k=2. Determine Q(62) and E(62) from the H0test, Q(47) and E(47) from the H1test, and Q(47) and E(47) from the H1test, evaluated as specified in section 3.7 of this appendix. Determine the equation input for Q(35) and E(35) from the H2evaluated as specified in section 3.9.1 of this appendix. Also, determine Q(17) and E(17) from the H3test, evaluated as specified in section 3.10 of this appendix.

c. Evaluate the space heating capacity and electrical power consumption of the heat pump when operating at booster compressor capacity and outdoor temperature Tj using

Evaluate the quantities



Evaluate the quantities





Evaluate the quantities





Evaluate the quantities







The calculation of the Eq. 4.2-1 quantities e(T)/N and RH(T)/N are evaluated as specified in the applicable subsection.


