
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix M1 to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Central Air Conditioners and Heat Pumps
####### e.g.

Take pairs of measurements (dry bulb temperature and wet bulb temperature) used to determine water vapor content of sampled air in the same location.

When required, measure fan speed using a revolution counter, tachometer, or stroboscope that gives readings accurate to within +/-1.0 percent.

Determine the average barometric pressure during each test. Use an instrument that meets the requirements specified in section 5.2 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 430.3).

Make air temperature measurements in accordance with ANSI/ASHRAE 41.1-2013 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 430.3), unless otherwise instructed in this section.

The air sampling device is intended to draw in a sample of the air at the critical locations of a unit under test. Construct the device from stainless steel, plastic or other suitable, durable materials. It shall have a main flow trunk tube with a series of branch tubes connected to the trunk tube. Holes must be on the side of the sampler facing the upstream direction of the air source. Use other sizes and rectangular shapes, and scale them accordingly with the following guidelines:

1. Minimum hole density of 6 holes per square foot of area to be sampled.

2. Sampler branch tube pitch (spacing) of 6 +/- 3 in.

3. Manifold trunk to branch diameter ratio having a minimum of 3:1 ratio.

4. Distribute hole pitch (spacing) equally over the branch (pitch from the closed end to the nearest hole).

5. Maximum individual hole to branch diameter ratio of 1:2 (1:3 preferred).

The minimum average velocity through the air sampling device holes must be 2.5 ft/s as determined by evaluating the sum of the open area of the holes as compared to the flow area in the aspirating psychrometer.

The psychrometer consists of a flow section and a fan to draw air through the flow section and measures an average value of the sampled air stream. At a minimum, the flow section shall have a means for measuring the dry bulb temperature (typically, a resistance temperature device (RTD) and a means for measuring the humidity (RTD with wetted sock, chilled mirror hygrometer, or relative humidity sensor). The aspirating psychrometer shall include a fan that either can be adjusted manually or automatically to maintain required velocity across the sensors.

Construct the psychrometer using suitable material which may be plastic (such as polycarbonate), aluminum or other metallic materials. Construct all psychrometers for a given system being tested, using the same material. Design the psychrometers such that radiant heat from the motor (for driving the fan that draws sampled air through the psychrometer) does not affect sensor measurements. For aspirating psychrometers, velocity across the wet bulb sensor must be 1000 +/- 200 ft/min. For all other psychrometers, velocity must be as specified by the sensor manufacturer.

If, during the testing process, an equipment set-up adjustment is made that would have altered the performance of the unit during any already completed test, then repeat all tests affected by the adjustment. For cyclic tests, instead of maintaining an air volume rate, for each airflow nozzle, maintain the static pressure difference or velocity pressure during an ON period at the same pressure difference or velocity pressure as measured during the steady-state test conducted at the same test conditions.

Use the testing procedures in this section to collect the data used for calculating

(1) Performance metrics for central air conditioners and heat pumps during the cooling season;

(2) Performance metrics for heat pumps during the heating season; and

(3) Power consumption metric(s) for central air conditioners and heat pumps during the off mode season(s).

For all tests, use the indoor air enthalpy method test apparatus to determine the unit's space conditioning capacity. The procedure and data collected, however, differ slightly depending upon whether the test is a steady-state test, a cyclic test, or a frost accumulation test. The following sections described these differences. For full-capacity cooling-mode test and (for a heat pump) the full-capacity heating-mode test, use one of the acceptable secondary methods specified in section 2.10 of this appendix to determine indoor space conditioning capacity. Calculate this secondary check of capacity according to section 3.11 of this appendix. The two capacity measurements must agree to within 6 percent to constitute a valid test. For this capacity comparison, use the Indoor Air Enthalpy Method capacity that is calculated in section 7.3 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 430.3) (and, if testing a coil-only system, compare capacities before making the after-test fan heat adjustments described in section 3.3, 3.4, 3.7, and 3.10 of this appendix). However, include the appropriate section 3.3 to 3.5 and 3.7 to 3.10 fan heat adjustments within the indoor air enthalpy method capacities used for the section 4 seasonal calculations of this appendix.

Where needed, the manufacturer must provide a means for overriding the controls of the test unit so that the compressor(s) operates at the specified speed or capacity and the indoor blower operates at the specified speed or delivers the specified air volume rate. For variable-speed non-communicating coil-only air conditioners and heat pumps, the control system shall be provided with a control signal indicating operation at high or low stage, rather than testing with the compressor speed fixed at specific speeds, with the exception that compressor speed override may be used for heating mode test H1.

For all tests, meet the requirements given in section 6.1.3.4 of AHRI 210/240-2008 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 430.3) when obtaining the airflow through the outdoor coil.

For products intended to be installed with the outdoor airflow ducted, install the unit with outdoor coil ductwork installed per manufacturer installation instructions. The unit must operate between 0.10 and 0.15 in HO external static pressure. Make external static pressure measurements in accordance with ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 section 6.4 and 6.5.

Determine airflow setting(s) before testing begins. Unless otherwise specified within this or its subsections, make no changes to the airflow setting(s) after initiation of testing.

Identify the certified Cooling full-load air volume rate and certified instructions for setting fan speed or controls. If there is no certified Cooling full-load air volume rate, use a value equal to the certified cooling capacity of the unit times 400 scfm per 12,000 Btu/h. If there are no instructions for setting fan speed or controls, use the as-shipped settings. Use the following procedure to confirm and, if necessary, adjust the Cooling full-load air volume rate and the fan speed or control settings to meet each test procedure requirement:

a. For all ducted blower-coil systems, except those having a constant-air-volume-rate indoor blower:

Step (1) Operate the unit under conditions specified for the A test (for single-stage units) or Atest (for non-single-stage units) using the certified fan speed or controls settings, and adjust the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus to achieve the certified cooling full-load air volume rate;

Step (2) Measure the external static pressure;

Step (3) If this external static pressure is equal to or greater than the applicable minimum external static pressure cited in Table 4 to this appendix, the pressure requirement is satisfied; proceed to step 7 of this section. If this external static pressure is not equal to or greater than the applicable minimum external static pressure cited in Table 4, proceed to step 4 of this section;

Step (4) Increase the external static pressure by adjusting the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus until the first to occur of:

(i) The applicable Table 4 to this appendix minimum is equaled or

(ii) The measured air volume rate equals 90 percent or less of the cooling full-load air volume rate;

Step (5) If the conditions of step 4 (i) of this section occur first, the pressure requirement is satisfied; proceed to step 7 of this section. If the conditions of step 4 (ii) of this section occur first, proceed to step 6 of this section;
