
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix M1 to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Central Air Conditioners and Heat Pumps
####### e.g.,

Step (6) Make an incremental change to the setup of the indoor blower (next highest fan motor pin setting, next highest fan motor speed) and repeat the evaluation process beginning at step 1 of this section. If the indoor blower setup cannot be further changed, increase the external static pressure by adjusting the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus until it equals the applicable Table 4 to this appendix minimum external static pressure; proceed to step 7 of this section;

Step (7) The airflow constraints have been satisfied. Use the measured air volume rate as the heating full-load air volume rate. Use the final indoor fan speed or control settings of the unit under test for all tests that use the heating full-load air volume rate. Adjust the fan of the airflow measurement apparatus if needed to obtain the same heating full-load air volume rate (in scfm) for all such tests, unless the system modulates indoor blower speed with outdoor dry bulb temperature-in this case, use an air volume rate that represents a normal installation and calculate the target minimum external static pressure as described in section 3.1.4.2 of this appendix.

b. For ducted heating-only blower coil system heat pumps having a constant-air-volume-rate indoor blower. For all tests that specify the heating full-load air volume rate, obtain an external static pressure that does not cause an automatic shutdown of the indoor blower or air volume rate variation Q, defined in section 3.1.4.1.1.b of this section, greater than 10 percent, while being as close to, but not less than, the applicable Table 4 minimum. Additional test steps as described in section 3.9.1.c of this appendix are required if the measured external static pressure exceeds the target value by more than 0.03 inches of water.

c. For ducted heating-only coil-only system heat pumps in the H1 or H1Test, (exclusively), the pressure drop across the indoor coil assembly must not exceed 0.30 inches of water. If this pressure drop is exceeded, reduce the air volume rate until the measured pressure drop equals the specified maximum. Use this reduced air volume rate for all tests that require the heating full-load air volume rate.

For non-ducted heat pumps, the heating full-load air volume rate is the air volume rate that results during each test when the unit operates at an external static pressure of zero inches of water.

a. Use the cooling minimum air volume rate as the heating minimum air volume rate for:

(1) Ducted blower coil system heat pumps that do not have a constant-air-volume indoor blower, and that operates at the same airflow-control setting during both the Aand the H1tests;

(2) Ducted blower coil system heat pumps with constant-air-flow indoor blowers installed that provide the same airflow for the Aand the H1Tests; and

(3) Ducted coil-only system heat pumps.

b. For heat pumps that meet the above criteria "1" and "3," no minimum requirements apply to the measured external or internal, respectively, static pressure. Use the final indoor blower control settings as determined when setting the cooling minimum air volume rate, and readjust the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus if necessary to reset to the cooling minimum air volume rate obtained in section 3.1.4.2 of this appendix. For heat pumps that meet the above criterion "2," test at an external static pressure that does not cause an automatic shutdown of the indoor blower or air volume rate variation Q, defined in section 3.1.4.1.1.b, greater than 10 percent, while being as close to, but not less than, the same target minimum external static pressure as was specified for the Acooling mode test. Additional test steps as described in section 3.9.1.c of this appendix are required if the measured external static pressure exceeds the target value by more than 0.03 inches of water.

Identify the certified heating minimum air volume rate and certified instructions for setting fan speed or controls. If there is no certified heating minimum air volume rate, use the final indoor blower control settings as determined when setting the cooling minimum air volume rate, and readjust the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus if necessary to reset to the cooling minimum air volume obtained in section 3.1.4.2 of this appendix. Otherwise, calculate the target minimum external static pressure as described in section 3.1.4.2 of this appendix.

a. For ducted blower coil system heat pumps that do not have a constant-air-volume indoor blower, adjust for external static pressure as described in section 3.1.4.2.a of this appendix for cooling minimum air volume rate.
