
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix M1 to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Central Air Conditioners and Heat Pumps
####### e.g.

c. Calculate indoor-side total cooling capacity and sensible cooling capacity as specified in sections 7.3.3.1 and 7.3.3.3 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 430.3). To calculate capacity, use the averages of the measurements (inlet and outlet dry bulb and wet bulb temperatures measured at the psychrometers) that are continuously recorded for the same 30-minute interval used as described above to evaluate compliance with test tolerances. Do not adjust the parameters used in calculating capacity for the permitted variations in test conditions. Evaluate air enthalpies based on the measured barometric pressure. Use the values of the specific heat of air given in section 7.3.3.1 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 430.3) for calculation of the sensible cooling capacities. Assign the average total space cooling capacity, average sensible cooling capacity, and electrical power consumption over the 30-minute data collection interval to the variables Q(T), Q(T) and E(T), respectively. For these three variables, replace the "T" with the nominal outdoor temperature at which the test was conducted. The superscript k is used only when testing multi-capacity units. Use the superscript k=2 to denote a test with the unit operating at high capacity or full speed, k=1 to denote low capacity or minimum speed, and k=v to denote the intermediate speed.

d. For mobile home and space-constrained ducted coil-only system tests,
