
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix M1 to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Central Air Conditioners and Heat Pumps
####### i.e.,

(2) For single-stage systems, for all cyclic dry-coil tests (the D test) decrease qby the quantity calculated in Equation 3.5-8 to this appendix and increase eby the quantity calculated in Equation 3.5-9 to this appendix.

c. For units having a variable-speed indoor blower that is disabled during the cyclic test, decrease qand increase ebased on: The product of [θ- θ] and the indoor blower power (in W) measured during or following the dry coil steady-state test; or,

d. The following algorithm if the indoor blower ramps its speed when cycling.

(1) Measure the electrical power consumed by the variable-speed indoor blower at a minimum of three operating conditions: at the speed/air volume rate/external static pressure that was measured during the steady-state test, at operating conditions associated with the midpoint of the ramp-up interval, and at conditions associated with the midpoint of the ramp-down interval. For these measurements, the tolerances on the airflow volume or the external static pressure are the same as required for the section 3.4 steady-state test.

(2) For each case, determine the fan power from measurements made over a minimum of 5 minutes.

(3) Approximate the electrical energy consumption of the indoor blower if it had operated during the cyclic test using all three power measurements. Assume a linear profile during the ramp intervals. The manufacturer must provide the durations of the ramp-up and ramp-down intervals. If the test setup instructions included with the unit by the manufacturer specifies a ramp interval that exceeds 45 seconds, use a 45-second ramp interval nonetheless when estimating the fan energy.

Do not use airflow prevention devices when conducting cyclic tests on non-ducted indoor units. Until the last OFF/ON compressor cycle, airflow through the indoor coil must cycle off and on in unison with the compressor. For the last OFF/ON compressor cycle-the one used to determine eand q-use the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus and the indoor blower of the test unit to have indoor airflow start 3 minutes prior to compressor cut-on and end three minutes after compressor cutoff. Subtract the electrical energy used by the indoor blower during the 3 minutes prior to compressor cut-on from the integrated electrical energy, eAdd the electrical energy used by the indoor blower during the 3 minutes after compressor cutoff to the integrated cooling capacity, qFor the case where the non-ducted indoor unit uses a variable-speed indoor blower which is disabled during the cyclic test, correct eand qusing the same approach as prescribed in section 3.5.1 of this appendix for ducted units having a disabled variable-speed indoor blower.
