
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix M1 to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Central Air Conditioners and Heat Pumps
####### i.e.,

Use the two dry-coil tests to determine the cooling-mode cyclic-degradation coefficient, C. Append "(k=2)" to the coefficient if it corresponds to a two-capacity unit cycling at high capacity. If the two optional tests are conducted but yield a tested Cthat exceeds the default Cor if the two optional tests are not conducted, assign Cthe default value of 0.25 for variable-speed compressor systems and outdoor units with no match, and 0.20 for all other systems. The default value for two-capacity units cycling at high capacity, however, is the low-capacity coefficient,C(k=2) = C. Evaluate Cusing the above results and those from the section 3.4 dry-coil steady-state test.

Round the calculated value for Cto the nearest 0.01. If Cis negative, then set it equal to zero.

This set of tests is for single-speed-compressor heat pumps that do not have a heating minimum air volume rate or a heating intermediate air volume rate that is different than the heating full load air volume rate. Conducting a very low temperature test (H4) is optional. Conduct the optional high temperature cyclic (H1C) test to determine the heating mode cyclic-degradation coefficient, C. If this optional test is conducted but yields a tested Cthat exceeds the default Cor if the optional test is not conducted, assign Cthe default value of 0.25. Test conditions for the five tests are specified in Table 11 of this section.

Conduct five tests: Two high temperature tests (H1and H1), one frost accumulation test (H2), and two low temperature tests (H3and H3). Conducting an additional frost accumulation test (H2) and a very low temperature test (H4) is optional. Conduct the optional high temperature cyclic (H1C) test to determine the heating mode cyclic-degradation coefficient, C. If this optional test is conducted but yields a tested Cthat exceeds the default Cor if the optional test is not conducted, assign Cthe default value of 0.25. Test conditions for the seven tests are specified in Table 12. If the optional H2test is not performed, use the following equations to approximate the capacity and electrical power of the heat pump at the H2test conditions:

a. Conduct one maximum temperature test (H0), two high temperature tests (H1and H1), one frost accumulation test (H2), and one low temperature test (H3). Conducting a very low temperature test (H4) is optional. Conduct an additional frost accumulation test (H2) and low temperature test (H3) if both of the following conditions exist:

(1) Knowledge of the heat pump's capacity and electrical power at low compressor capacity for outdoor temperatures of 37 &#xB0;F and less is needed to complete the section 4.2.3 of this appendix seasonal performance calculations; and

(2) The heat pump's controls allow low-capacity operation at outdoor temperatures of 37 &#xB0;F and less.

If the two conditions in a.(1) and a.(2) of this section are met, an alternative to conducting the H2frost accumulation is to use the following equations to approximate the capacity and electrical power:

Determine the quantities Q(47) and E(47) from the H1test and evaluate them according to section 3.7 of this appendix. Determine the quantities Q(17) and E(17) from the H3test and evaluate them according to section 3.10 of this appendix.

b. Conduct the optional high temperature cyclic test (H1C) to determine the heating mode cyclic-degradation coefficient, C. If this optional test is conducted but yields a tested Cthat exceeds the default Cor if the optional test is not conducted, assign Cthe default value of 0.25. If a two-capacity heat pump locks out low capacity operation at lower outdoor temperatures, conduct the high temperature cyclic test (H1C) to determine the high-capacity heating mode cyclic-degradation coefficient, C(k=2). If this optional test at high capacity is conducted but yields a tested C(k = 2) that exceeds the default C(k = 2) or if the optional test is not conducted, assign Cthe default value. The default C(k=2) is the same value as determined or assigned for the low-capacity cyclic-degradation coefficient, C[or equivalently, C(k=1)]. Table 13 specifies test conditions for these nine tests.

a. Conduct one maximum temperature test (H0), two high temperature tests (H1and H1), one frost accumulation test (H2), and one low temperature test (H3). Conducting one or more of the following tests is optional: an additional high temperature test (H1), an additional frost accumulation test (H2), and a very low temperature test (H4). Conduct the optional high temperature cyclic (H1C) test to determine the heating mode cyclic-degradation coefficient, C. If this optional test is conducted and yields a tested Cthat exceeds the default Cor if the optional test is not conducted, assign Cthe default value of 0.25. Test conditions for the nine tests are specified in Table 14A to this appendix. The compressor shall operate for the H1, H2and H3Tests at the same heating full speed, measured by RPM or power input frequency (Hz), as the maximum speed at which the system controls would operate the compressor in normal operation in 17 &#xB0;F ambient temperature. The compressor shall operate for the H1test at the maximum speed at which the system controls would operate the compressor in normal operation in 47 &#xB0;F ambient temperature. Additionally, for a cooling/heating heat pump, the compressor shall operate for the H1test at a speed, measured by RPM or power input frequency (Hz), no lower than the speed used in the Atest if the tested H1heating capacity is less than the tested Acooling capacity. The compressor shall operate at the same heating minimum speed, measured by RPM or power input frequency (Hz), for the H0, H1C, and H1Tests. Determine the heating intermediate compressor speed cited in Table 14A using the heating mode full and minimum compressors speeds and:

b. If one of the high temperature tests (H1or H1) is conducted using the same compressor speed (RPM or power input frequency) as the H3test, set the 47 &#xB0;F capacity and power input values used for calculation of HSPF2 equal to the measured values for that test:
