
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix M1 to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Central Air Conditioners and Heat Pumps
####### [object Object]

d. Determine the quantities Q(17) and(17) from the H3test, determine the quantities Q(5) and E(5) from the H4test, and evaluate all four according to section 3.10 of this appendix.

e. For multiple-split heat pumps (only), the following procedures supersede the above requirements. For all Table 14A of this appendix tests specified for a minimum compressor speed, turn off at least one indoor unit. The manufacturer shall designate the particular indoor unit(s) to be turned off. The manufacturer must also specify the compressor speed used for the Table 14A H2test, a heating mode intermediate compressor speed that falls withinandof the difference between the full and minimum heating mode speeds. The manufacturer should prescribe an intermediate speed that is expected to yield the highest COP for the given H2test conditions and bracketed compressor speed range. The manufacturer can designate that one or more specific indoor units are turned off for the H2test.

a. Conduct one maximum temperature test (H0), two high temperature tests (H1and H1), two frost accumulation test (H2and H2), and two low temperature tests (H3and H3). Conducting one or both of the following tests is optional: an additional high temperature test (H1) and a very low temperature test (H4). Conduct the optional high temperature cyclic (H1C) test to determine the heating mode cyclic-degradation coefficient, C. If this optional test is conducted and yields a tested Cthat exceeds the default Cor if the optional test is not conducted, assign Cthe default value of 0.25. Test conditions for the ten tests are specified in Table 14B to this appendix. The compressor shall operate for the H1and H3tests at the same heating full speed, measured by RPM or power input frequency (Hz), as the maximum speed at which the system controls would operate the compressor in normal operation in 17 &#xB0;F ambient temperature. The compressor shall operate for the H1test at the maximum speed at which the system controls would operate the compressor in normal operation in 47 &#xB0;F ambient temperature. Additionally, for a cooling/heating heat pump, the compressor shall operate for the H1test at a speed, measured by RPM or power input frequency (Hz), no lower than the speed used in the Atest if the tested H1heating capacity is less than the tested Acooling capacity. The compressor shall operate at the same heating minimum speed, measured by RPM or power input frequency (Hz), for the H0, H1C, and H1tests.

b. If one of the high temperature tests (H1or H1) is conducted using the same compressor speed (RPM or power input frequency) as the H3test, set the 47 &#xB0;F capacity and power input values used for calculation of HSPF2 equal to the measured values for that test:
