
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix M1 to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Central Air Conditioners and Heat Pumps
####### [object Object],[object Object],[object Object],[object Object]

In evaluating the above equations, determine the quantities Q(47) from the H1test and evaluate them according to section 3.7 of this appendix. Determine the quantities(17) and(17) from the H3test and evaluate them according to section 3.10 of this appendix. Use the paired values of(35) and(35) derived from conducting the H2frost accumulation test and evaluated as specified in section 3.9.1 of this appendix or use the paired values calculated using the above default equations, whichever contribute to a higher Region IV HSPF2 based on the DHRmin.

b. Conducting a frost accumulation test (H2) with the heat pump operating at its booster capacity is optional. If this optional test is not conducted, determine Q(35) and E(35) using the following equations to approximate this capacity and electrical power:

Determine the quantities Q(47) and E(47) from the H1test and evaluate them according to section 3.7 of this appendix. Determine the quantities Q(35) and E(35) from the H2test and evaluate them according to section 3.9.1 of this appendix. Determine the quantities Q(17) and E(17) from the H3test, determine the quantities Q(17) and E(17) from the H3test, and determine the quantities Q(5) and E(5) from the H4test. Evaluate all six quantities according to section 3.10 of this appendix. Use the paired values of Q(35) and E(35) derived from conducting the H2frost accumulation test and calculated as specified in section 3.9.1 of this appendix or use the paired values calculated using the above default equations, whichever contribute to a higher Region IV HSPF2 based on the DHRmin.

c. Conduct the optional high temperature cyclic test (H1C) to determine the heating mode cyclic-degradation coefficient, C. A default value for Cof 0.25 may be used in lieu of conducting the cyclic. If a triple-capacity heat pump locks out low capacity operation at lower outdoor temperatures, conduct the high temperature cyclic test (H1C) to determine the high capacity heating mode cyclic-degradation coefficient, C(k=2). The default C(k=2) is the same value as determined or assigned for the low-capacity cyclic-degradation coefficient, C[or equivalently, C(k=1)]. Finally, if a triple-capacity heat pump locks out both low and high capacity operation at the lowest outdoor temperatures, conduct the low temperature cyclic test (H3C) to determine the booster-capacity heating mode cyclic-degradation coefficient, C(k=3). The default C(k=3) is the same value as determined or assigned for the high capacity cyclic-degradation coefficient, C[or equivalently, C(k=2)]. Table 15 specifies test conditions for all 13 tests.
