
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix M1 to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Central Air Conditioners and Heat Pumps
####### i.e.,

Use the results from the required cyclic test and the required steady-state test that were conducted at the same test conditions to determine the heating mode cyclic-degradation coefficient C. Add "(k=2)" to the coefficient if it corresponds to a two-capacity unit cycling at high capacity. For the below calculation of the heating mode cyclic degradation coefficient, do not include the duct loss correction from section 7.3.3.3 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3) in determining Q(T) (or q). If the optional cyclic test is conducted but yields a tested Cthat exceeds the default Cor if the optional test is not conducted, assign Cthe default value of 0.25. The default value for two-capacity units cycling at high capacity, however, is the low-capacity coefficient,C(k=2) = C. The tested Cis calculated as follows:

Round the calculated value for Cto the nearest 0.01. If Cis negative, then set it equal to zero.

a. Confirm that the defrost controls of the heat pump are set as specified in section 2.2.1 of this appendix. Operate the test room reconditioning apparatus and the heat pump for at least 30 minutes at the specified section 3.6 test conditions before starting the "preliminary" test period. The preliminary test period must immediately precede the "official" test period, which is the heating and defrost interval over which data are collected for evaluating average space heating capacity and average electrical power consumption.

b. For heat pumps containing defrost controls which are likely to cause defrosts at intervals less than one hour, the preliminary test period starts at the termination of an automatic defrost cycle and ends at the termination of the next occurring automatic defrost cycle. For heat pumps containing defrost controls which are likely to cause defrosts at intervals exceeding one hour, the preliminary test period must consist of a heating interval lasting at least one hour followed by a defrost cycle that is either manually or automatically initiated. In all cases, the heat pump's own controls must govern when a defrost cycle terminates.

c. The official test period begins when the preliminary test period ends, at defrost termination. The official test period ends at the termination of the next occurring automatic defrost cycle. When testing a heat pump that uses a time-adaptive defrost control system (see section 1.2 of this appendix, Definitions), however, manually initiate the defrost cycle that ends the official test period at the instant indicated by instructions provided by the manufacturer. If the heat pump has not undergone a defrost after 6 hours, immediately conclude the test and use the results from the full 6-hour period to calculate the average space heating capacity and average electrical power consumption.

For heat pumps that turn the indoor blower off during the defrost cycle, take steps to cease forced airflow through the indoor coil and block the outlet duct whenever the heat pump's controls cycle off the indoor blower. If it is installed, use the outlet damper box described in section 2.5.4.1 of this appendix to affect the blocked outlet duct.

d. Defrost termination occurs when the controls of the heat pump actuate the first change in converting from defrost operation to normal heating operation. Defrost initiation occurs when the controls of the heat pump first alter its normal heating operation in order to eliminate possible accumulations of frost on the outdoor coil.

e. To constitute a valid frost accumulation test, satisfy the test tolerances specified in Table 18 during both the preliminary and official test periods. As noted in Table 18, test operating tolerances are specified for two sub-intervals:

(1) When heating, except for the first 10 minutes after the termination of a defrost cycle (sub-interval H, as described in Table 18) and

(2) When defrosting, plus these same first 10 minutes after defrost termination (sub-interval D, as described in Table 18). Evaluate compliance with Table 18 test condition tolerances and the majority of the test operating tolerances using the averages from measurements recorded only during sub-interval H. Continuously record the dry bulb temperature of the air entering the indoor coil, and the dry bulb temperature and water vapor content of the air entering the outdoor coil. Sample the remaining parameters listed in Table 18 at equal intervals that span 5 minutes or less.

f. For the official test period, collect and use the following data to calculate average space heating capacity and electrical power. During heating and defrosting intervals when the controls of the heat pump have the indoor blower on, continuously record the dry-bulb temperature of the air entering (as noted above) and leaving the indoor coil. If using a thermopile, continuously record the difference between the leaving and entering dry-bulb temperatures during the interval(s) that air flows through the indoor coil. For coil-only system heat pumps, determine the corresponding cumulative time (in hours) of indoor coil airflow, ΔθSample measurements used in calculating the air volume rate (refer to sections 7.7.2.1 and 7.7.2.2 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009) at equal intervals that span 10 minutes or less. (In the first printing of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009, the second IP equation for Qshould read:) Record the electrical energy consumed, expressed in watt-hours, from defrost termination to defrost termination, e(35), as well as the corresponding elapsed time in hours, Δθ

a. Evaluate average space heating capacity, Q(35), when expressed in units of Btu per hour, using:

To account for the effect of duct losses between the outlet of the indoor unit and the section 2.5.4 dry-bulb temperature grid, adjust Q(35) in accordance with section 7.3.4.3 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3).

(1) For mobile home and space-constrained ducted coil-only system tests,
