
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix M1 to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Central Air Conditioners and Heat Pumps
####### i.e.,,Q,E

(ii) For single-stage systems, for all frost accumulation tests (the H2 test), increase(35) by the quantity calculated in Equation 3.9.1-7 to this appendix and increase(35) by the quantity calculated in Equation 3.9.1-8 to this appendix.

c. For heat pumps having a constant-air-volume-rate indoor blower, the five additional steps listed below are required if the average of the external static pressures measured during sub-interval H exceeds the applicable section 3.1.4.4, 3.1.4.5, or 3.1.4.6 minimum (or targeted) external static pressure (ΔP) by 0.03 inches of water or more:

(1) Measure the average power consumption of the indoor blower motor (E) and record the corresponding external static pressure (ΔP) during or immediately following the frost accumulation heating mode test. Make the measurement at a time when the heat pump is heating, except for the first 10 minutes after the termination of a defrost cycle.

(2) After the frost accumulation heating mode test is completed and while maintaining the same test conditions, adjust the exhaust fan of the airflow measuring apparatus until the external static pressure increases to approximately ΔP+ (ΔP- ΔP).

(3) After re-establishing steady readings for the fan motor power and external static pressure, determine average values for the indoor blower power (E) and the external static pressure (ΔP) by making measurements over a 5-minute interval.

(4) Approximate the average power consumption of the indoor blower motor had the frost accumulation heating mode test been conducted at ΔPusing linear extrapolation:

(5) Decrease the total heating capacity, Q(35), by the quantity [(E- E)&#xB7; (Δθ/Δθ], when expressed on a Btu/h basis. Decrease the total electrical power, E(35), by the same quantity, now expressed in watts.

a. Assign the demand defrost credit, F, that is used in section 4.2 of this appendix to the value of 1 in all cases except for heat pumps having a demand-defrost control system (see section 1.2 of this appendix, Definitions). For such qualifying heat pumps, evaluate Fusing,

b. For two-capacity heat pumps and for section 3.6.2 units, evaluate the above equation using the Δθthat applies based on the frost accumulation test conducted at high capacity and/or at the heating full-load air volume rate. For variable-speed heat pumps, evaluate Δθbased on the required frost accumulation test conducted at the intermediate compressor speed.

Except for the modifications noted in this section, conduct the low temperature and very low temperature heating mode tests using the same approach as specified in section 3.7 of this appendix for the maximum and high temperature tests. After satisfying the section 3.7 requirements for the pretest interval but before beginning to collect data to determine the capacity and power input, conduct a defrost cycle. This defrost cycle may be manually or automatically initiated. Terminate the defrost sequence using the heat pump's defrost controls. Begin the 30-minute data collection interval described in section 3.7 of this appendix, from which the capacity and power input are determined, no sooner than 10 minutes after defrost termination. Defrosts should be prevented over the 30-minute data collection interval.

a. For all cooling mode and heating mode tests, first conduct a test without the outdoor air-side test apparatus described in section 2.10.1 of this appendix connected to the outdoor unit ("free outdoor air" test).

b. For the first section 3.2 steady-state cooling mode test and the first section 3.6 steady-state heating mode test, conduct a second test in which the outdoor-side apparatus is connected ("ducted outdoor air" test). No other cooling mode or heating mode tests require the ducted outdoor air test so long as the unit operates the outdoor fan during all cooling mode steady-state tests at the same speed and all heating mode steady-state tests at the same speed. If using more than one outdoor fan speed for the cooling mode steady-state tests, however, conduct the ducted outdoor air test for each cooling mode test where a different fan speed is first used. This same requirement applies for the heating mode tests.

a. For the free outdoor air test, connect the indoor air-side test apparatus to the indoor coil; do not connect the outdoor air-side test apparatus. Allow the test room reconditioning apparatus and the unit being tested to operate for at least one hour. After attaining equilibrium conditions, measure the following quantities at equal intervals that span 5 minutes or less:

(1) The section 2.10.1 evaporator and condenser temperatures or pressures;

(2) Parameters required according to the Indoor Air Enthalpy Method.
