
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix M1 to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Central Air Conditioners and Heat Pumps
####### i.e.,

(1) The energy balance specified in section 3.1.1 of this appendix is achieved for the ducted outdoor air test (compare the capacities determined using the indoor air enthalpy method and the outdoor air enthalpy method).

(2) The capacities determined using the indoor air enthalpy method from the ducted outdoor air and free outdoor air tests must agree within 2 percent.

a. The test conditions and tolerances for the ducted outdoor air test are the same as specified for the official test, where the official test is the free outdoor air test described in section 3.11.1.1 of this appendix.

b. After collecting 30 minutes of steady-state data during the free outdoor air test, connect the outdoor air-side test apparatus to the unit for the ducted outdoor air test. Adjust the exhaust fan of the outdoor airflow measuring apparatus until averages for the evaporator and condenser temperatures, or the saturated temperatures corresponding to the measured pressures, agree within +/-0.5 &#xB0;F of the averages achieved during the free outdoor air test. Collect 30 minutes of steady-state data after re-establishing equilibrium conditions.

c. During the ducted outdoor air test, at intervals of 5 minutes or less, measure the parameters required according to the indoor air enthalpy method and the outdoor air enthalpy method for the prescribed 30 minutes.

d. For cooling mode ducted outdoor air tests, calculate capacity based on outdoor air-enthalpy measurements as specified in sections 7.3.3.2 and 7.3.3.3 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3). For heating mode ducted tests, calculate heating capacity based on outdoor air-enthalpy measurements as specified in sections 7.3.4.2 and 7.3.3.4.3 of the same ANSI/ASHRAE Standard. Adjust the outdoor-side capacity according to section 7.3.3.4 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 to account for line losses when testing split systems. As described in section 8.6.2 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009, use the outdoor air volume rate as measured during the ducted outdoor air tests to calculate capacity for checking the agreement with the capacity calculated using the indoor air enthalpy method.

a. Conduct separate calibration tests using a calorimeter to determine the refrigerant flow rate. Or for cases where the superheat of the refrigerant leaving the evaporator is less than 5 &#xB0;F, use the calorimeter to measure total capacity rather than refrigerant flow rate. Conduct these calibration tests at the same test conditions as specified for the tests in this appendix. Operate the unit for at least one hour or until obtaining equilibrium conditions before collecting data that will be used in determining the average refrigerant flow rate or total capacity. Sample the data at equal intervals that span 5 minutes or less. Determine average flow rate or average capacity from data sampled over a 30-minute period where the Table 9 (cooling) or the Table 16 (heating) tolerances are satisfied. Otherwise, conduct the calibration tests according to sections 5, 6, 7, and 8 of ASHRAE 23.1-2010 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3); sections 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 11 of ASHRAE 41.9-2011 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3); and section 7.4 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009 (incorporated by reference, see § 430.3).

b. Calculate space cooling and space heating capacities using the compressor calibration method measurements as specified in section 7.4.5 and 7.4.6 respectively, of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009.

Conduct this secondary method according to section 7.5 of ANSI/ASHRAE 37-2009. Calculate space cooling and heating capacities using the refrigerant-enthalpy method measurements as specified in sections 7.5.4 and 7.5.5, respectively, of the same ANSI/ASHRAE Standard.

a. When reporting rated capacities, round them off as specified in § 430.23 (for a single unit) and in 10 CFR 429.16 (for a sample).

b. For the capacities used to perform the calculations in section 4 of this appendix, however, round only to the nearest integer.

Voltage tolerances: As a percentage of reading, test operating tolerance must be 2.0 percent and test condition tolerance must be 1.5 percent (see section 1.2 of this appendix for definitions of these tolerances).

Conduct one of the following tests: If the central air conditioner or heat pump lacks a compressor crankcase heater, perform the test in section 3.13.1 of this appendix; if the central air conditioner or heat pump has a compressor crankcase heater that lacks controls and is not self-regulating, perform the test in section 3.13.1 of this appendix; if the central air conditioner or heat pump has a crankcase heater with a fixed power input controlled with a thermostat that measures ambient temperature and whose sensing element temperature is not affected by the heater, perform the test in section 3.13.1 of this appendix; if the central air conditioner or heat pump has a compressor crankcase heater equipped with self-regulating control or with controls for which the sensing element temperature is affected by the heater, perform the test in section 3.13.2 of this appendix.

a. Test Sample Set-up and Power Measurement: For coil-only systems, provide a furnace or modular blower that is compatible with the system to serve as an interface with the thermostat (if used for the test) and to provide low-voltage control circuit power. Make all control circuit connections between the furnace (or modular blower) and the outdoor unit as specified by the manufacturer's installation instructions. Measure power supplied to both the furnace (or modular blower) and power supplied to the outdoor unit. Alternatively, provide a compatible transformer to supply low-voltage control circuit power, as described in section 2.2.d of this appendix. Measure transformer power, either supplied to the primary winding or supplied by the secondary winding of the transformer, and power supplied to the outdoor unit. For blower coil and single-package systems, make all control circuit connections between components as specified by the manufacturer's installation instructions, and provide power and measure power supplied to all system components.

b. Configure Controls: Configure the controls of the central air conditioner or heat pump so that it operates as if connected to a building thermostat that is set to the OFF position. Use a compatible building thermostat if necessary to achieve this configuration. For a thermostat-controlled crankcase heater with a fixed power input, bypass the crankcase heater thermostat if necessary to energize the heater.
