
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix M1 to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Central Air Conditioners and Heat Pumps
####### P,P,P1,,P1,P1

For coil-only split systems and blower coil split systems for which a furnace or a modular blower is the designated air mover, subtract the low-voltage power () from the shoulder season total off mode power (1) and divide by the number of compressors to calculatethe shoulder season per-compressor off mode power. Roundto the nearest watt. The expression for calculatingis as follows:

a. Test Sample Set-up and Power Measurement: set up the test and measurement as described in section 3.13.1.a of this appendix.

b. Configure Controls: Position a temperature sensor to measure the outdoor dry-bulb temperature in the air between 2 and 6 inches from the crankcase heater control temperature sensor or, if no such temperature sensor exists, position it in the air between 2 and 6 inches from the crankcase heater. Utilize the temperature measurements from this sensor for this portion of the test procedure. Configure the controls of the central air conditioner or heat pump so that it operates as if connected to a building thermostat that is set to the OFF position. Use a compatible building thermostat if necessary to achieve this configuration.

Conduct the test after completion of the B, B, or Btest. Alternatively, start the test when the outdoor dry-bulb temperature is at 82 &#xB0;F and the temperature of the compressor shell (or temperature of each compressor's shell if there is more than one compressor) is at least 81 &#xB0;F. Then adjust the outdoor temperature and achieve an outdoor dry-bulb temperature of 72 &#xB0;F. If the unit's compressor has no sound blanket, wait at least 4 hours after the outdoor temperature reaches 72 &#xB0;F. Otherwise, wait at least 8 hours after the outdoor temperature reaches 72 &#xB0;F. Maintain this temperature within +/-2 &#xB0;F while the compressor temperature equilibrates and while making the power measurement, as described in section 3.13.2.c of this appendix.
