
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix M1 to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Central Air Conditioners and Heat Pumps
####### P,P,P

c. Measure1: If the unit has a crankcase heater time delay, make sure that time-delay function is disabled or wait until delay time has passed. Determine the average power from non-zero value data measured over a 5-minute interval of the non-operating central air conditioner or heat pump and designate the average power as1, the shoulder season total off mode power. For units with crankcase heaters which operate during this part of the test and whose controls cycle or vary crankcase heater power over time, the test period shall consist of three complete crankcase heater cycles or 18 hours, whichever comes first. Designate the average power over the test period as1, the shoulder season total off mode power.

d. Reduce outdoor temperature: Approach the target outdoor dry-bulb temperature by adjusting the outdoor temperature. This target temperature is five degrees Fahrenheit less than the temperature certified by the manufacturer as the temperature at which the crankcase heater turns on. If the unit's compressor has no sound blanket, wait at least 4 hours after the outdoor temperature reaches the target temperature. Otherwise, wait at least 8 hours after the outdoor temperature reaches the target temperature. Maintain the target temperature within +/-2 &#xB0;F while the compressor temperature equilibrates and while making the power measurement, as described in section 3.13.2.e of this appendix.
