
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix M1 to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Central Air Conditioners and Heat Pumps
####### SEER2,PLF,EER

=(0.5) *

b. Refer to section 3.3 of this appendix regarding the definition and calculation of Q(82) and E(82). Evaluate the cooling mode cyclic degradation factor Cas specified in section 3.5.3 of this appendix.

The manufacturer must provide information on how the indoor air volume rate or the indoor blower speed varies over the outdoor temperature range of 67 &#xB0;F to 102 &#xB0;F. Calculate SEER2 using Equation 4.1-1. Evaluate the quantity q(T)/N in Equation 4.1-1 using,

a. For the space cooling season, assign n/N as specified in Table 19. Use Equation 4.1-2 to calculate the building load, BL(T). Evaluate Q(T) using,

b. For units where indoor blower speed is the primary control variable, FPdenotes the fan speed used during the required Aand Btests (see section 3.2.2.1 of this appendix), FPdenotes the fan speed used during the required Aand Btests, and FP(T) denotes the fan speed used by the unit when the outdoor temperature equals TFor units where indoor air volume rate is the primary control variable, the three FP's are similarly defined only now being expressed in terms of air volume rates rather than fan speeds. Refer to sections 3.2.2.1, 3.1.4 to 3.1.4.2, and 3.3 of this appendix regarding the definitions and calculations of Q(82), Q(95),Q(82), and Q(95).

Calculate e(T)/N in Equation 4.1-1 using, Equation 4.1.2-3

c. The quantities X(T) and n/N are the same quantities as used in Equation 4.1.2-1. Evaluate the cooling mode cyclic degradation factor Cas specified in section 3.5.3 of this appendix.

d. Evaluate E(T) using,

e. The parameters FP, and FP, and FP(T) are the same quantities that are used when evaluating Equation 4.1.2-2. Refer to sections 3.2.2.1, 3.1.4 to 3.1.4.2, and 3.3 of this appendix regarding the definitions and calculations of E(82), E(95), E(82), and E(95).

Calculate SEER2 as specified in section 4.1.1 of this appendix.

Calculate SEER2 using Equation 4.1-1. Evaluate the space cooling capacity, Q(T), and electrical power consumption, E(T), of the test unit when operating at low compressor capacity and outdoor temperature Tusing,

The calculation of Equation 4.1-1 quantities q(T)/N and e(T)/N differs depending on whether the test unit would operate at low capacity (section 4.1.3.1 of this appendix), cycle between low and high capacity (section 4.1.3.2 of this appendix), or operate at high capacity (sections 4.1.3.3 and 4.1.3.4 of this appendix) in responding to the building load. For units that lock out low capacity operation at higher outdoor temperatures, the outdoor temperature at which the unit locks out must be that specified by the manufacturer in the certification report so that the appropriate equations are used. Use Equation 4.1-2 to calculate the building load, BL(T), for each temperature bin.

Obtain the fractional bin hours for the cooling season, n/N, from Table 19. Use Equations 4.1.3-1 and 4.1.3-2, respectively, to evaluate Q(T) and E(T). Evaluate the cooling mode cyclic degradation factor Cas specified in section 3.5.3 of this appendix.

X(T) = 1 - X(T), the cooling mode, high capacity load factor for temperature bin j, dimensionless.

Obtain the fractional bin hours for the cooling season, n/N, from Table 19. Use Equations 4.1.3-1 and 4.1.3-2, respectively, to evaluate Q(T) and E(T). Use Equations 4.1.3-3 and 4.1.3-4, respectively, to evaluate Q(T) and E(T).

X(T) = BL(T)/Q(T), the cooling mode high capacity load factor for temperature bin j, dimensionless.

Obtain the fractional bin hours for the cooling season, n/N, from Table 19. Use Equations 4.1.3-3 and 4.1.3-4, respectively, to evaluate Q(T) and E(T). If the Cand Dtests described in section 3.2.3 and Table 7 of this appendix are not conducted, set C(k=2) equal to the default value specified in section 3.5.3 of this appendix.
