
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix M1 to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Central Air Conditioners and Heat Pumps
####### [object Object]

Use Equations 4.1.4-1 and 4.1.4-2 to this appendix, respectively, to calculate(87) and &#x116;(87).

4.1.4.1 Steady-state space cooling capacity when operating at minimum compressor speed is greater than or equal to the building cooling load at temperature T, Q(T) ≥BL(T).

Obtain the fractional bin hours for the cooling season, n/N, from Table 19. Use Equations 4.1.3-1 and 4.1.3-2, respectively, to evaluate Q(T) and E(T). Evaluate the cooling mode cyclic degradation factor Cas specified in section 3.5.3 of this appendix.

4.1.4.2 Unit operates at an intermediate compressor speed (k=i) in order to match the building cooling load at temperature T, Q(T) <BL(T) <Q(T).

Obtain the fractional bin hours for the cooling season, n/N, from Table 19 of this section. For each temperature bin where the unit operates at an intermediate compressor speed, determine the energy efficiency ratio EER(T) using the following equations,

For each temperature bin where Q(T) <BL(T) <Q(T),

For each temperature bin where Q(T) &#x2264;BL(T) <Q(T),

EER(T) is the steady-state energy efficiency ratio of the test unit when operating at minimum compressor speed and temperature Tj, Btu/h per W, calculated using capacity Q(T) calculated using Equation 4.1.4-1 and electrical power consumption E(T) calculated using Equation 4.1.4-2;

EER(T) is the steady-state energy efficiency ratio of the test unit when operating at intermediate compressor speed and temperature Tj, Btu/h per W, calculated using capacity Q(T) calculated using Equation 4.1.4-3 and electrical power consumption E(T) calculated using Equation 4.1.4-4;

EER(T) is the steady-state energy efficiency ratio of the test unit when operating at full compressor speed and temperature Tj, Btu/h per W, calculated using capacity Q(T) and electrical power consumption E(T), both calculated as described in section 4.1.4; and

BL(T) is the building cooling load at temperature T, Btu/h.

If the unit operates at an intermediate compressor speed (k=i) in order to match the building cooling load at temperature T, Q(T) < BL(T) < Q(T).

Obtain the fractional bin hours for the cooling season, n/N, from Table 19 of this section. For each temperature bin where the unit operates at an intermediate compressor speed, determine the energy efficiency ratio EER(T) using the following equations:
