
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix M1 to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Central Air Conditioners and Heat Pumps
####### [object Object],T,[object Object],T,[object Object],T,[object Object],T,[object Object],T,[object Object],T,[object Object],T

c. Except for using the above values of(),(),(),(), C, and C(K=2), calculate the quantities q(T)/N and e(T)/N as specified in section 4.1.3.1 of this appendix for cases where() ≥ BL(T). For all other outdoor bin temperatures, T, calculate q(Tj)/N and e(Tj)/N as specified in section 4.1.3.3 of this appendix if() > BL (T) or as specified in section 4.1.3.4 of this appendix if() &#x2264; BL(T).

Unless an approved alternative efficiency determination method is used, as set forth in 10 CFR 429.70(e). Calculate HSPF2 as follows: Six generalized climatic regions are depicted in Figure 1 and otherwise defined in Table 20. For each of these regions and for each applicable standardized design heating requirement, evaluate the heating seasonal performance factor using,

Evaluate the building heating load using:

a. For all heat pumps, HSPF2 accounts for the heating delivered and the energy consumed by auxiliary resistive elements when operating below the balance point. This condition occurs when the building load exceeds the space heating capacity of the heat pump condenser. For HSPF2 calculations for all heat pumps, see either section 4.2.1, 4.2.2, 4.2.3, or 4.2.4 of this appendix, whichever applies.

b. For heat pumps with heat comfort controllers (see section 1.2 of this appendix, Definitions), HSPF2 also accounts for resistive heating contributed when operating above the heat-pump-plus-comfort-controller balance point as a result of maintaining a minimum supply temperature. For heat pumps having a heat comfort controller, see section 4.2.5 of this appendix for the additional steps required for calculating the HSPF2.

Use Equation 4.2-2 to determine BL(T). Obtain fractional bin hours for the heating season, n/N, from Table 20. Evaluate the heating mode cyclic degradation factor Cas specified in section 3.8.1 of this appendix.

Determine the low temperature cut-out factor using

T= the outdoor temperature when the compressor is automatically turned back on, if applicable, following an automatic shut-off, &#xB0;F.

If the H4 test is not conducted, calculate Q(T) and E(T) using

If the H4 test is conducted, calculate Q(T) and E(T) using

The manufacturer must provide information about how the indoor air volume rate or the indoor blower speed varies over the outdoor temperature range of 65 &#xB0;F to -23 &#xB0;F. Calculate the quantities

If the H4test is not conducted, calculate the space heating capacity and electrical power consumption at high capacity (k=2) at outdoor temperature Tj using Equations 4.2.2-3 and 4.2.2-4 for k=2.

If the H4test is conducted, calculate the space heating capacity and electrical power consumption at high capacity (k=2) at outdoor temperature Tj using Equations 4.2.2-5 and 4.2.2-6.

For units where indoor blower speed is the primary control variable, FPdenotes the fan speed used during the required H1and H3tests (see Table 12), FPdenotes the fan speed used during the required H1, H2, and H3tests, and FP(T) denotes the fan speed used by the unit when the outdoor temperature equals TFor units where indoor air volume rate is the primary control variable, the three FP's are similarly defined only now being expressed in terms of air volume rates rather than fan speeds. Determine Q(47) and E(47) from the H1test, and Q(47) and E(47) from the H1test. Calculate all four quantities as specified in section 3.7 of this appendix. Determine Q(35) and E(35) as specified in section 3.6.2 of this appendix; determine Q(35) and E(35) and from the H2test and the calculation specified in section 3.9 of this appendix. Determine Q(17) and E(17 from the H3test, and Q(17) and E(17) from the H3test. Calculate all four quantities as specified in section 3.10 of this appendix. Determine Q(5) and E(5) from the H4test and the calculation specified in section 3.10 of this appendix.

The calculation of the Equation 4.2-1 to this appendix quantities differ depending upon whether the heat pump would operate at low capacity (section 4.2.3.1 of this appendix), cycle between low and high capacity (section 4.2.3.2 of this appendix), or operate at high capacity (sections 4.2.3.3 and 4.2.3.4 of this appendix) in responding to the building load. For heat pumps that lock out low capacity operation at low outdoor temperatures, the outdoor temperature at which the unit locks out must be that specified by the manufacturer in the certification report so that the appropriate equations can be selected.

a. Evaluate the space heating capacity and electrical power consumption of the heat pump when operating at low compressor capacity and outdoor temperature Tusing

b. If the H4test is not conducted, evaluate the space heating capacity and electrical power consumption (Q(T) and E(T)) of the heat pump when operating at high compressor capacity and outdoor temperature Tj by solving Equations 4.2.2-3 and 4.2.2-4, respectively, for k=2. If the H4test is conducted, evaluate the space heating capacity and electrical power consumption (Q(T) and E(T)) of the heat pump when operating at high compressor capacity and outdoor temperature Tj using Equations 4.2.2-5 and 4.2.2-6, respectively.

Determine Q(62) and E(62) from the H0test, Q(47) and E(47) from the H1test, and Q(47) and E(47) from the H1test. Calculate all six quantities as specified in section 3.7 of this appendix. Determine Q(35) and E(35) from the H2test and, if required as described in section 3.6.3 of this appendix, determine Q(35) and E(35) from the H2test. Calculate the required 35 &#xB0;F quantities as specified in section 3.9 in this appendix. Determine Q(17) and E(17) from the H3test and, if required as described in section 3.6.3 of this appendix, determine Q(17) and E(17) from the H3test. Calculate the required 17 &#xB0;F quantities as specified in section 3.10 of this appendix. Determine Q(5) and E(5) from the H4test and the calculation specified in section 3.10 of this appendix.

Evaluate the heating mode cyclic degradation factor Cas specified in section 3.8.1 of this appendix.

Determine the low temperature cut-out factor using

a. The heat pump locks out low capacity operation at low outdoor temperatures and

b. Tis below this lockout threshold temperature.

Determine the low temperature cut-out factor, δ&#x2032;(T), using Equation 4.2.3-3.
