
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix M1 to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Central Air Conditioners and Heat Pumps
####### [object Object],[object Object],[object Object],[object Object],[object Object],[object Object],[object Object],[object Object],[object Object],[object Object],[object Object],[object Object],[object Object],[object Object],[object Object],[object Object]

a. Calculate the space heating capacity,(Tj), and electrical power consumption,(Tj), of the heat pump when operating at the heating minimum air volume rate and outdoor temperature Tusing Eqs. 4.2.2-3 and 4.2.2-4, respectively. Use these same equations to calculate the space heating capacity,(Tj) and electrical power consumption,(Tj), of the test unit when operating at the heating full-load air volume rate and outdoor temperature T. In evaluating Eqs. 4.2.2-3 and 4.2.2- 4, determine the quantities(47) and(47) from the H1test; determine(47) and(47) from the H1test. Evaluate all four quantities according to section 3.7 of this appendix. Determine the quantities(35) and(35) as specified in section 3.6.2 of this appendix. Determine(35) and(35) from the H2frost accumulation test as calculated according to section 3.9.1 of this appendix. Determine the quantities(17) and(17) from the H3test, and(17) and(17) from the H3test. Evaluate all four quantities according to section 3.10 of this appendix. Refer to section 3.6.2 and Table 12 of this appendix for additional information on the referenced laboratory tests.

b. Determine the heating mode cyclic degradation coefficient, C, as per sections 3.6.2 and 3.8 to 3.8.1 of this appendix. Assign this same value to C(k = 2).
