
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix N to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Consumer Furnaces Other Than Boilers
####### General.

6.1

(a) Install the furnace in the test room in accordance with the I&O manual, as defined in section 2.6 of this appendix, except that if provisions within this appendix are specified, then the provisions herein drafted and prescribed by DOE govern. If the I&O manual and any additional provisions of this appendix are not sufficient for testing a furnace, the manufacturer must request a waiver from the test procedure pursuant to ยง 430.27.

(b) If the I&O manual indicates the unit should not be installed with a return duct, then the return (inlet) duct specified in section 7.2.1 of ASHRAE 103-1993 is not required.

(c) Test multi-position furnaces in the least efficient configuration. Testing of multi-position furnaces in other configurations is permitted if energy use or efficiency is represented pursuant to the requirements in 10 CFR part 429.

(d) The apparatuses described in section 6 of this appendix are used in conjunction with the furnace during testing. Each piece of apparatus shall conform to material and construction specifications listed in this appendix and in ASHRAE 103-1993, and the reference standards cited in this appendix and in ASHRAE 103-1993.

(e) Test rooms containing equipment must have suitable facilities for providing the utilities (including but not limited to environmental controls, applicable measurement equipment, and any other technology or tools) necessary for performance of the test and must be able to maintain conditions within the limits specified in section 6 of this appendix.
