
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix N to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Consumer Furnaces Other Than Boilers
####### see,see

(a) Units not equipped with a draft hood or draft diverter must be provided with the minimum-length vent configuration recommended in the I&O manual or a 5-ft flue pipe if there is no recommendation provided in the I&O manual (Figure 4 of ASHRAE 103-1993). For a direct exhaust system, insulate the minimum-length vent configuration or the 5-ft flue pipe with insulation having an R-value not less than 7 and an outer layer of aluminum foil. For a direct vent system,section 7.5 of ASHRAE 103-1993 for insulation requirements.

(b) For units with power burners, cover the flue collection box with insulation having an R-value of not less than 7 and an outer layer of aluminum foil before the cool-down and heat-up tests described in sections 9.5 and 9.6 of ASHRAE 103-1993, respectively. However, do not apply the insulation for the jacket loss test (if conducted) described in section 8.6 of ASHRAE 103-1993 or the steady-state test described in section 9.1 of ASHRAE 103-1993.

(c) For power-vented units, insulate the shroud surrounding the blower impeller with insulation having an R-value of not less than 7 and an outer layer of aluminum foil before the cool-down and heat-up tests described in sections 9.5 and 9.6, respectively, of ASHRAE 103-1993. However, do not apply the insulation for the jacket loss test (if conducted) described in section 8.6 of ASHRAE 103-1993 or the steady-state test described in section 9.1 of ASHRAE 103-1993. Do not insulate the blower motor or block the airflow openings that facilitate the cooling of the combustion blower motor or bearings.
