
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix N to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Consumer Furnaces Other Than Boilers
####### Units with draft hoods or draft diverters.

6.4Install the stack damper in accordance with the I&O manual. Install 5 feet of stack above the damper.

(a) For units with an integral draft diverter, cover the 5-ft stack with insulation having an R-value of not less than 7 and an outer layer of aluminum foil.

(b) For units with draft hoods, insulate the flue pipe between the outlet of the furnace and the draft hood with insulation having an R-value of not less than 7 and an outer layer of aluminum foil.

(c) For units with integral draft diverters that are mounted in an exposed position (not inside the overall unit cabinet), cover the diverter boxes (excluding any openings through which draft relief air flows) before the beginning of any test (including jacket loss test) with insulation having an R-value of not less than 7 and an outer layer of aluminum foil.

(d) For units equipped with integral draft diverters that are enclosed within the overall unit cabinet, insulate the draft diverter box with insulation as described in section 6.4.c before the cool-down and heat-up tests described in sections 9.5 and 9.6, respectively, of ASHRAE 103-1993. However, do not apply the insulation for the jacket loss test (if conducted) described in section 8.6 of ASHRAE 103-1993 or the steady-state test described in section 9.1 of ASHRAE 103-1993.
