
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Test Procedures
###### Appendix N to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Consumer Furnaces Other Than Boilers
####### Temperature Rise Adjustments.

7.6Establish the temperature rise specified in section 7.5 of this appendix by adjusting the circulating airflow. This adjustment must be accomplished by symmetrically restricting the outlet air duct and varying blower speed selection to obtain the desired temperature rise and minimum external static pressure, as specified in Table 4 of ASHRAE 103-1993. If the required temperature rise cannot be obtained at the minimum specified external static pressure by adjusting blower speed selection and duct outlet restriction, then the following applies.

(a) If the resultant temperature rise is less than the required temperature rise, vary the blower speed by gradually adjusting the blower voltage so as to maintain the minimum external static pressure listed in Table 4 of ASHRAE 103-1993. The airflow restrictions shall then remain unchanged. If static pressure must be varied to prevent unstable blower operation, then increase the static pressure until blower operation is stabilized, except that the static pressure must not exceed the maximum external static pressure as specified by the manufacturer in the I&O manual.

(b) If the resultant temperature rise is greater than the required temperature rise, then the unit can be tested at a higher temperature rise value, but one not greater than nameplate maximum temperature rise. In order not to exceed the maximum temperature rise, the speed of a direct-driven blower may be increased by increasing the circulating air blower motor voltage.
