
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Subpart D - Petitions To Exempt State Regulation From Preemption; Petitions To Withdraw Exemption of State Regulation
###### ยง 430.42 Filing requirements.
####### Filing of petitions.

(e)(1) A petition for a rule shall be submitted in triplicate to: The Assistant Secretary for Conservation and Renewable Energy, U.S. Department of Energy, Section 327 Petitions, Appliance Efficiency Standards, Forrestal Building, 1000 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20585.

(2) A petition may be submitted on behalf of more than one person. A joint petition shall indicate each person participating in the submission. A joint petition shall provide the information required by ยง 430.41 for each person on whose behalf the petition is submitted.

(3) All petitions shall be signed by the person(s) submitting the petition or by a duly authorized representative. If submitted by a duly authorized representative, the petition shall certify this authorization.

(4) A petition for a rule to withdraw a rule exempting a State regulation, all supporting documents, and all future submissions shall be served on each State agency, department, or instrumentality whose regulation the petitioner seeks to supersede. The petition shall contain a certification of this service which states the name and mailing address of the served parties, and the date of service.
