
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix O to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Vented Home Heating Equipment

DOE incorporated by reference in ยง 430.3: ANSI Z21.86-2016; ASHRAE 103-2017; ASTM D2156-09 (R2018); IEC 62301; UL 729-2016; UL 730-2016; and UL 896-2016 in their entirety. However, only enumerated provisions of ANSI Z21.86-2016; ASHRAE 103-2017, UL 729-2016, UL 730-2016, and UL 896-2016 are applicable to this appendix, as follows:

0.1 ANSI Z21.86-2016

(i) Section 5.2-Test gases

(ii) Section 9.1.3

(iii) Section 11.1.3

(iv) Section 11.7-Temperature at discharge air opening and surface temperatures

0.2 ASHRAE 103-2017

(i) Section 6-INSTRUMENTS

(ii) Section 8.2.2.3.1-Oil Supply

(iii) Section 8.6-Jacket Loss Measurement

(iv) Section 8.8.3-Additional Optional Method of Testing for Determining DP and DF for Furnaces and Boilers

(v) Section 9.10-Optional Test Procedures for Condensing Furnaces and Boilers that Have no OFF-Period Flue Losses

0.3 UL 729-2016

(i) Section 38.1-Enclosure

(ii) Section 38.2-Chimney connector

0.4 UL 730-2016

(i) Section 36.1-Enclosure

(ii) Section 36.2-Chimney connector

(iii) Sections 37.5.8 through 37.5.180.5 UL 896-2016

(i) Section 37.1.2

(ii) Section 37.1.3

1.1 "Active mode" means the condition during the heating season in which the vented heater is connected to the power source, and either the burner or any electrical auxiliary is activated.

1.2 "Air shutter" means an adjustable device for varying the size of the primary air inlet(s) to the combustion chamber power burner.

1.3 "Air tube" means a tube which carries combustion air from the burner fan to the burner nozzle for combustion.

1.4 "Barometic draft regulator or barometric damper" means a mechanical device designed to maintain a constant draft in a vented heater.

1.5 "Condensing vented heater" means a vented heater that, during the laboratory tests prescribed in this appendix, condenses part of the water vapor in the flue gases.

1.6 "Draft hood" means an external device which performs the same function as an integral draft diverter, as defined in section 1.17 of this appendix.

1.7 "Electro-mechanical stack damper" means a type of stack damper which is operated by electrical and/or mechanical means.

1.8 "Excess air" means air which passes through the combustion chamber and the vented heater flues in excess of that which is theoretically required for complete combustion.

1.9 "Flue" means a conduit between the flue outlet of a vented heater and the integral draft diverter, draft hood, barometric damper or vent terminal through which the flue gases pass prior to the point of draft relief.

1.10 "Flue damper" means a device installed between the furnace and the integral draft diverter, draft hood, barometric draft regulator, or vent terminal which is not equipped with a draft control device, designed to open the venting system when the appliance is in operation and to close the venting system when the appliance is in a standby condition.

1.11 "Flue gases" means reaction products resulting from the combustion of a fuel with the oxygen of the air, including the inerts and any excess air.

1.12 "Flue losses" means the sum of sensible and latent heat losses above room temperature of the flue gases leaving a vented heater.

1.13 "Flue outlet" means the opening provided in a vented heater for the exhaust of the flue gases from the combustion chamber.

1.14 "Heat input" (Q) means the rate of energy supplied in a fuel to a vented heater operating under steady-state conditions, expressed in Btu's per hour. It includes any input energy to the pilot light and is obtained by multiplying the measured rate of fuel consumption by the measured higher heating value of the fuel.

1.15 "Heating capacity" (Q) means the rate of useful heat output from a vented heater, operating under steady-state conditions, expressed in Btu's per hour. For room and wall heaters, it is obtained by multiplying the "heat input" (Q) by the steady-state efficiency (&#x3B7;) divided by 100. For floor furnaces, it is obtained by multiplying (A) the "heat input" (Q) by (B) the steady-state efficiency divided by 100, minus the quantity (2.8) (L) divided by 100, where Lis the jacket loss as determined in section 3.2 of this appendix.

1.16 "Higher heating value" (HHV) means the heat produced per unit of fuel when complete combustion takes place at constant pressure and the products of combustion are cooled to the initial temperature of the fuel and air and when the water vapor formed during combustion is condensed. The higher heating value is usually expressed in Btu's per pound, Btu's per cubic foot for gaseous fuel, or Btu's per gallon for liquid fuel.

1.17 "IEC 62301 (Second Edition)" means the test standard published by the International Electrotechnical Commission, titled "Household electrical appliances-Measurement of standby power," Publication 62301 Edition 2.0 2011-01 (incorporated by reference; see ยง 430.3).

1.18 "Induced draft" means a method of drawing air into the combustion chamber by mechanical means.

1.19 "Infiltration parameter" means that portion of unconditioned outside air drawn into the heated space as a consequence of loss of conditioned air through the exhaust system of a vented heater.

1.20 "Integral draft diverter" means a device which is an integral part of a vented heater, designed to: (1) Provide for the exhaust of the products of combustion in the event of no draft, back draft, or stoppage beyond the draft diverter, (2) prevent a back draft from entering the vented heater, and (3) neutralize the stack action of the chimney or gas vent upon the operation of the vented heater.

1.21 "Manually controlled vented heaters" means either gas or oil fueled vented heaters equipped without thermostats.

1.22 "Modulating control" means either a step-modulating or two-stage control.

1.23 "Off mode" means the condition during the non-heating season in which the vented heater is connected to the power source, and neither the burner nor any electrical auxiliary is activated.

1.24 "Power burner" means a vented heater burner which supplies air for combustion at a pressure exceeding atmospheric pressure, or a burner which depends on the draft induced by a fan incorporated in the furnace for proper operation.

1.25 "Reduced heat input rate" means the factory adjusted lowest reduced heat input rate for vented home heating equipment equipped with either two stage thermostats or step-modulating thermostats.

1.26 "Seasonal off switch" means the control device, such as a lever or toggle, on the vented heater that affects a difference in off mode energy consumption as compared to standby mode consumption.

1.27 "Single-stage thermostat" means a thermostat that cycles a burner at the maximum heat input rate and off.

1.28 "Stack" means the portion of the exhaust system downstream of the integral draft diverter, draft hood or barometric draft regulator.

1.29 "Stack damper" means a device installed downstream of the integral draft diverter, draft hood, or barometric draft regulator, designed to open the venting system when the appliance is in operation and to close off the venting system when the appliance is in the standby condition.

1.30 "Stack gases" means the flue gases combined with dilution air that enters at the integral draft diverter, draft hood or barometric draft regulator.

1.31 "Standby mode" means the condition during the heating season in which the vented heater is connected to the power source, and neither the burner nor any electrical auxiliary is activated.

1.32 "Steady-state conditions for vented home heating equipment" means equilibrium conditions as indicated by temperature variations of not more than 5 &#xB0;F (2.8C) in the flue gas temperature for units equipped with draft hoods, barometric draft regulators or direct vent systems, in three successive readings taken 15 minutes apart or not more than 3 &#xB0;F (1.7C) in the stack gas temperature for units equipped with integral draft diverters in three successive readings taken 15 minutes apart.

1.33 "Step-modulating control" means a control that either cycles off and on at the low input if the heating load is light, or gradually, increases the heat input to meet any higher heating load that cannot be met with the low firing rate.

1.34 "Thermal stack damper" means a type of stack damper which is dependent for operation exclusively upon the direct conversion of thermal energy of the stack gases into movement of the damper plate.

1.35 "Two stage control" means a control that either cycles a burner at the reduced heat input rate and off or cycles a burner at the maximum heat input rate and off.

1.36 "Vaporizing-type oil burner" means a device with an oil vaporizing bowl or other receptacle designed to operate by vaporizing liquid fuel oil by the heat of combustion and mixing the vaporized fuel with air.

1.37 "Vent/air intake terminal" means a device which is located on the outside of a building and is connected to a vented heater by a system of conduits. It is composed of an air intake terminal through which the air for combustion is taken from the outside atmosphere and a vent terminal from which flue gases are discharged.

1.38 "Vent limiter" means a device which limits the flow of air from the atmospheric diaphragm chamber of a gas pressure regulator to the atmosphere. A vent limiter may be a limiting orifice or other limiting device.

1.39 "Vent pipe" means the passages and conduits in a direct vent system through which gases pass from the combustion chamber to the outdoor air.
