
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix O to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Vented Home Heating Equipment
###### 2.4.1 Gas burner adjustments.

Adjust the burners of gas-fueled vented heaters to their maximum Btu ratings at the test pressure specified in section 2.3 of this appendix. Correct the burner volumetric flow rate to 60 &#xB0;F (15.6 &#xB0;C) and 30 inches of mercury barometric pressure, set the fuel flow rate to obtain a heat rate of within +/-2 percent of the hourly Btu rating specified by the manufacturer on the nameplate of the unit or in the I&O manual, as measured after 15 minutes of operation, starting with all parts of the vented heater at room temperature. Set the primary air shutters in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations on the nameplate of the unit or in the I&O manual to give a good flame at this adjustment. Do not allow the deposit of carbon during any test specified herein. If a vent limiting means is provided on a gas pressure regulator, have it in place during all tests.

For gas-fueled heaters with modulating controls, adjust the controls to operate the heater at the maximum fuel input rate. Set the thermostat control to the maximum setting. Start the heater by turning the safety control valve to the "on" position. In order to prevent modulation of the burner at maximum input, place the thermostat sensing element in a temperature control bath which is held at a temperature below the maximum set point temperature of the control.

For gas-fueled heaters with modulating controls, adjust the controls to operate the heater at the reduced fuel input rate. Set the thermostat control to the minimum setting. Start the heater by turning the safety control valve to the "on" position. If ambient test room temperature is above the lowest control set point temperature, initiate burner operation by placing the thermostat sensing element in a temperature control bath that is held at a temperature below the minimum set point temperature of the control.
