
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix O to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Vented Home Heating Equipment
###### 2.4.2 Oil burner adjustments.

Adjust the burners of oil-fueled vented heaters to give the COreading recommended by the manufacturer and an hourly Btu input, during the steady-state performance test described below, which is within +/-2 percent of the heater manufacturer's specified hourly Btu input rating on the nameplate of the unit or in the I&O manual. On units employing a power burner, do not allow smoke in the flue to exceed a No. 1 smoke during the steady-state performance test as measured by the procedure in ASTM D2156-09 (R2018). If, on units employing a power burner, the smoke in the flue exceeds a No. 1 smoke during the steady-state test, readjust the burner to give a lower smoke reading, and, if necessary, a lower COreading, and start all tests over. Maintain the average draft over the fire and in the flue during the steady-state performance test at that recommended by the manufacturer within +/-0.005 inches of water gauge. Do not make additional adjustments to the burner during the required series of performance tests. The instruments and measuring apparatus for this test are described in Section 6 and shown in Figure 8 of ASHRAE 103-2017. Calibrate instruments for measuring oil pressure so that the error is no greater than +/-0.5 psi.
