
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix O to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Vented Home Heating Equipment
###### 2.6.1.4 Direct vent system which intentionally preheat incoming air.

For units which employ direct vent systems that intentionally preheat the incoming combustion air, such as a concentric direct vent system, install nine thermocouples, wired in parallel, in a plane parallel to and located within 6 inches (152.4 mm) of the vent/air intake terminal. Equalize the length of all thermocouple leads before paralleling. Locate one thermocouple in the center of the flue pipe and eight thermocouples along imaginary lines intersecting at right angles in this plane at points one third and two thirds of the distance between the center of the flue pipe and the pipe wall.

For units with a flue pipe diameter of 2 inches or less, five thermocouples may be installed instead of nine. Locate one thermocouple in the center of the flue pipe and four thermocouples along imaginary lines intersecting at right angles in this plane at points halfway between the center of the flue pipe and the pipe wall.

Install thermocouples for measuring the heated air temperature as described in Sections 37.5.8 through 37.5.18 of UL 730-2016. Establish the temperature of the inlet air by means of a single No. 24 AWG bead-type thermocouple located in the center of the plane of each inlet air opening. Use bead-type thermocouples having a wire size not greater than No. 24 AWG. If there is a thermocouple that has a direct line of sight with the fire, install a radiation shield, meeting the material and minimum thickness requirements from Section 8.14.1 of ANSI Z21.86-2016, on the fire side of the thermocouple only, and position the shield so that it does not touch the thermocouple junction.

Install nine thermocouples, wired in parallel and having equal length leads, in a plane perpendicular to the axis of the flue pipe. Locate this plane at the position shown in Figure 36.4 of UL 730-2016, or Figure 38.1 and 38.2 of UL 729-2016 for a single thermocouple, except that on direct vent systems which intentionally preheat the incoming combustion air, locate this plane within 6 inches (152.5 mm) of the outlet of the vent/air intake terminal. Locate one thermocouple in the center of the flue pipe and eight thermocouples along imaginary lines intersecting at right angles in this plane at points one third and two thirds of the distance between the center of the pipe and pipe wall.

For units with a flue pipe diameter of 2 inches or less, five thermocouples may be installed instead of nine. Wire the thermocouples in parallel with equal length leads, in a plane perpendicular to the axis of the flue pipe. Locate this plane at the position shown in Figure 36.4 of UL 730-2016, or Figure 38.1 and 38.2 of UL 729-2016 for a single thermocouple, except that on direct vent systems which intentionally preheat the incoming combustion air, locate this plane within 6 inches (152.5 mm) of the outlet of the vent/air intake terminal. Locate one thermocouple in the center of the flue pipe and four thermocouples along imaginary lines intersecting at right angles in this plane at points halfway between the center of the pipe and pipe wall.
