
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix O to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Vented Home Heating Equipment
###### Gas fueled vented home heating equipment (including direct vent systems).

3.1.1Set up the vented heater as specified in sections 2.1, 2.2, and 2.3 of this appendix. The draft diverter shall be in the normal open condition and the stack shall not be insulated. (Insulation of the stack is no longer required for the vented heater test.) Begin the steady-state performance test by operating the burner and the circulating air blower, on units so equipped, with the adjustments specified by sections 2.4.1 and 2.5 of this appendix, until steady-state conditions are attained as indicated by three successive readings taken 15 minutes apart with a temperature variation of not more than +/-3 &#xB0;F (1.7 C) in the stack gas temperature for vented heaters equipped with draft diverters or +/-5 &#xB0;F (2.8 C) in the flue gas temperature for vented heaters equipped with either draft hoods or direct vent systems. The measurements described in this section are to coincide with the last of these 15 minute readings.

On units employing draft diverters, measure the room temperature (T) as described in section 2.9 of this appendix and measure the steady-state stack gas temperature (T) using the nine thermocouples located in the 5 foot test stack as specified in section 2.6.1 of this appendix. Secure a sample of the stack gases in the plane where Tis measured or within 3.5 feet downstream of this plane. Determine the concentration by volume of carbon dioxide (X) present in the dry stack gas. If the location of the gas sampling differs from the temperature measurement plane, there shall be no air leaks through the stack between these two locations.

On units employing draft hoods or direct vent systems, measure the room temperature (T) as described in section 2.9 of this appendix and measure the steady-state flue gas temperature (T), using the nine thermocouples located in the flue pipe as described in section 2.6.1 of this appendix. Secure a sample of the flue gas in the plane of temperature measurement and determine the concentration by volume of CO(X) present in dry flue gas. In addition, for units employing draft hoods, secure a sample of the stack gas in a horizontal plane in the five foot test stack located one foot from the test stack inlet; and determine the concentration by volume of CO(X) present in dry stack gas.

Determine the steady-state heat input rate (Qin) including pilot gas by multiplying the measured higher heating value of the test gas by the steady-state gas input rate corrected to standard conditions of 60 &#xB0;F and 30 inches of mercury. Use measured values of gas temperature and pressure at the meter and the barometric pressure to correct the metered gas flow rate to standard conditions.

After the above test measurements have been completed on units employing draft diverters, secure a sample of the flue gases at the exit of the heat exchanger(s) and determine the concentration of CO(X) present. In obtaining this sample of flue gas, move the sampling probe around or use a sample probe with multiple sampling ports in order to assure that an average value is obtained for the COconcentration. For units with multiple heat exchanger outlets, measure the COconcentration in a sample from each outlet to obtain the average COconcentration for the unit. A manifold (parallel connected sampling tubes) may be used to obtain this sample.

For heaters with single-stage thermostat control (wall mounted electric thermostats), determine the steady-state efficiency at the maximum fuel input rate as specified in section 2.4 of this appendix.

For gas fueled vented heaters equipped with either two stage control or step-modulating control, determine the steady-state efficiency at the maximum fuel input rate and at the reduced fuel input rate, as specified in section 2.4.1 of this appendix.

For manually controlled gas fueled vented heaters with various input rates, determine the steady-state efficiency at a fuel input rate that is within +/-5 percent of 50 percent of the maximum rated fuel input rate as indicated on the nameplate of the unit or in the manufacturer's installation and operation manual shipped with the unit. If the heater is designed to use a control that precludes operation at other than maximum rated fuel input rate (single firing rate) determine the steady state efficiency at the maximum rated fuel input rate only.
