
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix O to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Vented Home Heating Equipment
###### 3.1.2 Oil-fueled vented home heating equipment (including direct vent systems).

Set up and adjust the vented heater as specified in sections 2.1, 2.2, and 2.3.4 of this appendix. Begin the steady-state performance test by operating the burner and the circulating air blower, on units so equipped, with the adjustments specified by sections 2.4.2 and 2.5 of this appendix, until steady-state conditions are attained as indicated by a temperature variation of not more than +/-5 &#xB0;F (2.8 &#xB0;C) in the flue gas temperature in three successive readings taken 15 minutes apart. The measurements described in this section are to coincide with the last of these 15 minutes readings.

For units equipped with power burners, do not allow smoke in the flue to exceed a No. 1 smoke during the steady-state performance test as measured by the procedure described in ASTM D2156-09 (R2018). Maintain the average draft over the fire and in the breeching during the steady-state performance test at that recommended by the manufacturer +/-0.005 inches of water gauge.

Measure the room temperature (T) as described in section 2.9 of this appendix. Measure the steady-state flue gas temperature (T) using nine thermocouples (or five, as applicable) located in the flue pipe as described in section 2.6.2 of this appendix. From the plane where Twas measured, collect a sample of the flue gas and determine the concentration by volume of CO(X) present in dry flue gas. Measure and record the steady-state heat input rate (Q).

For manually controlled oil fueled vented heaters, determine the steady-state efficiency at a fuel input rate that is within +/-5 percent of 50 percent of the maximum fuel input rate; or, if the design of the heater is such that the fuel input rate cannot be set to +/-5 percent of 50 percent of the maximum rated fuel input rate, determine the steady-state efficiency at the minimum rated fuel input rate as measured in section 3.1.2 of this appendix for manually controlled oil fueled vented heaters.
