
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix O to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Vented Home Heating Equipment
###### Measurement of the off-cycle losses for vented heaters equipped with thermal stack dampers.

3.3Unless specified otherwise, the thermal stack damper should be at the draft diverter exit collar. Attach a five foot length of bare stack to the outlet of the damper. Install thermocouples as specified in section 2.6.1 of this appendix.

For vented heaters equipped with single-stage thermostats, measure the off-cycle losses at the maximum fuel input rate. For vented heaters equipped with two stage thermostats, measure the off-cycle losses at the maximum fuel input rate and at the reduced fuel input rate. For vented heaters equipped with step-modulating thermostats, measure the off-cycle losses at the reduced fuel input rate.

Allow the vented heater to heat up to a steady-state condition. Feed a tracer gas at a constant metered rate into the stack directly above and within one foot above the stack damper. Record tracer gas flow rate and temperature. Measure the tracer gas concentration in the stack at several locations in a horizontal plane through a cross-section of the stack at a point sufficiently above the stack damper to ensure that the tracer gas is well mixed in the stack.

Continuously measure the tracer gas concentration and temperature during a 10-minute cool-down period. Shut the burner off and immediately begin measuring tracer gas concentration in the stack, stack temperature, room temperature, and barometric pressure. Record these values as the midpoint of each one-minute interval between burner shut-down and ten minutes after burner shut-down. Meter response time and sampling delay time shall be considered in timing these measurements.
