
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix O to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Vented Home Heating Equipment
###### Optional procedure for determining,for systems for all types of vented heaters.

3.6DDand DFor all types of vented heaters, DDand Dcan be measured by the following optional cool down test.

Conduct a cool down test by letting the unit heat up until steady-state conditions are reached, as indicated by temperature variation of not more than 5 &#xB0;F (2.8 &#xB0;C) in the flue gas temperature in three successive readings taken 15 minutes apart, and then shutting the unit off with the stack or flue damper controls by-passed or adjusted so that the stack or flue damper remains open during the resulting cool down period. If a draft was maintained on oil fueled units in the flue pipe during the steady-state performance test described in section 3.1 of this appendix, maintain the same draft (within a range of -.001 to + .005 inches of water gauge of the average steady-state draft) during this cool down period.

Measure the flue gas mass flow rate (m) during the cool down test described above at a specific off-period flue gas temperature and corrected to obtain its value at the steady-state flue gas temperature (T), using the procedure described below.

Within one minute after the unit is shut off to start the cool down test for determining D, begin feeding a tracer gas into the combustion chamber at a constant flow rate of V, and at a point which will allow for the best possible mixing with the air flowing through the chamber. (On units equipped with an oil fired power burner, the best location for injecting this tracer gas appears to be through a hole drilled in the air tube.) Periodically measure the value of Vwith an instantaneously reading flow meter having an accuracy of +/-3 percent of the quantity measured. Maintain Vat less than 1 percent of the air flow rate through the furnace. If a combustible tracer gas is used, there should be a delay period between the time the burner gas is shut off and the time the tracer gas is first injected to prevent ignition of the tracer gas.

Between 5 and 6 minutes after the unit is shut off to start the cool down test, measure at the exit of the heat exchanger the average flue gas temperature, T*. At the same instant the flue gas temperature is measured, also measure the percent volumetric concentration of tracer gas Cin the flue gas in the same plane where T*is determined. Obtain the concentration of tracer gas using an instrument which will result in an accuracy of +/-2 percent in the value of Cmeasured. If use of a continuous reading type instrument results in a delay time between drawing of a sample and its analysis, this delay should be taken into account so that the temperature measurement and the measurement of tracer gas concentration coincide. In addition, determine the temperature of the tracer gas entering the flow meter (T) and the barometric pressure (P).

The rate of the flue gas mass flow through the vented heater and the factors D, D, and Dare calculated by the equations in sections 4.5.1 through 4.5.3 of this appendix.
