
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix O to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Vented Home Heating Equipment
###### Steady-state condensate collection test.

3.8.1Begin steady-state condensate collection concurrently with or immediately after completion of the steady-state testing of section 3.1 of this appendix. The steady-state condensate collection period shall be 30 minutes. Condensate mass shall be measured immediately at the end of the collection period to minimize evaporation loss from the sample. Record fuel input during the 30-minute condensate collection steady-state test period. Measure and record fuel higher heating value (HHV), temperature, and pressures necessary for determining fuel energy input (Q). The fuel quantity and HHV shall be measured with errors no greater than +/-1 percent. Determine the mass of condensate for the steady-state test (M) in pounds by subtracting the tare container weight from the total container and condensate weight measured at the end of the 30-minute condensate collection test period. The error associated with the mass measurement instruments shall not exceed +/-0.5 percent of the quantity measured.

For units with step-modulating or two stage controls, the steady-state condensate collection test shall be conducted at both the maximum and reduced input rates.
