
# Title 10 - Energy
## Chapter II - Department of Energy
### Subchapter D - Energy Conservation
#### PART 430 - ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR CONSUMER PRODUCTS
##### Appendix O to Subpart B of Part 430 - Uniform Test Method for Measuring the Energy Consumption of Vented Home Heating Equipment
###### 3.8.2 Cyclic condensate collection tests.

If existing controls do not allow for cyclical operation of the tested unit, install control devices to allow cyclical operation of the vented heater. Run three consecutive test cycles. For each cycle, operate the unit until flue gas temperatures at the end of each on-cycle, rounded to the nearest whole number, are within 5 &#xB0;F of each other for two consecutive cycles. On-cycle and off-cycle times are 4 minutes and 13 minutes respectively. Control of ON and OFF operation actions shall be within +/-6 seconds of the scheduled time. For fan-type vented heaters, maintain circulating air adjustments as specified in section 2.5 of this appendix. Begin condensate collection at one minute before the on-cycle period of the first test cycle. Remove the container one minute before the end of each off-cycle period. Measure condensate mass for each test-cycle. The error associated with the mass measurement instruments shall not exceed +/-0.5 percent of the quantity measured.

Record fuel input during the entire test period starting at the beginning of the on-time period of the first cycle to the beginning of the on-time period of the second cycle, from the beginning of the on-time period of the second cycle to the beginning of the on-time period of the third cycle, etc., for each of the test cycles. Record fuel HHV, temperature, and pressure necessary for determining fuel energy input, Q. Determine the mass of condensate for each cycle, M, in pounds. If at the end of three cycles, the sample standard deviation is less than or equal to 20 percent of the mean value for three cycles, use total condensate collected in the three cycles as M; if not, continue collection for an additional three cycles and use the total condensate collected for the six cycles as M. Determine the fuel energy input, Q, during the three or six test cycles, expressed in Btu.

For units with step-modulating controls, conduct the cyclic condensate collection test at reduced input rate only. For units with two-stage controls, conduct the cyclic condensate collection test at both maximum and reduced input rates unless the balance-point temperature (T) as determined in section 4.1.10 of this appendix O is equal to or less than the typical outdoor design temperature of 5 &#xB0;F (-5 &#xB0;C), in which case, conduct testing at the reduced input rate only.
