
# Title 1 - General Provisions
## Chapter I - Administrative Committee of the Federal Register
### Subchapter E - Preparation, Transmittal, and Processing of Documents
#### PART 19 - EXECUTIVE ORDERS AND PRESIDENTIAL PROCLAMATIONS
##### ยง 19.1 Form.

Proposed Executive orders and proclamations shall be prepared in accordance with the following requirements:

(a) The order or proclamation shall be given a suitable title.

(b) The order or proclamation shall contain a citation of the authority under which it is issued.

(c) Punctuation, capitalization, spelling, and other matters of style shall, in general, conform to the most recent edition of the U.S. Government Printing Office Style Manual.

(d) The spelling of geographic names shall conform to the decisions of the Board on Geographic Names, established by section 2 of the Act of July 25, 1947, 61 Stat. 456 (43 U.S.C. 364a).

(e) Descriptions of tracts of land shall conform, so far as practicable, to the most recent edition of the "Specifications for Descriptions of Tracts of Land for Use in Executive Orders and Proclamations,"prepared by the Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior.

(f) Proposed Executive orders and proclamations shall be typewritten on paper approximately 8 x 13 inches, shall have a left-hand margin of approximately 1inches and a right-hand margin of approximately 1 inch, and shall be double-spaced except that quotations, tabulations, and descriptions of land may be single-spaced.

(g) Proclamations issued by the President shall conclude with the following-described recitation:
