
# Title 1 - General Provisions
## Chapter I - Administrative Committee of the Federal Register
### Subchapter E - Preparation, Transmittal, and Processing of Documents
#### PART 21 - PREPARATION OF DOCUMENTS SUBJECT TO CODIFICATION
##### Subpart B - Citations of Authority
###### Placement
####### ยง 21.43 Placing and amending authority citations.

(a) The requirements for placing authority citations vary with the type of amendment the agency is making in a document. The agency shall set out the full text of the authority citation for each part affected by the document.

(1) If a document sets out an entire CFR part, the agency shall place the complete authority citation directly after the table of contents and before the regulatory text.

(2) If a document amends only certain sections within a CFR part, the agency shall present the complete authority citation to this part as the first item in the list of amendments.

(i) If the authority for issuing an amendment is the same as the authority listed for the whole CFR part, the agency shall simply restate the authority.

(ii) If the authority for issuing an amendment changes the authority citation for the whole CFR part, the agency shall revise the authority citation in its entirety. The agency may specify the particular authority under which certain sections are amended in the revised authority citation.

(b) The agency shall present a centralized authority citation. The authority citation shall appear at the end of the table of contents for a part or after each subpart heading within the text of a part. Citations of authority for particular sections may be specified within the centralized authority citation.
