
# Title 1 - General Provisions
## Chapter III - Administrative Conference of the United States
### PART 301 - ORGANIZATION AND PURPOSE
#### ยง 301.3 Organization.

(a) The Chairman of the Administrative Conference of the United States is appointed by the President, with the advice and consent of the Senate, for a five-year term.

(b) The Council consists of the Chairman and 10 other members who are appointed by the President for three-year terms, of whom not more than one-half may be employees of Federal regulatory agencies or Executive departments.

(c) The total membership of the Conference may not, by statute, be lower than 75 or higher than 101. It comprises, in addition to the Council, approximately 50 Government members (from Executive departments and agencies designated by the President and independent regulatory boards or commissions) and approximately 40 non-Government or public members appointed by the Chairman with the approval of the Council (lawyers in private practice, scholars in the field of administrative law or government, or others specially informed by knowledge and experience with respect to Federal administrative procedure). Public members are selected so as to provide broad representation of the views of private citizens and utilize diverse experience.

(d) Members of the Conference, except the Chairman, are not entitled to pay for service; although public members are entitled to travel reimbursement.

(e) The membership is divided into six standing committees, each assigned a broad area of interest as follows: Adjudication, Administration, Public Processes, Judicial Review, Regulation, and Rulemaking.

(f) The membership meeting in plenary session is called the Assembly of the Administrative Conference. The Council must call at least one plenary session each year. The Assembly has authority to adopt bylaws for carrying out the functions of the Conference.
