
# Title 1 - General Provisions
## Chapter III - Administrative Conference of the United States
### PART 304 - DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS OR INFORMATION
#### Subpart A - Procedures for Disclosure of Records Under the Freedom of Information Act
##### ยง 304.9 Fees.
###### Notice of anticipated fees in excess of $50.00.

(e)(1) When the agency determines or estimates that the fees to be charged under this section will amount to more than $50.00, it will notify the requester of the actual or estimated amount of the fees, unless the requester has indicated a willingness to pay fees as high as those anticipated. If only a portion of the fee can be estimated readily, the agency will advise the requester that the estimated fee might be only a portion of the total fee. In cases in which a requester has been notified that actual or estimated fees amount to more than $50.00, the request will not be considered received and further work will not be done on it until the requester agrees to pay the total anticipated fee. Any such agreement should be memorialized in writing. A notice under this paragraph will offer the requester an opportunity to discuss the matter with agency personnel in order to reformulate the request to meet the requester's needs at a lower cost.

(2) If the requester has indicated a willingness to pay some designated amount of fees, but the agency estimates that the total fee will exceed that amount, the agency will suspend the processing of the request when it notifies the requester of the estimated fees in excess of the amount the requester has indicated a willingness to pay. The agency will inquire whether the requester wishes to revise the amount of fees the requester is willing to pay or modify the request. Once the requester responds, the time to respond will resume from where it was at the date of the notification.

(3) The agency will make its FOIA Public Liaison available to assist any requester in reformulating a request to meet the requester's needs at a lower cost.
