
# Title 1 - General Provisions
## Chapter IV - Miscellaneous Agencies
### PART 425 - PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION ON WHITE HOUSE FELLOWSHIPS
#### ยง 425.3 Procedure for requests for access to or disclosure of records pertaining to individuals.

(a) Any person may request review of records pertaining to him by appearing at Room 1308, 1900 E Street, NW., Washington, DC on work days between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 5 p.m. or by writing to the Commission on White House Fellowships Administrative Officer, Washington, DC 20415. (See paragraph (b) of this section for identification requirements.) The Commission will strive either to make the record available within 15 working days of the request or to inform the requester of the need for additional identification.

(b) In the case of persons making requests by appearing at the Commission, reasonable identification such as employment identification cards, drivers licenses, or credit cards will normally be accepted as sufficient evidence of identity in the absence of any indications to the contrary.

(c) Charges for copies of records will be at the rate of $0.10 per photocopy of each page. No charge will be made unless the charge as computed above would exceed $3 for each request or related series of requests. If a fee in excess of $25 would be required, the requester shall be notified and the fee must be tendered before the records will be copied. Remittances shall be in the form either of a personal check or bank draft drawn on a bank in the United States, or a money order. Remittances shall be made payable to the order of the Treasury of the United States and mailed or delivered to the Administrative Officer, President's Commission on White House Fellowships, 1900 E Street, NW., Washington, DC 20415.

(d) Individuals will not be denied access to records pertaining to them.
