
# Title 1 - General Provisions
## Chapter IV - Miscellaneous Agencies
### PART 426 - NATIONAL COMMISSION ON MILITARY, NATIONAL, AND PUBLIC SERVICE
#### Subpart A - Implementation of the Privacy Act of 1974
##### § 426.104 Procedures for accessing records pertaining to an individual.

The following procedures apply to records that are contained in a Commission system:

(a) You may request to be notified if a system of records that you name contains records pertaining to you, and to review any such records, by writing to the Office of the General Counsel (see § 426.103). You also may call the Office of the General Counsel at 703-571-3742 on business days, between the hours of 9 a.m. and 5 p.m., to schedule an appointment to make such a request in person. A request for records should be presented in writing and should identify specifically the Commission system(s) involved. Your request to access records pertaining to you will be treated as a request under both the Privacy Act, as implemented by this part, and the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), as implemented by subpart B of this part.

(b) Access to the records, or to any other information pertaining to you that is contained in the system, shall be provided if the identification requirements of § 426.105 are satisfied and the records are determined otherwise to be releasable under the Privacy Act and these regulations. The Commission shall provide you an opportunity to have a copy made of any such records about you. Only one copy of each requested record will be supplied, based on the fee schedule in § 426.108.

(c) The Commission will comply promptly with requests made in person at scheduled appointments, if the requirements of this section are met and the records sought are immediately available. The Commission will acknowledge, within 10 business days, mailed requests or personal requests for records that are not immediately available, and the information requested will be provided promptly thereafter.

(d) If you make your request in person at a scheduled appointment, you may, upon your request, be accompanied by a person of your choice to review your records. The Commission may require that you furnish a written statement authorizing discussion of your records in the accompanying person's presence. A record may be disclosed to a representative chosen by you upon your proper written consent.

(e) Medical or psychological records pertaining to you shall be disclosed to you unless, in the judgment of the Commission, access to such records might have an adverse effect upon you. When such a determination has been made, the Commission may refuse to disclose such information directly to you. The Commission will, however, disclose this information to you through a licensed physician designated by you in writing.

(f) If you are unsatisfied with an adverse determination on your request to access records pertaining to you, you may appeal that determination using the procedures set forth in § 426.107(a).
