
# Title 1 - General Provisions
## Chapter IV - Miscellaneous Agencies
### PART 426 - NATIONAL COMMISSION ON MILITARY, NATIONAL, AND PUBLIC SERVICE
#### Subpart B - Disclosure of Records and Information Under the Freedom of Information Act
##### ยง 426.202 Proactive disclosures.
###### www.inspire2serve.gov.,http://www.foia.gov/report-makerequest.html.

(a) Records that FOIA requires agencies to make available for public inspection in an electronic format may be accessed through the Commission's website atThe Commission will ensure that its website of posted records and indices is reviewed and updated on an ongoing basis. The Commission has a FOIA Public Liaison who can assist individuals in locating records particular to the Commission. A list of agency FOIA Public Liaisons is available at

(b) The following types of records shall be available routinely on the website, without resort to formal FOIA request procedures, unless such records fall within one of the exemptions listed at 5 U.S.C. 552(b) of the Act:

(1) Any formal report issued by the Commission;

(2) Testimonies and presentations submitted to the Commission;

(3) Schedules for public meetings and hearings of the Commission along with transcripts or notes of such public meetings and hearings;

(4) Press statements;

(5) Substantive rules of general applicability adopted by the Commission, procedural rules governing the Commission's general operations that may affect the public, and statements of general policy or interpretation of general applicability formulated and adopted by the Commission; and

(6) Copies of all records, regardless of form or format, that have been released previously to any person under 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(3), and that the Commission determines have become or are likely to become the subject of subsequent requests for substantially the same records. When the Commission receives three or more requests for substantially the same records, then the Commission shall make the released records available in the Commission's reading room and on the Commission's website.

(c) The Commission shall also maintain a public reading room, at the Commission's offices, containing records available for public inspection that cannot be produced in electronic form. The reading room shall be available for use on workdays during the hours of 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Requests for appointments to review the materials in the public reading room should be directed to the FOIA Public Liaison.

(d) Based upon applicable exemptions in 5 U.S.C. 552(b), the Commission may redact certain information contained in any matter described in this section before making such information available for inspection or publishing it. The justification for the redaction shall be explained in writing, and the extent of such redaction shall be indicated on the portion of the record which is made available or published, unless including that indication would harm an interest protected by the exemptions under which the redaction is made. The location of the information deleted must also be indicated on the record, if technically feasible.
