
# Title 1 - General Provisions
## Chapter IV - Miscellaneous Agencies
### PART 426 - NATIONAL COMMISSION ON MILITARY, NATIONAL, AND PUBLIC SERVICE
#### Subpart B - Disclosure of Records and Information Under the Freedom of Information Act
##### ยง 426.210 Fees.
###### Representative of the news media

means any person or entity that gathers information of potential interest to a segment of the public, uses its editorial skills to turn the raw materials into a distinct work, and distributes that work to an audience. The term "news" means information that is about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. Examples of news media entities include television or radio stations that broadcast news to the public at large and publishers of periodicals that disseminate news and make their products available through a variety of means to the general public, including news organizations that disseminate solely on the internet. A request for records supporting the news-dissemination function of the requester will not be considered to be for a commercial use. "Freelance" journalists who demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication through a news media entity will be considered as a representative of the news media. A publishing contract would provide the clearest evidence that publication is expected; however, the Commission can also consider a requester's past publication record in making this determination. The Commission will advise requesters of their placement in this category.
