
# Title 1 - General Provisions
## Chapter IV - Miscellaneous Agencies
### PART 426 - NATIONAL COMMISSION ON MILITARY, NATIONAL, AND PUBLIC SERVICE
#### Subpart B - Disclosure of Records and Information Under the Freedom of Information Act
##### ยง 426.210 Fees.
###### Waiver or reduction of fees.

(f)(1) A requester may request a waiver or reduction of fees otherwise applicable to a FOIA request in writing during the initial FOIA request. The waiver must demonstrate that the fee reduction or waiver is in the public interest because it furnishes information that is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the government, and the information is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester.

(2) To determine whether the requester has satisfied the waiver request requirements, the Commission shall consider whether the subject of the requested records has a direct connection to government operations or activities; the disclosable portion of the requested records is meaningfully informative, and is not already in the public domain; the disclosure would contribute to the understanding of a reasonably broad audience, as opposed to the individual requester; and the public's understanding would be significantly enhanced by the disclosure. The Commission shall also consider whether the requester, or any person on whose behalf the requester may be acting, has a commercial interest that would be furthered by the disclosure, and whether the public interest is greater in magnitude than that of any identified commercial interest in disclosure.

(3) Where only some of the records to be released satisfy the requirements for a waiver or reduction of fees, a waiver or reduction shall be granted for those records.

(4) The Commission shall notify the requester in writing regarding its determination to reduce or waive fees.

(5) If the Commission denies a request to reduce or waive fees, then the Commission shall advise the requester, in the denial notification letter, that the requester may incur fees as a result of processing the request. In the denial notification letter, the Commission shall advise the requester that the Commission will not proceed to process the request further unless the requester, in writing, directs the Commission to do so and either agrees to pay any fees that may apply to processing the request or specifies an upper limit (of not less than $25) that the requester is willing to pay to process the request. If the Commission does not receive this written direction and agreement within 30 days of the date of the denial notification letter, then the Commission shall deem the FOIA request to be withdrawn.

(6) If the Commission denies a request to reduce or waive fees, then the requester shall have the right to submit an appeal in accordance with ยง 426.208. The Commission shall communicate this appeal right as part of its denial notification to the requester.
