
# Title 1 - General Provisions
## Chapter IV - Miscellaneous Agencies
### PART 426 - NATIONAL COMMISSION ON MILITARY, NATIONAL, AND PUBLIC SERVICE
#### Subpart B - Disclosure of Records and Information Under the Freedom of Information Act
##### ยง 426.210 Fees.
###### Notice of estimated fees.

(g)(1) When an agency determines or estimates that the fees to be assessed in accordance with this section will exceed $25, the agency must notify the requester of the actual or estimated amount of the fees, including a breakdown of the fees for search, review or duplication, unless the requester has indicated a willingness to pay fees as high as those anticipated. If only a portion of the fee can be estimated readily the Commission will advise the requester accordingly. The notice will specify what duplication and search time the requester is entitled to and how they have been accounted for in the estimate.

(2) If the agency notifies the requester that the actual or estimated fees are in excess of $25, the request will not be considered received and further work will not be completed until the requester commits in writing to pay the actual or estimated total fee, or designates some amount of fees the requester is willing to pay, or in the case of a noncommercial use requester who has not yet been provided with the statutory entitlements, designates that the requester seeks only that which can be provided by the statutory entitlements. The requester must provide the commitment or designation in writing, and must, when applicable designate an exact dollar amount the requester is willing to pay. Agencies are not required to accept payments in installments.

(3) If the requester has indicated a willingness to pay some designated amount of fees, but the Commission estimates that the total fee will exceed that amount, the Commission will toll the processing of the request when it notifies the requester of the estimated fees in excess of the amount the requester has indicated a willingness to pay. The Commission will inquire whether the requester wishes to revise the amount of fees the requester is willing to pay or modify the request. Once the requester responds, the time to respond will resume from where it was at the date of the notification.

(4) The FOIA Public Liaison will be available to assist any requester in reformulating a request to meet the requester's needs at a lower cost.
