
# Title 1 - General Provisions
## Chapter VI - National Capital Planning Commission
### PART 601 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 601.2 Policies.

Consistent with 40 CFR 1500.1 and 1500.2, it shall be the policy of the NCPC to:

(a) Comply with the procedures and policies of NEPA and other related laws, regulations, and orders applicable to Commission actions.

(b) Provide applicants sufficient guidance to ensure plans and projects comply with the rules of this part and other laws, regulations, and orders applicable to Commission actions.

(c) Integrate NEPA into its decision-making process at the earliest possible stage.

(d) Integrate the requirements of NEPA and other planning and environmental reviews required by law including, without limitation, the National Historic Preservation Act, 54 U.S.C. 306108 (NHPA), to ensure all such procedures run concurrently.

(e) Use the NEPA process to identify and assess the reasonable alternatives to proposed actions that will avoid or minimize adverse effects on the quality of the human environment in the National Capital Region.

(f) Use all practicable means to protect, restore, and enhance the quality of the human environment including the built and socioeconomic environments and historic properties within the National Capital Region.

(g) Streamline the NEPA process and Environmental Impact Statements (EIS) to the maximum extent possible.

(h) Use the NEPA process to assure orderly and effective NCPC decision-making and to foster meaningful public involvement in NCPC's decisions.
