
# Title 1 - General Provisions
## Chapter VI - National Capital Planning Commission
### PART 601 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT
#### Subpart B - Lead and Cooperating Agencies
##### ยง 601.7 Cooperating Agencies.

(a) When a Federal Agency applicant serves as the Lead Agency, NCPC shall act as a Cooperating Agency. As a Cooperating Agency, NCPC shall, without limitation, undertake the following:

(1) Act as a Cooperating Agency as described in 40 CFR 1501.6.

(2) Assist in the preparation of and sign a MOA with terms agreeable to NCPC if requested by the Lead Agency. At the Lead Agency's discretion, the MOA may be prepared as a programmatic MOA that addresses a uniform approach for the treatment of all applications where NCPC serves as a Cooperating Agency or address a specific application. The request to enter into a project specific MOA shall be made after a determination is made by the Lead Agency on the inability to utilize a CATEX.

(3) Participate in the NEPA process by providing comprehensive, timely reviews of and comments on key NEPA materials including, without limitation, Public Scoping notices; technical reports; documents (including responses to comments received from the public); the draft and final EA or EIS; and the Draft FONSI or ROD.

(4) Supply available data, assessments, and other information that may be helpful in the preparation of the Environmental Document or the Administrative Record in a timely manner.

(5) Make an independent evaluation of the Federal Agency applicant's Environmental Document and take responsibility for the scope and contents of the EIS or EA when it is sufficient as required by 40 CFR 1506.5.

(6) Prepare and, following Commission final approval of an application, sign a FONSI or ROD. Alternatively, if NCPC concurs with the contents of a Federal Agency's FONSI or ROD, NCPC may co-sign the Federal Agency's document following the Commission's final approval of an application if co-signing is consistent with the Federal Agency's NEPA regulations.

(7) Provide documentation requested and needed by the Lead Agency for the Administrative Record.

(b) In the event a Federal Agency applicant fails to allow NCPC to participate in a meaningful manner as a Cooperating Agency, the parties shall agree to use their best efforts to cooperatively resolve the issue at the working levels of their respective agencies, and, if necessary, by elevating the issue within their respective agencies. If internal resolution at higher agency levels is unsuccessful, the parties may agree to seek mediation. Alternatively, NCPC may prepare its own Environmental Document either as a stand-alone document or a supplement to the Federal Agency applicant's Environmental Document or take no action on the underlying application.
