
# Title 1 - General Provisions
## Chapter VI - National Capital Planning Commission
### PART 601 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT
#### Subpart C - NEPA Submission Schedules
##### § 601.8 NEPA submission schedule for applications governed by the National Capital Planning Act.
###### Final review.

(e)(1) At the time a Non-Federal Agency submits an application for final approval, the determination (FONSI or ROD) resulting from the Environmental Document shall be submitted by NCPC in a form consistent with the rules of this part. At the time a Federal Agency applicant submits an application to the Commission for final review, the Federal Agency applicant shall submit a determination (FONSI or ROD) in a form consistent with the applicant's NEPA regulations. As a Cooperating Agency, NCPC may co-sign the Federal Agency's FONSI or ROD following final Commission approval if co-signing is consistent with the Federal Agency's NEPA regulations. Alternatively, NCPC may prepare and sign its own independent document in accordance with the requirements of §§ 601.16(a) or 601.25(a) through (c).

(2) If at the time of final review, the Commission denies a Federal Agency applicant's project and requests changes thereto, the Federal Agency applicant shall proceed in a manner consistent with applicable law. The Federal Agency applicant may pursue, among others, the option of revising the project in a manner responsive to the Commission's comments. If the Federal Agency pursues this option, it shall review and consider the need for possible changes to its Environmental Document and its FONSI or ROD. Upon resubmission of a revised application for final review, the applicant shall submit a revised Environmental Document and a revised FONSI or ROD if in its judgement revised documents are necessary. If NCPC and the applicant disagree regarding the need for a revised Environmental Document and FONSI or ROD, the parties shall work together to resolve their differences. The final decision regarding the need for a revised Environmental Document and a revised FONSI or ROD shall be made by the Commission's Executive Committee.
