
# Title 1 - General Provisions
## Chapter VI - National Capital Planning Commission
### PART 601 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT
#### Subpart D - Initiating the NEPA Process
##### ยง 601.12 National Capital Planning Commission Categorical Exclusions.

(a) Commission actions that may be categorically excluded and normally do not require either an EA or an EIS are listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (13) of this section. An action not specifically included in the list is not eligible for a Categorical Exclusion even if it appears to meet the general criteria listed in ยง 601.10(b).

(1) Approval of the installation or restoration of onsite primary or secondary electrical distribution systems including minor solar panel arrays.

(2) Approval of the installation or restoration of minor site elements, such as but not limited to identification signs, sidewalks, patios, fences, curbs, retaining walls, landscaping, and trail or stream improvements. Additional features include water distribution lines and sewer lines which involve work that is essentially replacement in kind.

(3) Approval of the installation or restoration of minor building elements, such as, but not limited to windows, doors, roofs, building signs, and rooftop equipment and green roofs.

(4) Adoption of a Federal Element of the Comprehensive Plan or amendment thereto or broad based policy or feasibility plans prepared and adopted by the Commission in response to the Comprehensive Plan.

(5) Approval of the installation of communication antennae on Federal buildings and co-location of communication antennae on Federal property consistent with GSA Bulletin FMR D-242, Placement of Commercial Antennas on Federal Property.

(6) Approval of Federal and District government agency proposals for new construction, building expansion, or improvements to existing facilities, when all of the following apply:

(i) The new structure and proposed use are in compliance with local planning and zoning and any applicable District of Columbia, state, or Federal requirements.

(ii) The site and the scale of construction are consistent with those of existing adjacent or nearby buildings.

(iii) The proposed use will not substantially increase the number of motor vehicles in the vicinity of the facility.

(iv) There is little to no evidence of unresolved resource conflicts or community controversy related to environmental concerns or other environmental issues.

(7) Approval of transfers of jurisdiction pursuant to 40 U.S.C. 8124 that are not anticipated to result in changes in land-use and that have no potential for environmental impact.

(8) Approval of a minor modification to a General Development Plan applicable to lands acquired pursuant to the Capper-Cramton Act, 46 Stat. 482 (1930), as amended, when non-significant environmental impacts are anticipated.

(9) Reorganization of NCPC.

(10) Personnel actions, including, but not limited to, investigations; performance reviews; award of personal service contracts, promotions and awards; reductions in force, reassignments and relocations; and employee supervision and training.

(11) Legal activities including, but not limited to, legal advice and opinions; litigation or other methods of dispute resolution; and procurement of outside legal services.

(12) Procurement of goods and services, transactions, and other types of activities related to the routine and continuing administration, management, maintenance and operations of the Commission or its facilities.

(13) Adoption and issuance of rules, directives, official policies, guidelines, and publications or recommendations of an educational, financial, informational, legal, technical or procedural nature.

(b) The Executive Director shall include in his/her EDR, or the documentation of a delegated action, his/her decision to apply a Categorical Exclusion and the rationale for this decision.
