
# Title 1 - General Provisions
## Chapter VI - National Capital Planning Commission
### PART 601 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT
#### Subpart F - Environmental Impact Statements
##### ยง 601.22 Contents of an Environmental Impact Statement.

(a) When NCPC serves as Lead Agency for an EIS, the following information shall be included in the EIS:

(1) A cover sheet. The cover sheet shall be one-page and include a list of responsible and Cooperating Agencies; the title of the proposed action that is the subject of the EIS; the name, address, and telephone number of the NCPC point of contact; the designation as to whether the statement is draft, final, or draft or final supplement; a one paragraph abstract of the EIS; and the date by which comments must be received.

(2) A summary. The summary shall accurately summarize the information presented in the EIS. The summary shall focus on the main conclusions, areas of controversy, and the issues to be resolved.

(3) A table of contents. The table of contents shall allow a reader to quickly locate subject matter in the EIS-either by topic area and/or alternatives analyzed.

(4) The purpose and need. A statement of the purpose of and need for the action briefly stating the underlying purpose and need to which the agency is responding.

(5) The identification of alternatives including the proposed action. This section shall provide a brief description and supporting documentation for all alternatives including the proposed action; the no action alternative; all reasonable alternatives including those not within the jurisdiction of the agency; alternatives considered but eliminated and the reason for their elimination; the agency's preferred alternative, if one exists; the environmentally preferred alternative; and Mitigation measures not already included in the proposed action.

(6) The identification of the affected environment. This section shall provide a succinct description of the environment to be affected by the proposed action and the alternatives considered. This section shall include, if applicable, other activities in the area affected by or related to the proposed action.

(7) The identification of environmental consequences. This section shall focus on the environmental impacts of the alternatives including the proposed action, any adverse environmental effects which cannot be avoided should the proposal be implemented, the relationship between short-term uses of the environment and the maintenance and enhancement of long-term productivity, and any irreversible commitments of resources which would be involved if the proposal is implemented. The impacts shall be discussed in terms of direct, indirect and cumulative effects and their significance, as well as any appropriate means to mitigate adverse impacts. The discussion shall also include issues and impact topics considered but dismissed to reveal non-impacted resources. Resource areas and issues requiring consideration shall include those identified in the scoping process, and, without limitation, the following:

(i) Possible conflicts between the proposed action and the land use plans, policies, or controls (local, state, or Indian tribe) for the area concerned.

(ii) Natural and biological resources including topography, hydrology, soils, flora, fauna, floodplains, wetlands, and endangered species.

(iii) Air quality.

(iv) Noise.

(v) Water resources including wastewater treatment and storm water management.

(vi) Utilities including energy requirements and conservation.

(vii) Solid waste and hazardous waste generation/removal.

(viii) Community facilities.

(ix) Housing.

(x) Transportation network.

(xi) Socio-cultural and economic environments.

(xii) Environmental Justice and the requirements of Executive Order 12898 (Federal Actions to Address Environmental Justice in Minority Populations).

(xiii) Urban quality and design of the built environment including visual resources and aesthetics.

(xiv) Historic and cultural resources to include documentation of the results of the Section 106 Consultation process.

(xv) Public health and safety.

(8) A list of preparers. This list shall include all pertinent organizations, agencies, individuals, and government representatives primarily responsible for the preparation of the EIS and their qualifications.

(9) An index. The index shall be structured to reasonably assist the reader of the Draft or Final EIS in identifying and locating major topic areas or elements of the EIS information. The level of detail of the index shall provide sufficient focus on areas of interest to any reader not just the most important topics.

(10) An appendix. The appendix shall consist of material prepared in connection with an EIS (as distinct from material which is incorporated by reference) and material which substantiates any analysis fundamental to the EIS. The material in the appendix shall be analytical and relevant to the decision to be made. The appendix shall be posted on NCPC's Web site.

(b) [Reserved]
