
# Title 1 - General Provisions
## Chapter I - Administrative Committee of the Federal Register
### Subchapter D - Availability of Office of the Federal Register Publications
#### PART 12 - OFFICIAL DISTRIBUTION WITHIN FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
##### ยง 12.1 Federal Register.
###### www.federalregister.gov;

(2) Onand

(3) In the front matter of the Federal Register, which is the text that precedes the main text of the daily issue of the.

(d) Requisitions for quantity overruns of specific issues to be paid for by the agency are available as follows:

(1) To meet its needs for special distribution of thein substantial quantity, any agency may request an overrun of a specific issue.

(2) An advance printing and binding requisition on Standard Form 1 must be submitted by the agency directly to the Government Printing Office, to be received not later than 12 noon on the working day before publication.

(e) Requisitions for quantity overruns of separate part issues to be paid for by the agency are available as follows:

(1) Whenever it is determined by the Director of the Federal Register to be in the public interest, one or more documents may be published as a separate part (e.g., part II, part III) of the

(2) Advance arrangements for this service must be made with the Office of the Federal Register.

(3) Any agency may request an overrun of such a separate part by submitting an advance printing and binding requisition on Standard Form 1 directly to the Government Printing Office, to be received not later than 12 noon on the working day before the publication date.

(f) An agency may order limited quantities of extra copies of a specific issue of thefor official use, from the Superintendent of Documents, to be paid for by that agency.

(g) Copies of the Federal Register Index and LSA (List of CFR Sections Affected) are included with eachofficial distribution.
