
# Title 1 - General Provisions
## Chapter I - Administrative Committee of the Federal Register
### Subchapter E - Preparation, Transmittal, and Processing of Documents
#### PART 17 - FILING FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION AND PUBLICATION SCHEDULES
##### Subpart B - Regular Schedule
###### ยง 17.2 Procedure and timing for regular schedule.

(a) Each document received shall be filed for public inspection only after it has been received, processed and assigned a publication date.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, each document received by 2:00 p.m. which meets the requirements of this chapter shall be assigned to the regular schedule. Unless the issuing agency makes special arrangements otherwise, or the Office determines that the document requires a deferred schedule (see 1 CFR 17.7), receipt of a document by 2:00 p.m. is considered to be a request for filing for public inspection and publication on the regular schedule. Documents received after 2:00 p.m. which meet the requirements of this chapter shall be assigned to the next working day's regular schedule.

(c) The regular schedule for filing for public inspection and publication is as follows:

(d) Each notice of meeting issued under the "Government in the Sunshine Act" (5 U.S.C. 552b(e)(3)) is placed on immediate public inspection after it has been received, processed, and assigned a publication date.

(1) Each notice received before 4:00 p.m. is scheduled to be published 2 working days later.

(2) Each notice received after 4:00 p.m. is scheduled to be published 3 working days later.
