
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle A - Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter I - Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements
#### PART 176 - AWARD TERMS FOR ASSISTANCE AGREEMENTS THAT INCLUDE FUNDS UNDER THE AMERICAN RECOVERY AND REINVESTMENT ACT OF 2009, PUBLIC LAW 111-5
##### Subpart B - Buy American Requirement Under Section 1605 of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009
###### ยง 176.100 Timely determination concerning the inapplicability of section 1605 of the Recovery Act.

(a) The head of the Federal department or agency involved may make a determination regarding inapplicability of section 1605 to a particular case or to a category of cases.

(b) Before Recovery Act funds are awarded by the Federal agency or obligated by the recipient for a project for the construction, alteration, maintenance, or repair of a public building or public work, an applicant or recipient may request from the award official a determination concerning the inapplicability of section 1605 of the Recovery Act for specifically identified items.

(c) The time for submitting the request and the information and supporting data that must be included in the request are to be specified in the agency's and recipient's request for applications and/or proposals, and as appropriate, in other written communications. The content of those communications should be consistent with the notice in ยง 176.150 or ยง 176.170, whichever applies.

(d) The award official must evaluate all requests based on the information provided and may supplement this information with other readily available information.

(e) In making a determination based on the increased cost to the project of using domestic iron, steel, and/or manufactured goods, the award official must compare the total estimated cost of the project using foreign iron, steel and/or relevant manufactured goods to the estimated cost if all domestic iron, steel, and/or relevant manufactured goods were used. If use of domestic iron, steel, and/or relevant manufactured goods would increase the cost of the overall project by more than 25 percent, then the award official shall determine that the cost of the domestic iron, steel, and/or relevant manufactured goods is unreasonable.
