
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle A - Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter I - Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements
#### PART 176 - AWARD TERMS FOR ASSISTANCE AGREEMENTS THAT INCLUDE FUNDS UNDER THE AMERICAN RECOVERY AND REINVESTMENT ACT OF 2009, PUBLIC LAW 111-5
##### Subpart B - Buy American Requirement Under Section 1605 of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009
###### ยง 176.130 Noncompliance.

The award official must-

(a) Review allegations of violations of section 1605 of the Recovery Act;

(b) Unless fraud is suspected, notify the recipient of the apparent unauthorized use of foreign iron, steel, and/or manufactured goods and request a reply, to include proposed corrective action; and

(c) If the review reveals that a recipient or subrecipient has used foreign iron, steel, and/or manufactured goods without authorization, take appropriate action, including one or more of the following:

(1) Process a determination concerning the inapplicability of section 1605 of the Recovery Act in accordance with ยง 176.120.

(2) Consider requiring the removal and replacement of the unauthorized foreign iron, steel, and/or manufactured goods.

(3) If removal and replacement of foreign iron, steel, and/or manufactured goods used in a public building or a public work would be impracticable, cause undue delay, or otherwise be detrimental to the interests of the Federal Government, the award official may determine in writing that the foreign iron, steel, and/or manufactured goods need not be removed and replaced. A determination to retain foreign iron, steel, and/or manufactured goods does not constitute a determination that an exception to section 1605 of the Recovery Act applies, and this should be stated in the determination. Further, a determination to retain foreign iron, steel, and/or manufactured goods does not affect the Federal Government's right to reduce the amount of the award by the cost of the steel, iron, or manufactured goods that are used in the project or to take enforcement or termination action in accordance with the agency's grants management regulations.

(4) If the noncompliance is sufficiently serious, consider exercising appropriate remedies, such as withholding cash payments pending correction of the deficiency, suspending or terminating the award, and withholding further awards for the project. Also consider preparing and forwarding a report to the agency suspending or debarring official in accordance with the agency's debarment rule implementing 2 CFR part 180. If the noncompliance appears to be fraudulent, refer the matter to other appropriate agency officials, such as the officer responsible for criminal investigation.
