
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle A - Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter I - Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements
#### PART 176 - AWARD TERMS FOR ASSISTANCE AGREEMENTS THAT INCLUDE FUNDS UNDER THE AMERICAN RECOVERY AND REINVESTMENT ACT OF 2009, PUBLIC LAW 111-5
##### Subpart B - Buy American Requirement Under Section 1605 of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009
###### ยง 176.140 Award term - Required Use of American Iron, Steel, and Manufactured Goods - Section 1605 of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.
####### Request for determination of inapplicability of Section 1605 of the Recovery Act.

(c)(1)(i) Any recipient request to use foreign iron, steel, and/or manufactured goods in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section shall include adequate information for Federal Government evaluation of the request, including-

(A) A description of the foreign and domestic iron, steel, and/or manufactured goods;

(B) Unit of measure;

(C) Quantity;

(D) Cost;

(E) Time of delivery or availability;

(F) Location of the project;

(G) Name and address of the proposed supplier; and

(H) A detailed justification of the reason for use of foreign iron, steel, and/or manufactured goods cited in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(ii) A request based on unreasonable cost shall include a reasonable survey of the market and a completed cost comparison table in the format in paragraph (d) of this section.

(iii) The cost of iron, steel, and/or manufactured goods material shall include all delivery costs to the construction site and any applicable duty.

(iv) Any recipient request for a determination submitted after Recovery Act funds have been obligated for a project for construction, alteration, maintenance, or repair shall explain why the recipient could not reasonably foresee the need for such determination and could not have requested the determination before the funds were obligated. If the recipient does not submit a satisfactory explanation, the award official need not make a determination.

(2) If the Federal Government determines after funds have been obligated for a project for construction, alteration, maintenance, or repair that an exception to section 1605 of the Recovery Act applies, the award official will amend the award to allow use of the foreign iron, steel, and/or relevant manufactured goods. When the basis for the exception is nonavailability or public interest, the amended award shall reflect adjustment of the award amount, redistribution of budgeted funds, and/or other actions taken to cover costs associated with acquiring or using the foreign iron, steel, and/or relevant manufactured goods. When the basis for the exception is the unreasonable cost of the domestic iron, steel, or manufactured goods, the award official shall adjust the award amount or redistribute budgeted funds by at least the differential established in 2 CFR 176.110(a).

(3) Unless the Federal Government determines that an exception to section 1605 of the Recovery Act applies, use of foreign iron, steel, and/or manufactured goods is noncompliant with section 1605 of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.
