
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter IX - Department of Energy
#### PART 910 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL AWARDS
##### Subpart F - Audit Requirements for For-Profit Entities
###### Audits
####### ยง 910.507 Compliance audits.
######## Report submission for program-specific audits.

(c)(1) The audit must be completed and the reporting required by paragraph (c)(2) or (3) of this section submitted within the earlier of 30 calendar days after receipt of the auditor's report(s), or nine months after the end of the audit period, unless a different period is specified in a program-specific audit guide. Unless restricted by Federal law or regulation, the auditee must make report copies available for public inspection. Auditees and auditors must ensure that their respective parts of the reporting package do not include protected personally identifiable information.

(2) When a program-specific audit guide is available, the compliance audits must be submitted (along with audited financial statements if audited financial statements are available), to the appropriate DOE Contracting Officer as well as to the DOE Office of the Chief Financial Officer.

(3) When a program-specific audit guide is not available, the reporting package for a program-specific audit must consist of, a summary schedule of prior audit findings, and a corrective action plan as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and the auditor's report(s) described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. The compliance audit must be submitted (along with audited financial statements if audited financial statements are available), to the appropriate DOE Contracting Officer as well as to the DOE Office of the Chief Financial Officer.
