
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle A - Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter I - Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements
#### PART 176 - AWARD TERMS FOR ASSISTANCE AGREEMENTS THAT INCLUDE FUNDS UNDER THE AMERICAN RECOVERY AND REINVESTMENT ACT OF 2009, PUBLIC LAW 111-5
##### Subpart B - Buy American Requirement Under Section 1605 of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009
###### ยง 176.160 Award term - Required Use of American Iron, Steel, and Manufactured Goods (covered under International Agreements) - Section 1605 of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.
####### Iron, steel, and manufactured goods.

(b)(1) The award term and condition described in this section implements-

(i) Section 1605(a) of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Pub. L. 111-5) (Recovery Act), by requiring that all iron, steel, and manufactured goods used in the project are produced in the United States; and

(ii) Section 1605(d), which requires application of the Buy American requirement in a manner consistent with U.S. obligations under international agreements. The restrictions of section 1605 of the Recovery Act do not apply to designated country iron, steel, and/or manufactured goods. The Buy American requirement in section 1605 shall not be applied where the iron, steel or manufactured goods used in the project are from a Party to an international agreement that obligates the recipient to treat the goods and services of that Party the same as domestic goods and services. As of January 1, 2010, this obligation shall only apply to projects with an estimated value of $7,804,000 or more.

(2) The recipient shall use only domestic or designated country iron, steel, and manufactured goods in performing the work funded in whole or part with this award, except as provided in paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this section.

(3) The requirement in paragraph (b)(2) of this section does not apply to the iron, steel, and manufactured goods listed by the Federal Government as follows:

(4) The award official may add other iron, steel, and manufactured goods to the list in paragraph (b)(3) of this section if the Federal Government determines that-

(i) The cost of domestic iron, steel, and/or manufactured goods would be unreasonable. The cost of domestic iron, steel, and/or manufactured goods used in the project is unreasonable when the cumulative cost of such material will increase the overall cost of the project by more than 25 percent;

(ii) The iron, steel, and/or manufactured good is not produced, or manufactured in the United States in sufficient and reasonably available commercial quantities of a satisfactory quality; or

(iii) The application of the restriction of section 1605 of the Recovery Act would be inconsistent with the public interest.
