
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter IX - Department of Energy
#### PART 910 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL AWARDS
##### Subpart F - Audit Requirements for For-Profit Entities
###### Auditors
####### ยง 910.516 Audit findings.
######## e.g.,

(4) Known questioned costs that are greater than $25,000 for a DOE program. which is not audited as a major program. Except for audit follow-up, the auditor is not required under this Part to perform audit procedures for such a DOE program; therefore, the auditor will normally not find questioned costs for a program that is not audited as a major program. However, if the auditor does become aware of questioned costs for a DOE program that is not audited as a major program (as part of audit follow-up or other audit procedures) and the known questioned costs are greater than $25,000, then the auditor must report this as an audit finding.

(5) Not applicable.

(6) Known or likely fraud affecting a DOE award, unless such fraud is otherwise reported as an audit finding in the schedule of findings and questioned costs for DOE awards. This paragraph does not require the auditor to report publicly information which could compromise investigative or legal proceedings or to make an additional reporting when the auditor confirms that the fraud was reported outside the auditor's reports under the direct reporting requirements of GAGAS.

(7) Instances where the results of audit follow-up procedures disclosed that the summary schedule of prior audit findings prepared by the auditee in accordance with ยง 910.511 Audit findings follow-up, paragraph (b) materially misrepresents the status of any prior audit finding.
