
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter IX - Department of Energy
#### PART 910 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL AWARDS
##### Subpart F - Audit Requirements for For-Profit Entities
###### Auditors
####### ยง 910.520 Criteria for a low-risk auditee.

An auditee that meets all of the following conditions for each of the preceding two audit periods may qualify as a low-risk auditee and be eligible for reduced audit coverage.

(a) Compliance audits were performed on an annual basis in accordance with the provisions of this Subpart, including submitting the data collection form to DOE within the timeframe specified in ยง 910.512 Report submission. A for-profit entity that has biennial audits does not qualify as a low-risk auditee.

(b) The auditor's opinion on whether the financial statements (if available) were prepared in accordance with GAAP, or a basis of accounting required by state law, and the auditor's in relation to opinion on the schedule of expenditures of DOE awards were unmodified.

(c) There were no deficiencies in internal control which were identified as material weaknesses under the requirements of GAGAS.

(d) The auditor did not report a substantial doubt about the auditee's ability to continue as a going concern.

(e) None of the DOE programs had audit findings from any of the following in either of the preceding two audit periods:

(1) Internal control deficiencies that were identified as material weaknesses in the auditor's report on internal control as required under ยง 910.515 Audit reporting, paragraph (c);

(2) Not applicable.

(3) Not applicable.
