
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XI - Department of Defense
#### Subchapter A - General Matters and Definitions
##### PART 1108 - DEFINITIONS OF TERMS USED IN SUBCHAPTERS A THROUGH F OF THIS CHAPTER
###### Appendix A to Part 1108 - Background on Assistance, Acquisition, and Terms for Types of Legal Instruments

This appendix provides background intended to clarify some terms:

A. That are used in this chapter to describe either types of legal instruments that DoD Components, recipients, and subrecipients issue, or the purposes for which those types of instruments are used; and

B. For which this part provides definitions that vary depending on the context within which the terms are used.

A. The DoDGARs contain both:

1. Direction to DoD Components concerning their award of grants and cooperative agreements at the prime tier; and

2. Terms and conditions that DoD Components include in their grants and cooperative agreements to specify the Government's and recipients' rights and responsibilities, including post-award requirements with which recipients' actions must comply.

B. In some cases, the same defined term or two closely related terms are used in relation to both DoD Component actions at the prime tier and recipient or subrecipient actions at lower tiers under DoD Components' awards. But a given defined term may have meanings that differ at the two tiers. For example, in part because the Federal Grant and Cooperative Agreement Act applies to DoD Component actions at the prime tier but not to recipient or subrecipient actions at lower tiers (see sections III and IV of this appendix):

1. The terms "acquire" and "acquisition" do not have precisely the same meaning in conjunction with actions at the prime and lower tiers.

2. The meaning of the term "procurement contract" used to describe DoD Component prime-tier actions is not precisely the same as the meaning of "procurement transaction" or "contract" used to describe recipient or subrecipient actions at lower tiers.

A. The Federal Grant and Cooperative Agreement Act (31 U.S.C. chapter 63) specifies that the type of legal instrument a DoD Component is to use is based on the nature of the relationship between the DoD Component and the recipient.

B. Specifically, except where another statute authorizes DoD to do otherwise, 31 U.S.C. chapter 63 specifies use of:

1. A procurement contract as the legal instrument reflecting a relationship between a DoD Component and a recipient when the principal purpose of the relationship is to acquire property or services for the direct benefit or use of the Federal Government.

2. A grant or cooperative agreement as the legal instrument reflecting a relationship between those two parties when the principal purpose of the relationship is to transfer a thing of value to the recipient to carry out a public purpose of support or stimulation authorized by Federal statute.

C. The terms "acquisition" and "assistance" are defined in this part to correspond to the principal purposes described in paragraphs III.B.1 and 2 of this section, respectively. Using those terms, paragraphs III.B.1 and B.2 may be restated to say that grants and cooperative agreements are assistance instruments that DoD Components use, as distinct from procurement contracts they use for acquisition.

A. While the Federal Grant and Cooperative Agreement Act applies to Federal agencies, it does not govern types of instruments that recipients and subrecipients of any tier use. That statute does not require a recipient or subrecipient to:

1. Consider any instrument it makes at a lower tier under a Federal assistance award to be a grant or cooperative agreement. Therefore, at its option, a recipient or subrecipient may consider all of its lower-tier instruments to be "contracts."

2. Associate an "assistance" relationship, as that term is defined in this part and used in this chapter, with any lower-tier transaction that it makes.

B. However, the DoDGARs in this chapter do distinguish between two classes of lower-tier transactions that recipients and subrecipients make: Subawards and procurement transactions. The distinction promotes uniformity in requirements for lower-tier transactions under DoD grants and cooperative agreements. It is based on a long-standing distinction in OMB guidance to Federal agencies, currently at 2 CFR part 200, which DoD implements in this chapter.

C. The distinction between a subaward and procurement transaction is based on the primary purpose of that transaction.

1. The transaction is a subaward if a recipient or subrecipient enters into it with another entity at the next lower tier in order to transfer-for performance by that lower-tier entity-a portion of the substantive program for which the DoD grant or cooperative agreement provided financial assistance to the recipient. Because the Federal Grant and Cooperative Agreement Act does not apply to the recipient or subrecipient, it may make a subaward as defined in this part using an instrument that it considers a contract.

2. The transaction is a procurement transaction if the recipient or subrecipient enters into it in order to purchase goods or services from the lower-tier entity that the recipient or subrecipient needs to perform its portion of the substantive program supported by the DoD award.
