
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XI - Department of Defense
#### Subchapter C - Award Format and National Policy Terms and Conditions for All Grants and Cooperative Agreements
##### PART 1120 - AWARD FORMAT FOR DOD GRANTS AND COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS
###### Subpart A - Award Cover Pages
####### ยง 1120.105 Content of the award cover pages.
######## e.g.,

(v) The name of, and contact information for, the individual or office in the DoD responsible for post-award administration of the award. If there are multiple individuals and offices for different post-award functions (payments and property administration), the award cover pages should provide information about each.

(vi) The name of, and contact information for, the DoD Component's program manager or other point of contact for programmatic matters.

(b) Must include, as a minimum, the following information about the recipient entity:

(1) The recipient's unique entity identifier required for its registration in the System for Award Management (SAM). Currently, that is the Dun and Bradstreet Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) number.

(2) The recipient's business name and address, which must be the legal business or "doing business as" name and physical address in SAM at the time of award corresponding to the recipient's unique entity identifier.

(3) The name and title of the recipient's authorized representative, either the individual who signed the application or proposal on behalf of the recipient entity or another individual designated by that entity.

(4) The name of the recipient's Project or Program Director (PD) or Principal Investigator (PI) and his or her organization, if different from the name of the recipient organization. If there are multiple PDs or co-PIs, the name and organization of each should be included.
