
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XI - Department of Defense
#### Subchapter C - Award Format and National Policy Terms and Conditions for All Grants and Cooperative Agreements
##### PART 1120 - AWARD FORMAT FOR DOD GRANTS AND COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS
###### Subpart C - General Terms and Conditions
####### ยง 1120.310 Use of plain language.

(a) DoD Components must use plain language in:

(1) General terms and conditions of grants and cooperative agreements to institutions of higher education, nonprofit organizations, States, local governments, and Indian tribes. Those awards are subject to the DoDGARs provisions in:

(i) 2 CFR parts 1128 through 1138, the appendices to which provide standard wording for general terms and conditions addressing administrative requirements. That standard wording uses personal pronouns.

(ii) 2 CFR part 1122, the appendices to which provide standard wording for general terms and conditions addressing commonly applicable national policy requirements. That standard wording also uses personal pronouns.

(2) The national policy requirements in Subdivision B of general terms and conditions of grants and cooperative agreements to for-profit entities, which also are subject to 2 CFR part 1122.

(b) Although the DoDGARs currently do not provide standard wording for terms and conditions addressing administrative requirements for use in awards to for-profit entities, DoD Components are strongly encouraged to use plain language and personal pronouns in their terms and conditions of those other awards. The DoDGARs provisions that specify the administrative requirements to incorporate into those terms and conditions are listed in ยง 1120.510(b).
