
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XI - Department of Defense
#### Subchapter C - Award Format and National Policy Terms and Conditions for All Grants and Cooperative Agreements
##### PART 1120 - AWARD FORMAT FOR DOD GRANTS AND COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS
###### ยง 1120.4 Elements and subelements of the standard award format in relation to the organization of this part.

(a) The standard award format has three major elements that are designated as Divisions I through III of the award.

(1) The first major element of the standard award format is comprised of the award cover pages. It is designated as Division I of the award.

(2) The second major element is comprised of any award-specific terms and conditions. That element is designated as Division II of the award.

(3) The last of the three major elements of the standard award format is comprised of the general terms and conditions. That element is designated as Division III of the award. It has four subelements that are designated as Subdivisions A through D of the general terms and conditions.

(i) The first subelement of the general terms and conditions is the preamble, which is designated as Subdivision A.

(ii) The second subelement of the general terms and conditions is comprised of terms and conditions addressing administrative requirements. That subelement is designated as Subdivision B of the general terms and conditions.

(iii) The third subelement of the general terms and conditions is comprised of terms and conditions addressing national policy requirements. That subelement is designated as Subdivision C of the general terms and conditions.

(iv) The last of the four subelements of the general terms and conditions is comprised of any programmatic requirements that apply to awards using those general terms and conditions. That subelement is designated as Subdivision D of the general terms and conditions.

(b) This part has seven subparts. Each subpart addresses one major element or subelement of the standard award format, as shown in Table 1:
