
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XI - Department of Defense
#### Subchapter C - Award Format and National Policy Terms and Conditions for All Grants and Cooperative Agreements
##### PART 1122 - NATIONAL POLICY REQUIREMENTS: GENERAL AWARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
###### Appendix D to Part 1122 - Terms and Conditions for NP Article IV, "Other National Policy Requirements"
####### Requirements for an Institution of Higher Education Concerning Military Recruiters and Reserve Officers Training Corps (ROTC).

10.

a. As a condition for receiving funds available to the DoD under this award, you agree that you are not an institution of higher education (as defined in 32 CFR part 216) that has a policy or practice that either prohibits, or in effect prevents:

i. The Secretary of a Military Department from maintaining, establishing, or operating a unit of the Senior Reserve Officers Training Corps (ROTC)-in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 654 and other applicable Federal laws-at that institution (or any subelement of that institution);

ii. Any student at that institution (or any subelement of that institution) from enrolling in a unit of the Senior ROTC at another institution of higher education.

iii. The Secretary of a Military Department or Secretary of Homeland Security from gaining access to campuses, or access to students (who are 17 years of age or older) on campuses, for purposes of military recruiting in a manner that is at least equal in quality and scope to the access to campuses and to students that is provided to any other employer; or

iv. Access by military recruiters for purposes of military recruiting to the names of students (who are 17 years of age or older and enrolled at that institution or any subelement of that institution); their addresses, telephone listings, dates and places of birth, levels of education, academic majors, and degrees received; and the most recent educational institutions in which they were enrolled.

b. If you are determined, using the procedures in 32 CFR part 216, to be such an institution of higher education during the period of performance of this award, we:

i. Will cease all payments to you of DoD funds under this award and all other DoD grants and cooperative agreements; and

ii. May suspend or terminate those awards unilaterally for material failure to comply with the award terms and conditions.
