
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XI - Department of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Administrative Requirements Terms and Conditions for Cost-Type Grants and Cooperative Agreements to Nonprofit and Governmental Entities
##### PART 1128 - RECIPIENT FINANCIAL AND PROGRAM MANAGEMENT: GENERAL AWARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
###### Subpart F-Cost Sharing or Matching (FMS Article VI)
####### ยง 1128.630 Valuation of services or property contributed or donated by recipients or subrecipients.
######## Donations of property to projects or programs under awards.

(2)(i) In addition to donations of buildings or land described in 2 CFR 200.306(d), recipients and subrecipients may, with the prior approval of the DoD Component, donate other capital assets described in the cost principles in 2 CFR 200.439(b)(1) through (3). The basis for clarifying that recipients may donate other capital assets to projects or programs under awards is that, with the DoD Component's approval:

(A) Capital expenditures to acquire those types of capital assets are allowable as direct charges to awards; and

(B) The costs therefore satisfy the allowability criterion in 2 CFR 200.306(b)(4) and can qualify as cost sharing or matching if they meet the other criteria listed in 2 CFR 200.306(b).

(ii) However, when there are alternative ways for recipients to meet requirements for cost sharing or matching, DoD Components should not approve donations of capital assets to projects or programs under awards. Inclusion of the full value of a donated asset as project costs in the approved budget of an award is analogous to inclusion of the acquisition cost for an asset that is purchased under the award. Through the donation, the Federal Government acquires an interest in the donated asset that must be resolved at time of disposition of the asset, which is best avoided if possible.

(iii) Whenever a DoD Component permits a recipient to donate a capital asset to a project or program under an award, the DoD Component should inform the cognizant Federal agency that negotiates the indirect cost rate for that recipient. Doing so enables the cognizant agency to take the donation into account when it establishes the recipient's indirect cost rate, given that the recipient may not include depreciation for the donated asset as indirect costs that enter into the computation of that rate.
