
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XI - Department of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Administrative Requirements Terms and Conditions for Cost-Type Grants and Cooperative Agreements to Nonprofit and Governmental Entities
##### PART 1128 - RECIPIENT FINANCIAL AND PROGRAM MANAGEMENT: GENERAL AWARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
###### Appendix A to Part 1128 - Terms and Conditions for FMS Article I, "Financial Management System Standards"
####### Section B. System standards for all recipients.

Your financial management system must provide for:

1. Inclusion, in your accounts, of the following information about each DoD grant or cooperative agreement that you receive:

a. That you received the award from DoD;

b. The number and title listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance for the DoD program under which the award was made;

c. The DoD award number; and

d. The year (your fiscal year) in which you received the award.

2. Accurate, current, and complete disclosure of the financial results of the award needed to comply with financial and programmatic reporting requirements that are specified in REP Articles I and II of these general terms and conditions, as supplemented by any award-specific terms and conditions of this award concerning reporting requirements. If you are asked at any time under this award to report financial information on an accrual basis, you:

a. Need not establish an accrual accounting system if you maintain your records on a different basis; and

b. May develop the accrual data based on an analysis of the data you have on hand.

3. Records that identify adequately the sources of funds for all activities funded by DoD awards, including any required cost sharing or matching, and the application of those funds. This includes funding authorizations; your obligations and expenditures of the funds; unobligated balances; property and other assets under the award; program income; and interest.

4. Effective control over, and accountability for, all funds, property, and other assets under this award. You must adequately safeguard all assets and ensure they are used solely for authorized purposes (see Section C of this article for additional requirements concerning internal controls).

5. Comparison of expenditures under this award for project or program purposes with amounts in the approved budget for those purposes.

6. The ability to relate financial data to performance accomplishments under this award if you are required to do so by the programmatic reporting requirements in REP Article I of these general terms and conditions, as supplemented by any award-specific terms and conditions of this award concerning reporting requirements.

7. Written procedures:

a. To implement requirements specified in FMS Article II, "Payments;"

b. For determining the allowability of costs, which for this award are determined in accordance with FMS Article III, "Allowable costs, period of availability of funds, and fee or profit," of these general terms and conditions, as supplemented by any award-specific terms and conditions of this award that relate to allowability of costs.
