
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XI - Department of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Administrative Requirements Terms and Conditions for Cost-Type Grants and Cooperative Agreements to Nonprofit and Governmental Entities
##### PART 1128 - RECIPIENT FINANCIAL AND PROGRAM MANAGEMENT: GENERAL AWARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
###### Appendix B to Part 1128 - Terms and Conditions for FMS Article II, "Payments"
####### Depository requirements.

6.

a. There are no eligibility requirements for depositories you use for funds you receive under this award.

b. You are not required to deposit funds you receive under this award in a depository account separate from accounts in which you deposit other funds. However, FMS Article I requires that you be able to account for the receipt, obligation, and expenditure of all funds under this award.

c. You must deposit any advance payments of funds you receive under this award in insured accounts whenever possible and, unless any of the following apply, you must deposit them in interest-bearing accounts:

i. You receive a total of less than $120,000 per year under Federal grants and cooperative agreements.

ii. You would not expect the best reasonably available interest-bearing account to earn interest in excess of $500 per year on your cash balances of advance payments under Federal grants and cooperative agreements.

iii. The best reasonably available interest-bearing account would require you to maintain an average or minimum balance higher than it would be feasible for you to do within your expected Federal and non-Federal cash balances.

iv. A foreign government or banking system precludes your use of interest-bearing accounts.

d. You may retain for administrative expenses up to $500 per year of interest that you earn in the aggregate on advance payments you receive under this award and other Federal grants and cooperative agreements. You must remit annually the rest of the interest to the Department of Health and Human Services, Payment Management System, using the procedures set forth in OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.305(b)(9).
