
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XI - Department of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Administrative Requirements Terms and Conditions for Cost-Type Grants and Cooperative Agreements to Nonprofit and Governmental Entities
##### PART 1128 - RECIPIENT FINANCIAL AND PROGRAM MANAGEMENT: GENERAL AWARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
###### Appendix D to Part 1128 - Terms and Conditions for FMS Article IV, "Revision of Budget and Program Plans"
####### Non-construction activities.

1.You must request prior approval from us for any of the following program or budget revisions in non-construction activities:

a. A change in the scope or objective of the project or program under this award, even if there is no associated budget revision that requires our prior approval.

b. A change in a key person identified in the award cover pages.

c. The approved principal investigator's or project director's disengagement from the project for more than three months, or a 25 percent reduction in his or her time devoted to the project.

d. The inclusion of direct costs that require prior approval in accordance with the applicable cost principles, as identified in FMS Article III.

e. The transfer to other categories of expense of funds included in the approved budget for participant support costs, as defined at 2 CFR 200.75.

f. A subaward to another entity under which it will perform a portion of the substantive project or program under the award, if it was not included in the approved budget. This does not apply to your contracts for acquisition of supplies, equipment, or general support services you need to carry out the project or program.

g. Any change in the cost sharing or matching you provide under the award, as included in the approved budget, for which FMS Article VI requires prior approval.

h. A transfer of funds among direct cost categories or programs, functions, and activities, if the Federal share of the total value for your award exceeds the simplified acquisition threshold and the cumulative amount of the transfers exceeds or is expected to exceed 10 percent of the approved budget.

i. The need arises for additional Federal funds to complete the project or program.
