
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XI - Department of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Administrative Requirements Terms and Conditions for Cost-Type Grants and Cooperative Agreements to Nonprofit and Governmental Entities
##### PART 1130 - PROPERTY ADMINISTRATION: GENERAL AWARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
###### Appendix A to Part 1130 - Terms and Conditions for PROP Article I, "Title to Property"
####### Section D. Federal interest in donated real property or equipment.,i.e.,

If real property or equipment is acquired under this award through your donation of the property to the project or program (counting the value of the remaining life of the property recorded in your accounting records or the fair market value as permitted under FMS Article VI of this award as part of your share of project costs to meet any cost sharing or matching requirements, rather than charging depreciation):

1. The Federal Government acquires through that donation an interest in the real property or equipment, the value of which at any given time is the product of:

a. The Federal share of the project costs under this award; and

b. The current fair market value of the property at that time.

2. The real property or equipment is subject to Section B of this article and the terms and conditions of PROP Articles II-IV and REP Article III that are applicable to property acquired under the award.

3. The Federal interest in the real property or equipment must be addressed at the time of property disposition.

1. The Federal Government has an interest in improvements (as distinct from ordinary repairs and maintenance) you make to an item of real property or equipment if you charge the costs of the improvements as direct costs to this award.

2. We thereby acquire an interest in the property if the Government did not previously have one. If the Government already had an interest in the property, the value of that Federal interest in the property increases by the amount of the Federal interest in the improvements.

3. The property is subject to Section B of this article and the terms and conditions of PROP Articles II-IV and REP Article III that are applicable to real property or equipment acquired under the award.

4. The Federal interest must be addressed at the time of property disposition.
