
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XI - Department of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Administrative Requirements Terms and Conditions for Cost-Type Grants and Cooperative Agreements to Nonprofit and Governmental Entities
##### PART 1130 - PROPERTY ADMINISTRATION: GENERAL AWARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
###### Appendix C to Part 1130 - Terms and Conditions for PROP Article III, "Use and Disposition of Real Property"

Unless a DoD Component substitutes wording in Section A, as provided in ยง 1130.305, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for PROP Article III.

1. You must use real property acquired or improved under this award for the originally authorized purpose as long as needed for that purpose. During that time, you may not:

a. Dispose of the property except, with the approval of the award administration office, to acquire replacement property under this award, in which case you must use the proceeds from the disposition as an offset to the cost of the replacement property; or

b. Encumber the title or other interests in the property without the approval of the award administration office identified in this award.

2. During the time that the real property is used for the originally authorized purpose, you may make the property available for use on other projects or programs, but only if that use will not interfere with the property's use as needed for its originally authorized purpose.

a. First preference must be given to other projects or programs supported by DoD Components and second preference to those supported by other Federal agencies.

b. Third preference is for other projects or programs not currently supported by the Federal Government. You should charge user fees for use of the property in those cases, if it is at all practicable.

3. When the real property is no longer needed for the originally authorized purpose, with the written approval of the award administration office, you may delay final disposition of the property to use it on other federally sponsored projects or programs. A condition for the award administration office's approval is that the other projects or programs have purposes consistent with those authorized for support by the DoD Component that made the award under which the property was acquired or improved.
