
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XI - Department of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Administrative Requirements Terms and Conditions for Cost-Type Grants and Cooperative Agreements to Nonprofit and Governmental Entities
##### PART 1130 - PROPERTY ADMINISTRATION: GENERAL AWARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
###### Appendix D to Part 1130 - Terms and Conditions for PROP Article IV, "Use and Disposition of Equipment and Supplies"
####### Section C. Use of equipment by an institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, local government, or Indian tribe.

You:

1. Must use the equipment for the authorized purposes of the project or program under this award until the equipment is no longer needed for those purposes, whether or not the project or program continues to be supported by this award.

2. May not encumber the equipment without the prior written approval of the award administration office.

3. During the time that the equipment is used for the project or program under this award:

a. You must make the equipment available for use on other projects or programs but only if that use will not interfere with the equipment's use as needed for the project or program supported by this award.

i. First preference must be given to other projects or programs supported or previously supported by DoD Components

ii. Second preference to projects or programs supported or previously supported by other Federal agencies.

iii. Third preference is for other projects or programs not supported by the Federal Government. You should charge user fees for use of the equipment in those cases, if it is at all practicable.

b. You may use the equipment, if you need to acquire replacement equipment, as a trade-in or sell it (using sales procedures designed to ensure the highest possible return) and use the proceeds from the sale to offset the cost of the replacement equipment.

4. When the equipment is no longer needed for the project or program under this award, you may defer final disposition of the equipment and continue to use it on other federally sponsored projects or programs. You must give first priority to other projects or programs supported by DoD Components.

5. Notwithstanding the encouragement in FMS Article VII to earn program income, you may not use equipment in which there currently is a Federal interest-whether you acquired it under this award or are otherwise accountable for it under this award-to provide services for a fee that is less than private companies charge for equivalent services.
