
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XI - Department of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Administrative Requirements Terms and Conditions for Cost-Type Grants and Cooperative Agreements to Nonprofit and Governmental Entities
##### PART 1134 - FINANCIAL, PROGRAMMATIC, AND PROPERTY REPORTING: GENERAL AWARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
###### Subpart B - Financial Reporting (REP Article II)
####### ยง 1134.205 Reporting forms, formats, or data elements.
######## DoD implementation.

(b)DoD Components must collect financial information from recipients using OMB-approved forms, formats, or data elements.

(1) Unless current approvals expire, approved financial information collections include the Federal Financial Report (SF-425) and Request for Advance or Reimbursement (SF-270). In the future, they would include any additional information collections that OMB approves.

(2) For all but the recipient's final financial report, a DoD Component may rely on financial information the recipient provides on the SF-270 or other OMB-approved payment request form, format, or data elements if that financial information is sufficient to meet the DoD Component's needs. For the final report, the DoD Component must require the recipient to use the SF-425 or other OMB-approved financial information collection.

(3) A DoD Component must obtain approval for any variations from OMB-approved forms or formats, including use of additional or substitute data elements or modification of the associated instructions for recipient entities submitting the information.
