
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XI - Department of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Administrative Requirements Terms and Conditions for Cost-Type Grants and Cooperative Agreements to Nonprofit and Governmental Entities
##### PART 1136 - OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS: GENERAL AWARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
###### Subpart F - Closeout (OAR Article VI)
####### ยง 1136.605 Content of OAR Article VI.
######## Exception related to due dates for final reports other than performance, financial, and invention reports.

(2)Consistent with OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.343(a), a DoD Component may grant extensions to due dates for final reports.

(i) To pre-approve a 30-day extension for final reports other than performance, financial, and invention reports, a DoD Component may substitute "120 calendar days" for "90 calendar days" in the wording appendix F to this part provides for paragraph C.4 of OAR Article VI. These pre-approved 30-day extensions in the general terms and conditions are for all awards using those terms and conditions; they therefore are separate and distinct from any additional extensions a recipient may later request for an individual award.

(ii) The parallel authorities for pre-approved extensions of due dates for final performance and invention reports are elsewhere. DoDGARs provisions in:

(A) 2 CFR 1134.125 authorize a DoD Component to pre-approve a 30-day extension for due dates of performance reports by an appropriate substitution of wording in REP Article I of the general terms and conditions.

(B) 2 CFR 1130.610 authorize a DoD Component to pre-approve a 30-day extension for due dates of final reports listing subject inventions under awards by an appropriate substitution of wording in PROP Article VI of the general terms and conditions.

(C) 2 CFR 1134.505 authorize a DoD Component to pre-approve a 30-day extension for due dates of other types of final reports by inclusion of appropriate wording in REP Article V of the general terms and conditions.
