
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XI - Department of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Administrative Requirements Terms and Conditions for Cost-Type Grants and Cooperative Agreements to Nonprofit and Governmental Entities
##### PART 1136 - OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS: GENERAL AWARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
###### Appendix C to Part 1136 - Terms and Conditions for OAR Article III, "Remedies and Termination"
####### Unilaterally by the recipient.

c.You may unilaterally terminate this award, in whole or in part, by sending us written notification that states:

i. The reasons for the termination;

ii. The effective date; and

iii. In the case of partial termination, the portion to be terminated. In that case, however, we may terminate the award in its entirety if we determine that the remaining portion of the award will not accomplish the purposes for which we made the award.

2. If this award is terminated in its entirety before the end of the performance period, you must complete the closeout actions for which you are responsible under OAR Article VI. The due date for each action is to be measured relative to the date of termination.

3. If this award is only partially terminated before the end of the performance period, with a reduced or modified portion of the award continuing through the end of the performance period, then closeout actions will occur at the end of the performance period as specified in OAR Article VI.

4. You will continue to have all of the post-closeout responsibilities that OAR Article VII specifies for you if this award is wholly or partially terminated before the end of the performance period.
