
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XI - Department of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Administrative Requirements Terms and Conditions for Cost-Type Grants and Cooperative Agreements to Nonprofit and Governmental Entities
##### PART 1136 - OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS: GENERAL AWARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
###### Appendix D to Part 1136 - Terms and Conditions for OAR Article IV, "Claims, Disputes, and Appeals"
####### Federal Government claims.

2.You will receive a written grants officer's decision if a DoD claim arises out of this award.

1. We encourage resolution of all issues related to this award by mutual agreement between you and the grants officer.

2. If you and the grants officer are unable to resolve an issue through unassisted negotiations, we encourage use of Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) procedures to try to do so. ADR procedures are any voluntary means, such as mini-trials or mediation, used to resolve issues in controversy. ADR procedures may be used prior to submission of a claim or at any other time prior to the Grant Appeal Authority's decision on any appeal you submit.

1. Within 60 calendar days of receiving your claim, the grants officer will either:

a. Transmit a written decision that:

i. Identifies data on which the decision is based; and

ii. Identifies and provides the mailing address for the Grant Appeal Authority to whom you would submit an appeal of the decision if you elect to do so; or

b. If more time is required to render a written decision, notify you of a specific date when he or she will render the decision and inform you of the reason for delaying it.

2. The grants officer's decision will be final unless you decide to appeal, in which case we encourage use of ADR procedures as noted in Section C of this article.
