
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XI - Department of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Administrative Requirements Terms and Conditions for Cost-Type Grants and Cooperative Agreements to Nonprofit and Governmental Entities
##### PART 1138 - REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO SUBAWARDS: GENERAL AWARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
###### Appendix A to Part 1138 - Terms and Conditions for SUB Article I, "Distinguishing Subawards and Procurements"
####### Section A. Required recipient determination.

For each transaction into which you enter with another entity at the next tier below this award, you must determine whether the transaction is a subaward or a procurement.

1. The primary purpose of the transaction between you and the other entity is the key factor you must use to determine whether the transaction is a subaward or a procurement.

a. The transaction is a subaward and the other entity therefore a subrecipient if the transaction's primary purpose is for you to transfer-for performance by the other entity-a portion of the substantive program for which we are providing financial assistance to you through this award. You will continue to be accountable to us for performance of the project or program under the award, including portions performed by any subrecipients.

b. The transaction is a procurement and the other entity therefore your contractor if the transaction's primary purpose is for you to purchase goods or services that you need to perform the substantive program supported by this award. The distinction from a subaward is the contractor is not performing a portion of the substantive program as a result of the transaction.

2. What you call the transaction is not a factor in distinguishing a subaward from a procurement. If the transaction meets the criterion in paragraph B.1.a of this article, it is a subaward for purposes of the requirements of this award even if you call and consider the transaction a "contract."
