
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XI - Department of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Administrative Requirements Terms and Conditions for Cost-Type Grants and Cooperative Agreements to Nonprofit and Governmental Entities
##### PART 1138 - REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO SUBAWARDS: GENERAL AWARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
###### Appendix B to Part 1138 - Terms and Conditions for SUB Article II, "Pre-Award and Time of Award Responsibilities"
####### Exception.

b.You may make a subaward to an entity that has not provided its unique entity identifier to you in rare cases in which you requested, and we approved, an exemption from the requirement for the entity to provide a unique entity identifier, based on the criteria in OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 25.110(d).

1. Before making a subaward to an entity, you must perform a risk assessment of the prospective subrecipient, as described in 2 CFR 200.331(b). OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.205(c) provides examples of factors you may consider in evaluating risk.

2. As part of the risk assessment under paragraph B.1 of this article, you must:

a. Verify that neither the prospective subrecipient nor its principals under the subaward are excluded or disqualified from participating in the transaction, in accordance with requirements in Subpart C of OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 180, as implemented by DoD at 2 CFR part 1125; and

b. If warranted by risks you identify, determine whether to impose award-specific terms and conditions in the subaward to mitigate the risks.

i. These award-specific terms and conditions may be in addition to, or differ from, the terms and conditions that SUB Articles IV through IX of this award require you to include in subawards.

ii. They may include items such as those listed in OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.207(b)(1) through (6).

iii. Your procedures for imposing and removing the additional or different requirements must comply with the procedural guidance in 2 CFR 200.207(c) and (d).
