
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XI - Department of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Administrative Requirements Terms and Conditions for Cost-Type Grants and Cooperative Agreements to Nonprofit and Governmental Entities
##### PART 1138 - REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO SUBAWARDS: GENERAL AWARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
###### Appendix D to Part 1138 - Terms and Conditions for SUB Article IV, "Financial and Program Management Requirements for Subawards"
####### Section H. Program income.

You must include requirements concerning program income in subawards, as follows:

1. In each subaward to a State, institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, local government, or Indian tribe:

a. You must require the subrecipient to account to you when it earns any program income under the subaward or uses it, so that you can prepare reports you are required to submit to us. If the award-specific terms and conditions of this award require you to account for program income earned after the period of performance, you must include a corresponding requirement in your subawards.

b. You must include the provisions of Sections A through D of FMS Article VII of this award.

c. You may specify the deduction, addition, or cost-sharing or matching alternative-described in 2 CFR 1128.720(b)-or a combination of those alternatives, for the subrecipient's use of any program income it earns. However, you still must comply with the alternative specified in Section E of FMS Article VII and any applicable award-specific terms and conditions for the total amount of program income earned, which includes amounts earned by you and your subrecipients. For example, if we require you to use the deduction alternative, you may authorize a subrecipient to use the addition alternative if you reduce the funding allocated for portions of the project or program that you or other subrecipients perform to make the required reduction in the total award amount.

2. In each subaward to a for-profit entity, you must include the provisions of 32 CFR 34.14, with the appropriate method specified for disposition of program income.
