
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XI - Department of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Administrative Requirements Terms and Conditions for Cost-Type Grants and Cooperative Agreements to Nonprofit and Governmental Entities
##### PART 1138 - REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO SUBAWARDS: GENERAL AWARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
###### Appendix G to Part 1138 - Terms and Conditions for SUB Article VII, "Financial, Programmatic, and Property Reporting Requirements for Subawards"

Unless modified as provided in § 1138.5, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for SUB Article VII (as specified in §§ 1138.700 through 1138.715).

1. This article specifies administrative requirements concerning reporting that you must include in the terms and conditions of each cost-type subaward that you make under this award.

2. It thereby addresses the flow down to subrecipients of requirements with which you must comply under REP Articles I through III of this award.

3. SUB Article XII of this award addresses which of these administrative requirements you must include in any fixed-amount subaward that you make, if you are authorized to make fixed-amount subawards under this award.

1. You must include terms and conditions in each subaward to require the subrecipient to provide any performance information you need, by the time you need it, to comply with the performance reporting requirements in REP Article I and other terms and conditions of this award.

2. You may specify a form, format, or data elements for use by the subrecipient to provide the information to you (you need not require the subrecipient to use the same form, format, or data elements that REP Article I specifies for your reporting to us).

1. You must include terms and conditions in each subaward to require the subrecipient to provide any financial information you need, by the time you need it, to comply with the financial reporting requirements in REP Article II and other terms and conditions of this award.

2. You may specify a form, format, or data elements for use by the subrecipient to provide the information to you (you need not require the subrecipient to use the same form, format, or data elements that REP Article II specifies for your reporting to us).

1. Each subaward you make under this award must include provisions concerning property reporting as described in paragraph D.2 of this section if the subrecipient may, under the subaward:

a. Acquire or improve real property or equipment;

b. Acquire supplies or intangible property; or

c. Be accountable for federally owned property.

2. The subaward provisions must require the subrecipient to give you the information you need about the property in order to meet your responsibilities to us under Sections A through D of REP Article III and PROP Articles II through VI.
