
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XI - Department of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Administrative Requirements Terms and Conditions for Cost-Type Grants and Cooperative Agreements to Nonprofit and Governmental Entities
##### PART 1138 - REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO SUBAWARDS: GENERAL AWARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
###### Appendix H to Part 1138 - Terms and Conditions for SUB Article VIII, "Other Administrative Requirements for Subawards"
####### Section C. Records retention and access.

In each subaward you make under this award:

1. If the subaward is to an institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, State, local government, or Indian tribe:

a. You must include the requirements of Section A of OAR Article II with the additional condition that, for any subrecipient under this award that does not have a federally approved rate for indirect or facilities and administrative costs and that does not use the de minimis rate described in 2 CFR 200.414(f), you must:

i. Require the subrecipient to keep records that support its indirect or facilities and administrative costs charged to the subaward for 3 years from the end of the fiscal year (or other accounting period) to which the costs apply; and

ii. Keep any plan or computation the subrecipient submits to you to serve as a basis for your determining the reasonableness and allowability of indirect or facilities and administrative costs of the subaward, for 3 years from the end of the fiscal year (or other accounting period) to which the proposal, plan, or computation applies.

b. You must include the requirements of Sections B, C, and F of OAR Article II.

c. You must include provisions that enable you to comply with the requirements of Section D of OAR Article II concerning records for joint or long-term use.

d. You must include provisions that establish the same rights and responsibilities for the subrecipient under the subaward that Section E of OAR Article II establishes for you under this award.

e. You may not impose any other record retention or access requirements on the subrecipient.

2. If the subaward is to a for-profit entity, you must include the records retention and access provisions of 32 CFR 34.42.
