
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XI - Department of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Administrative Requirements Terms and Conditions for Cost-Type Grants and Cooperative Agreements to Nonprofit and Governmental Entities
##### PART 1138 - REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO SUBAWARDS: GENERAL AWARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
###### Appendix H to Part 1138 - Terms and Conditions for SUB Article VIII, "Other Administrative Requirements for Subawards"
####### Section D. Remedies and termination.

The terms and conditions of each subaward you make under this award should specify your rights and responsibilities and those of the subrecipient if you take a remedial action to address a subrecipient's noncompliance with an applicable Federal statute or regulation or the terms and conditions of your subaward. Each subaward's terms and conditions should:

1. Identify remedial actions you may take to address the subrecipient's noncompliance. Available remedies are described in:

a. OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.338 for a subaward to an institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, State, local government, or Indian tribe; and

b. 32 CFR 34.52 for a subaward to a for-profit entity.

2. With respect to termination specifically:

a. Identify conditions under which you, the subrecipient, or both (by mutual agreement) may terminate the subaward, in whole or in part, as described in:

i. OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.339(a) for a subaward to an institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, State, local government, or Indian tribe; and

ii. 32 CFR 34.51 for a subaward to a for-profit entity.

b. Inform the subrecipient that you will provide it with a notice of termination if you unilaterally terminate the award.

c. Specify that you and the subrecipient remain responsible for applicable requirements addressed in Sections G and H of this article concerning closeout, post-closeout adjustments, and continuing responsibilities.

3. With respect to either suspension or termination of the subaward, inform the subrecipient about the criteria that you will use to either allow or disallow subaward costs, which are in:

a. Section D of OAR Article III for a subaward to an institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, State, local government, or Indian tribe; and

b. 32 CFR 34.52(c) for a subaward to a for-profit entity.
