
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XI - Department of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Administrative Requirements Terms and Conditions for Cost-Type Grants and Cooperative Agreements to Nonprofit and Governmental Entities
##### PART 1138 - REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO SUBAWARDS: GENERAL AWARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
###### Appendix H to Part 1138 - Terms and Conditions for SUB Article VIII, "Other Administrative Requirements for Subawards"
####### Section F. Collection of amounts due.

Although your subaward terms and conditions do not need to include any of the requirements of OAR Article V because those requirements do not flow down to subrecipients, you should consider including provisions to specify what you would need from the subrecipient if you owed a debt to the Federal Government under this award that is related to its subaward.

1. In each subaward that you make to an institution of higher education, nonprofit organization, State, local government, or Indian tribe, you must include provisions to require the subrecipient to:

a. Liquidate all obligations that it incurred under the subaward not later than 90 calendar days after the end date of the period of performance of either the subaward or this award, whichever is earlier, unless you grant an extension.

b. Promptly refund to you any balances of unobligated cash that you advanced or paid to the subrecipient, unless you received authorization from the DoD award administration office for the subrecipient's use of those funds on other projects or programs.

c. Submit to you:

i. Any information you need from the subrecipient to meet your responsibilities to us for an accounting of property, under Section D of OAR Article VI; and

ii. Not later than 90 calendar days after the end date of the period of performance of this award, unless you grant the subrecipient an extension, any information you need to meet your responsibilities to us for final reports, under Section C of OAR Article VI.

2. In each subaward that you make to a for-profit entity, you must include the terms and conditions that you deem necessary for you to be able to comply with the requirements in OAR Article VI.

You must include provisions in each subaward to require the subrecipient to provide what you need in order to comply with the requirements of OAR Article VII.
