
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XI - Department of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Administrative Requirements Terms and Conditions for Cost-Type Grants and Cooperative Agreements to Nonprofit and Governmental Entities
##### PART 1138 - REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO SUBAWARDS: GENERAL AWARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
###### Appendix J to Part 1138 - Terms and Conditions for SUB Article X, "Subrecipient Monitoring and Other Post-Award Administration"
####### Required monitoring actions under cost-type subawards.

1.You must, as part of your post-award monitoring of each subrecipient:

a. Review the financial and programmatic information that your subaward terms and conditions require the subrecipient to provide, in accordance with Sections B and C of SUB Article VII of this award.

b. Follow up and ensure that the subrecipient takes timely and appropriate action to remedy deficiencies detected through any means, including audits and on-site reviews.

c. With respect to audits of subrecipients that are required under FMS Article V of this award:

i. Verify that the subrecipient is audited in accordance with those requirements, as applicable (note that Section F of SUB Article IV requires you to include those audit requirements for the subrecipient in the subaward's terms and conditions).

ii. Resolve and issue a management decision for audit findings that pertain to your subaward. Doing so is a requirement under either Section A or B of FMS Article V of this award (Section B requires that explicitly and Section A does so by implementing OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.521, as well as other portions of Subpart F of that part).

iii. Consider whether you need to adjust your own records related to this award based on results of audits, on-site reviews or other monitoring of the subrecipient and, as applicable, notify the award administration office.
