
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XI - Department of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Administrative Requirements Terms and Conditions for Cost-Type Grants and Cooperative Agreements to Nonprofit and Governmental Entities
##### PART 1138 - REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO SUBAWARDS: GENERAL AWARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
###### Appendix J to Part 1138 - Terms and Conditions for SUB Article X, "Subrecipient Monitoring and Other Post-Award Administration"
####### Section C. Remedies and subaward suspension or termination.

With respect to any subaward under this award, you must:

1. Consider whether you need to take any remedial action if you determine that the subrecipient is noncompliant with an applicable Federal statute or regulation or the terms and conditions of your subaward, as described in Section D of SUB Article VIII.

2. Provide a notice of termination to the subrecipient if you terminate its subaward unilaterally for any reason prior to the end of the period of performance.

3. In the case of suspension or termination of a subaward prior to the end of the period of performance, allow or disallow subaward costs in accordance with Section D of OAR Article III.

1. You will close out each subaward when you either:

a. Determine that the subrecipient has completed its programmatic performance under the subaward and all applicable administrative actions; or

b. Terminate the subaward, if you do so prior to the end of the subaward's period of performance.

2. With respect to the closeout of each subaward:

a. You must pay the subrecipient promptly for allowable and reimbursable costs.

b. Consistent with the terms and conditions of the subaward, you must make a settlement for any upward or downward adjustments to the Federal share of costs after you receive the information you need from the subrecipient to close out the subaward.

c. You should complete the closeout of the subaward no later than one year after you receive and accept the final reports and other information from the subrecipient that you need to close out the subaward.
