
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XI - Department of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Administrative Requirements Terms and Conditions for Cost-Type Grants and Cooperative Agreements to Nonprofit and Governmental Entities
##### PART 1138 - REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO SUBAWARDS: GENERAL AWARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
###### Appendix L to Part 1138 - Terms and Conditions for SUB Article XII, "Fixed-Amount Subawards"

Unless modified as provided in ยง 1138.5 or 1138.1205, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for SUB Article XII.

1. You may not use a fixed-amount subaward:

a. If the total value over the life of the subaward will exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.

b. Unless the project or program scope is specific, with definite outcomes, and you are able to establish a reasonable estimate of the actual costs of accomplishing those outcomes.

c. If you will predetermine a set amount or percentage of cost sharing or matching that the subrecipient must provide under the subaward.

d. If the subrecipient will acquire any real property or equipment under the subaward.

2. For fixed-amount subawards not prohibited by paragraph 1 of this section and except as provided in Section B of this article, you must obtain our prior approval before making a fixed-amount type of subaward.

a. If Section B of FMS Article IV requires you to obtain our prior approval before you make any subaward, and you do not identify the subaward as a fixed-amount subaward when you obtain that approval, then you must subsequently request separate approval before awarding it as a fixed-amount type of subaward.

b. If a subaward is identified as a fixed-amount type of subaward in the budget you submit for our approval, then our approval of the budget is the required prior approval.
