
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XI - Department of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Administrative Requirements Terms and Conditions for Cost-Type Grants and Cooperative Agreements to Nonprofit and Governmental Entities
##### PART 1138 - REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO SUBAWARDS: GENERAL AWARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
###### Appendix L to Part 1138 - Terms and Conditions for SUB Article XII, "Fixed-Amount Subawards"
####### Section B. Fixed-amount subawards that do not require prior approval.

You are not required to obtain our prior approval before using a fixed-amount type of subaward if:

1. The subaward is to either:

a. A foreign public entity; or

b. An organizational unit of a foreign organization, if that unit does not have a place of business in the United States, regardless of whether another organizational unit of that foreign organization has one.

2. You determine that the portion of the project or program under this award which the subrecipient will be carrying out under the subaward has one or more specific outcomes with the following characteristics:

a. You can define the outcomes well enough to specify them at the time you make the subaward. Note that:

i. Outcomes are distinct from inputs needed to achieve the outcomes, such as amounts or percentages of time that subrecipient employees or other participants will spend on the project or program.

ii. The inherently unpredictable nature of basic or applied research makes it rarely, if ever, possible to define specific research outcomes in advance, which makes fixed-amount subawards inappropriate for research. Note that technical performance reports serve to document research outcomes but are not themselves outcomes, notwithstanding the definition of "performance goals" in OMB guidance at 2 CFR 200.76.

b. The accomplishment of each outcome will be observable and verifiable by you when it occurs, so that you will not need to rely solely on the subrecipient's assurance of that accomplishment.

c. The subrecipient associates its estimated costs with outcomes in the proposal it submits to you, and you are confident that the costs of accomplishment of the outcomes will equal or exceed the subaward amount. This requires either that you have a high degree of confidence:

i. In your estimate of the costs associated with accomplishing the well-defined and observable outcomes, based on the prospective subrecipient's proposal (and using the applicable cost principles in FMS Article III as a guide); or

ii. That those costs will be within a finite range, rather than a specific amount, so that you may provide an amount of funding under the subaward that does not exceed the lower end of the range, with the provision that the subrecipient agrees to provide any balance above that amount that ultimately is needed to accomplish the outcomes. Your subaward then would include a term or condition to reflect the subrecipient's agreement to provide that balance (which would be in an amount to be post-determined, when the outcomes are accomplished). Note that this is distinct from a situation in which you predetermine a set amount or percentage of cost sharing or matching that the subrecipient must provide under its subaward, a situation in which paragraph A.1.c of this article prohibits use of a fixed-amount subaward.

3. a. The subaward is based on a fixed rate per unit of outcome (or "unit cost") and you have both the confidence:

i. That is described in paragraph B.2.c of this article in the estimated costs associated with each unit of outcome; and
