
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XI - Department of Defense
#### Subchapter D - Administrative Requirements Terms and Conditions for Cost-Type Grants and Cooperative Agreements to Nonprofit and Governmental Entities
##### PART 1138 - REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO SUBAWARDS: GENERAL AWARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
###### Appendix L to Part 1138 - Terms and Conditions for SUB Article XII, "Fixed-Amount Subawards"
####### i.e.,

ii. In the subrecipient's guarantee that it can accomplish at least the number of units of outcome on which your total subaward amount will be based (the product of the unit cost and the number of units of outcome the subrecipient guarantees to accomplish).

b. Note, however, that not every fixed rate subaward is also a fixed-amount subaward. If you have confidence in the unit cost but not also in the subrecipient's ability to guarantee the number of units of outcome that it will accomplish, then you should set a not-to-exceed award amount based on the number of units desired and reduce the subaward amount at the end if the subrecipient accomplishes fewer than that number. Examples of activities for which it may be appropriate to award this type of fixed rate subaward that is not a fixed-amount subaward include:

i. A clinical trial for which the unit cost is the cost of treating each participant. The not-to-exceed amount would be based on the number of participants the subrecipient planned to recruit and the final award on the number who actually participated, documentation for which would be subject to audit.

ii. Labor costs for performance of a portion of the project or program under this award by a for-profit entity that treats its indirect cost rate as proprietary information. The unit cost in that case may be "loaded" labor rates for the entity's employees that include indirect costs. The final award amount would depend on the number of labor hours the entity's employees expended under the subaward, documentation for which may be audited without exposing proprietary details associated with the actual costs.
