
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XIII - Department of Commerce
#### PART 1326 - NONPROCUREMENT DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION
##### Subpart B - Covered Transactions
###### ยง 1326.215 Which nonprocurement transactions, in addition to those listed in 2 CFR 180.215, are not covered transactions?

(a) For purposes of the Department of Commerce, a transaction that the Department needs to respond to a national or agency-recognized emergency or disaster includes the Fisherman's Contingency Fund.

(b) For purposes of the Department of Commerce, an incidental benefit that results from ordinary governmental operations includes:

(1) Export Promotion, Trade Information and Counseling, and Trade policy.

(2) Geodetic Surveys and Services (Specialized Services).

(3) Fishery Products Inspection Certification.

(4) Standard Reference Materials.

(5) Calibration, Measurement, and Testing.

(6) Critically Evaluated Data (Standard Reference Data).

(7) Phoenix Data System.

(8) The sale or provision of products, information, and services to the general public.

(c) For purposes of the Department of Commerce, any other transaction if the application of an exclusion to the transaction is prohibited by law includes:

(1) The Administration of the Anti-dumping and Countervailing Duty Statutes.

(2) The export Trading Company Act Certification of Review Program.

(3) Trade Adjustment Assistance Program Certification.

(4) Foreign Trade Zones Act of 1934, as amended.

(5) Statutory Import Program.
