
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XIV - Department of the Interior
#### PART 1400 - NONPROCUREMENT DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION
##### Subpart H - Debarment
###### ยง 1400.863 How is the fact-finding proceeding conducted?

(a) The fact-finding proceeding is conducted in accordance with PAM's suspension and debarment program fact-finding procedures, a copy of which is provided to the respondent.

(b) The fact-finding official for DOI debarment proceedings is the DOI Debarment Program Director, unless the Suspending and Debarring Official designates another DOI official to serve as the fact-finding official.

(c) The fact-finding proceeding is undertaken in accordance with 2 CFR 180.840.

(1) The reporters' fees and other direct costs associated with the fact-finding proceeding are borne by the bureau(s) or office(s) initiating the debarment action, except in the case of actions initiated by the OIG.

(2) For actions initiated by the OIG, the costs are borne by the bureau(s) and/or office(s) out of which the matter arose.

(3) A transcribed record of the fact-finding proceedings is available to the respondent as provided at 2 CFR 180.840(b).

(d) The fact-finding official provides written findings of fact and the hearing record to the Suspending and Debarring Official. The fact-finding official files the original copy of the transcribed record of the fact-finding proceedings with the administrative record.
