
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XIV - Department of the Interior
#### PART 1402 - FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE INTERIOR REGULATION, SUPPLEMENTING THE UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL AWARDS
##### Subpart B - General Provisions
###### ยง 1402.102 Are there any exceptions to this part?

(a) Awards made in accordance with the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (Pub. L. 93-638, 88 Stat. 2204), as amended, are governed by 25 CFR parts 900 and 1000, and by 2 CFR part 200, subparts E and F.

(b) Exceptions for individual foreign entities to the requirements in this part may be authorized by the Director, Office of Grants Management. Such exceptions must be made in accordance with written bureau or office policy and procedures.

(1) Foreign entities must request any exception to a requirement established in this part in writing. Such requests must be submitted to the funding bureau or office by an authorized official of the foreign entity, and must provide sufficient pertinent background information, including:

(i) Identification of the requirement under this part that is inconsistent with an in-country statute or regulation to which the foreign entity is subject;

(ii) A complete description of the in-country statute or regulation, including a description of how it prohibits or otherwise limits the foreign entity's ability to comply with the identified requirement under this part; and

(iii) Identification of the entity's name, DOI award(s) affected, and point of contact for the request.

(2) The Director, Office of Grants Management may approve exceptions for individual foreign entities to the requirements of this part only when it has been determined that the requirement to be waived is inconsistent with either the international obligations of the United States or the statutes or regulations of a foreign government. Bureaus and offices will communicate exception request decisions to the requesting entity in writing.

(3) Submissions by public international organization submissions of any assurances, certifications or representations required for and related to a Federal award do not constitute a waiver of immunities provided under the International Organizations Immunities Act (22 U.S.C. 288-288f).

(4) Foreign entities are not subject to the following requirements in 2 CFR part 200:

(i) Foreign entities may be subject to other applicable international or in-country alternatives to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), such as the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). See 2 CFR 200.403, Factors affecting allowability of costs;

(ii) 2 CFR 200.321, Contracting with small and minority businesses, women's business enterprises, and labor surplus area firms; and

(iii) Section 6002 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act. See 2 CFR 200.322, Procurement of recovered materials.
