
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XIV - Department of the Interior
#### PART 1402 - FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE INTERIOR REGULATION, SUPPLEMENTING THE UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL AWARDS
##### Subpart C - Pre-Federal Award Requirements and Contents of Federal Awards
###### ยง 1402.207 What specific conditions apply?

(a) The following financial assistance award terms and conditions always apply to domestic for-profit entities:

(1) 2 CFR part 25, Universal Identifier and System for Award Management.

(2) 2 CFR part 170, Reporting Subawards and Executive Compensation Information.

(3) 2 CFR part 175, Award Term for Trafficking in Persons.

(4) 2 CFR part 1400, government-wide debarment and suspension (non-procurement).

(5) 2 CFR part 1401, Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Financial Assistance).

(6) 43 CFR part 18, New Restrictions on Lobbying. Submission of an application also represents the applicant's certification of the statements in 43 CFR part 18, appendix A, Certification Regarding Lobbying.

(7) 41 U.S.C. 4712, Whistleblower Protection for Contractor and Grantee Employees. The requirement in this paragraph (a)(7) applies to all awards issued after July 1, 2013.

(8) 41 U.S.C. 6306, Prohibition on Members of Congress Making Contracts with the Federal Government. No member of or delegate to the United States Congress or Resident Commissioner shall be admitted to any share or part of this award, or to any benefit that may arise therefrom; this paragraph (a)(8) shall not be construed to extend to an award made to a corporation for the public's general benefit.

(9) Executive Order 13513, Federal Leadership on Reducing Text Messaging while Driving. Recipients are encouraged to adopt and enforce policies that ban text messaging while driving, including conducting initiatives of the type described in section 3(a) of the Executive Order.

(10) 2 CFR part 183, Never Contract With the Enemy.

(11) 2 CFR 200.216, Prohibition on Certain Telecommunication and Video Surveillance Services or Equipment.

(12) All applicable Executive orders.

(b) The following financial assistance award terms and conditions always apply to non-profit and domestic for-profit entities. The recipient shall insert the following clause in all subawards and contracts related to the prime award that are over the simplified acquisition threshold, as defined in the Federal Acquisition Regulation:

(c) The following award terms and conditions apply to for-profit recipients as specified in 2 CFR 200.101:

(1) Administrative requirements: 2 CFR part 200, subparts A through D.

(2) Cost principles: 48 CFR part 31, subpart 31.2, Contracts with Commercial Organizations.
