
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XIV - Department of the Interior
#### PART 1402 - FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE INTERIOR REGULATION, SUPPLEMENTING THE UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL AWARDS
##### Subpart D - Post Federal Award Requirements
###### ยง 1402.300 What are the statutory and national policy requirements?

(a) DOI bureaus and offices will communicate to the non-Federal entity all relevant public policy requirements, including those in general appropriations provisions, and incorporate them either directly or by reference in the terms and conditions of the Federal award.

(b) The non-Federal entity is responsible for complying with all requirements of the Federal award. For all Federal awards, this includes the provisions of Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act (FFATA), which includes requirements on executive compensation, and also requirements implementing the FFATA for the non-Federal entity at 2 CFR part 25, financial assistance use of universal identifier and system for award management, and 2 CFR part 170, Reporting Subaward and Executive Compensation Information. See also statutory requirements for whistleblower protections at 10 U.S.C. 2409, 41 U.S.C. 4712, and 10 U.S.C. 2324, 41 U.S.C. 4304 and 4310.

(c) Recipients conducting work outside the United States are responsible for coordinating with appropriate United States and foreign government authorities as necessary to make sure all required licenses, permits, or approvals are obtained before undertaking project activities. DOI does not assume responsibility for recipient compliance with the laws, regulations, policies, or procedures of the foreign country in which the work is conducted.

(d) As required in 54 U.S.C. 307101, World Heritage Convention, prior to the approval of any undertaking outside the United States that may directly and adversely affect a property that is on the World Heritage List or on the applicable country's equivalent of the National Register of Historic Places, the DOI bureau or office having direct or indirect jurisdiction over the undertaking shall take into account the effect of the undertaking on the property for purposes of avoiding or mitigating any adverse effect.

(e) Foreign entities are responsible for complying with all requirements of the Federal award. For awards to foreign entities, this includes:

(1) 2 CFR part 25, Universal Identifier and System for Award Management, unless the entity meets one or more qualifying conditions and is exempted by the awarding bureau or office as provided for in 2 CFR part 25;

(2) 2 CFR part 170, Reporting Subaward and Executive Compensation Information;

(3) 2 CFR part 175, Award Term for Trafficking in Persons. This term is required in awards to foreign private entities. The term is also required in awards to foreign public entities, if funding could be provided under the award to a foreign private entity as a subrecipient;

(4) 2 CFR part 1400, Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension. Awards to foreign organizations are covered transactions under the DOI nonprocurement debarment and suspension program. Awards to foreign public entities are not covered transactions;

(5) 43 CFR part 18, New Restrictions on Lobbying. Foreign entities shall file the 43 CFR part 18, appendix A, certification, and a disclosure form, if required, with each application for Federal assistance. See also 31 U.S.C. 1352, Limitation on use of appropriated funds to influence certain Federal contracting and financial transactions;

(6) 48 CFR 3.909-2(a). Federal award recipients are prohibited from requiring employees or contractors seeking to report fraud, waste, or abuse to sign internal confidentiality agreements or statements prohibiting or otherwise restricting such employees or contractors from lawfully reporting such fraud, waste, or abuse to a designated investigative or law enforcement representative of a Federal department or agency authorized to receive such information;

(7) 2 CFR part 183, Never Contract With the Enemy; and

(8) 2 CFR 200.216, Prohibition on Certain Telecommunications and Video Surveillance Services or Equipment.
