
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XV - Environmental Protection Agency
#### PART 1500 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL AWARDS
##### Subpart E - Disputes
###### ยง 1500.17 Determination of Dispute.

(a) In determining the merits of the Dispute, the DDO will consider the record related to the Agency Decision, any documentation that the Affected Entity submits with its Dispute, any additional documentation submitted by the Affected Entity in response to the DDO's request under ยง 1500.16(a), and any other information the DDO determines is relevant to the Dispute provided the DDO gives notice of that information to the Affected Entity. The Affected Entity may not on its own initiative submit any additional documents except in the support of a request for reconsideration under paragraph (c) of this section.

(b) The DDO will issue the Dispute decision within 180 calendar days from the date the Dispute is received by the DDO unless a longer period is necessary based on the complexity of the legal, technical, and factual issues presented. The DDO will notify the Affected Entity if the expected decision will not be issued within the 180-day period and if feasible will indicate when the decision is expected to be issued. The DDO will issue the Dispute decision electronically and advise the Affected Entity of procedures for requesting reconsideration. The DDO's decision will constitute the final agency action unless the Affected Entity electronically petitions the DDO for reconsideration within 15 calendar days of issuance of the DDO Decision. The Affected Entity must include a detailed statement of the factual and legal grounds warranting reversal or modification of the DDO decision. In addition, the Affected Entity may submit additional documents that were not previously provided to the DDO.

(c) If a petition for reconsideration is submitted, the DDO's will advise the Affected Entity within 15 calendar days of receipt of the petition whether the DDO Decision will be reconsidered. The DDO will issue this determination electronically. DDO's will only grant a reconsideration petition if the Affected Entity provides relevant and material evidence that was not available to the Affected Entity at the time the Dispute was submitted or to correct a clear and prejudicial error of fact or law. Denial of a petition for reconsideration constitutes final agency action and the DDO will advise the Affected Entity of the reasons for denying the reconsideration in writing.

(d) If the DDO grants a reconsideration petition, the DDO will issue a revised DDO Decision within 30 calendar days of acceptance of the reconsideration petition unless a longer period is necessary based on the complexity of the legal, technical, and factual issues presented. The DDO will issue the revised DDO Decision electronically. The revised DDO Decision and any new material considered by the DDO in making the revised DDO Decision will become part of the record of the Dispute. The revised DDO Decision will constitute final agency action.

(e) The DDO may consider untimely filed reconsideration petitions only if necessary, to correct a DDO Decision that is manifestly unfair and inequitable in light of relevant and material evidence that the Affected Entity could not have discovered during the 15-calendar day period for petitioning for reconsideration. This evidence must be submitted within six months of the date of the DDO Decision. The DDO will advise the Affected Entity within 30 days of receipt of an untimely filed reconsideration petition whether the DDO will accept the petition. Denial of an untimely filed reconsideration petition constitutes final agency action.
