
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XV - Environmental Protection Agency
#### PART 1532 - NONPROCUREMENT DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION
##### Subpart J - Statutory Disqualification and Reinstatement Under the Clean Air Act and Clean Water Act
###### ยง 1532.1205 What procedures must I follow to have my procurement and nonprocurement eligibility reinstated under the CAA or CWA?

(a) You must submit a written request for reinstatement to the EPA debarring official stating what you believe the conditions were that led to your conviction, and how those conditions have been corrected, relieved or addressed. Your request must include documentation sufficient to support all material assertions you make. The debarring official must determine that all the technical and non-technical causes, conditions and consequences of your actions have been sufficiently addressed so that the Government can confidently conduct future business activities with you, and that your future operations will be conducted in compliance with the CAA and CWA.

(b) You may begin the reinstatement process by having informal discussions with the EPA representative named in your notification of listing. Having informal dialogue with that person will make you aware of the EPA concerns that must be addressed. The EPA representative is not required to negotiate conditions for your reinstatement. However, beginning the reinstatement process with informal dialogue increases the chance of achieving a favorable outcome, and avoids unnecessary delay that may result from an incomplete or inadequate reinstatement request. It may also allow you to resolve your disqualification by reaching an agreement with the EPA debarring official under informal procedures. Using your informal option first does not prevent you from submitting a formal reinstatement request with the debarring official at any time.
