
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XVIII - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
#### PART 1800 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL AWARDS
##### ยง 1800.3 Applicability.

(a) This part establishes policies and procedures for grants and cooperative agreements awarded by NASA to non-Federal entities, for-profit organization, foreign organizations, and foreign public entities as allowed by 2 CFR 200.101. For supplemental guidance, NASA has adopted section numbers that correspond to those in the OMB guidance in 2 CFR part 200.

(1) Non-Federal entities must follow the policies and procedures appearing in subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 200 and as supplemented by this part.

(2) Foreign organizations and foreign public entities must follow the policies and procedures appearing in subparts A through E of 2 CFR part 200 and as supplemented by this part.

(3) U.S. and foreign for-profit organizations must follow the policies and procedures appearing in subparts A through D of 2 CFR part 200 and as supplemented by this part. The Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) at 48 CFR parts 30 and 31 take precedence over the cost principles in subpart E of 2 CFR part 200 for Federal awards to U.S. and foreign for-profit organizations.

(b) Throughout this part, the term "award" refers to both "grant" and "cooperative agreement" unless otherwise indicated.

(c)(1) In general, research with foreign organizations will not be conducted through grants or cooperative agreements, but instead will be accomplished on a no-exchange-of-funds basis. In these cases, NASA enters into agreements undertaking projects of international scientific collaboration. NASA's policy on performing research with foreign organizations on a no-exchange-of-funds basis is set forth at NASA FAR Supplement (NFS) at 48 CFR 1835.016-70 and 1835.016-72. In rare instances, NASA may enter into an international agreement under which funds will be transferred to a foreign recipient.

(2) Grants or cooperative agreements awarded to foreign organizations are made on an exceptional basis only. Awards require the prior approval of the Headquarters Office of International and Interagency Relations and the Headquarters Office of the General Counsel. Requests to issue awards to foreign organizations are to be coordinated through the Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Policy Division.
