
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XXV - National Science Foundation
#### PART 2500 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL AWARDS
##### ยง 2500.100 Adoption of 2 CFR Part 200.
###### http://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=papp

Under the Authority cited above, NSF has formally adopted 2 CFR part 200, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards ("the Uniform Guidance"). The Foundation's implementation document, the NSF Proposal & Award Policies & Procedures Guide, may be found at:.

NSF's implementation includes the following deviation from the Uniform Guidance:

Award Cash Management System-NSF is continuing collection of award financial information through the implementation of the Award Cash Management Service (ACM$) and the Program Income Worksheet. ACM$ replaced the NSF Federal Financial Report (FFR) and the NSF FastLane Cash Request process with a single web based user interface. ACM$ is used to collect award level detail financial information at the time of each payment request submitted by the awardee institution. The Program Income Worksheet is used to collect program income financial information from awardee institutions on an annual basis. ACM$ and the Program Income Worksheet utilize approved government-wide data elements from the FFR for the collection of financial information as provided for in the Uniform Guidance paragraph 505(c) and prescribed in 2 CFR 200.327. The requirement for Federal agencies to use the FFR data elements for cash management and financial reporting was publically announced inon August 13, 2008.
