
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XXVII - Small Business Administration
#### PART 2700 - NONPROCUREMENT DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION
##### Subpart G - Suspension
###### § 2700.765 How may I appeal my suspension?

(a) If the SBA suspending official issues a decision under § 180.755 to continue your suspension after you present information in opposition to that suspension under § 180.720, you may ask for review of the suspending official's decision in two ways:

(1) You may ask the suspending official to reconsider the decision for material errors of fact or law that you believe will change the outcome of the matter; or

(2) You may request that the SBA Office of Hearings and Appeals (OHA) review the suspending official's decision to continue your suspension within 30 days of your receipt of the suspending official's decision under § 180.755 or paragraph (a)(1) of this section. However, OHA may reverse the suspending official's decision only where OHA finds that the decision is based on a clear error of material fact or law, or where OHA finds that the suspending official's decision was arbitrary, capricious, or an abuse of discretion. You may appeal the suspending official's decision without requesting reconsideration, or you may appeal the decision of the suspending official on reconsideration. The procedures governing OHA appeals are set forth in 13 CFR part 134.

(b) A request for review under this section must be in writing; state the specific findings you believe to be in error; and include the reasons or legal bases for your position.

(c) OHA, in its discretion, may stay the suspension pending review of the suspending official's decision.

(d) The SBA suspending official and OHA must notify you of their decision under this section, in writing, using the notice procedures set forth at §§ 180.615 and 180.975.
