
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XXVII - Small Business Administration
#### PART 2700 - NONPROCUREMENT DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION
##### Subpart H - Debarment
###### § 2700.890 How may I appeal my debarment?

(a) If the SBA debarring official issues a decision under § 180.870 to debar you after you present information in opposition to a proposed debarment under § 180.815, you may ask for review of the debarring official's decision in two ways:

(1) You may ask the debarring official to reconsider the decision for material errors of fact or law that you believe will change the outcome of the matter; or

(2) You may request that the SBA Office of Hearings and Appeals (OHA) review the debarring official's decision to debar you within 30 days of your receipt of the debarring official's decision under § 180.870 or paragraph (a)(1) of this section. However, OHA may reverse the debarring official's decision only where OHA finds that the decision is based on a clear error of material fact or law, or where OHA finds that the debarring official's decision was arbitrary, capricious, or an abuse of discretion. You may appeal the debarring official's decision without requesting reconsideration, or you may appeal the decision of the debarring official on reconsideration. The procedures governing OHA appeals are set forth in 13 CFR part 134.

(b) A request for review under this section must be in writing; state the specific findings you believe to be in error; and include the reasons or legal bases for your position.

(c) OHA, in its discretion, may stay the debarment pending review of the debarring official's decision.

(d) The SBA debarring official and OHA must notify you of their decision under this section, in writing, using the notice procedures set forth at §§ 180.615 and 180.975.
