
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XXXIV - Department of Education
#### PART 3485 - NONPROCUREMENT DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION
##### Subpart F - General Principles Relating to Suspension and Debarment Actions
###### § 3485.611 What procedures do we use for a suspension or debarment action involving a title IV, HEA transaction?

(a) If we suspend a title IV, HEA participant under Executive Order 12549, we use the following procedures to ensure that the suspension prevents participation in title IV, HEA transactions:

(1) The notification procedures in § 180.715 of this title.

(2) Instead of the procedures in §§ 180.720 through 180.760 of this title, the procedures in 34 CFR part 668, subpart G, or 34 CFR part 682, subpart D or G, as applicable.

(3) In addition to the findings and conclusions required by 34 CFR part 668, subpart G, or 34 CFR part 682, subpart D or G, the suspending official, and, on appeal, the Secretary determines whether there is sufficient cause for suspension as explained in § 180.700 of this title.

(b) If we debar a title IV, HEA participant under E.O. 12549, we use the following procedures to ensure that the debarment also precludes participation in title IV, HEA transactions:

(1) The notification procedures in §§ 180.805 and 180.870 of this title.

(2) Instead of the procedures in §§ 180.810 through 180.885 of this title, the procedures in 34 CFR part 668, subpart G, or 34 CFR part 682, subpart D or G, as applicable.

(3) On appeal from a decision debarring a title IV, HEA participant, we issue a final decision after we receive any written materials from the parties.

(4) In addition to the findings and conclusions required by 34 CFR part 668, subpart G, or 34 CFR part 682, subpart D or G, the debarring official, and, on appeal, the Secretary determines whether there is sufficient cause for debarment as explained in § 180.800 of this title.
