
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter XXXIV - Department of Education
#### PART 3485 - NONPROCUREMENT DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION
##### § 3485.12 What does this part do?

(a)(1) The Department of Education (the "Department" or "ED") adopts subparts A through I of the Office of Management and Budget guidance in 2 CFR part 180. Thus, this part gives regulatory effect to the OMB guidance and supplements the guidance as needed for the Department. This part satisfies the requirements in section 3 of Executive Order 12549, "Debarment and Suspension" (3 CFR part 1986 Comp., p. 189), Executive Order 12689, "Debarment and Suspension" (3 CFR part 1989 Comp., p. 235) and 31 U.S.C. 6101 note (Section 2455, Pub. L. 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327).

(2) The table of contents for this part contains only those sections in part 3485 that include supplements to the guidance in part 180 and new sections needed to implement the guidance for the Department's programs. In those sections of the OMB guidance that are supplemented, the section in part 3485 includes both the text of the OMB guidance that is not affected by the change and any additional paragraphs that need to be added to the OMB guidance. For example, § 180.220 of this title contains only paragraphs (a) and (b). The text of § 3485.220, which supplements § 180.220 to extend lower-tier transactions to certain transactions below the primary tier, includes both the text of paragraph (a) and (b) of § 180.220 and the text of added paragraph (c).

(3) In those sections in part 180 that do not have paragraph designations and that the Department supplements, the section in this part implementing the OMB guidance designates the undesignated paragraph from part 180 as paragraph (a) and the first supplemental paragraph as paragraph (b). For example, 2 CFR 180.330 includes an undesignated lead in paragraph and two subparagraphs designated (a) and (b). In § 3485.330, the undesignated paragraph in 2 CFR 180.330 is designated paragraph (a) and the two subparagraphs are designated paragraphs (1) and (2). The added paragraphs are designated paragraph (b) and (c).

(b) The authority for all the provisions in 2 CFR part 180 as adopted in this part is listed as follows.
