
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle B - Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter LVIII - Election Assistance Commission
#### PART 5800 - NONPROCUREMENT DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION
##### Subpart D - Responsibilities of Federal Agency Officials Regarding Transactions
###### § 5800.890 How may I appeal my debarment?

(a) If the Commission debarring official issues a decision under 2 CFR 180.870 to debar you after you present information in opposition to a proposed debarment under § 180.815, you may ask for review of the debarring official's decision in two ways:

(1) You may ask the debarring official under § 875 to reconsider the decision for material errors of fact or law that you believe will change the outcome of the matter; or

(2) You may request a review by the EAC's debarment appeals body (DAP), which is composed of the Executive Director, Chief Financial Officer, and Chief Operating Officer. The DAP will review your appeal and make a determination on whether to sustain or reverse the decision of the debarring official. The DAP will then make a recommendation to the EAC Commissioners who will vote by circulation on whether to accept or reject the recommendation of the DAP. A request to review the debarring official's decision to debar you must be made within 30 days of your receipt of the debarring official's decision under § 180.870 or paragraph (a)(1) of this section. However, the DAP may recommend to the EAC Commissioners that the debarring official's decision be reversed, based on a majority vote of the DAP, only where the DAP finds that the decision is based on a clear error of material fact or law, or where DAP finds that the debarring official's decision was arbitrary, capricious, or an abuse of discretion. You may appeal the debarring official's decision without requesting reconsideration, or you may appeal the decision of the debarring official on reconsideration.

(b) A request for review under this section must be in writing; prominently state on the envelope or other cover and at the top of the first page "Debarment Appeal;" state the specific findings you believe to be in error; and include the reasons or legal bases for your position. The appeal request should be delivered or addressed to the U.S. Election Assistance Commission, 1201 New York Avenue, NW., Suite 300, Washington, DC 20005.

(c) After the circulation vote of the EAC Commissioners has been certified, either the Commission debarring official or the DAP must notify you of their decision under this section, in writing, using the notice procedures set forth at §§ 180.615 and 180.975.

(d) [Reserved]

(e) Nothing in this part prohibits the EAC from delegating the appeal review process to another Federal agency through a memorandum of understanding or interagency agreement.
