
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle A - Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter I - Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements
#### PART 183 - NEVER CONTRACT WITH THE ENEMY
##### ยง 183.15 Responsibilities of Federal awarding agencies.

(a) Prior to making an award for a covered grant or cooperative agreement (see also ยง 183.35), the Federal awarding agency must check the current list of prohibited or restricted persons or entities in the System Award Management (SAM) Exclusions.

(b) The Federal awarding agency may include the award term provided in appendix A of this part in all covered grant and cooperative agreement awards in accordance with Never Contract with the Enemy.

(c) A Federal awarding agency may become aware of a person or entity that:

(1) Provides funds, including goods and services, received under a covered grant or cooperative agreement of an executive agency directly or indirectly to covered persons or entities; or

(2) Fails to exercise due diligence to ensure that none of the funds, including goods and services, received under a covered grant or cooperative agreement of an executive agency are provided directly or indirectly to covered persons or entities.

(d) When a Federal awarding agency becomes aware of such a person or entity, it may do any of the following actions:

(1) Restrict the future award of all Federal contracts, grants, and cooperative agreements to the person or entity based upon concerns that Federal awards to the entity would provide grant funds directly or indirectly to a covered person or entity.

(2) Terminate any contract, grant, or cooperative agreement to a covered person or entity upon becoming aware that the recipient has failed to exercise due diligence to ensure that none of the award funds are provided directly or indirectly to a covered person or entity.

(3) Void in whole or in part any grant, cooperative agreement or contracts of the executive agency concerned upon a written determination by the head of contracting activity or other appropriate official that the grant or cooperative agreement provides funds directly or indirectly to a covered person or entity.

(e) The Federal awarding agency must notify recipients in writing regarding its decision to restrict all future awards and/or to terminate or void a grant or cooperative agreement. The agency must also notify the recipient in writing about the recipient's right to request an administrative review (using the agency's procedures) of the restriction, termination, or void of the grant or cooperative agreement within 30 days of receiving notification.
