
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle A - Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter I - Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements
#### PART 183 - NEVER CONTRACT WITH THE ENEMY
##### ยง 183.20 Reporting responsibilities of Federal awarding agencies.

(a) If a Federal awarding agency restricts all future awards to a covered person or entity, it must enter information on the ineligible person or entity into SAM Exclusions as a prohibited or restricted source pursuant to Subtitle E, Title VIII of the NDAA for FY 2015 (Pub. L. 113-291).

(b) When a Federal awarding agency terminates or voids a grant or cooperative agreement due to Never Contract with the Enemy, it must report the termination as a Termination for Material Failure to Comply in the Office of Management and Budget (OMB)-designated integrity and performance system accessible through SAM (currently the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System (FAPIIS)).

(c) The Federal awarding agency shall document and report to the head of the executive agency concerned (or the designee of such head) and the commander of the covered combatant command concerned (or specific deputies):

(1) Any action to restrict all future awards or to terminate or void an award with a covered person or entity.

(2) Any decision not to restrict all future awards, terminate, or void an award along with the agency's reasoning for not taking one of these actions after the agency became aware that a person or entity is a prohibited or restricted source.

(d) Each report referenced in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall include:

(1) The executive agency taking such action.

(2) An explanation of the basis for the action taken.

(3) The value of the terminated or voided grant or cooperative agreement.

(4) The value of all grants and cooperative agreements of the executive agency with the person or entity concerned at the time the grant or cooperative agreement was terminated or voided.

(e) Each report referenced in paragraph (c)(2) of this section shall include:

(1) The executive agency concerned.

(2) An explanation of the basis for not taking the action.
