
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle A - Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter II - Office of Management and Budget Guidance
#### PART 200 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL AWARDS
##### Subpart B - General Provisions
###### § 200.101 Applicability.
####### Additional program applicability.

(f)Except for §§ 200.203 and 200.216, the guidance in subpart C of this part does not apply to the following programs:

(1) Entitlement Federal awards to carry out the following programs of the Social Security Act:

(i) Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (title IV-A of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. 601-619);

(ii) Child Support Enforcement and Establishment of Paternity (title IV-D of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. 651-669b);

(iii) Foster Care and Adoption Assistance (title IV-E of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 670-679c);

(iv) Aid to the Aged, Blind, and Disabled (titles I, X, XIV, and XVI-AABD of the Act, as amended);

(v) Medical Assistance (Medicaid) (title XIX of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 1396-1396w-5) not including the State Medicaid Fraud Control program authorized by section 1903(a)(6)(B) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396b(a)(6)(B)); and

(vi) Children's Health Insurance Program (title XXI of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 1397aa-1397mm).

(2) A Federal award for an experimental, pilot, or demonstration project that is also supported by a Federal award listed in paragraph (f)(1) of this section.

(3) Federal awards under subsection 412(e) of the Immigration and Nationality Act and subsection 501(a) of the Refugee Education Assistance Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-422, 94 Stat. 1809), for cash assistance, medical assistance, and supplemental security income benefits to refugees and entrants and the administrative costs of providing the assistance and benefits (8 U.S.C. 1522(e)).

(4) Entitlement awards under the following programs of The National School Lunch Act:

(i) National School Lunch Program (section 4 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 1753);

(ii) Commodity Assistance (section 6 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 1755);

(iii) Special Meal Assistance (section 11 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 1759a);

(iv) Summer Food Service Program for Children (section 13 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 1761); and

(v) Child and Adult Care Food Program (section 17 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 1766).

(5) Entitlement awards under the following programs of The Child Nutrition Act of 1966:

(i) Special Milk Program (section 3 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 1772);

(ii) School Breakfast Program (section 4 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 1773); and

(iii) State Administrative Expenses (section 7 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 1776).

(6) Entitlement awards for State Administrative Expenses under The Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (section 16 of the Act, 7 U.S.C. 2025).

(7) Non-discretionary Federal awards under the following non-entitlement programs:

(i) Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children (section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966) 42 U.S.C. 1786;

(ii) The Emergency Food Assistance Programs (Emergency Food Assistance Act of 1983) 7 U.S.C. 7501 note; and

(iii) Commodity Supplemental Food Program (section 5 of the Agriculture and Consumer Protection Act of 1973) 7 U.S.C. 612c note.
