
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle A - Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter II - Office of Management and Budget Guidance
#### PART 200 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL AWARDS
##### Subpart B - General Provisions
###### ยง 200.102 Exceptions.

(a) With the exception of subpart F of this part, OMB may allow exceptions for classes of Federal awards or non-Federal entities subject to the requirements of this part when exceptions are not prohibited by statute. In the interest of maximum uniformity, exceptions from the requirements of this part will be permitted as described in this section.

(b) Exceptions on a case-by-case basis for individual non-Federal entities may be authorized by the Federal awarding agency or cognizant agency for indirect costs, except where otherwise required by law or where OMB or other approval is expressly required by this part.

(c) The Federal awarding agency may adjust requirements to a class of Federal awards or non-Federal entities when approved by OMB, or when required by Federal statutes or regulations, except for the requirements in subpart F of this part. A Federal awarding agency may apply less restrictive requirements when making fixed amount awards as defined in subpart A of this part, except for those requirements imposed by statute or in subpart F of this part.

(d) Federal awarding agencies may request exceptions in support of innovative program designs that apply a risk-based, data-driven framework to alleviate select compliance requirements and hold recipients accountable for good performance. See also ยง 200.206.
