
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle A - Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter II - Office of Management and Budget Guidance
#### PART 200 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL AWARDS
##### Subpart C - Pre-Federal Award Requirements and Contents of Federal Awards
###### § 200.204 Notices of funding opportunities.
####### Full text of funding opportunities.

(c)The Federal awarding agency must include the following information in the full text of each funding opportunity. For specific instructions on the content required in this section, refer to appendix I to this part.

(1) Full programmatic description of the funding opportunity.

(2) Federal award information, including sufficient information to help an applicant make an informed decision about whether to submit an application. (See also § 200.414(c)(4)).

(3) Specific eligibility information, including any factors or priorities that affect an applicant's or its application's eligibility for selection.

(4) Application Preparation and Submission Information, including the applicable submission dates and time.

(5) Application Review Information including the criteria and process to be used to evaluate applications. See also §§ 200.205 and 200.206.

(6) Federal Award Administration Information. See also § 200.211.

(7) Applicable terms and conditions for resulting awards, including any exceptions from these standard terms.
