
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle A - Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter II - Office of Management and Budget Guidance
#### PART 200 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL AWARDS
##### Subpart D - Post Federal Award Requirements
###### Post-Closeout Adjustments and Continuing Responsibilities
####### § 200.345 Post-closeout adjustments and continuing responsibilities.

(a) The closeout of a Federal award does not affect any of the following:

(1) The right of the Federal awarding agency or pass-through entity to disallow costs and recover funds on the basis of a later audit or other review. The Federal awarding agency or pass-through entity must make any cost disallowance determination and notify the non-Federal entity within the record retention period.

(2) The requirement for the non-Federal entity to return any funds due as a result of later refunds, corrections, or other transactions including final indirect cost rate adjustments.

(3) The ability of the Federal awarding agency to make financial adjustments to a previously closed award such as resolving indirect cost payments and making final payments.

(4) Audit requirements in subpart F of this part.

(5) Property management and disposition requirements in §§ 200.310 through 200.316 of this subpart.

(6) Records retention as required in §§ 200.334 through 200.337 of this subpart.

(b) After closeout of the Federal award, a relationship created under the Federal award may be modified or ended in whole or in part with the consent of the Federal awarding agency or pass-through entity and the non-Federal entity, provided the responsibilities of the non-Federal entity referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, including those for property management as applicable, are considered and provisions made for continuing responsibilities of the non-Federal entity, as appropriate.
