
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle A - Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter II - Office of Management and Budget Guidance
#### PART 200 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL AWARDS
##### Subpart D - Post Federal Award Requirements
###### § 200.308 Revision of budget and program plans.
####### Federal share

(a) The approved budget for the Federal award summarizes the financial aspects of the project or program as approved during the Federal award process. It may include either the Federal and non-Federal share (see definition forin § 200.1) or only the Federal share, depending upon Federal awarding agency requirements. The budget and program plans include considerations for performance and program evaluation purposes whenever required in accordance with the terms and conditions of the award.

(b) Recipients are required to report deviations from budget or project scope or objective, and request prior approvals from Federal awarding agencies for budget and program plan revisions, in accordance with this section.

(c) For non-construction Federal awards, recipients must request prior approvals from Federal awarding agencies for the following program or budget-related reasons:

(1) Change in the scope or the objective of the project or program (even if there is no associated budget revision requiring prior written approval).

(2) Change in a key person specified in the application or the Federal award.

(3) The disengagement from the project for more than three months, or a 25 percent reduction in time devoted to the project, by the approved project director or principal investigator.

(4) The inclusion, unless waived by the Federal awarding agency, of costs that require prior approval in accordance with subpart E of this part as applicable.

(5) The transfer of funds budgeted for participant support costs to other categories of expense.

(6) Unless described in the application and funded in the approved Federal awards, the subawarding, transferring or contracting out of any work under a Federal award, including fixed amount subawards as described in § 200.333. This provision does not apply to the acquisition of supplies, material, equipment or general support services.

(7) Changes in the approved cost-sharing or matching provided by the non-Federal entity.

(8) The need arises for additional Federal funds to complete the project.

(d) No other prior approval requirements for specific items may be imposed unless an exception has been approved by OMB. See also §§ 200.102 and 200.407.

(e) Except for requirements listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (8) of this section, the Federal awarding agency is authorized, at its option, to waive other cost-related and administrative prior written approvals contained in subparts D and E of this part. Such waivers may include authorizing recipients to do any one or more of the following:
