
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle A - Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter II - Office of Management and Budget Guidance
#### PART 200 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL AWARDS
##### Subpart E - Cost Principles
###### Direct and Indirect (F&A) Costs
####### § 200.413 Direct costs.
######## Minor items.

(d)Any direct cost of minor amount may be treated as an indirect (F&A) cost for reasons of practicality where such accounting treatment for that item of cost is consistently applied to all Federal and non-Federal cost objectives.

(e) The costs of certain activities are not allowable as charges to Federal awards. However, even though these costs are unallowable for purposes of computing charges to Federal awards, they nonetheless must be treated as direct costs for purposes of determining indirect (F&A) cost rates and be allocated their equitable share of the non-Federal entity's indirect costs if they represent activities which:

(1) Include the salaries of personnel,

(2) Occupy space, and

(3) Benefit from the non-Federal entity's indirect (F&A) costs.

(f) For nonprofit organizations, the costs of activities performed by the non-Federal entity primarily as a service to members, clients, or the general public when significant and necessary to the non-Federal entity's mission must be treated as direct costs whether or not allowable, and be allocated an equitable share of indirect (F&A) costs. Some examples of these types of activities include:

(1) Maintenance of membership rolls, subscriptions, publications, and related functions. See also § 200.454.

(2) Providing services and information to members, legislative or administrative bodies, or the public. See also §§ 200.454 and 200.450.

(3) Promotion, lobbying, and other forms of public relations. See also §§ 200.421 and 200.450.

(4) Conferences except those held to conduct the general administration of the non-Federal entity. See also § 200.432.

(5) Maintenance, protection, and investment of special funds not used in operation of the non-Federal entity. See also § 200.442.

(6) Administration of group benefits on behalf of members or clients, including life and hospital insurance, annuity or retirement plans, and financial aid. See also § 200.431.
