
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle A - Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter II - Office of Management and Budget Guidance
#### PART 200 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL AWARDS
##### Subpart E - Cost Principles
###### Special Considerations for Institutions of Higher Education
####### ยง 200.419 Cost accounting standards and disclosure statement.
######## Disclosure statement.

(b)An IHE that receives an aggregate total $50 million or more in Federal awards and instruments subject to this subpart (as specified in ยง 200.101) during its most recently completed fiscal year must disclose their cost accounting practices by filing a Disclosure Statement (DS-2), which is reproduced in Appendix III to Part 200. With the approval of the cognizant agency for indirect costs, an IHE may meet the DS-2 submission by submitting the DS-2 for each business unit that received $50 million or more in Federal awards and instruments.

(1) The DS-2 must be submitted to the cognizant agency for indirect costs with a copy to the IHE's cognizant agency for audit. The initial DS-2 and revisions to the DS-2 must be submitted in coordination with the IHE's indirect (F&A) rate proposal, unless an earlier submission is requested by the cognizant agency for indirect costs. IHEs with CAS-covered contracts or subcontracts meeting the dollar threshold in 48 CFR 9903.202-1(f) must submit their initial DS-2 or revisions no later than prior to the award of a CAS-covered contract or subcontract.

(2) An IHE must maintain an accurate DS-2 and comply with disclosed cost accounting practices. An IHE must file amendments to the DS-2 to the cognizant agency for indirect costs in advance of a disclosed practice being changed to comply with a new or modified standard, or when a practice is changed for other reasons. An IHE may proceed with implementing the change after it has notified the Federal cognizant agency for indirect costs. If the change represents a variation from 2 CFR part 200, the change may require approval by the Federal cognizant agency for indirect costs, in accordance with ยง 200.102(b). Amendments of a DS-2 may be submitted at any time. Resubmission of a complete, updated DS-2 is discouraged except when there are extensive changes to disclosed practices.
