
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle A - Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter II - Office of Management and Budget Guidance
#### PART 200 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL AWARDS
##### Subpart E - Cost Principles
###### General Provisions for Selected Items of Cost
####### ยง 200.465 Rental costs of real property and equipment.

(a) Subject to the limitations described in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, rental costs are allowable to the extent that the rates are reasonable in light of such factors as: rental costs of comparable property, if any; market conditions in the area; alternatives available; and the type, life expectancy, condition, and value of the property leased. Rental arrangements should be reviewed periodically to determine if circumstances have changed and other options are available.

(b) Rental costs under "sale and lease back" arrangements are allowable only up to the amount that would be allowed had the non-Federal entity continued to own the property. This amount would include expenses such as depreciation, maintenance, taxes, and insurance.

(c) Rental costs under "less-than-arm's-length" leases are allowable only up to the amount (as explained in paragraph (b) of this section). For this purpose, a less-than-arm's-length lease is one under which one party to the lease agreement is able to control or substantially influence the actions of the other. Such leases include, but are not limited to those between:

(1) Divisions of the non-Federal entity;

(2) The non-Federal entity under common control through common officers, directors, or members; and

(3) The non-Federal entity and a director, trustee, officer, or key employee of the non-Federal entity or an immediate family member, either directly or through corporations, trusts, or similar arrangements in which they hold a controlling interest. For example, the non-Federal entity may establish a separate corporation for the sole purpose of owning property and leasing it back to the non-Federal entity.

(4) Family members include one party with any of the following relationships to another party:

(i) Spouse, and parents thereof;

(ii) Children, and spouses thereof;

(iii) Parents, and spouses thereof;

(iv) Siblings, and spouses thereof;

(v) Grandparents and grandchildren, and spouses thereof;

(vi) Domestic partner and parents thereof, including domestic partners of any individual in 2 through 5 of this definition; and

(vii) Any individual related by blood or affinity whose close association with the employee is the equivalent of a family relationship.

(5) Rental costs under leases which are required to be treated as capital leases under GAAP are allowable only up to the amount (as explained in paragraph (b) of this section) that would be allowed had the non-Federal entity purchased the property on the date the lease agreement was executed. The provisions of GAAP must be used to determine whether a lease is a capital lease. Interest costs related to capital leases are allowable to the extent they meet the criteria in ยง 200.449 Interest. Unallowable costs include amounts paid for profit, management fees, and taxes that would not have been incurred had the non-Federal entity purchased the property.

(6) The rental of any property owned by any individuals or entities affiliated with the non-Federal entity, to include commercial or residential real estate, for purposes such as the home office workspace is unallowable.

(d) Rental costs under leases which are required to be accounted for as a financed purchase under GASB standards or a finance lease under FASB standards under GAAP are allowable only up to the amount (as explained in paragraph (b) of this section) that would be allowed had the non-Federal entity purchased the property on the date the lease agreement was executed. Interest costs related to these leases are allowable to the extent they meet the criteria in ยง 200.449. Unallowable costs include amounts paid for profit, management fees, and taxes that would not have been incurred had the non-Federal entity purchased the property.

(e) Rental or lease payments are allowable under lease contracts where the non-Federal entity is required to recognize an intangible right-to-use lease asset (per GASB) or right of use operating lease asset (per FASB) for purposes of financial reporting in accordance with GAAP.

(f) The rental of any property owned by any individuals or entities affiliated with the non-Federal entity, to include commercial or residential real estate, for purposes such as the home office workspace is unallowable.
