
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle A - Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter II - Office of Management and Budget Guidance
#### PART 200 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL AWARDS
##### Subpart F - Audit Requirements
###### Audits
####### ยง 200.507 Program-specific audits.
######## Report submission for program-specific audits.

(c)(1) The audit must be completed and the reporting required by paragraph (c)(2) or (c)(3) of this section submitted within the earlier of 30 calendar days after receipt of the auditor's report(s), or nine months after the end of the audit period, unless a different period is specified in a program-specific audit guide. Unless restricted by Federal law or regulation, the auditee must make report copies available for public inspection. Auditees and auditors must ensure that their respective parts of the reporting package do not include protected personally identifiable information.

(2) When a program-specific audit guide is available, the auditee must electronically submit to the FAC the data collection form prepared in accordance with ยง 200.512(b), as applicable to a program-specific audit, and the reporting required by the program-specific audit guide.

(3) When a program-specific audit guide is not available, the reporting package for a program-specific audit must consist of the financial statement(s) of the Federal program, a summary schedule of prior audit findings, and a corrective action plan as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and the auditor's report(s) described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. The data collection form prepared in accordance with ยง 200.512(b), as applicable to a program-specific audit, and one copy of this reporting package must be electronically submitted to the FAC.
