
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle A - Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter II - Office of Management and Budget Guidance
#### PART 200 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL AWARDS
##### Subpart F - Audit Requirements
###### Federal Agencies
####### ยง 200.513 Responsibilities.
######## cooperative audit resolution

(iii) Use cooperative audit resolution mechanisms (see the definition ofin ยง 200.1 of this part) to improve Federal program outcomes through better audit resolution, follow-up, and corrective action; and

(iv) Develop a baseline, metrics, and targets to track, over time, the effectiveness of the Federal agency's process to follow-up on audit findings and on the effectiveness of Single Audits in improving non-Federal entity accountability and their use by Federal awarding agencies in making award decisions.

(4) Provide OMB annual updates to the compliance supplement and work with OMB to ensure that the compliance supplement focuses the auditor to test the compliance requirements most likely to cause improper payments, fraud, waste, abuse or generate audit finding for which the Federal awarding agency will take sanctions.

(5) Provide OMB with the name of a single audit accountable official from among the senior policy officials of the Federal awarding agency who must be:

(i) Responsible for ensuring that the agency fulfills all the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section and effectively uses the single audit process to reduce improper payments and improve Federal program outcomes.

(ii) Held accountable to improve the effectiveness of the single audit process based upon metrics as described in paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section.

(iii) Responsible for designating the Federal agency's key management single audit liaison.

(6) Provide OMB with the name of a key management single audit liaison who must:

(i) Serve as the Federal awarding agency's management point of contact for the single audit process both within and outside the Federal Government.

(ii) Promote interagency coordination, consistency, and sharing in areas such as coordinating audit follow-up; identifying higher-risk non-Federal entities; providing input on single audit and follow-up policy; enhancing the utility of the FAC; and studying ways to use single audit results to improve Federal award accountability and best practices.

(iii) Oversee training for the Federal awarding agency's program management personnel related to the single audit process.

(iv) Promote the Federal awarding agency's use of cooperative audit resolution mechanisms.

(v) Coordinate the Federal awarding agency's activities to ensure appropriate and timely follow-up and corrective action on audit findings.

(vi) Organize the Federal cognizant agency for audit's follow-up on cross-cutting audit findings that affect the Federal programs of more than one Federal awarding agency.

(vii) Ensure the Federal awarding agency provides annual updates of the compliance supplement to OMB.

(viii) Support the Federal awarding agency's single audit accountable official's mission.
