
# Title 2 - Grants and Agreements
## Subtitle A - Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Grants and Agreements
### Chapter II - Office of Management and Budget Guidance
#### PART 200 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS, COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL AWARDS
##### Appendix I to Part 200 - Full Text of Notice of Funding Opportunity
###### Reporting-Required.,e.g.,,e.g.,

3.This section must include general information about the type (financial or performance), frequency, and means of submission (paper or electronic) of post-Federal award reporting requirements. Highlight any special reporting requirements for Federal awards under this funding opportunity that differ (by report type, frequency, form/format, or circumstances for use) from what the Federal awarding agency's Federal awards usually require. Federal awarding agencies must also describe in this section all relevant requirements such as those at 2 CFR 180.335 and 180.350.

If the Federal share of any Federal award may include more than $500,000 over the period of performance, this section must inform potential applicants about the post award reporting requirements reflected in appendix XII to this part.

The announcement must give potential applicants a point(s) of contact for answering questions or helping with problems while the funding opportunity is open. The intent of this requirement is to be as helpful as possible to potential applicants, so the Federal awarding agency should consider approaches such as giving:

i. Points of contact who may be reached in multiple ways (e.g., by telephone, FAX, and/or email, as well as regular mail).

ii. A fax or email address that multiple people access, so that someone will respond even if others are unexpectedly absent during critical periods.

iii. Different contacts for distinct kinds of help (e.g., one for questions of programmatic content and a second for administrative questions).

This section may include any additional information that will assist a potential applicant. For example, the section might:

i. Indicate whether this is a new program or a one-time initiative.

ii. Mention related programs or other upcoming or ongoing Federal awarding agency funding opportunities for similar activities.

iii. Include current Internet addresses for Federal awarding agency Web sites that may be useful to an applicant in understanding the program.

iv. Alert applicants to the need to identify proprietary information and inform them about the way the Federal awarding agency will handle it.

v. Include certain routine notices to applicants (e.g., that the Federal Government is not obligated to make any Federal award as a result of the announcement or that only grants officers can bind the Federal Government to the expenditure of funds).
