
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1904 - RECORDING AND REPORTING OCCUPATIONAL INJURIES AND ILLNESSES
##### Subpart D - Other OSHA Injury and Illness Recordkeeping Requirements
###### ยง 1904.38 Variances from the recordkeeping rule.
####### How will the Assistant Secretary handle my variance petition?

(2)The Assistant Secretary will take the following steps to process your variance petition.

(i) The Assistant Secretary will offer your employees and their authorized representatives an opportunity to submit written data, views, and arguments about your variance petition.

(ii) The Assistant Secretary may allow the public to comment on your variance petition by publishing the petition in theIf the petition is published, the notice will establish a public comment period and may include a schedule for a public meeting on the petition.

(iii) After reviewing your variance petition and any comments from your employees and the public, the Assistant Secretary will decide whether or not your proposed recordkeeping procedures will meet the purposes of the Act, will not otherwise interfere with the Act, and will provide the same information as the part 1904 regulations provide. If your procedures meet these criteria, the Assistant Secretary may grant the variance subject to such conditions as he or she finds appropriate.

(iv) If the Assistant Secretary grants your variance petition, OSHA will publish a notice in theto announce the variance. The notice will include the practices the variance allows you to use, any conditions that apply, and the reasons for allowing the variance.
