
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart D - Walking-Working Surfaces
###### ยง 1910.29 Fall protection systems and falling object protection - criteria and practices.
####### Protection from falling objects.

(k)(1) The employers must ensure toeboards used for falling object protection:

(i) Are erected along the exposed edge of the overhead walking-working surface for a length that is sufficient to protect employees below.

(ii) Have a minimum vertical height of 3.5 inches (9 cm) as measured from the top edge of the toeboard to the level of the walking-working surface.

(iii) Do not have more than a 0.25-inch (0.5-cm) clearance or opening above the walking-working surface.

(iv) Are solid or do not have any opening that exceeds 1 inch (3 cm) at its greatest dimension.

(v) Have a minimum height of 2.5 inches (6 cm) when used around vehicle repair, service, or assembly pits. Toeboards may be omitted around vehicle repair, service, or assembly pits when the employer can demonstrate that a toeboard would prevent access to a vehicle that is over the pit.

(vi) Are capable of withstanding, without failure, a force of at least 50 pounds (222 N) applied in any downward or outward direction at any point along the toeboard.

(2) The employer must ensure:

(i) Where tools, equipment, or materials are piled higher than the top of the toeboard, paneling or screening is installed from the toeboard to the midrail of the guardrail system and for a length that is sufficient to protect employees below. If the items are piled higher than the midrail, the employer also must install paneling or screening to the top rail and for a length that is sufficient to protect employees below; and

(ii) All openings in guardrail systems are small enough to prevent objects from falling through the opening.

(3) The employer must ensure canopies used for falling object protection are strong enough to prevent collapse and to prevent penetration by falling objects.
