
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart F - Powered Platforms, Manlifts, and Vehicle-Mounted Work Platforms
###### ยง 1910.66 Powered platforms for building maintenance.
####### Transportable outriggers.

(ii)(A) Transportable outriggers may be used as a method of suspension for ground rigged working platforms where the point of suspension does not exceed 300 feet (91.5 m) above a safe surface. Tie-in guide system(s) shall be provided which meet the requirements of paragraph (e)(2) of this section.

(B) Transportable outriggers shall be used only with self-powered, ground rigged working platforms.

(C) Each transportable outrigger shall be secured with a tie-down to a verified anchorage on the building during the entire period of its use. The anchorage shall be designed to have a stability factor of not less than four against overturning or upsetting of the outrigger.

(D) Access to and egress from the working platform shall be from and to a safe surface below the point of suspension.

(E) Each transportable outrigger shall be designed for lateral stability to prevent roll-over in the event an accidental lateral load is applied to the outrigger. The accidental lateral load to be considered in this design shall be not less than 70 percent of the rated load of the hoist.

(F) Each transportable outrigger shall be designed to support an ultimate load of not less than four times the rated load of the hoist.

(G) Each transportable outrigger shall be so located that the suspension wire ropes for two point suspended working platforms are hung parallel.

(H) A transportable outrigger shall be tied-back to a verified anchorage on the building with a rope equivalent in strength to the suspension rope.

(I) The tie-back rope shall be installed parallel to the centerline of the outrigger.
