
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart F - Powered Platforms, Manlifts, and Vehicle-Mounted Work Platforms
###### ยง 1910.66 Powered platforms for building maintenance.
####### Intermittently stabilized platforms.

(v)(A) The platform shall comply with paragraphs (F)(5)(ii) (A) through (M) of this section.

(B) Each stabilizer tie shall be equipped with a "quick connect-quick disconnect" device which cannot be accidently disengaged, for attachment to the building anchor, and shall be resistant to adverse environmental conditions.

(C) The platform shall be provided with a stopping device that will interrupt the hoist power supply in the event the platform contacts a stabilizer tie during its ascent.

(D) Building face rollers shall not be placed at the anchor setting if exterior anchors are used on the building face.

(E) Stabilizer ties used on intermittently stabilized platforms shall allow for the specific attachment length needed to effect the predetermined angulation of the suspended wire rope. The specific attachment length shall be maintained at all building anchor locations.

(F) The platform shall be in continuous contact with the face of the building during ascent and descent.

(G) The attachment and removal of stabilizer ties shall not require the horizontal movement of the platform.

(H) The platform-mounted equipment and its suspension wire ropes shall not be physically damaged by the loads from the stabilizer tie or its building anchor. The platform, platform mounted equipment and wire ropes shall be able to withstand a load that is at least twice the ultimate strength of the stabilizer tie.
