
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart F - Powered Platforms, Manlifts, and Vehicle-Mounted Work Platforms
###### ยง 1910.66 Powered platforms for building maintenance.
####### Operations,Training.

(i)-(1)(i) Working platforms shall be operated only by persons who are proficient in the operation, safe use and inspection of the particular working platform to be operated.

(ii) All employees who operate working platforms shall be trained in the following:

(A) Recognition of, and preventive measures for, the safety hazards associated with their individual work tasks.

(B) General recognition and prevention of safety hazards associated with the use of working platforms, including the provisions in the section relating to the particular working platform to be operated.

(C) Emergency action plan procedures required in paragraph (e)(9) of this section.

(D) Work procedures required in paragraph (i)(1)(iv) of this section.

(E) Personal fall arrest system inspection, care, use and system performance.

(iii) Training of employees in the operation and inspection of working platforms shall be done by a competent person.

(iv) Written work procedures for the operation, safe use and inspection of working platforms shall be provided for employee training. Pictorial methods of instruction, may be used, in lieu of written work procedures, if employee communication is improved using this method. The operating manuals supplied by manufacturers for platform system components can serve as the basis for these procedures.

(v) The employer shall certify that employees have been trained in operating and inspecting a working platform by preparing a certification record which includes the identity of the person trained, the signature of the employer or the person who conducted the training and the date that training was completed. The certification record shall be prepared at the completion of the training required in paragraph (i)(1)(ii) of this section, and shall be maintained in a file for the duration of the employee's employment. The certification record shall be kept readily available for review by the Assistant Secretary of Labor or the Assistant Secretary's representative.
