
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart H - Hazardous Materials
###### ยง 1910.106 Flammable liquids.
####### Flammable liquid

(19)means any liquid having a flashpoint at or below 199.4 &#xB0;F (93 &#xB0;C). Flammable liquids are divided into four categories as follows:

(i) Category 1 shall include liquids having flashpoints below 73.4 &#xB0;F (23 &#xB0;C) and having a boiling point at or below 95 &#xB0;F (35 &#xB0;C).

(ii) Category 2 shall include liquids having flashpoints below 73.4 &#xB0;F (23 &#xB0;C) and having a boiling point above 95 &#xB0;F (35 &#xB0;C).

(iii) Category 3 shall include liquids having flashpoints at or above 73.4 &#xB0;F (23 &#xB0;C) and at or below 140 &#xB0;F (60 &#xB0;C). When a Category 3 liquid with a flashpoint at or above 100 &#xB0;F (37.8 &#xB0;C) is heated for use to within 30 &#xB0;F (16.7 &#xB0;C) of its flashpoint, it shall be handled in accordance with the requirements for a Category 3 liquid with a flashpoint below 100 &#xB0;F (37.8 &#xB0;C).

(iv) Category 4 shall include liquids having flashpoints above 140 &#xB0;F (60 &#xB0;C) and at or below 199.4 &#xB0;F (93 &#xB0;C). When a Category 4 flammable liquid is heated for use to within 30 &#xB0;F (16.7 &#xB0;C) of its flashpoint, it shall be handled in accordance with the requirements for a Category 3 liquid with a flashpoint at or above 100 &#xB0;F (37.8 &#xB0;C).

(v) When liquid with a flashpoint greater than 199.4 &#xB0;F (93 &#xB0;C) is heated for use to within 30 &#xB0;F (16.7 &#xB0;C) of its flashpoint, it shall be handled in accordance with the requirements for a Category 4 flammable liquid.

(20) Unstable (reactive) liquid shall mean a liquid which in the pure state or as commercially produced or transported will vigorously polymerize, decompose, condense, or will become self-reactive under conditions of shocks, pressure, or temperature.

(21) Low-pressure tank shall mean a storage tank which has been designed to operate at pressures above 0.5 p.s.i.g. but not more than 15 p.s.i.g.

(22) Marine service station shall mean that portion of a property where flammable liquids used as fuels are stored and dispensed from fixed equipment on shore, piers, wharves, or floating docks into the fuel tanks of self-propelled craft, and shall include all facilities used in connection therewith.

(23) Mercantile occupancy shall mean the occupancy or use of a building or structure or any portion thereof for the displaying, selling, or buying of goods, wares, or merchandise.

(24) Office occupancy shall mean the occupancy or use of a building or structure or any portion thereof for the transaction of business, or the rendering or receiving of professional services.

(25) Portable tank shall mean a closed container having a liquid capacity over 60 U.S. gallons and not intended for fixed installation.

(26) Pressure vessel shall mean a storage tank or vessel which has been designed to operate at pressures above 15 p.s.i.g.

(27) Protection for exposure shall mean adequate fire protection for structures on property adjacent to tanks, where there are employees of the establishment.

(28) Refinery shall mean a plant in which flammable liquids are produced on a commercial scale from crude petroleum, natural gasoline, or other hydrocarbon sources.

(29) Safety can shall mean an approved container, of not more than 5 gallons capacity, having a spring-closing lid and spout cover and so designed that it will safely relieve internal pressure when subjected to fire exposure.

(30) Vapor pressure shall mean the pressure, measured in pounds per square inch (absolute) exerted by a volatile liquid as determined by the "Standard Method of Test for Vapor Pressure of Petroleum Products (Reid Method)," American Society for Testing and Materials ASTM D323-68, which is incorporated by reference as specified in ยง 1910.6.

(31) Ventilation as specified in this section is for the prevention of fire and explosion. It is considered adequate if it is sufficient to prevent accumulation of significant quantities of vapor-air mixtures in concentration over one-fourth of the lower flammable limit.

(32) Storage: Flammable liquids shall be stored in a tank or in a container that complies with paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

(33) Barrel shall mean a volume of 42 U.S. gallons.

(34) Container shall mean any can, barrel, or drum.

(35) Approved unless otherwise indicated, approved, or listed by a nationally recognized testing laboratory. Refer to ยง 1910.7 for definition of nationally recognized testing laboratory.

(36) Listed see "approved" in ยง 1910.106(a)(35).
