
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart H - Hazardous Materials
###### ยง 1910.106 Flammable liquids.
####### Scope.

(j)This section applies to the handling, storage, and use of flammable liquids with a flashpoint at or below 199.4 &#xB0;F (93 &#xB0;C) unless otherwise noted. This section does not apply to:

(1) Bulk transportation of flammable liquids;

(2) Storage, handling, and use of fuel oil tanks and containers connected with oil burning equipment;

(3) Storage of flammable liquids on farms;

(4) Liquids without flashpoints that may be flammable under some conditions, such as certain halogenated hydrocarbons and mixtures containing halogenated hydrocarbons;

(5) Mists, sprays, or foams, except flammable aerosols covered in paragraph (d) of this section; or

(6) Installations made in accordance with requirements of the following standards that are incorporated by reference as specified in ยง 1910.6:

(i) National Fire Protection Association Standard for Drycleaning Plants, NFPA No. 32-1970;

(ii) National Fire Protection Association Standard for the Manufacture of Organic Coatings, NFPA No. 35-1970;

(iii) National Fire Protection Association Standard for Solvent Extraction Plants, NFPA No. 36-1967; or

(iv) National Fire Protection Association Standard for the Installation and Use of Stationary Combustion Engines and Gas Turbines, NFPA No. 37-1970.
