
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart H - Hazardous Materials
###### ยง 1910.109 Explosives and blasting agents.
####### Construction of Class II magazines.

(4)(i) Class II magazines shall be of wood or metal construction, or a combination thereof.

(ii) Wood magazines of this class shall have sides, bottom, and cover constructed of 2-inch hardwood boards well braced at corners and protected by being entirely covered with sheet metal of not less than No. 20 gage. All nails exposed to the interior of the magazine shall be well countersunk. All metal magazines of this class shall have sides, bottom, and cover constructed of sheet metal, and shall be lined with three-eighths-inch plywood or equivalent. Edges of metal covers shall overlap sides at least 1 inch.

(iii) Covers for both wood- and metal-constructed magazines of this class shall be provided with substantial strap hinges and shall be provided with substantial means for locking.

(iv) Magazines of this class shall be painted red and shall bear lettering in white, on all sides and top, at least 3 inches high, "Explosives-Keep Fire Away." Class II magazines when located in warehouses, and in wholesale and retail establishments shall be provided with substantial wheels or casters to facilitate easy removal in the case of fire. Where necessary due to climatic conditions, Class II magazines shall be ventilated.
