
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart H - Hazardous Materials
###### ยง 1910.109 Explosives and blasting agents.
####### Construction of Class I magazines.

(3)(i) Class I magazines shall be of masonry construction or of wood or of metal construction, or a combination of these types. Thickness of masonry units shall not be less than 8 inches. Hollow masonry units used in construction required to be bullet resistant shall have all hollow spaces filled with weak cement or well-tamped sand. Wood constructed walls, required to be bullet resistant, shall have at least a 6-inch space between interior and exterior sheathing and the space between sheathing shall be filled with well-tamped sand. Metal wall construction, when required to be bullet resistant, shall be lined with brick at least 4 inches in thickness or shall have at least a 6-inch sandfill between interior and exterior walls.

(ii) Floors and roofs of masonry magazines may be of wood construction. Wood floors shall be tongue and grooved lumber having a nominal thickness of 1 inch.

(iii) Roofs required to be bullet resistant shall be protected by a sand tray located at the line of eaves and covering the entire area except that necessary for ventilation. Sand in the sand tray shall be maintained at a depth of not less than 4 inches.

(iv) All wood at the exterior of magazines, including eaves, shall be protected by being covered with black or galvanized steel or aluminum metal of thickness of not less than No. 26 gage. All nails exposed to the interior of magazines shall be well countersunk.

(v) Foundations for magazines shall be of substantial construction and arranged to provide good cross ventilation.

(vi) Magazines shall be ventilated sufficiently to prevent dampness and heating of stored explosives. Ventilating openings shall be screened to prevent the entrance of sparks.

(vii) Openings to magazines shall be restricted to that necessary for the placement and removal of stocks of explosives. Doors for openings in magazines for Class A explosives shall be bullet resistant. Doors for magazines not required to be bullet resistant shall be designed to prevent unauthorized entrance to the magazine.

(viii) [Reserved]

(ix) Provisions shall be made to prevent the piling of stocks of explosives directly against masonry walls, brick-lined or sand-filled metal walls and single-thickness metal walls; such protection, however, shall not interfere with proper ventilation at the interior of side and end walls.
