
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart H - Hazardous Materials
###### ยง 1910.109 Explosives and blasting agents.
####### Bulk storage bins.

(4)(i) The bin, including supports, shall be constructed of compatible materials, waterproof, and adequately supported and braced to withstand the combination of all loads including impact forces arising from product movement within the bin and accidental vehicle contact with the support legs.

(ii) The bin discharge gate shall be designed to provide a closure tight enough to prevent leakage of the stored product. Provision shall also be made so that the gate can be locked.

(iii) Bin loading manways or access hatches shall be hinged or otherwise attached to the bin and be designed to permit locking.

(iv) Any electrically driven conveyors for loading or unloading bins shall conform to the requirements of subpart S of this part. They shall be designed to minimize damage from corrosion.

(v) Bins containing blasting agent shall be located, with respect to inhabited buildings, passenger railroads, and public highways, in accordance with Table-21 and separation from other blasting agent storage and explosives storage shall be in conformity with Table H-22.

(vi) Bins containing ammonium nitrate shall be separated from blasting agent storage and explosives storage in conformity with Table H-22.
