
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart H - Hazardous Materials
###### ยง 1910.109 Explosives and blasting agents.
####### b

() If both blasting agents and ammonium nitrate are handled or stored within the distance limitations prescribed through paragraph (g)(2) of this section, one-half the mass of the ammonium nitrate shall be added to the mass of the blasting agent when computing the total quantity of explosives for determining the proper distance for compliance with Table H-21.

(iii) Smoking, matches, open flames, spark producing devices, and firearms are prohibited inside of or within 50 feet of any warehouse used for the storage of blasting agents. Combustible materials shall not be stored within 50 feet of warehouses used for the storage of blasting agents.

(iv) The interior of warehouses used for the storage of blasting agents shall be kept clean and free from debris and empty containers. Spilled materials shall be cleaned up promptly and safely removed. Combustible materials, flammable liquids, corrosive acids, chlorates, or nitrates shall not be stored in any warehouse used for blasting agents unless separated therefrom by a fire resistive separation of not less than 1 hour resistance. The provisions of this subdivision shall not prohibit the storage of blasting agents together with nonexplosive blasting supplies.

(v) Piles of ammonium nitrate and warehouses containing ammonium nitrate shall be adequately separated from readily combustible fuels.

(vi) Caked oxidizers, either in bags or in bulk, shall not be loosened by blasting.

(vii) Every warehouse used for the storage of blasting agents shall be under the supervision of a competent person.
