
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart H - Hazardous Materials
###### ยง 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
####### Definitions applicable to this section.

(a)As used in this section:

(1) API-ASME container-A container constructed in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section.

(2) ASME container-A container constructed in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section.

(3) Container assembly-An assembly consisting essentially of the container and fittings for all container openings, including shutoff valves, excess flow valves, liquid-level gaging devices, safety relief devices, and protective housing.

(4) Containers-All vessels, such as tanks, cylinders, or drums, used for transportation or storing liquefied petroleum gases.

(5) DOT-Department of Transportation.

(6) DOT container-A container constructed in accordance with the applicable requirements of 49 CFR chapter 1.

(7) "Liquified petroleum gases"-"LPG" and "LP-Gas"-Any material which is composed predominantly of any of the following hydrocarbons, or mixtures of them; propane, propylene, butanes (normal butane or iso-butane), and butylenes.

(8) Movable fuel storage tenders or farm carts-Containers not in excess of 1,200 gallons water capacity, equipped with wheels to be towed from one location of usage to another. They are basically nonhighway vehicles, but may occasionally be moved over public roads or highways. They are used as a fuel supply for farm tractors, construction machinery and similar equipment.

(9) P.S.I.G.-pounds per square inch gauge.

(10) P.S.I.A.-pounds per square inch absolute.

(11) Systems-an assembly of equipment consisting essentially of the container or containers, major devices such as vaporizers, safety relief valves, excess flow valves, regulators, and piping connecting such parts.

(12) Vaporizer-burner-an integral vaporizer-burner unit, dependent upon the heat generated by the burner as the source of heat to vaporize the liquid used for dehydrators or dryers.

(13) Ventilation, adequate-when specified for the prevention of fire during normal operation, ventilation shall be considered adequate when the concentration of the gas in a gas-air mixture does not exceed 25 percent of the lower flammable limit.

(14) Approved-unless otherwise indicated, listing or approval by a nationally recognized testing laboratory. Refer to ยง 1910.7 for definition of nationally recognized testing laboratory.

(15) Listed-see "approved" in ยง 1910.110(14).

(16) DOT Specifications-regulations of the Department of Transportation published in 49 CFR chapter I.

(17)-(18) [Reserved]

(19) DOT cylinders-cylinders meeting the requirements of 49 CFR chapter I.
