
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart H - Hazardous Materials
###### ยง 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
####### Requirements for construction and original test of containers.

(3)(i) Containers used with systems embodied in paragraphs (d), (e), (g), and (h) of this section, except as provided in paragraphs (e)(3)(iii) and (g)(2)(i) of this section, shall be designed, constructed, and tested in accordance with the Rules for Construction of Unfired Pressure Vessels, section VIII, Division 1, American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, 1968 edition, which is incorporated by reference as specified in ยง 1910.6.

(ii) Containers constructed according to the 1949 and earlier editions of the ASME Code do not have to comply with paragraphs U-2 through U-10 and U-19 thereof. Containers constructed according to paragraph U-70 in the 1949 and earlier editions are not authorized.

(iii) Containers designed, constructed, and tested prior to July 1, 1961, according to the Code for Unfired Pressure Vessels for Petroleum Liquids and Gases, 1951 edition with 1954 Addenda, of the American Petroleum Institute and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, which is incorporated by reference as specified in ยง 1910.6, shall be considered in conformance. Containers constructed according to API-ASME Code do not have to comply with section I or with appendix to section I. Paragraphs W-601 to W-606 inclusive in the 1943 and earlier editions do not apply.

(iv) The provisions of paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section shall not be construed as prohibiting the continued use or reinstallation of containers constructed and maintained in accordance with the standard for the Storage and Handling of Liquefied Petroleum Gases NFPA No. 58 in effect at the time of fabrication.

(v) Containers used with systems embodied in paragraph (b), (d)(3)(iii), and (f) of this section, shall be constructed, tested, and stamped in accordance with DOT specifications effective at the date of their manufacture.
