
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart H - Hazardous Materials
###### ยง 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
####### Container valves and container accessories.

(7)(i) Valves, fittings, and accessories connected directly to the container including primary shutoff valves, shall have a rated working pressure of at least 250 p.s.i.g. and shall be of material and design suitable for LP-Gas service. Cast iron shall not be used for container valves, fittings, and accessories. This does not prohibit the use of container valves made of malleable or nodular iron.

(ii) Connections to containers, except safety relief connections, liquid level gaging devices, and plugged openings, shall have shutoff valves located as close to the container as practicable.

(iii) Excess flow valves, where required shall close automatically at the rated flows of vapor or liquid as specified by the manufacturer. The connections or line including valves, fittings, etc., being protected by an excess flow valve shall have a greater capacity than the rated flow of the excess flow valve.

(iv) Liquid level gaging devices which are so constructed that outward flow of container contents shall not exceed that passed by a No. 54 drill size opening, need not be equipped with excess flow valves.

(v) Openings from container or through fittings attached directly on container to which pressure gage connection is made, need not be equipped with shutoff or excess flow valves if such openings are restricted to not larger than No. 54 drill size opening.
