
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart H - Hazardous Materials
###### ยง 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
####### f

() Containers awaiting use or resale when stored in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section.

(ii) Each individual container shall be located with respect to the nearest important building or group of buildings in accordance with Table H-23.

(iii) Containers installed for use shall not be stacked one above the other.

(iv) [Reserved]

(v) In the case of buildings devoted exclusively to gas manufacturing and distributing operations, the distances required by Table H-23 may be reduced provided that in no case shall containers of water capacity exceeding 500 gallons be located closer than 10 feet to such gas manufacturing and distributing buildings.

(vi) Readily ignitible material such as weeds and long dry grass shall be removed within 10 feet of any container.

(vii) The minimum separation between liquefied petroleum gas containers and flammable liquid tanks shall be 20 feet, and the minimum separation between a container and the centerline of the dike shall be 10 feet. The foregoing provision shall not apply when LP-Gas containers of 125 gallons or less capacity are installed adjacent to Class III flammable liquid tanks of 275 gallons or less capacity.

(viii) Suitable means shall be taken to prevent the accumulation of flammable liquids under adjacent liquified petroleum gas containers, such as by diking, diversion curbs, or grading.

(ix) When dikes are used with flammable liquid tanks, no liquefied petroleum gas containers shall be located within the diked area.
