
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart H - Hazardous Materials
###### ยง 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
####### b

() Vapor piping with operating pressures over 125 p.s.i.g. and all liquid piping shall be suitable for a working pressure of at least 250 p.s.i.g. Pipe shall be at least Schedule 80 if joints are threaded or threaded and back welded. At least Schedule 40 (ASTM A-53-69 Grade B Electric Resistance Welded and Electric Flash Welded Pipe or equal) shall be used if joints are welded, or welded and flanged.

(ii) Tubing shall be seamless and of copper, brass, steel, or aluminum alloy. Copper tubing shall be of type K or L or equivalent as covered in the Specification for Seamless Copper Water Tube, ANSI H23.1-1970 (ASTM B88-69), which is incorporated by reference as specified in ยง 1910.6. Aluminum alloy tubing shall be of Type A or B or equivalent as covered in Specification ASTM B210-68 (which is incorporated by reference as specified in ยง 1910.6) and shall be suitably marked every 18 inches indicating compliance with ASTM Specifications. The minimum nominal wall thickness of copper tubing and aluminum alloy tubing shall be as specified in Table H-24 and Table H-25.

(iii) In systems where the gas in liquid form without pressure reduction enters the building, only heavy walled seamless brass or copper tubing with an internal diameter not greater than three thirty-seconds inch, and a wall thickness of not less than three sixty-fourths inch shall be used. This requirement shall not apply to research and experimental laboratories, buildings, or separate fire divisions of buildings used exclusively for housing internal combustion engines, and to commercial gas plants or bulk stations where containers are charged, nor to industrial vaporizer buildings, nor to buildings, structures, or equipment under construction or undergoing major renovation.

(iv) Pipe joints may be screwed, flanged, welded, soldered, or brazed with a material having a melting point exceeding 1,000 &#xB0;F. Joints on seamless copper, brass, steel, or aluminum alloy gas tubing shall be made by means of approved gas tubing fittings, or soldered or brazed with a material having a melting point exceeding 1,000 &#xB0;F.

(v) For operating pressures of 125 p.s.i.g. or less, fittings shall be designed for a pressure of at least 125 p.s.i.g. For operating pressures above 125 p.s.i.g., fittings shall be designed for a minimum of 250 p.s.i.g.

(vi) The use of threaded cast iron pipe fittings such as ells, tees, crosses, couplings, and unions is prohibited. Aluminum alloy fittings shall be used with aluminum alloy pipe and tubing. Insulated fittings shall be used where aluminum alloy pipe or tubing connects with a dissimilar metal.

(vii) Strainers, regulators, meters, compressors, pumps, etc., are not to be considered as pipe fittings. This does not prohibit the use of malleable, nodular, or higher strength gray iron for such equipment.

(viii) All materials such as valve seats, packing, gaskets, diaphragms, etc., shall be of such quality as to be resistant to the action of liquefied petroleum gas under the service conditions to which they are subjected.

(ix) All piping, tubing, or hose shall be tested after assembly and proved free from leaks at not less than normal operating pressures. After installation, piping and tubing of all domestic and commercial systems shall be tested and proved free of leaks using a manometer or equivalent device that will indicate a drop in pressure. Test shall not be made with a flame.

(x) Provision shall be made to compensate for expansion, contraction, jarring, and vibration, and for settling. This may be accomplished by flexible connections.

(xi) Piping outside buildings may be buried, above ground, or both, but shall be well supported and protected against physical damage. Where soil conditions warrant, all piping shall be protected against corrosion. Where condensation may occur, the piping shall be pitched back to the container, or suitable means shall be provided for revaporization of the condensate.
