
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart H - Hazardous Materials
###### ยง 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
####### d,for determining the length of a fixed dip tube,b

() The maximum weight of LP-Gas which may be placed in a containeris determined by multiplying the maximum volume of liquefied petroleum gas obtained by the formula in paragraph (b)(19)() of this section by the pounds of liquefied petroleum gas in a gallon at 40 &#xB0;F. for abovegound and at 50 &#xB0;F. for underground containers. For example, typical pounds per gallon are specified below:

(vi) Fixed liquid-level gages used on containers other than DOT containers shall be stamped on the exterior of the gage with the letters "DT" followed by the vertical distance (expressed in inches and carried out to one decimal place) from the top of container to the end of the dip tube or to the centerline of the gage when it is located at the maximum permitted filling level. For portable containers that may be filled in the horizontal and/or vertical position the letters "DT" shall be followed by "V" with the vertical distance from the top of the container to the end of the dip tube for vertical filling and with "H" followed by the proper distance for horizontal filling. For DOT containers the stamping shall be placed both on the exterior of the gage and on the container. On above-ground or cargo containers where the gages are positioned at specific levels, the marking may be specified in percent of total tank contents and the marking shall be stamped on the container.

(vii) Gage glasses of the columnar type shall be restricted to charging plants where the fuel is withdrawn in the liquid phase only. They shall be equipped with valves having metallic handwheels, with excess flow valves, and with extra-heavy glass adequately protected with a metal housing applied by the gage manufacturer. They shall be shielded against the direct rays of the sun. Gage glasses of the columnar type are prohibited on tank trucks, and on motor fuel tanks, and on containers used in domestic, commercial, and industrial installations.

(viii) Gaging devices of the float, or equivalent type which do not require flow for their operation and having connections extending to a point outside the container do not have to be equipped with excess flow valves provided the piping and fittings are adequately designed to withstand the container pressure and are properly protected against physical damage and breakage.
