
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart H - Hazardous Materials
###### ยง 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
####### Liquid-level gaging device.

(19)(i) Each container manufactured after December 31, 1965, and filled on a volumetric basis shall be equipped with a fixed liquid-level gage to indicate the maximum permitted filling level as provided in paragraph (b)(19)(v) of this section. Each container manufactured after December 31, 1969, shall have permanently attached to the container adjacent to the fixed level gage a marking showing the percentage full that will be shown by that gage. When a variable liquid-level gage is also provided, the fixed liquid-level gage will also serve as a means for checking the variable gage. These gages shall be used in charging containers as required in paragraph (b)(12) of this section.

(ii) All variable gaging devices shall be arranged so that the maximum liquid level for butane, for a 50-50 mixture of butane and propane, and for propane, to which the container may be charged is readily determinable. The markings indicating the various liquid levels from empty to full shall be on the system nameplate or gaging device or part may be on the system nameplate and part on the gaging device. Dials of magnetic or rotary gages shall show whether they are for cylindrical or spherical containers and whether for aboveground or underground service. The dials of gages intended for use only on aboveground containers of over 1,200 gallons water capacity shall be so marked.

(iii) Gaging devices that require bleeding of the product to the atmosphere, such as the rotary tube, fixed tube, and slip tube, shall be designed so that the bleed valve maximum opening is not larger than a No. 54 drill size, unless provided with excess flow valve.

(iv) Gaging devices shall have a design working pressure of at least 250 p.s.i.g.

(v) Length of tube or position of fixed liquid-level gage shall be designed to indicate the maximum level to which the container may be filled for the product contained. This level shall be based on the volume of the product at 40 &#xB0;F. at its maximum permitted filling density for aboveground containers and at 50 &#xB0;F. for underground containers. The employer shall calculate the filling point for which the fixed liquid level gage shall be designed according to the method in this subdivision.
