
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 1 - PROCEDURES FOR PREDETERMINATION OF WAGE RATES
#### ยง 1.1 Purpose and scope.

(a) The procedural rules in this part apply under the Davis-Bacon Act (946 Stat. 1494, as amended; 40 U.S.C. 276a-276a-7) and other statutes listed in appendix A to this part which provide for the payment of minimum wages, including fringe benefits, to laborers and mechanics engaged in construction activity under contracts entered into or financed by or with the assistance of agencies of the United States or the District of Columbia, based on determinations by the Secretary of Labor of the wage rates and fringe benefits prevailing for the corresponding classes of laborers and mechanics employed on projects similar to the contract work in the local areas where such work is to be performed. Functions of the Secretary of Labor under these statutes and under Reorganization Plan No. 14 of 1950 (64 Stat. 1267, 5 U.S.C. appendix), except those assigned to the Administrative Review Board (see 29 CFR part 7), have been delegated to the Deputy Under Secretary of Labor for Employment Standards who in turn has delegated the functions to the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, and authorized representatives.

(b) The regulations in this part set forth the procedures for making and applying such determinations of prevailing wage rates and fringe benefits pursuant to the Davis-Bacon Act, each of the other statutes listed in appendix A, and any other Federal statute providing for determinations of such wages by the Secretary of Labor in accordance with the provisions of the Davis-Bacon Act.

(c) Procedures set forth in this part are applicable, unless otherwise indicated, both to general wage determinations for contracts in specified localities, and to project wage determinations for use on contract work to be performed on a specific project.
