
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 18 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE FOR ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS BEFORE THE OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES
#### Subpart A - General
##### Post Hearing
###### ยง 18.95 Review of decision and review by the Secretary.
####### Review.

(2)(i) The Secretary may, at any point within the time periods provided for in paragraph (b) of this section, and in his or her sole discretion, assume jurisdiction to review the decision or determination of the Certifying Officer, the Office of Foreign Labor Certification Administrator, the National Prevailing Wage Center Director, or the BALCA, as the case may be.

(ii) When the Secretary assumes jurisdiction over a case, the Secretary shall promptly notify the BALCA. The BALCA shall promptly notify the parties to the case of such action and shall submit the Appeal File and any briefs filed to the Secretary.

(iii) In any case the Secretary decides, the Secretary's decision shall be stated in writing and transmitted to the BALCA, which shall promptly publish the decision and transmit it to the parties to the case. Such decision shall constitute final action by the Department and shall serve as binding precedent on all Department employees and in all Department proceedings involving the same issue or issues.

(iv) The Solicitor of Labor, or his or her designee, shall have the responsibility for providing legal advice to the Secretary with respect to the Secretary's exercise of review under this section, except that no individual involved in the investigation or prosecution of a case shall advise the Secretary on the exercise of review with respect to such case or a case involving a common nucleus of operative fact.
