
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart H - Hazardous Materials
###### ยง 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
####### Storage within special buildings or rooms.

(5)(i) The quantity of LP-Gas stored in special buildings or rooms shall not exceed 10,000 pounds.

(ii) The walls, floors, and ceilings of container storage rooms that are within or adjacent to other parts of the building shall be constructed of material having at least a 2-hour fire resistance rating.

(iii) A portion of the exterior walls or roof having an area not less than 10 percent of that of the combined area of the enclosing walls and roof shall be of explosion relieving construction.

(iv) Each opening from such storage rooms to other parts of the building shall be protected by a 1hour (B) fire door listed by a nationally recognized testing laboratory. Refer to ยง 1910.7 for definition of nationally recognized testing laboratory.

(v) Such rooms shall have no open flames for heating or lighting.

(vi) Such rooms shall be adequately ventilated both top and bottom to the outside only. The openings from such vents shall be at least 5 feet away from any other opening into any building.

(vii) The floors of such rooms shall not be below ground level. Any space below the floor shall be of solid fill or properly ventilated to the open air.

(viii) Such storage rooms shall not be located adjoining the line of property occupied by schools, churches, hospitals, athletic fields or other points of public gathering.

(ix) Fixed electrical equipment shall be installed in accordance with paragraph (b)(18) of this section.
