
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart H - Hazardous Materials
###### ยง 1910.110 Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases.
####### Piping, valves, and fittings.

(9)(i) Piping may be underground, above ground, or a combination of both. It shall be well supported and protected against physical damage and corrosion.

(ii) Piping laid beneath driveways shall be installed to prevent physical damage by vehicles.

(iii) Piping shall be wrought iron or steel (black or galvanized), brass or copper pipe; or seamless copper, brass, or steel tubing and shall be suitable for a minimum pressure of 250 p.s.i.g. Pipe joints may be screwed, flanged, brazed, or welded. The use of aluminum alloy piping or tubing is prohibited.

(iv) All shutoff valves (liquid or gas) shall be suitable for liquefied petroleum gas service and designed for not less than the maximum pressure to which they may be subjected. Valves which may be subjected to container pressure shall have a rated working pressure of at least 250 p.s.i.g.

(v) All materials used for valve seats, packing, gaskets, diaphragms, etc., shall be resistant to the action of LP-Gas.

(vi) Fittings shall be steel, malleable iron, or brass having a minimum working pressure of 250 p.s.i.g. Cast iron pipe fittings, such as ells, tees, and unions shall not be used.

(vii) All piping shall be tested after assembly and proved free from leaks at not less than normal operating pressures.

(viii) Provision shall be made for expansion, contraction, jarring, and vibration, and for settling. This may be accomplished by flexible connections.
