
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 4 - LABOR STANDARDS FOR FEDERAL SERVICE CONTRACTS
#### Subpart A - Service Contract Labor Standards Provisions and Procedures
##### ยง 4.3 Wage determinations.
###### Prevailing in the locality,Collective Bargaining Agreement (Successorship)

(b) As described in subpart B of this part-Wage Determination Procedures, two types of wage determinations are issued under the Act:orwage determinations. The facts related to a specific solicitation and contract will determine the type of wage determination applicable to that procurement. In addition, different types of prevailing wage determinations may be issued depending upon the nature of the contract. While prevailing wage determinations based upon cross-industry survey data are applicable to most contracts covered by the Act, in some cases the Department of Labor may issue industry specific wage determinations for application to specific types of service contracts. In addition, the geographic scope of contracts is often different and the geographic scope of the underlying survey data for the wage determinations applicable to those contracts may be different.

(c) Such wage determinations will set forth for the various classes of service employees to be employed in furnishing services under such contracts in the appropriate localities, minimum monetary wage rates to be paid and minimum fringe benefits to be furnished them during the periods when they are engaged in the performance of such contracts, including, where appropriate under the Act, provisions for adjustments in such minimum rates and benefits to be placed in effect under such contracts at specified future times. The wage rates and fringe benefits set forth in such wage determinations shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of sections 2(a)(1), (2), and (5), 4(c) and 4(d) of the Act from those prevailing in the locality for such employees, with due consideration of the rates that would be paid for direct Federal employment of any classes of such employees whose wages, if Federally employed, would be determined as provided in 5 U.S.C. 5341 or 5 U.S.C. 5332, or from pertinent collective bargaining agreements with respect to the implementation of section 4(c). The wage rates and fringe benefits so determined for any class of service employees to be engaged in furnishing covered contract services in a locality shall be made applicable by contract to all service employees of such class employed to perform such services in the locality under any contract subject to section 2(a) of the Act which is entered into thereafter and before such determination has been rendered obsolete by a withdrawal, modification, revision, or supersedure.

(d) Generally, wage determinations issued for solicitations or negotiations for any contract where the place of performance is unknown will contain minimum monetary wages and fringe benefits for the various geographic localities where the work may be performed which were identified in the initial solicitation. (See ยง 4.4(a)(3)(i).)

(e) Wage determinations will be available for public inspection during business hours at the Wage and Hour Division, U.S. Department of Labor, Washington, DC, and copies will be made available upon request at Regional Offices of the Wage and Hour Division. In addition, most prevailing wage determinations are available online from WDOL. Archived versions of SCA wage determinations that are no longer current may be accessed in the "Archived SCA WD" database of WDOL for information purposes only. Contracting officers should not use an archived wage determination in a contract action without prior approval of the Department of Labor.
