
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart H - Hazardous Materials
###### ยง 1910.111 Storage and handling of anhydrous ammonia.
####### Piping, tubing, and fittings.

(7)(i) All piping, tubing, and fittings shall be made of material suitable for anhydrous ammonia service.

(ii) All piping, tubing, and fittings shall be designed for a pressure not less than the maximum pressure to which they may be subjected in service.

(iii) All refrigerated piping shall conform to the Refrigeration Piping Code, American National Standards Institute, B31.5-1966 with addenda B31.1a-1968, which is incorporated by reference as specified in ยง 1910.6, as it applies to ammonia.

(iv) Piping used on non-refrigerated systems shall be at least American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) A-53-69 Grade B Electric Resistance Welded and Electric Flash Welded Pipe, which is incorporated by reference as specified in ยง 1910.6, or equal. Such pipe shall be at least schedule 40 when joints are welded, or welded and flanged. Such pipe shall be at least schedule 80 when joints are threaded. Threaded connections shall not be back-welded. Brass, copper, or galvanized steel pipe shall not be used.

(v) Tubing made of brass, copper, or other material subject to attack by ammonia shall not be used.

(vi) Cast iron fittings shall not be used but this shall not prohibit the use of fittings made specifically for ammonia service of malleable, nodular, or high strength gray iron meeting American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) A47-68, ASTM 395-68, or ASTM A126-66 Class B or C all of which are incorporated by reference as specified in ยง 1910.6.

(vii) Joint compounds shall be resistant to ammonia.
