
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart H - Hazardous Materials
###### ยง 1910.111 Storage and handling of anhydrous ammonia.
####### Container appurtenances.

(4)(i) All containers shall be equipped with a fixed liquid-level gage.

(ii) All containers with a capacity exceeding 250 gallons shall be equipped with a pressure gage having a dial graduated from 0-400 p.s.i.

(iii) The filling connection shall be fitted with combination back-pressure check valve and excess-flow valve; one double or two single back-pressure check valves; or a positive shutoff valve in conjunction with either an internal back-pressure check valve or an internal excess flow valve.

(iv) All containers with a capacity exceeding 250 gallons shall be equipped for spray loading or with an approved vapor return valve.

(v) All vapor and liquid connections except safety-relief valves and those specifically exempted by paragraph (b)(6)(v) of this section shall be equipped with approved excess-flow valves or may be fitted with quick-closing internal valves which, except during operating periods, shall remain closed.

(vi) Fittings shall be adequately protected from damage by a metal box or cylinder with open top securely fastened to the container or by rigid guards, well braced, welded to the container on both sides of the fittings or by a metal dome. If a metal dome is used, the relief valve shall be properly vented through the dome.

(vii) If a liquid withdrawal line is installed in the bottom of a container, the connections thereto, including hose, shall not be lower than the lowest horizontal edge of the vehicle axle.

(viii) Provision shall be made to secure both ends of the hose while in transit.
