
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 4 - LABOR STANDARDS FOR FEDERAL SERVICE CONTRACTS
#### Subpart A - Service Contract Labor Standards Provisions and Procedures
##### ยง 4.5 Contract specification of determined minimum wages and fringe benefits.
###### Curtiss-Wright Corp.,McLucas,Marine Engineers Beneficial Assn., District 2,Military Sealift Command,Brinks, Inc.,Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System

(c) Where the Department of Labor discovers and determines, whether before or subsequent to a contract award, that a contracting agency made an erroneous determination that the Service Contract Act did not apply to a particular procurement and/or failed to include an appropriate wage determination in a covered contract, the contracting agency, within 30 days of notification by the Department of Labor, shall include in the contract the stipulations contained in ยง 4.6 and any applicable wage determination issued by the Administrator or his authorized representative through the exercise of any and all authority that may be needed (including, where necessary, its authority to negotiate or amend, its authority to pay any necessary additional costs, and its authority under any contract provision authorizing changes, cancellation, and termination). With respect to any contract subject to section 10 of the Act, the Administrator may require retroactive application of such wage determination. (See 53 Comp. Gen. 412, (1973);v., 381 F. Supp. 657 (D NJ 1974);v., 86 CCH Labor Cases &#xB6; 33,782 (D DC 1979);v., 466 F. Supp. 112 (D DC 1979), 466 F. Supp. 116 (D DC 1979).) (See also 32 CFR 1-403.)

(d) In cases where the contracting agency has filed an e98 and has not received a response from the Department of Labor, the contracting agency shall, with respect to any contract for which section 10 to the Act and ยง 4.3 for this part mandate the inclusion of an applicable wage determination, contact the Wage and Hour Division by e-mail or telephone for guidance.
