
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart L - Fire Protection
###### Appendix A to Subpart L of Part 1910 - Fire Protection
####### Head, eye, and face protection.

(E)Head protective devices which meet the requirements contained in NFPA No. 1972 are acceptable as meeting the requirements of this standard for head protection.

Head protective devices are required to be provided with ear flaps so that the ear flaps will be available if needed. It is recommended that ear protection always be used while fighting interior structural fires.

Many head protective devices are equipped with face shields to protect the eyes and face. These face shields are permissible as meeting the eye and face protection requirements of this paragraph as long as such face shields meet the requirements of ยง 1910.133 of the General Industry Standards.

Additionally, full facepieces, helmets or hoods of approved breathing apparatus which meet the requirements of ยง 1910.134 and paragraph (f) of ยง 1910.156 are also acceptable as meeting the eye and face protection requirements.

It is recommended that a flame resistant protective head covering such as a hood or snood, which will not adversely affect the seal of a respirator facepiece, be worn during interior structural fire fighting operations to protect the sides of the face and hair.
