
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 18 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE FOR ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS BEFORE THE OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES
#### Subpart B - Rules of Evidence
##### Hearsay
###### ยง 18.803 Hearsay exceptions; availability of declarant immaterial.
####### Bills, estimates and reports.

(26)In actions involving injury, illness, disease, death, disability, or physical or mental impairment, or damage to property, the following bills, estimates, and reports as relevant to prove the value and reasonableness of the charges for services, labor and materials stated therein and, where applicable, the necessity for furnishing the same, unless the sources of information or other circumstances indicate lack of trustworthiness, provided that a copy of said bill, estimate, or report has been served upon the adverse party sufficiently in advance of the hearing to provide the adverse party with a fair opportunity to prepare to object or meet it:

(i) Hospital bills on the official letterhead or billhead of the hospital, when dated and itemized.

(ii) Bills of doctors and dentists, when dated and containing a statement showing the date of each visit and the charge therefor.

(iii) Bills of registered nurses, licensed practical nurses and physical therapists, or other licensed health care providers when dated and containing an itemized statement of the days and hours of service and charges therefor.

(iv) Bills for medicine, eyeglasses, prosthetic device, medical belts or similar items, when dated and itemized.

(v) Property repair bills or estimates, when dated and itemized, setting forth the charges for labor and material. In the case of an estimate, the party intending to offer the estimate shall forward with his notice to the adverse party, together with a copy of the estimate, a statement indicating whether or not the property was repaired, and, if so, whether the estimated repairs were made in full or in part and by whom, the cost thereof, together with a copy of the bill therefore.

(vi) Reports of past earnings, or of the rate of earnings and time lost from work or lost compensation, prepared by an employer on official letterhead, when dated and itemized. The adverse party may not dispute the authenticity, the value or reasonableness of such charges, the necessity therefore or the accuracy of the report, unless the adverse party files and serves written objection thereto sufficiently in advance of the hearing stating the objections, and the grounds thereof, that the adverse party will make if the bill, estimate, or reports is offered at the time of the hearing. An adverse party may call the author of the bill, estimate, or report as a witness and examine the witness as if under cross-examination.
