
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart L - Fire Protection
###### Appendix D to Subpart L of Part 1910 - Availability of Publications Incorporated by Reference in Section 1910.156 Fire Brigades

The final standard for fire brigades, section 1910.156, contains provisions which incorporate certain publications by reference. The publications provide criteria and test methods for protective clothing worn by those fire brigade members who are expected to perform interior structural fire fighting. The standard references the publications as the chief sources of information for determining if the protective clothing affords the required level of protection.

It is appropriate to note that the final standard does not require employers to purchase a copy of the referenced publications. Instead, employers can specify (in purchase orders to the manufacturers) that the protective clothing meet the criteria and test methods contained in the referenced publications and can rely on the manufacturers' assurances of compliance. Employers, however, may desire to obtain a copy of the referenced publications for their own information.

The paragraph designation of the standard where the referenced publications appear, the title of the publications, and the availablity of the publications are as follows:

The referenced publications (or a microfiche of the publications) are available for review at many universities and public libraries throughout the country. These publications may also be examined at the OSHA Technical Data Center, Room N2439-Rear, United States Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Ave., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20210 (202-219-7500), or at any OSHA Regional Office (see telephone directories under United States Government-Labor Department).
