
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart L - Fire Protection
###### Appendix E to Subpart L of Part 1910 - Test Methods for Protective Clothing
####### Apparatus.

C.(i) Cabinet. A cabinet and accessories shall be fabricated in accordance with the requirements specified in Figures L-1, L-2, and L-3. Galvanized sheet metal or other suitable metal shall be used. The entire inside back wall of the cabinet shall be painted black to facilitate the viewing of the test specimen and pilot flame.

(ii) Burner. The burner shall be equipped with a variable orifice to adjust the flame height, a barrel having a-inch (1 cm) inside diameter and a pilot light.

(a) The burner may be constructed by combining a-inch (1 cm) inside diameter barrel 3 +/-inches (7.6 +/-.6 cm) long from a fixed orifice burner with a base from a variable orifice burner.

(b) The pilot light tube shall have a diameter of approximately-inch (.2 cm) and shall be spaced-inch (.3 cm) away from the burner edge with a pilot flame-inch (.3 cm) long.

(c) The necessary gas connections and the applicable plumbing shall be as specified in Figure L-4 except that a solenoid valve may be used in lieu of the stopcock valve to which the burner is attached. The stopcock valve or solenoid valve, whichever is used, shall be capable of being fully opened or fully closed in 0.1-second.

(d) On the side of the barrel of the burner, opposite the pilot light there shall be a metal rod of approximately-inch (.3 cm) diameter spaced-inch (1.3 cm) from the barrel and extending above the burner. The rod shall have two-inch (.8 cm) prongs marking the distances of-inch (1.9 cm) and 1inches (3.8 cm) above the top of the burner.

(e) The burner shall be fixed in a position so that the center of the barrel of the burner is directly below the center of the specimen.

(iii) There shall be a control valve system with a delivery rate designed to furnish gas to the burner under a pressure of 2+/-(psi) (17.5 +/-1.8 kPa) per square inch at the burner inlet (see (g)(3)(vi)(A)). The manufacturer's recommended delivery rate for the valve system shall be included in the required pressure.

(iv) A synthetic gas mixture shall be of the following composition within the following limits (analyzed at standard conditions): 55 +/-3 percent hydrogen, 24 +/-1 percent methane, 3 +/-1 percent ethane, and 18 +/-1 percent carbon monoxide which will give a specific gravity of 0.365 +/-0.018 (air = 1) and a B.T.U. content of 540 +/-20 per cubic foot (20.1 +/-3.7 kJ/L)(dry basis) at 69.8 &#xB0;F (21 &#xB0;C).

(v) There shall be metal hooks and weights to produce a series of total loads to determine length of char. The metal hooks shall consist of No. 19 gage steel wire or equivalent and shall be made from 3-inch (7.6 cm) lengths of wire and bent-inch (1.3 cm) from one end to a 45 degree hook. One end of the hook shall be fastened around the neck of the weight to be used.

(vi) There shall be a stop watch or other device to measure the burning time to 0.2-second.

(vii) There shall be a scale, graduated in 0.1 inch (.3 cm) to measure the length of char.
