
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart L - Fire Protection
###### Appendix E to Subpart L of Part 1910 - Test Methods for Protective Clothing
####### Procedure.

D.(i) The material undergoing test shall be evaluated for the characteristics of after-flame time and char length on each specimen.

(ii) All specimens to be tested shall be at moisture equilibrium under standard atmospheric conditions in accordance with paragraph (3)C of this appendix. Each specimen to be tested shall be exposed to the test flame within 20 seconds after removal from the standard atmosphere. In case of dispute, all testing will be conducted under Standard Atmospheric Conditions in accordance with paragraph (3)C of this appendix.

(iii) The specimen in its holder shall be suspended vertically in the cabinet in such a manner that the entire length of the specimen is exposed and the lower end is-inch (1.9 cm) above the top of the gas burner. The apparatus shall be set up in a draft free area.

(iv) Prior to inserting the specimen, the pilot flame shall be adjusted to approximately-inch (.3 cm) in height measured from its lowest point to the tip.

The burner flame shall be adjusted by means of the needle valve in the base of the burner to give a flame height of 1inches (3.8 cm) with the stopcock fully open and the air supply to the burner shut off and taped. The 1-inch (3.8 cm) flame height is obtained by adjusting the valve so that the uppermost portion (tip) of the flame is level with the tip of the metal prong (see Figure L-2) specified for adjustment of flame height. It is an important aspect of the evaluation that the flame height be adjusted with the tip of the flame level with the tip of the metal prong. After inserting the specimen, the stopcock shall be fully opened, and the burner flame applied vertically at the middle of the lower edge of the specimen for 12 seconds and the burner turned off. The cabinet door shall remain shut during testing.

(v) The after-flame shall be the time the specimen continues to flame after the burner flame is shut off.

(vi) After each specimen is removed, the test cabinet shall be cleared of fumes and smoke prior to testing the next specimen.

(vii) After both flaming and glowing have ceased, the char length shall be measured. The char length shall be the distance from the end of the specimen, which was exposed to the flame, to the end of a tear (made lengthwise) of the specimen through the center of the charred area as follows: The specimen shall be folded lengthwise and creased by hand along a line through the highest peak of the charred area. The hook shall be inserted in the specimen (or a hole,-inch (.6 cm) diameter or less, punched out for the hook) at one side of the charred area-inch (.6 cm) from the adjacent outside edge and-inch (.6 cm) in from the lower end. A weight of sufficient size such that the weight and hook together shall equal the total tearing load required in Table L-2 of this section shall be attached to the hook.

(viii) A tearing force shall be applied gently to the specimen by grasping the corner of the cloth at the opposite edge of the char from the load and raising the specimen and weight clear of the supporting surface. The end of the tear shall be marked off on the edge and the char length measurement made along the undamaged edge.

Loads for determining char length applicable to the weight of the test cloth shall be as shown in Table L-2.

(ix) The after-flame time of the specimen shall be recorded to the nearest 0.2-second and the char length to the nearest 0.1-inch (.3 cm).
