
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart N - Materials Handling and Storage
###### ยง 1910.177 Servicing multi-piece and single piece rim wheels.
####### Employee training.

(c)(1) The employer shall provide a program to train all employees who service rim wheels in the hazards involved in servicing those rim wheels and the safety procedures to be followed.

(i) The employer shall assure that no employee services any rim wheel unless the employee has been trained and instructed in correct procedures of servicing the type of wheel being serviced, and in the safe operating procedures described in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section.

(ii) Information to be used in the training program shall include, at a minimum, the applicable data contained in the charts (rim manuals) and the contents of this standard.

(iii) Where an employer knows or has reason to believe that any of his employees is unable to read and understand the charts or rim manual, the employer shall assure that the employee is instructed concerning the contents of the charts and rim manual in a manner which the employee is able to understand.

(2) The employer shall assure that each employee demonstrates and maintains the ability to service rim wheels safely, including performance of the following tasks:

(i) Demounting of tires (including deflation);

(ii) Inspection and identification of the rim wheel components;

(iii) Mounting of tires (including inflation with a restraining device or other safeguard required by this section);

(iv) Use of the restraining device or barrier, and other equipment required by this section;

(v) Handling of rim wheels;

(vi) Inflation of the tire when a single piece rim wheel is mounted on a vehicle;

(vii) An understanding of the necessity of standing outside the trajectory both during inflation of the tire and during inspection of the rim wheel following inflation; and

(viii) Installation and removal of rim wheels.

(3) The employer shall evaluate each employee's ability to perform these tasks and to service rim wheels safely, and shall provide additional training as necessary to assure that each employee maintains his or her proficiency.
