
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart N - Materials Handling and Storage
###### ยง 1910.177 Servicing multi-piece and single piece rim wheels.
####### Tire servicing equipment.

(d)(1) The employer shall furnish a restraining device for inflating tires on multi-piece wheels.

(2) The employer shall provide a restraining device or barrier for inflating tires on single piece wheels unless the rim wheel will be bolted onto a vehicle during inflation.

(3) Restraining devices and barriers shall comply with the following requirements:

(i) Each restraining device or barrier shall have the capacity to withstand the maximum force that would be transferred to it during a rim wheel separation occurring at 150 percent of the maximum tire specification pressure for the type of rim wheel being serviced.

(ii) Restraining devices and barriers shall be capable of preventing the rim wheel components from being thrown outside or beyond the device or barrier for any rim wheel positioned within or behind the device;

(iii) Restraining devices and barriers shall be visually inspected prior to each day's use and after any separation of the rim wheel components or sudden release of contained air. Any restraining device or barrier exhibiting damage such as the following defects shall be immediately removed from service:

(A) Cracks at welds;

(B) Cracked or broken components;

(C) Bent or sprung components caused by mishandling, abuse, tire explosion or rim wheel separation;

(D) Pitting of components due to corrosion; or

(E) Other structural damage which would decrease its effectiveness.

(iv) Restraining devices or barriers removed from service shall not be returned to service until they are repaired and reinspected. Restraining devices or barriers requiring structural repair such as component replacement or rewelding shall not be returned to service until they are certified by either the manufacturer or a Registered Professional Engineer as meeting the strength requirements of paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section.

(4) The employer shall furnish and assure that an air line assembly consisting of the following components be used for inflating tires:

(i) A clip-on chuck;

(ii) An in-line valve with a pressure gauge or a presettable regulator; and

(iii) A sufficient length of hose between the clip-on chuck and the in-line valve (if one is used) to allow the employee to stand outside the trajectory.

(5) Current charts or rim manuals containing instructions for the type of wheels being serviced shall be available in the service area.

(6) The employer shall furnish and assure that only tools recommended in the rim manual for the type of wheel being serviced are used to service rim wheels.
