
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart N - Materials Handling and Storage
###### ยง 1910.178 Powered industrial trucks.
####### Traveling.

(n)(1) All traffic regulations shall be observed, including authorized plant speed limits. A safe distance shall be maintained approximately three truck lengths from the truck ahead, and the truck shall be kept under control at all times.

(2) The right of way shall be yielded to ambulances, fire trucks, or other vehicles in emergency situations.

(3) Other trucks traveling in the same direction at intersections, blind spots, or other dangerous locations shall not be passed.

(4) The driver shall be required to slow down and sound the horn at cross aisles and other locations where vision is obstructed. If the load being carried obstructs forward view, the driver shall be required to travel with the load trailing.

(5) Railroad tracks shall be crossed diagonally wherever possible. Parking closer than 8 feet from the center of railroad tracks is prohibited.

(6) The driver shall be required to look in the direction of, and keep a clear view of the path of travel.

(7) Grades shall be ascended or descended slowly.

(i) When ascending or descending grades in excess of 10 percent, loaded trucks shall be driven with the load upgrade.

(ii) [Reserved]

(iii) On all grades the load and load engaging means shall be tilted back if applicable, and raised only as far as necessary to clear the road surface.

(8) Under all travel conditions the truck shall be operated at a speed that will permit it to be brought to a stop in a safe manner.

(9) Stunt driving and horseplay shall not be permitted.

(10) The driver shall be required to slow down for wet and slippery floors.

(11) Dockboard or bridgeplates, shall be properly secured before they are driven over. Dockboard or bridgeplates shall be driven over carefully and slowly and their rated capacity never exceeded.

(12) Elevators shall be approached slowly, and then entered squarely after the elevator car is properly leveled. Once on the elevator, the controls shall be neutralized, power shut off, and the brakes set.

(13) Motorized hand trucks must enter elevator or other confined areas with load end forward.

(14) Running over loose objects on the roadway surface shall be avoided.

(15) While negotiating turns, speed shall be reduced to a safe level by means of turning the hand steering wheel in a smooth, sweeping motion. Except when maneuvering at a very low speed, the hand steering wheel shall be turned at a moderate, even rate.
