
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart N - Materials Handling and Storage
###### ยง 1910.179 Overhead and gantry cranes.
####### Brakes for trolleys and bridges.

(4)(i) Foot-operated brakes shall not require an applied force of more than 70 pounds to develop manufacturer's rated brake torque.

(ii) Brakes may be applied by mechanical, electrical, pneumatic, hydraulic, or gravity means.

(iii) Where necessary brakes shall be provided with adjustment means to compensate for wear.

(iv) The wearing surface of all brakedrums or discs shall be smooth.

(v) All foot-brake pedals shall be constructed so that the operator's foot will not easily slip off the pedal.

(vi) Foot-operated brakes shall be equipped with automatic means for positive release when pressure is released from the pedal.

(vii) Brakes for stopping the motion of the trolley or bridge shall be of sufficient size to stop the trolley or bridge within a distance in feet equal to 10 percent of full load speed in feet per minute when traveling at full speed with full load.

(viii) If holding brakes are provided on the bridge or trolleys, they shall not prohibit the use of a drift point in the control circuit.

(ix) Brakes on trolleys and bridges shall have ample thermal capacity for the frequency of operation required by the service to prevent impairment of functions from overheating.
