
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart N - Materials Handling and Storage
###### ยง 1910.179 Overhead and gantry cranes.
####### Controllers.

(3)(i) Cranes not equipped with spring-return controllers or momentary contact pushbuttons shall be provided with a device which will disconnect all motors from the line on failure of power and will not permit any motor to be restarted until the controller handle is brought to the "off" position, or a reset switch or button is operated.

(ii) Lever operated controllers shall be provided with a notch or latch which in the "off" position prevents the handle from being inadvertently moved to the "on" position. An "off" detent or spring return arrangement is acceptable.

(iii) The controller operating handle shall be located within convenient reach of the operator.

(iv) As far as practicable, the movement of each controller handle shall be in the same general directions as the resultant movements of the load.

(v) The control for the bridge and trolley travel shall be so located that the operator can readily face the direction of travel.

(vi) For floor-operated cranes, the controller or controllers if rope operated, shall automatically return to the "off" position when released by the operator.

(vii) Pushbuttons in pendant stations shall return to the "off" position when pressure is released by the crane operator.

(viii) Automatic cranes shall be so designed that all motions shall fail-safe if any malfunction of operation occurs.

(ix) Remote-operated cranes shall function so that if the control signal for any crane motion becomes ineffective the crane motion shall stop.
