
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart N - Materials Handling and Storage
###### ยง 1910.179 Overhead and gantry cranes.
####### b

() The load does not contact any obstructions.

(iv) Cranes shall not be used for side pulls except when specifically authorized by a responsible person who has determined that the stability of the crane is not thereby endangered and that various parts of the crane will not be overstressed.

(v) While any employee is on the load or hook, there shall be no hoisting, lowering, or traveling.

(vi) The employer shall require that the operator avoid carrying loads over people.

(vii) The operator shall test the brakes each time a load approaching the rated load is handled. The brakes shall be tested by raising the load a few inches and applying the brakes.

(viii) The load shall not be lowered below the point where less than two full wraps of rope remain on the hoisting drum.

(ix) When two or more cranes are used to lift a load one qualified responsible person shall be in charge of the operation. He shall analyze the operation and instruct all personnel involved in the proper positioning, rigging of the load, and the movements to be made.

(x) The employer shall insure that the operator does not leave his position at the controls while the load is suspended.

(xi) When starting the bridge and when the load or hook approaches near or over personnel, the warning signal shall be sounded.
