
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart N - Materials Handling and Storage
###### ยง 1910.180 Crawler locomotive and truck cranes.
####### Periodic inspection.

(4)Complete inspections of the crane shall be performed at intervals as generally defined in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section depending upon its activity, severity of service, and environment, or as specifically indicated below. These inspections shall include the requirements of paragraph (d)(3) of this section and in addition, items such as the following. Any deficiencies such as listed shall be carefully examined and determination made as to whether they constitute a safety hazard:

(i) Deformed, cracked, or corroded members in the crane structure and boom.

(ii) Loose bolts or rivets.

(iii) Cracked or worn sheaves and drums.

(iv) Worn, cracked, or distorted parts such as pins, bearings, shafts, gears, rollers and locking devices.

(v) Excessive wear on brake and clutch system parts, linings, pawls, and ratchets.

(vi) Load, boom angle, and other indicators over their full range, for any significant inaccuracies.

(vii) Gasoline, diesel, electric, or other power plants for improper performance or noncompliance with safety requirements.

(viii) Excessive wear of chain-drive sprockets and excessive chain stretch.

(ix) Travel steering, braking, and locking devices, for malfunction.

(x) Excessively worn or damaged tires.
