
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 4 - LABOR STANDARDS FOR FEDERAL SERVICE CONTRACTS
#### Subpart A - Service Contract Labor Standards Provisions and Procedures
##### ยง 4.11 Arm's length proceedings.
###### Prerequisites for hearing.

(b)(1) A request for a determination under this section may be made by a contracting agency or other person affected or interested, including contractors or prospective contractors and associations of contractors, representatives of employees, and interested Governmental agencies. Such a request shall be submitted in writing to the Administrator, Wage and Hour Division, U.S. Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210. Although no particular form is prescribed for submission of a request under this section, such request shall include the following information:

(i) A statement of the applicant's case setting forth in detail the reasons why the applicant believes that the wages and fringe benefits contained in the collective bargaining agreement were not reached as a result of arm's-length negotiations;

(ii) A statement regarding the status of the procurement and any estimated procurement dates, such as bid opening, contract award, commencement date of the contract or its follow-up option period;

(iii) Names and addresses (to the extent known) of interested parties.

(2) Pursuant to section 4(b) of the Act, requests for a hearing shall not be considered unless received as specified below except in those situations where the Administrator determines that extraordinary circumstances exist:

(i) For advertised contracts, prior to ten days before the award of the contract;

(ii) For negotiated contracts and for contracts with provisions extending the term by option, prior to the commencement date of the contract or the follow-up option period, as the case may be.

(c)(1) The Administrator, on his/her own motion or after receipt of a request for a determination, may make a finding on the issue of arm's-length negotiations.

(2) If the Administrator determines that there may not have been arm's-length negotiations, but finds that there is insufficient evidence to render a final decision thereon, the Administrator may refer the issue to the Chief Administrative Law Judge in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.

(3)(i) If the Administrator finds that the collective bargaining agreement or wages and fringe benefits at issue were reached as a result of arm's-length negotiations or that arm's-length negotiations did not take place, the interested parties, including the parties to the collective bargaining agreement, will be notified of the Administrator's findings, which shall include the reasons therefor, and such parties shall be afforded an opportunity to request that a hearing be held to render a decision on the issue of arm's-length negotiations.

(ii) Such parties shall have 20 days from the date of the Administrator's ruling to request a hearing. A detailed statement of the reasons why the Administrator's ruling is in error, including facts alleged to be in dispute, if any, shall be submitted with the request for a hearing.

(iii) If no hearing is requested within the time mentioned in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, the Administrator's ruling shall be final, and, in the case of a finding that arm's-length negotiations did not take place, a new wage determination will be issued for the contract. If a hearing is requested, the decision of the Administrator shall be inoperative.
