
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart O - Machinery and Machine Guarding
###### ยง 1910.215 Abrasive wheel machinery.
####### Material requirements and minimum dimensions.

(10)(i) See Figures O-36 and O-37 and Table O-9 for minimum basic thickness of peripheral and side members for various types of safety guards and classes of service.

(ii) If operating speed does not exceed 8,000 surface feet per minute cast iron safety guards, malleable iron guards or other guards as described in paragraph (b)(10)(iii) of this section shall be used.

(iii) Cast steel, or structural steel, safety guards as specified in Figures O-36 and O-37 and Table O-9 shall be used where operating speeds of wheels are faster than 8,000 surface feet per minute up to a maximum of 16,000 surface feet per minute.

(iv) For cutting-off wheels 16 inches diameter and smaller and where speed does not exceed 16,000 surface feet per minute, cast iron or malleable iron safety guards as specified in Figures O-36 and O-37, and in Table O-9 shall be used.

(v) For cutting-off wheels larger than 16 inches diameter and where speed does not exceed 14,200 surface feet per minute, safety guards as specified in Figures O-27 and O-28, and in Table O-1 shall be used.

(vi) For thread grinding wheels not exceeding 1 inch in thickness cast iron or malleable iron safety guards as specified in Figures O-36 and O-37, and in Table O-9 shall be used.
