
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart O - Machinery and Machine Guarding
###### ยง 1910.217 Mechanical power presses.
####### Reports of injuries to employees operating mechanical power presses.,http://www.osha.gov/pls/oshaweb/mechanical.html;

(g)(1) The employer shall report, within 30 days of the occurrence, all point-of-operation injuries to operators or other employees to either the Director of the Directorate of Standards and Guidance at OSHA, U.S. Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210 or electronically ator to the State Agency administering a plan approved by the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health.

(2) The report shall include the following information:

(i) Employer's name, address and location of the workplace (establishment).

(ii) Employee's name, injury sustained, and the task being performed (operation, set-up, maintenance, or other).

(iii) Type of clutch used on the press (full revolution, part revolution, or direct drive).

(iv) Type of safeguard(s) being used (two hand control, two hand trip, pullouts, sweeps, or other). If the safeguard is not described in this section, give a complete description.

(v) Cause of the accident (repeat of press, safeguard failure, removing stuck part or scrap, no safeguard provided, no safeguard in use, or other).

(vi) Type of feeding (manual with hands in dies or with hands out of dies, semiautomatic, automatic, or other).

(vii) Means used to actuate press stroke (foot trip, foot control, hand trip, hand control, or other).

(viii) Number of operators required for the operation and the number of operators provided with controls and safeguards.
