
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart O - Machinery and Machine Guarding
###### ยง 1910.218 Forging machines.
####### Hammers and presses.

(3)(i) All hammers shall be positioned or installed in such a manner that they remain on or are anchored to foundations sufficient to support them according to applicable engineering standards.

(ii) All presses shall be installed in such a manner that they remain where they are positioned or they are anchored to foundations sufficient to support them according to applicable engineering standards.

(iii) Means shall be provided for disconnecting the power to the machine and for locking out or rendering cycling controls inoperable.

(iv) The ram shall be blocked when dies are being changed or other work is being done on the hammer. Blocks or wedges shall be made of material the strength and construction of which should meet or exceed the specifications and dimensions shown in Table O-11.

(v) Tongs shall be of sufficient length to clear the body of the worker in case of kickback, and shall not have sharp handle ends.

(vi) Oil swabs, or scale removers, or other devices to remove scale shall be provided. These devices shall be long enough to enable a man to reach the full length of the die without placing his hand or arm between the dies.

(vii) Material handling equipment shall be of adequate strength, size, and dimension to handle diesetting operations safely.

(viii) A scale guard of substantial construction shall be provided at the back of every hammer, so arranged as to stop flying scale.

(ix) A scale guard of substantial construction shall be provided at the back of every press, so arranged as to stop flying scale.
