
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 18 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE FOR ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS BEFORE THE OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES
#### Subpart B - Rules of Evidence
##### Appendix to Subpart B of Part 18 - Reporter's Notes
###### Employing Inconsistent Statements for Impeachment and as Substantive Evidence: A Critical Review and Proposed Amendments of Federal Rules of Evidence 801(d)(1)(A),

Rule 801(d)(1)(A) of the Federal Rules of Evidence has been revised in § 18.801(d)(1)(A) to permit the substantive admissibility of all prior inconsistent statements. The added protection of certainty of making and circumstances conducive to trustworthiness provided by the restriction that the prior inconsistent statement be "given under oath subject to the penalty of perjury at a trial, hearing, in other proceeding, or in a deposition" were added by Congress to Federal Rule of Evidence 801(d)(1)(A) for the benefit of the criminal defendant. See Graham,613 and 607, 75 Mich L. Rev. 565 (1977).

An "administrative file" is admissible as such to the extent so provided by rule or regulation of the administrative agency prescribed pursuant to statutory authority, or pursuant to executive order, or by Act of Congress. If a program provides for the creation of an "administrative file" and for the submission of an "administrative file" to the judge presiding at a formal adversarial adjudication governed by these rules, see section 18.1101, the "administrative file" would fall outside the bar of the hearsay rule. Similarly, such "administrative file" is self-authenticating, section 18.902(10).

Section 18.803(24) provides that the "equivalent circumstantial guarantees of trustworthiness" required to satisfy the "other [reliable] hearsay" exception is that possessed solely by the "aforementioned hearsay exceptions," i.e., §§ 18.803(1)-18.803(24). The hearsay exceptions which follow, i.e., §§ 18.803(25)-18.803(30), rely too greatly upon necessity and convenience to serve as a basis to judge "equivalent circumstantial guarantees of trustworthiness."

Section 18.803(25) provides a hearsay exception for the self-authenticating aspect of documents and other items as provided in § 18.902. Out of court statements admitted under § 18.902 for the purpose of establishing that the document or other item offered into evidence is as purported to be are received in evidence to establish the truth of the matter stated, §§ 18.801(a)-(c). Section 18.802 provides that "hearsay is not admissible except as provided by these rules * * *" Section 18.902 thus operates as a hearsay exception on the limited question of authenticity. Section 18.902 does not, however, purport to create a hearsay exception for matters asserted to be true in the self-authenticated exhibit itself. As a matter of drafting consistency, it is preferable to have a specific hearsay exception in § 18.803 for statements of self-authentication under § 18.902 than to have a hearsay exception exist in these rules not bearing an 18.800 number.

Sections 18.803(26) and 18.803(27) are derived from Rules 4(e) and (f) of the Arizona Uniform Rules of Procedure for Arbitration. Section 18.803(26)(f) is derived from Illinois Supreme Court Rule 90(c)(4).

Sections 18.803(27) and 18.803(28) maintain the common law distinction between a treating physician, i.e., medical treatment, and an examining or nontreating physician, i.e., medical diagnosis. A treating physician provides or acts with a view toward providing medical treatment. An examining physician is one hired with a view toward testifying on behalf of a party and not toward treating a patient. As such, written reports of the examining physician are not felt to be sufficiently trustworthy to be given the preferred treatment of § 18.803(27). Thus a report of a physician made for the purpose of medical treatment, i.e., treating physician, is admissible if the requirements of § 18.803(27) are satisfied. A report of physician prepared with a view toward litigation, i.e., examining physician, satisfying the requirements of § 18.802(28) is also admissible. The reports of a given physician may, of course, fall within either or both categories. Reports of any medical surveillance test the purpose of which is to detect actual or potential impairment of health or functional capacity and autopsy reports fall within § 18.803(28).

Section 18.803(28) is derived from Rule 1613(b)(1) of the California Rules of Court. A summary of litigation experience of the expert is required to assist the evaluation of credibility.

Section 18.803(29) is derived from Rule 1613(b)(2) of the California Rules of Court.

Section 18.803(30) is derived from Rule 1613(b)(3) of the California Rules of Court.
