
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 4 - LABOR STANDARDS FOR FEDERAL SERVICE CONTRACTS
#### Subpart A - Service Contract Labor Standards Provisions and Procedures
##### ยง 4.12 Substantial interest proceedings.
###### Ineligibility.

(b)See ยง 4.188 of this part for the Secretary's rulings and interpretations with respect to substantial interest.

(c)(1) A request for a determination under this section may be made by any interested party, including contractors or prospective contractors, and associations of contractors, representatives of employees, and interested Government agencies. Such a request shall be submitted in writing to the Administrator, Wage and Hour Division, U.S. Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210.

(2) The request shall include a statement setting forth in detail why the petitioner believes that a person or firm whose name appears on the debarred bidders list has a substantial interest in any firm, corporation, partnership, or association which is seeking or has been awarded a contract of the United States or the District of Columbia. No particular form is prescribed for the submission of a request under this section.

(d)(1) The Administrator, on his/her own motion or after receipt of a request for a determination, may make a finding on the issue of substantial interest.

(2) If the Administrator determines that there may be a substantial interest, but finds that there is insufficient evidence to render a final ruling thereon, the Administrator may refer the issue to the Chief Administrative Law Judge in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.

(3) If the Administrator finds that no substantial interest exists, or that there is not sufficient information to warrant the initiation of an investigation, the requesting party, if any, will be so notified and no further action taken.

(4)(i) If the Administrator finds that a substantial interest exists, the person or firm affected will be notified of the Administrator's finding, which shall include the reasons therefor, and such person or firm shall be afforded an opportunity to request that a hearing be held to render a decision on the issue of substantial interest.

(ii) Such person or firm shall have 20 days from the date of the Administrator's ruling to request a hearing. A detailed statement of the reasons why the Administrator's ruling is in error, including facts alleged to be in dispute, if any, shall be submitted with the request for a hearing.

(iii) If no hearing is requested within the time mentioned in paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section, the Administrator's finding shall be final and the Administrator shall so notify the Comptroller General. If a hearing is requested, the decision of the Administrator shall be inoperative unless and until the Administrative Law Judge or the Administrative Review Board issues an order that there is a substantial interest.
