
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart P - Hand and Portable Powered Tools and Other Hand-Held Equipment
###### ยง 1910.243 Guarding of portable powered tools.
####### Mounting and inspection of abrasive wheels.

(5)(i) Immediately before mounting, all wheels shall be closely inspected and sounded by the user (ring test, see subpart O, ยง 1910.215(d)(1)) to make sure they have not been damaged in transit, storage, or otherwise. The spindle speed of the machine shall be checked before mounting of the wheel to be certain that it does not exceed the maximum operating speed marked on the wheel.

(ii) Grinding wheels shall fit freely on the spindle and remain free under all grinding conditions. A controlled clearance between the wheel hole and the machine spindle (or wheel sleeves or adaptors) is essential to avoid excessive pressure from mounting and spindle expansion. To accomplish this, the machine spindle shall be made to nominal (standard) size plus zero minus .002 inch, and the wheel hole shall be made suitably oversize to assure safety clearance under the conditions of operating heat and pressure.

(iii) All contact surfaces of wheels, blotters, and flangers shall be flat and free of foreign matter.

(iv) When a bushing is used in the wheel hole it shall not exceed the width of the wheel and shall not contact the flanges.

(v) Requirements for the use of flanges and blotters, see subpart O, ยง 1910.215(c).
