
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart P - Hand and Portable Powered Tools and Other Hand-Held Equipment
###### ยง 1910.243 Guarding of portable powered tools.
####### d

() The catcher assembly, when properly and completely installed, shall not create a condition which violates the limits given for the guarded opening.

(iii) Openings in the blade enclosure, intended for the discharge of grass, shall be limited to a maximum vertical angle of the opening of 30&#xB0;. Measurements shall be taken from the lowest blade position.

(iv) The total effective opening area of the grass discharge opening(s) shall not exceed 1,000 square degrees on units having a width of cut less than 27inches, or 2,000 square degrees on units having a width of cut 27inches or over.

(v) The word "Caution." or stronger wording, shall be placed on the mower at or near each discharge opening.

(vi) [Reserved]

(vii) Blade(s) shall stop rotating from the manufacturer's specified maximum speed within 15 seconds after declutching, or shutting off power.

(viii) In a multipiece blade, the means of fastening the cutting members to the body of the blade or disc shall be so designed that they will not become worn to a hazardous condition before the cutting members themselves are worn beyond use.

(ix) The maximum tip speed of any blade shall be 19,000 feet per minute.
