
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart Q - Welding, Cutting and Brazing
###### ยง 1910.252 General requirements.
####### Specifications for protectors.

(ii)(A) Helmets and hand shields shall be made of a material which is an insulator for heat and electricity. Helmets, shields and goggles shall be not readily flammable and shall be capable of withstanding sterilization.

(B) Helmets and hand shields shall be arranged to protect the face, neck and ears from direct radiant energy from the arc.

(C) Helmets shall be provided with filter plates and cover plates designed for easy removal.

(D) All parts shall be constructed of a material which will not readily corrode or discolor the skin.

(E) Goggles shall be ventilated to prevent fogging of the lenses as much as practicable.

(F) All glass for lenses shall be tempered, substantially free from striae, air bubbles, waves and other flaws. Except when a lens is ground to provide proper optical correction for defective vision, the front and rear surfaces of lenses and windows shall be smooth and parallel.

(G) Lenses shall bear some permanent distinctive marking by which the source and shade may be readily identified.

(H) The following is a guide for the selection of the proper shade numbers. These recommendations may be varied to suit the individual's needs.

(I) Filter lenses must meet the test for transmission of radiant energy prescribed by any of the consensus standards listed in 29 CFR 1910.133(b)(1).
