
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart Q - Welding, Cutting and Brazing
###### ยง 1910.253 Oxygen-fuel gas welding and cutting.
####### Low-pressure oxygen manifolds (for use with cylinders having a Department of Transportation service pressure not exceeding 200 psig (1.36 MPa)).

(3)(i) Manifolds shall be of substantial construction suitable for use with oxygen at a pressure of 250 psig (1.7 MPa). They shall have a minimum bursting pressure of 1,000 psig (6.8 MPa) and shall be protected by a safety relief device which will relieve at a maximum pressure of 500 psig (3.4 MPa). DOT-4L200 cylinders have safety devices which relieve at a maximum pressure of 250 psig (1.7 MPa) (or 235 psig (1.6 MPa) if vacuum insulation is used).

(ii) Hose and hose connections subject to cylinder pressure shall comply with paragraph (e)(5) of this section. Hose shall have a minimum bursting pressure of 1,000 psig (6.8 MPa).

(iii) The assembled manifold including leads shall be tested and proven gas-tight at a pressure of 300 psig (2.04 MPa). The fluid used for testing oxygen manifolds shall be oil-free and not combustible.

(iv) The location of manifolds shall comply with paragraphs (c)(2)(ii), (c)(2)(iii), (c)(2)(iv), and (c)(2)(v) of this section.

(v) The following sign shall be conspicuously posted at each manifold:
