
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart Q - Welding, Cutting and Brazing
###### ยง 1910.253 Oxygen-fuel gas welding and cutting.
####### High-pressure oxygen manifolds (for use with cylinders having a Department of Transportation service pressure above 200 psig (1.36 MPa)).

(2)(i) Manifolds shall be approved either separately for each component part or as an assembled unit.

(ii) Oxygen manifolds shall not be located in an acetylene generator room. Oxygen manifolds shall be separated from fuel-gas cylinders or combustible materials (especially oil or grease), a minimum distance of 20 feet (6.1 m) or by a noncombustible barrier at least 5 feet (1.5 m) high having a fire-resistance rating of at least one-half hour.

(iii) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section, oxygen cylinders connected to one manifold shall be limited to a total gas capacity of 6,000 cubic feet (168 m). More than one such manifold with connected cylinders may be located in the same room provided the manifolds are at least 50 feet (15 m) apart or separated by a noncombustible barrier at least 5 feet (1.5 m) high having a fire-resistance rating of at least one-half hour.

(iv) An oxygen manifold, to which cylinders having an aggregate capacity of more than 6,000 cubic feet (168 m) of oxygen are connected, should be located outdoors or in a separate noncombustible building. Such a manifold, if located inside a building having other occupancy, shall be located in a separate room of noncombustible construction having a fire-resistance rating of at least one-half hour or in an area with no combustible material within 20 feet (6.1 m) of the manifold.

(v) An oxygen manifold or oxygen bulk supply system which has storage capacity of more than 13,000 cubic feet (364 m) of oxygen (measured at 14.7 psia (101 kPa) and 70 &#xB0;F (21.1 &#xB0;C)), connected in service or ready for service, or more than 25,000 cubic feet (700 m) of oxygen (measured at 14.7 psia (101 kPa) and 70 &#xB0;F (21.1 &#xB0;C)), including unconnected reserves on hand at the site, shall comply with the provisions of the Standard for Bulk Oxygen Systems at Consumer Sites, NFPA No. 566-1965.

(vi) High-pressure oxygen manifolds shall be provided with approved pressure-regulating devices.
