
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart Q - Welding, Cutting and Brazing
###### ยง 1910.253 Oxygen-fuel gas welding and cutting.
####### Installation.

(3)(i) Distribution lines shall be installed and maintained in a safe operating condition.

(ii) All piping shall be run as directly as practicable, protected against physical damage, proper allowance being made for expansion and contraction, jarring and vibration. Pipe laid underground in earth shall be located below the frost line and protected against corrosion. After assembly, piping shall be thoroughly blown out with air, nitrogen, or carbon dioxide to remove foreign materials. For oxygen piping, only oil-free air, oil-free nitrogen, or oil-free carbon dioxide shall be used.

(iii) Only piping which has been welded or brazed shall be installed in tunnels, trenches or ducts. Shutoff valves shall be located outside such conduits. Oxygen piping may be placed in the same tunnel, trench or duct with fuel-gas pipelines, provided there is good natural or forced ventilation.

(iv) Low points in piping carrying moist gas shall be drained into drip pots constructed so as to permit pumping or draining out the condensate at necessary intervals. Drain valves shall be installed for this purpose having outlets normally closed with screw caps or plugs. No open end valves or petcocks shall be used, except that in drips located out of doors, underground, and not readily accessible, valves may be used at such points if they are equipped with means to secure them in the closed position. Pipes leading to the surface of the ground shall be cased or jacketed where necessary to prevent loosening or breaking.

(v) Gas cocks or valves shall be provided for all buildings at points where they will be readily accessible for shutting off the gas supply to these buildings in any emergency. There shall also be provided a shutoff valve in the discharge line from the generator, gas holder, manifold or other source of supply.

(vi) Shutoff valves shall not be installed in safety relief lines in such a manner that the safety relief device can be rendered ineffective.

(vii) Fittings and lengths of pipe shall be examined internally before assembly and, if necessary freed from scale or dirt. Oxygen piping and fittings shall be washed out with a suitable solution which will effectively remove grease and dirt but will not react with oxygen. Hot water solutions of caustic soda or trisodium phosphate are effective cleaning agents for this purpose.

(viii) Piping shall be thoroughly blown out after assembly to remove foreign materials. For oxygen piping, oil-free air, oil-free nitrogen, or oil-free carbon dioxide shall be used. For other piping, air or inert gas may be used.

(ix) When flammable gas lines or other parts of equipment are being purged of air or gas, open lights or other sources of ignition shall not be permitted near uncapped openings.

(x) No welding or cutting shall be performed on an acetylene or oxygen pipeline, including the attachment of hangers or supports, until the line has been purged. Only oil-free air, oil-free nitrogen, or oil-free carbon dioxide shall be used to purge oxygen lines.
