
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart Q - Welding, Cutting and Brazing
###### ยง 1910.253 Oxygen-fuel gas welding and cutting.
####### Portable acetylene generators.

(5)(i)(A) All portable generators shall be of a type approved for portable use.

(B) Portable generators shall not be used within 10 feet (3 m) of combustible material other than the floor.

(C) Portable generators shall not be used in rooms of total volume less than 35 times the total gas-generating capacity per charge of all generators in the room. Generators shall not be used in rooms having a ceiling height of less than 10 feet (3 m). (To obtain the gas-generating capacity in cubic feet per charge, multiply the pounds of carbide per charge by 4.5.)

(D) Portable generators shall be protected against freezing. The use of salt or other corrosive chemical to prevent freezing is prohibited.

(ii)(A) Portable generators shall be cleaned and recharged and the air mixture blown off outside buildings.

(B) When charged with carbide, portable generators shall not be moved by crane or derrick.

(C) When not in use, portable generators shall not be stored in rooms in which open flames are used unless the generators contain no carbide and have been thoroughly purged of acetylene. Storage rooms shall be well ventilated.

(D) When portable acetylene generators are to be transported and operated on vehicles, they shall be securely anchored to the vehicles. If transported by truck, the motor shall be turned off during charging, cleaning, and generating periods.

(E) Portable generators shall be located at a safe distance from the welding position so that they will not be exposed to sparks, slag, or misdirection of the torch flame or overheating from hot materials or processes.
