
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart R - Special Industries
###### ยง 1910.261 Pulp, paper, and paperboard mills.
####### Cranes.

(8)

(i) [Reserved]

(ii) A safety device such as a heavy chain or cable at least equal in strength to the lifting cables shall be fastened to the boom and to the frame of the boom crane (if it is other than locomotive) at the base. Alternatively, a telescoping safety device shall be fastened to the boom and to the cab frame, so as to prevent the boom from snapping back over the cab in the event of lifting cable breakage.

(iii) A crane shall not be operated where any part thereof may come within 10 feet of overhead powerlines (or other overhead obstructions) unless the powerlines have been deenergized. The boom shall be painted bright yellow from and including the head sheave to a point 6 feet down the boom towards the cab.

(iv) Standard signals for the operation of cranes shall be established for all movements of the crane, in accordance with American National Standards B30.2-1943 (reaffirmed 1968) and B30.2.0-1967.

(v) Only one member of the crew shall be authorized to give signals to the crane operator.

(vi) All cranes shall be equipped with a suitable warning device such as a horn or whistle.

(vii) A sheave guard shall be provided beneath the head sheave of the boom.
