
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart R - Special Industries
###### ยง 1910.266 Logging operations.
####### Hand and portable powered tools,General requirements.

(e)-(1)(i) The employer shall assure that each hand and portable powered tool, including any tool provided by an employee, is maintained in serviceable condition.

(ii) The employer shall assure that each tool, including any tool provided by an employee, is inspected before initial use during each workshift. At a minimum, the inspection shall include the following:

(A) Handles and guards, to assure that they are sound, tight-fitting, properly shaped, free of splinters and sharp edges, and in place;

(B) Controls, to assure proper function;

(C) Chain-saw chains, to assure proper adjustment;

(D) Chain-saw mufflers, to assure that they are operational and in place;

(E) Chain brakes and nose shielding devices, to assure that they are in place and function properly;

(F) Heads of shock, impact-driven and driving tools, to assure that there is no mushrooming;

(G) Cutting edges, to assure that they are sharp and properly shaped; and

(H) All other safety devices, to assure that they are in place and function properly.

(iii) The employer shall assure that each tool is used only for purposes for which it has been designed.

(iv) When the head of any shock, impact-driven or driving tool begins to chip, it shall be repaired or removed from service.

(v) The cutting edge of each tool shall be sharpened in accordance with manufacturer's specifications whenever it becomes dull during the workshift.

(vi) Each tool shall be stored in the provided location when not being used at a work site.

(vii) Racks, boxes, holsters or other means shall be provided, arranged and used for the transportation of tools so that a hazard is not created for any vehicle operator or passenger.
