
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart R - Special Industries
###### ยง 1910.266 Logging operations.
####### Machine operation.

(2)(i) The machine shall be started and operated only by a designated person.

(ii) Stationary logging machines and their components shall be anchored or otherwise stabilized to prevent movement during operation.

(iii) The rated capacity of any machine shall not be exceeded.

(iv) To maintain stability, the machine must be operated within the limitations imposed by the manufacturer as described in the operating and maintenance instructions for that machine.

(v) Before starting or moving any machine, the operator shall determine that no employee is in the path of the machine.

(vi) The machine shall be operated only from the operator's station or as otherwise recommended by the manufacturer.

(vii) The machine shall be operated at such a distance from employees and other machines such that operation will not create a hazard for an employee.

(viii) No employee other than the operator shall ride on any mobile machine unless seating, seat belts and other protection equivalent to that provided for the operator are provided.

(ix) No employee shall ride on any load.

(x) Before the operator leaves the operator's station of a machine, it shall be secured as follows:

(A) The parking brake or brake locks shall be applied;

(B) The transmission shall be placed in the manufacturer's specified park position; and

(C) Each moving element such as, but not limited to blades, buckets, saws and shears, shall be lowered to the ground or otherwise secured.

(xi) If a hydraulic or pneumatic storage device can move the moving elements such as, but not limited to, blades, buckets, saws and shears, after the machine is shut down, the pressure or stored energy from the element shall be discharged as specified by the manufacturer.

(xii) The rated capacity of any vehicle transporting a machine shall not be exceeded.

(xiii) The machine shall be loaded, secured and unloaded so that it will not create a hazard for any employee.
