
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart R - Special Industries
###### ยง 1910.269 Electric power generation, transmission, and distribution.
####### Information transfer.

(3)(i) Before work begins, the host employer shall inform contract employers of:

(A) The characteristics of the host employer's installation that are related to the safety of the work to be performed and are listed in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (a)(4)(v) of this section;

(B) Conditions that are related to the safety of the work to be performed, that are listed in paragraphs (a)(4)(vi) through (a)(4)(viii) of this section, and that are known to the host employer;

(C) Information about the design and operation of the host employer's installation that the contract employer needs to make the assessments required by this section; and

(D) Any other information about the design and operation of the host employer's installation that is known by the host employer, that the contract employer requests, and that is related to the protection of the contract employer's employees.

(ii) Contract employers shall comply with the following requirements:

(A) The contract employer shall ensure that each of its employees is instructed in the hazardous conditions relevant to the employee's work that the contract employer is aware of as a result of information communicated to the contract employer by the host employer under paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section.

(B) Before work begins, the contract employer shall advise the host employer of any unique hazardous conditions presented by the contract employer's work.

(C) The contract employer shall advise the host employer of any unanticipated hazardous conditions found during the contract employer's work that the host employer did not mention under paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section. The contract employer shall provide this information to the host employer within 2 working days after discovering the hazardous condition.

(iii) The contract employer and the host employer shall coordinate their work rules and procedures so that each employee of the contract employer and the host employer is protected as required by this section.
