
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 4 - LABOR STANDARDS FOR FEDERAL SERVICE CONTRACTS
#### Subpart B - Wage Determination Procedures
##### ยง 4.52 Fringe benefit determinations.
###### Variance procedure.

(e)(1) The Department will consider variations requested by contracting agencies pursuant to Section 4(b) of the Act and ยง 4.123, from the methodology described in paragraph (a) of this section for determining prevailing fringe benefit rates. This variation procedure will not be utilized to routinely permit separate fringe benefit packages for classes of employees and industries, but rather will be limited to the narrow circumstances set forth herein where special needs of contracting agencies require this procedure. Such variations will be considered where the agency demonstrates that because of the special circumstances of the particular industry, the variation is necessary and proper in the public interest or to avoid the serious impairment of government business. Such a demonstration might be made, for example, where an agency is unable to obtain contractors willing to bid on a contract because the service will be performed at the contractor's facility by employees performing work for the Government and other customers, and as a result, paying the required SCA fringe benefits would cause undue disruption to the contractor's own work force and pay practices.

(2) It will also be necessary for the agency to demonstrate that a variance is in accordance with the remedial purpose of the Act to protect prevailing labor standards, by providing comprehensive data from a valid survey demonstrating the prevailing fringe benefits for the specific industry. If the agency does not continue to provide current data in subsequent years, the variance will be withdrawn and the rate prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section will be issued for the contract.
