
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart R - Special Industries
###### ยง 1910.269 Electric power generation, transmission, and distribution.
####### Protection from flames and electric arcs.

(8)(i) The employer shall assess the workplace to identify employees exposed to hazards from flames or from electric arcs.

(ii) For each employee exposed to hazards from electric arcs, the employer shall make a reasonable estimate of the incident heat energy to which the employee would be exposed.

(iii) The employer shall ensure that each employee who is exposed to hazards from flames or electric arcs does not wear clothing that could melt onto his or her skin or that could ignite and continue to burn when exposed to flames or the heat energy estimated under paragraph (l)(8)(ii) of this section.

(iv) The employer shall ensure that the outer layer of clothing worn by an employee, except for clothing not required to be arc rated under paragraphs (l)(8)(v)(A) through (l)(8)(v)(E) of this section, is flame resistant under any of the following conditions:

(A) The employee is exposed to contact with energized circuit parts operating at more than 600 volts,

(B) An electric arc could ignite flammable material in the work area that, in turn, could ignite the employee's clothing,

(C) Molten metal or electric arcs from faulted conductors in the work area could ignite the employee's clothing, or

(D) The incident heat energy estimated under paragraph (l)(8)(ii) of this section exceeds 2.0 cal/cm.

(v) The employer shall ensure that each employee exposed to hazards from electric arcs wears protective clothing and other protective equipment with an arc rating greater than or equal to the heat energy estimated under paragraph (l)(8)(ii) of this section whenever that estimate exceeds 2.0 cal/cm. This protective equipment shall cover the employee's entire body, except as follows:

(A) Arc-rated protection is not necessary for the employee's hands when the employee is wearing rubber insulating gloves with protectors or, if the estimated incident energy is no more than 14 cal/cm, heavy-duty leather work gloves with a weight of at least 407 gm/m(12 oz/yd),

(B) Arc-rated protection is not necessary for the employee's feet when the employee is wearing heavy-duty work shoes or boots,

(C) Arc-rated protection is not necessary for the employee's head when the employee is wearing head protection meeting ยง 1910.135 if the estimated incident energy is less than 9 cal/cmfor exposures involving single-phase arcs in open air or 5 cal/cmfor other exposures,

(D) The protection for the employee's head may consist of head protection meeting ยง 1910.135 and a faceshield with a minimum arc rating of 8 cal/cmif the estimated incident-energy exposure is less than 13 cal/cmfor exposures involving single-phase arcs in open air or 9 cal/cmfor other exposures, and

(E) For exposures involving single-phase arcs in open air, the arc rating for the employee's head and face protection may be 4 cal/cmless than the estimated incident energy.

(vi) Dates. (A) The obligation in paragraph (l)(8)(ii) of this section for the employer to make reasonable estimates of incident energy commences January 1, 2015.

(B) The obligation in paragraph (l)(8)(iv)(D) of this section for the employer to ensure that the outer layer of clothing worn by an employee is flame-resistant when the estimated incident heat energy exceeds 2.0 cal/cmcommences April 1, 2015.

(C) The obligation in paragraph (l)(8)(v) of this section for the employer to ensure that each employee exposed to hazards from electric arcs wears the required arc-rated protective equipment commences April 1, 2015.
