
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart R - Special Industries
###### ยง 1910.269 Electric power generation, transmission, and distribution.
####### Live-line barehand work.

(3)In addition to other applicable provisions contained in this section, the following requirements apply to live-line barehand work:

(i) Before an employee uses or supervises the use of the live-line barehand technique on energized circuits, the employer shall ensure that the employee completes training conforming to paragraph (a)(2) of this section in the technique and in the safety requirements of paragraph (q)(3) of this section.

(ii) Before any employee uses the live-line barehand technique on energized high-voltage conductors or parts, the employer shall ascertain the following information in addition to information about other existing conditions required by paragraph (a)(4) of this section:

(A) The nominal voltage rating of the circuit on which employees will perform the work,

(B) The clearances to ground of lines and other energized parts on which employees will perform the work, and

(C) The voltage limitations of equipment employees will use.

(iii) The employer shall ensure that the insulated equipment, insulated tools, and aerial devices and platforms used by employees are designed, tested, and made for live-line barehand work.

(iv) The employer shall ensure that employees keep tools and equipment clean and dry while they are in use.

(v) The employer shall render inoperable the automatic-reclosing feature of circuit-interrupting devices protecting the lines if the design of the devices permits.

(vi) The employer shall ensure that employees do not perform work when adverse weather conditions would make the work hazardous even after the employer implements the work practices required by this section. Additionally, employees may not perform work when winds reduce the phase-to-phase or phase-to-ground clearances at the work location below the minimum approach distances specified in paragraph (q)(3)(xiv) of this section, unless insulating guards cover the grounded objects and other lines and equipment.

(vii) The employer shall provide and ensure that employees use a conductive bucket liner or other conductive device for bonding the insulated aerial device to the energized line or equipment.

(A) The employee shall be connected to the bucket liner or other conductive device by the use of conductive shoes, leg clips, or other means.

(B) Where differences in potentials at the worksite pose a hazard to employees, the employer shall provide electrostatic shielding designed for the voltage being worked.

(viii) The employer shall ensure that, before the employee contacts the energized part, the employee bonds the conductive bucket liner or other conductive device to the energized conductor by means of a positive connection. This connection shall remain attached to the energized conductor until the employee completes the work on the energized circuit.

(ix) Aerial lifts used for live-line barehand work shall have dual controls (lower and upper) as follows:

(A) The upper controls shall be within easy reach of the employee in the bucket. On a two-bucket-type lift, access to the controls shall be within easy reach of both buckets.

(B) The lower set of controls shall be near the base of the boom and shall be designed so that they can override operation of the equipment at any time.

(x) Lower (ground-level) lift controls may not be operated with an employee in the lift except in case of emergency.

(xi) The employer shall ensure that, before employees elevate an aerial lift into the work position, the employees check all controls (ground level and bucket) to determine that they are in proper working condition.

(xii) The employer shall ensure that, before employees elevate the boom of an aerial lift, the employees ground the body of the truck or barricade the body of the truck and treat it as energized.

(xiii) The employer shall ensure that employees perform a boom-current test before starting work each day, each time during the day when they encounter a higher voltage, and when changed conditions indicate a need for an additional test.

(A) This test shall consist of placing the bucket in contact with an energized source equal to the voltage to be encountered for a minimum of 3 minutes.

(B) The leakage current may not exceed 1 microampere per kilovolt of nominal phase-to-ground voltage.

(C) The employer shall immediately suspend work from the aerial lift when there is any indication of a malfunction in the equipment.

(xiv) The employer shall ensure that employees maintain the minimum approach distances, established by the employer under paragraph (l)(3)(i) of this section, from all grounded objects and from lines and equipment at a potential different from that to which the live-line barehand equipment is bonded, unless insulating guards cover such grounded objects and other lines and equipment.

(xv) The employer shall ensure that, while an employee is approaching, leaving, or bonding to an energized circuit, the employee maintains the minimum approach distances, established by the employer under paragraph (l)(3)(i) of this section, between the employee and any grounded parts, including the lower boom and portions of the truck and between the employee and conductive objects energized at different potentials.

(xvi) While the bucket is alongside an energized bushing or insulator string, the employer shall ensure that employees maintain the phase-to-ground minimum approach distances, established by the employer under paragraph (l)(3)(i) of this section, between all parts of the bucket and the grounded end of the bushing or insulator string or any other grounded surface.

(xvii) The employer shall ensure that employees do not use handlines between the bucket and the boom or between the bucket and the ground. However, employees may use nonconductive-type handlines from conductor to ground if not supported from the bucket. The employer shall ensure that no one uses ropes used for live-line barehand work for other purposes.

(xviii) The employer shall ensure that employees do not pass uninsulated equipment or material between a pole or structure and an aerial lift while an employee working from the bucket is bonded to an energized part.

(xix) A nonconductive measuring device shall be readily accessible to employees performing live-line barehand work to assist them in maintaining the required minimum approach distance.
