
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart R - Special Industries
###### ยง 1910.269 Electric power generation, transmission, and distribution.
####### Gasoline-engine power saws.

(5)Gasoline-engine power saw operations shall meet the requirements of ยง 1910.266(e) and the following:

(i) Each power saw weighing more than 6.8 kilograms (15 pounds, service weight) that is used in trees shall be supported by a separate line, except when work is performed from an aerial lift and except during topping or removing operations where no supporting limb will be available.

(ii) Each power saw shall be equipped with a control that will return the saw to idling speed when released.

(iii) Each power saw shall be equipped with a clutch and shall be so adjusted that the clutch will not engage the chain drive at idling speed.

(iv) A power saw shall be started on the ground or where it is otherwise firmly supported. Drop starting of saws over 6.8 kilograms (15 pounds), other than chain saws, is permitted outside of the bucket of an aerial lift only if the area below the lift is clear of personnel.

(v) A power saw engine may be started and operated only when all employees other than the operator are clear of the saw.

(vi) A power saw may not be running when the saw is being carried up into a tree by an employee.

(vii) Power saw engines shall be stopped for all cleaning, refueling, adjustments, and repairs to the saw or motor, except as the manufacturer's servicing procedures require otherwise.
