
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart S - Electrical
###### Design Safety Standards for Electrical Systems
####### ยง 1910.304 Wiring design and protection.
######## Methods of grounding fixed equipment.

(8)(i) Noncurrent-carrying metal parts of fixed equipment, if required to be grounded by this subpart, shall be grounded by an equipment grounding conductor that is contained within the same raceway, cable, or cord, or runs with or encloses the circuit conductors. For dc circuits only, the equipment grounding conductor may be run separately from the circuit conductors.

(ii) Electric equipment is considered to be effectively grounded if it is secured to, and in electrical contact with, a metal rack or structure that is provided for its support and the metal rack or structure is grounded by the method specified for the noncurrent-carrying metal parts of fixed equipment in paragraph (g)(8)(i) of this section. Metal car frames supported by metal hoisting cables attached to or running over metal sheaves or drums of grounded elevator machines are also considered to be effectively grounded.

(iii) For installations made before April 16, 1981, electric equipment is also considered to be effectively grounded if it is secured to, and in metallic contact with, the grounded structural metal frame of a building. When any element of this branch circuit is replaced, the entire branch circuit shall use an equipment grounding conductor that complies with all other provisions of paragraph (g) of this section.
