
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart S - Electrical
###### Design Safety Standards for Electrical Systems
####### ยง 1910.305 Wiring methods, components, and equipment for general use.
######## Temporary wiring.

(2)Except as specifically modified in this paragraph, all other requirements of this subpart for permanent wiring shall also apply to temporary wiring installations.

(i) Temporary electrical power and lighting installations of 600 volts, nominal, or less may be used only as follows:

(A) During and for remodeling, maintenance, or repair of buildings, structures, or equipment, and similar activities;

(B) For a period not to exceed 90 days for Christmas decorative lighting, carnivals, and similar purposes; or

(C) For experimental or development work, and during emergencies.

(ii) Temporary wiring shall be removed immediately upon completion of the project or purpose for which the wiring was installed.

(iii) Temporary electrical installations of more than 600 volts may be used only during periods of tests, experiments, emergencies, or construction-like activities.

(iv) The following requirements apply to feeders:

(A) Feeders shall originate in an approved distribution center.

(B) Conductors shall be run as multiconductor cord or cable assemblies. However, if installed as permitted in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(C) of this section, and if accessible only to qualified persons, feeders may be run as single insulated conductors.

(v) The following requirements apply to branch circuits:

(A) Branch circuits shall originate in an approved power outlet or panelboard.

(B) Conductors shall be multiconductor cord or cable assemblies or open conductors. If run as open conductors, they shall be fastened at ceiling height every 3.05 m (10.0 ft).

(C) No branch-circuit conductor may be laid on the floor.

(D) Each branch circuit that supplies receptacles or fixed equipment shall contain a separate equipment grounding conductor if run as open conductors.

(vi) Receptacles shall be of the grounding type. Unless installed in a continuous grounded metallic raceway or metallic covered cable, each branch circuit shall contain a separate equipment grounding conductor and all receptacles shall be electrically connected to the grounding conductor.

(vii) No bare conductors nor earth returns may be used for the wiring of any temporary circuit.

(viii) Suitable disconnecting switches or plug connectors shall be installed to permit the disconnection of all ungrounded conductors of each temporary circuit. Multiwire branch circuits shall be provided with a means to disconnect simultaneously all ungrounded conductors at the power outlet or panelboard where the branch circuit originated.

(ix) All lamps for general illumination shall be protected from accidental contact or breakage by a suitable fixture or lampholder with a guard. Brass shell, paper-lined sockets, or other metal-cased sockets may not be used unless the shell is grounded.

(x) Flexible cords and cables shall be protected from accidental damage, as might be caused, for example, by sharp corners, projections, and doorways or other pinch points.

(xi) Cable assemblies and flexible cords and cables shall be supported in place at intervals that ensure that they will be protected from physical damage. Support shall be in the form of staples, cables ties, straps, or similar type fittings installed so as not to cause damage.
