
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart S - Electrical
###### Design Safety Standards for Electrical Systems
####### ยง 1910.305 Wiring methods, components, and equipment for general use.
######## Cable trays.

(3)(i) Only the following wiring methods may be installed in cable tray systems: armored cable; electrical metallic tubing; electrical nonmetallic tubing; fire alarm cables; flexible metal conduit; flexible metallic tubing; instrumentation tray cable; intermediate metal conduit; liquidtight flexible metal conduit; liquidtight flexible nonmetallic conduit; metal-clad cable; mineral-insulated, metal-sheathed cable; multiconductor service-entrance cable; multiconductor underground feeder and branch-circuit cable; multipurpose and communications cables; nonmetallic-sheathed cable; power and control tray cable; power-limited tray cable; optical fiber cables; and other factory-assembled, multiconductor control, signal, or power cables that are specifically approved for installation in cable trays, rigid metal conduit, and rigid nonmetallic conduit.

(ii) In industrial establishments where conditions of maintenance and supervision assure that only qualified persons will service the installed cable tray system, the following cables may also be installed in ladder, ventilated-trough, or ventilated-channel cable trays:

(A) Single conductor cable; the cable shall be No. 1/0 or larger and shall be of a type listed and marked on the surface for use in cable trays; where Nos. 1/0 through 4/0 single conductor cables are installed in ladder cable tray, the maximum allowable rung spacing for the ladder cable tray shall be 229 mm (9 in.); where exposed to direct rays of the sun, cables shall be identified as being sunlight resistant;

(B) Welding cables installed in dedicated cable trays;

(C) Single conductors used as equipment grounding conductors; these conductors, which may be insulated, covered, or bare, shall be No. 4 or larger; and

(D) Multiconductor cable, Type MV; where exposed to direct rays of the sun, the cable shall be identified as being sunlight resistant.

(iii) Metallic cable trays may be used as equipment grounding conductors only where continuous maintenance and supervision ensure that qualified persons will service the installed cable tray system.

(iv) Cable trays in hazardous (classified) locations may contain only the cable types permitted in such locations. (See ยง 1910.307.)

(v) Cable tray systems may not be used in hoistways or where subjected to severe physical damage.
