
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart S - Electrical
###### Design Safety Standards for Electrical Systems
####### ยง 1910.305 Wiring methods, components, and equipment for general use.
######## Transformers.

(5)(i) Paragraph (j)(5) of this section covers the installation of all transformers except the following:

(A) Current transformers;

(B) Dry-type transformers installed as a component part of other apparatus;

(C) Transformers that are an integral part of an X-ray, high frequency, or electrostatic-coating apparatus;

(D) Transformers used with Class 2 and Class 3 circuits, sign and outline lighting, electric discharge lighting, and power-limited fire-alarm circuits; and

(E) Liquid-filled or dry-type transformers used for research, development, or testing, where effective safeguard arrangements are provided.

(ii) The operating voltage of exposed live parts of transformer installations shall be indicated by signs or visible markings on the equipment or structure.

(iii) Dry-type, high fire point liquid-insulated, and askarel-insulated transformers installed indoors and rated over 35kV shall be in a vault.

(iv) Oil-insulated transformers installed indoors shall be installed in a vault.

(v) Combustible material, combustible buildings and parts of buildings, fire escapes, and door and window openings shall be safeguarded from fires that may originate in oil-insulated transformers attached to or adjacent to a building or combustible material.

(vi) Transformer vaults shall be constructed so as to contain fire and combustible liquids within the vault and to prevent unauthorized access. Locks and latches shall be so arranged that a vault door can be readily opened from the inside.

(vii) Any pipe or duct system foreign to the electrical installation may not enter or pass through a transformer vault.

(viii) Material may not be stored in transformer vaults.
