
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 4 - LABOR STANDARDS FOR FEDERAL SERVICE CONTRACTS
#### Subpart B - Wage Determination Procedures
##### ยง 4.56 Review and reconsideration of wage determinations.
###### Review by the Administrator.

(a)(1) Any interested party affected by a wage determination issued under section 2(a) of the Act may request review and reconsideration by the Administrator. A request for review and reconsideration may be made by the contracting agency or other interested party, including contractors or prospective contractors and associations of contractors, representatives of employees, and other interested Governmental agencies. Any such request must be accompanied by supporting evidence. In no event shall the Administrator review a wage determination or its applicability after the opening of bids in the case of a competitively advertised procurement, or, later than 10 days before commencement of a contract in the case of a negotiated procurement, exercise of a contract option or extension. This limitation is necessary in order to ensure competitive equality and an orderly procurement process.

(2) The Administrator shall, upon receipt of a request for reconsideration, review the data sources relied upon as a basis for the wage determination, the evidence furnished by the party requesting review or reconsideration, and, if necessary to resolve the matter, any additional information found to be relevant to determining prevailing wage rates and fringe benefits in a particular locality. The Administrator, pursuant to a review of available information, may issue a new wage determination, may cause the wage determination to be revised, or may affirm the wage determination issued, and will notify the requesting party in writing of the action taken. The Administrator will render a decision within 30 days of receipt of the request or will notify the requesting party in writing within 30 days of receipt that additional time is necessary.
