
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart S - Electrical
###### Design Safety Standards for Electrical Systems
####### ยง 1910.307 Hazardous (classified) locations.
######## Protection techniques.

(3)One or more of the following protection techniques shall be used for electric and electronic equipment in hazardous (classified) locations classified under the zone classification system.

(i) Flameproof "d"-This protection technique is permitted for equipment in the Class I, Zone 1 locations for which it is approved.

(ii) Purged and pressurized-This protection technique is permitted for equipment in the Class I, Zone 1 or Zone 2 locations for which it is approved.

(iii) Intrinsic safety-This protection technique is permitted for equipment in the Class I, Zone 0 or Zone 1 locations for which it is approved.

(iv) Type of protection "n"-This protection technique is permitted for equipment in the Class I, Zone 2 locations for which it is approved. Type of protection "n" is further subdivided into nA, nC, and nR.

(v) Oil Immersion "o"-This protection technique is permitted for equipment in the Class I, Zone 1 locations for which it is approved.

(vi) Increased safety "e"-This protection technique is permitted for equipment in the Class I, Zone 1 locations for which it is approved.

(vii) Encapsulation "m"-This protection technique is permitted for equipment in the Class I, Zone 1 locations for which it is approved.

(viii) Powder Filling "q"-This protection technique is permitted for equipment in the Class I, Zone 1 locations for which it is approved.
