
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart T - Commercial Diving Operations
###### General Operations Procedures
####### ยง 1910.423 Post-dive procedures.
######## Recompression capability.

(c)(1) A decompression chamber capable of recompressing the diver at the surface to a minimum of 165 fsw (6 ATA) shall be available at the dive location for:

(i) Surface-supplied air diving to depths deeper than 100 fsw and shallower than 220 fsw;

(ii) Mixed gas diving shallower than 300 fsw; or

(iii) Diving outside the no-decompression limits shallower than 300 fsw.

(2) A decompression chamber capable of recompressing the diver at the surface to the maximum depth of the dive shall be available at the dive location for dives deeper than 300 fsw.

(3) The decompression chamber shall be:

(i) Dual-lock;

(ii) Multiplace; and

(iii) Located within 5 minutes of the dive location.

(4) The decompression chamber shall be equipped with:

(i) A pressure gauge for each pressurized compartment designed for human occupancy;

(ii) A built-in-breathing-system with a minimum of one mask per occupant;

(iii) A two-way voice communication system between occupants and a dive team member at the dive location;

(iv) A viewport; and

(v) Illumination capability to light the interior.

(5) Treatment tables, treatment gas appropriate to the diving mode, and sufficient gas to conduct treatment shall be available at the dive location.

(6) A dive team member shall be available at the dive location during and for at least one hour after the dive to operate the decompression chamber (when required or provided).
