
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart Z - Toxic and Hazardous Substances
###### ยง 1910.1003 13 Carcinogens (4-Nitrobiphenyl, etc.).
####### Communication of hazards,Hazard communication.

(e)-(1)(i) Chemical manufacturers, importers, distributors and employers shall comply with all requirements of the Hazard Communication Standard (HCS) (ยง 1910.1200) for each carcinogen listed in paragraph (e)(1)(iv) of this section.

(ii) In classifying the hazards of carcinogens listed in paragraph (e)(1)(iv) of this section, at least the hazards listed in paragraph (e)(1)(iv) are to be addressed.

(iii) Employers shall include the carcinogens listed in paragraph (e)(1)(iv) of this section in the hazard communication program established to comply with the HCS (ยง 1910.1200). Employers shall ensure that each employee has access to labels on containers of the carcinogens listed in paragraph (e)(1)(iv) and to safety data sheets, and is trained in accordance with the requirements of HCS and paragraph (e)(4) of this section.

(iv) List of Carcinogens:

(A) 4-Nitrobiphenyl: Cancer.

(B) alpha-Naphthylamine: Cancer; skin irritation; and acute toxicity effects.

(C) Methyl chloromethyl ether: Cancer; skin, eye and respiratory effects; acute toxicity effects; and flammability.

(D) 3,3&#x2032;-Dichlorobenzidine (and its salts): Cancer and skin sensitization.

(E) bis-Chloromethyl ether: Cancer; skin, eye, and respiratory tract effects; acute toxicity effects; and flammability.

(F) beta-Naphthylamine: Cancer and acute toxicity effects.

(G) Benzidine: Cancer and acute toxicity effects.

(H) 4-Aminodiphenyl: Cancer.

(I) Ethyleneimine: Cancer; mutagenicity; skin and eye effects; liver effects; kidney effects; acute toxicity effects; and flammability.

(J) beta-Propiolactone: Cancer; skin irritation; eye effects; and acute toxicity effects.

(K) 2-Acetylaminofluorene: Cancer.

(L) 4-Dimethylaminoazo-benzene: Cancer; skin effects; and respiratory tract irritation.

(M) N-Nitrosodimethylamine: Cancer; liver effects; and acute toxicity effects.
