
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 4 - LABOR STANDARDS FOR FEDERAL SERVICE CONTRACTS
#### Subpart C - Application of the McNamara-O'Hara Service Contract Act
##### Introductory
###### ยง 4.104 What the Act provides, generally.
####### Endicott Johnson Corp.,Perkins,

The provisions of the Act apply to contracts, whether negotiated or advertised, the principal purpose of which is to furnish services in the United States through the use of service employees. Under its provisions, every contract subject to the Act (and any bid specification therefor) entered into by the United States or the District of Columbia in excess of $2,500 must contain stipulations as set forth in ยง 4.6 of this part requiring: (a) That specified minimum monetary wages and fringe benefits determined by the Secretary of Labor (based on wage rates and fringe benefits prevailing in the locality or, in specified circumstances, the wage rates and fringe benefits contained in a collective bargaining agreement applicable to employees who performed on a predecessor contract) be paid to service employees employed by the contractor or any subcontractor in performing the services contracted for; (b) that working conditions of such employees which are under the control of the contractor or subcontractor meet safety and health standards; and (c) that notice be given to such employees of the compensation due them under the minimum wage and fringe benefits provisions of the contract. Contractors performing work subject to the Act thus enter into competition to obtain Government business on terms of which they are fairly forewarned by inclusion in the contract. (v.317 U.S. 501, 507 (1943).) The Act's purpose is to impose obligations upon those favored with Government business by precluding the use of the purchasing power of the Federal Government in the unfair depression of wages and standards of employment. (See H.R. Rep. No. 948, 89th Cong., 1st Sess. 2-3 (1965); S. Rep. No. 798, 89th Cong., 1st Sess. 3-4 (1965).) The Act does not permit the monetary wage rates specified in such a contract to be less than the minimum wage specified under section 6(a)(1) of the Fair Labor Standards Act, as amended (29 U.S.C. 206(a)(1)). In addition, it is a violation of the Act for any contractor or subcontractor under a Federal contract subject to the Act, regardless of the amount of the contract, to pay any of his employees engaged in performing work on the contract less than such Fair Labor Standards Act minimum wage. Contracts of $2,500 or less are not, however, required to contain the stipulations described above. These provisions of the Service Contract Act are implemented by the regulations contained in this part 4 and are discussed in more detail in subsequent sections of subparts C, D, and E.
