
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 4 - LABOR STANDARDS FOR FEDERAL SERVICE CONTRACTS
#### Subpart C - Application of the McNamara-O'Hara Service Contract Act
##### Covered Contracts Generally
###### ยง 4.113 Contracts to furnish services "through the use of service employees."
####### Use of "service employees" in a contract performance.

(a)(1) As indicated in ยง 4.110, the Act covers service contracts only where "service employees" will be used in performing the services which it is the purpose of the contract to procure. A contract principally for services ordinarily will meet this condition if any of the services will be furnished through the use of any service employee or employees. Where it is contemplated that the services (of the kind performed by service employees) will be performed individually by the contractor, and the contracting officer knows when advertising for bids or concluding negotiations that service employees will in no event be used by the contractor in providing the contract services, the Act will not be deemed applicable to the contract and the contract clauses required by ยง 4.6 or ยง 4.7 may be omitted. The fact that the required services will be performed by municipal employees or employees of a State would not remove the contract from the purview of the Act, as this Act does not contain any exemption for contracts performed by such employees. Also, as discussed in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, where the services the Government wants under the contract are of a type that will require the use of service employees as defined in section 8(b) of the Act, the contract is not taken out of the purview of the Act by the fact that the manner in which the services of such employees are performed will be subject to the continuing overall supervision of bona fide executive, administrative, or professional personnel to whom the Act does not apply.

(2) The coverage of the Act does not extend to contracts for services to be performed exclusively by persons who are not service employees, i.e., persons who are bona fide executive, administrative or professional personnel as defined in part 541 of this title (see paragraph (b) of this section). A contract for medical services furnished by professional personnel is an example of such a contract.

(3) In addition, the Department does not require application of the Act to any contract for services which is performed essentially by bona fide executive, administrative, or professional employees, with the use of service employees being only a minor factor in the performance of the contract. However, the Act would apply to a contract for services which may involve the use of service employees to a significant or substantial extent even though there is some use of bona fide executive, administrative, or professional employees in the performance of the contract. For example, contracts for drafting or data processing services are often performed by drafters, computer operators, or other service employees and are subject to the Act even though the work of such employees may be performed under the direction and supervision of bona fide professional employees.

(4) In close cases involving a decision as to whether a contract will involve a significant use of service employees, the Department of Labor should be consulted, since such situations require consideration of other factors such as the nature of the contract work, the type of work performed by service employees, how necessary the work is to contract performance, the amount of contract work performed by service employees vis-a-vis professional employees, and the total number of service employees employed on the contract.
