
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart Z - Toxic and Hazardous Substances
###### ยง 1910.1047 Ethylene oxide.
####### Medical examinations and consultations,Frequency.

(2)-(i)The employer shall make available medical examinations and consultations to each employee covered under paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this section on the following schedules:

(A) Prior to assignment of the employee to an area where exposure may be at or above the action level for at least 30 days a year.

(B) At least annually each employee exposed at or above the action level for at least 30 days in the past year.

(C) At termination of employment or reassignment to an area where exposure to EtO is not at or above the action level for at least 30 days a year.

(D) As medically appropriate for any employee exposed during an emergency.

(E) As soon as possible, upon notification by an employee either (1) that the employee has developed signs or symptoms indicating possible overexposure to EtO, or (2) that the employee desires medical advice concerning the effects of current or past exposure to EtO on the employee's ability to produce a healthy child.

(F) If the examining physician determines that any of the examinations should be provided more frequently than specified, the employer shall provide such examinations to affected employees at the frequencies recommended by the physician.
