
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart Z - Toxic and Hazardous Substances
###### § 1910.1048 Formaldehyde.
####### Communication of hazards,Hazard communication-General.

(m)-(1)(i) Chemical manufacturers, importers, distributors and employers shall comply with all requirements of the Hazard Communication Standard (HCS) (§ 1910.1200) for formaldehyde.

(ii) In classifying the hazards of formaldehyde at least the following hazards are to be addressed: Cancer; skin and respiratory sensitization; eye, skin and respiratory tract irritation; acute toxicity effects; and flammability.

(iii) Employers shall include formaldehyde in the hazard communication program established to comply with the HCS (§ 1910.1200). Employers shall ensure that each employee has access to labels on containers of formaldehyde and to safety data sheets, and is trained in accordance with the requirements of HCS and paragraph (n) of this section.

(iv) Paragraphs (m)(1)(i), (m)(1)(ii), and (m)(1)(iii) of this section apply to chemicals associated with formaldehyde gas, all mixtures or solutions composed of greater than 0.1 percent formaldehyde, and materials capable of releasing formaldehyde into the air at concentrations reaching or exceeding 0.1 ppm.

(v) In making the determinations of anticipated levels of formaldehyde release, the employer may rely on objective data indicating the extent of potential formaldehyde release under reasonably foreseeable conditions of use.

(2)(i) In addition to the requirements in paragraphs (m)(1) through (m)(1)(iv) of this section, for materials listed in paragraph (m)(1)(iv) capable of releasing formaldehyde at levels above 0.5 ppm, labels shall appropriately address all hazards as defined in paragraph (d) of § 1910.1200 and Appendices A and B to § 1910.1200, including cancer and respiratory sensitization, and shall contain the hazard statement "May Cause Cancer."

(ii) As a minimum, for all materials listed in paragraph (m)(1)(i) and (iv) of this section capable of releasing formaldehyde at levels of 0.1 ppm to 0.5 ppm, labels shall identify that the product contains formaldehyde; list the name and address of the responsible party; and state that physical and health hazard information is readily available from the employer and from safety data sheets.

(iii) Prior to June 1, 2015, employers may include the phrase "Potential Cancer Hazard" in lieu of "May Cause Cancer" as specified in paragraph (m)(2)(i) of this section.
