
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1910 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS
##### Subpart Z - Toxic and Hazardous Substances
###### ยง 1910.1050 Methylenedianiline.
####### Scope and application.

(a)(1) This section applies to all occupational exposures to MDA, Chemical Abstracts Service Registry No. 101-77-9, except as provided in paragraphs (a)(2) through (a)(7) of this section.

(2) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(8) and (e)(5) of this section, this section does not apply to the processing, use, and handling of products containing MDA where initial monitoring indicates that the product is not capable of releasing MDA in excess of the action level under the expected conditions of processing, use, and handling which will cause the greatest possible release; and where no "dermal exposure to MDA" can occur.

(3) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(8) of this section, this section does not apply to the processing, use, and handling of products containing MDA where objective data are reasonably relied upon which demonstrate the product is not capable of releasing MDA under the expected conditions of processing, use, and handling which will cause the greatest possible release; and where no "dermal exposure to MDA" can occur.

(4) This section does not apply to the storage, transportation, distribution or sale of MDA in intact containers sealed in such a manner as to contain the MDA dusts, vapors, or liquids, except for the provisions of 29 CFR 1910.1200 and paragraph (d) of this section.

(5) This section does not apply to the construction industry as defined in 29 CFR 1910.12(b). (Exposure to MDA in the construction industry is covered by 29 CFR 1926.60).

(6) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(8) of this section, this section does not apply to materials in any form which contain less than 0.1% MDA by weight or volume.

(7) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(8) of this section, this section does not apply to "finished articles containing MDA."

(8) Where products containing MDA are exempted under paragraphs (a)(2) through (a)(7) of this section, the employer shall maintain records of the initial monitoring results or objective data supporting that exemption and the basis for the employer's reliance on the data, as provided in the recordkeeping provision of paragraph (n) of this section.
