
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1912 - ADVISORY COMMITTEES ON STANDARDS
##### Organizational Matters
###### ยง 1912.13 Maritime Advisory Committee on Occupational Safety and Health.

(a) This section applies to the Maritime Advisory Committee on Occupational Safety and Health, which has been established under section 3510 of the National Defense Authorization Act (Pub. L. 116-92, December 20, 2019) to advise the Secretary of Labor in formulating maritime industry standards and regarding matters pertaining to the administration of this Act related to the maritime industry. The composition of the Maritime Advisory Committee on Occupational Safety and Health is consistent with that of advisory committees which may be appointed under section 7(b) of the Act. See paragraph (c) of this section. An additional advisory committee covering these duties will not normally be established under section 7(b) of the Act, unless the issue or issues involved extend beyond maritime activity. See ยง 1912.4 concerning the general policy against duplication of activity by advisory committees.

(b) The Maritime Advisory Committee on Occupational Safety and Health is a continuing advisory body. It is composed of 15 members appointed by the Secretary, one of whom is appointed as Chair. The composition of the Advisory Committee is as follows:

(1) One member who is a designee of the Secretary of Health and Human Services;

(2) At least one member who is qualified by experience and affiliation to present the viewpoint of the employers involved, and at least one member who is similarly qualified to present the viewpoint of the employees involved. There shall be an equal number of representatives of employers and employees involved; and

(3) At least one representative of state health and safety agencies.

(4) The Maritime Advisory Committee on Occupational Safety and Health may include such other persons as the Secretary may appoint who are qualified by knowledge and experience to make a useful contribution to the work of the committee, including one or more representatives of professional organizations of technicians or professionals specializing in occupational safety or health and one or more persons of nationally recognized standards-producing organizations, but the number of persons so appointed shall not exceed the number of persons appointed as representatives of Federal and state agencies.

(c) Each member of the Maritime Advisory Committee on Occupational Safety and Health shall serve for a period of two years. Appointment of a member to the Committee for a fixed time period shall not affect the authority of the Secretary to remove, in his or her discretion, any member at any time. If a member resigns or is removed before his or her term expires, the Secretary of Labor may appoint for the remainder of the unexpired term a new member who shall represent the same interest as his or her predecessor.

(d) Members may be appointed to successive terms.

(e) A member who is otherwise qualified may continue to serve until a successor is appointed.

(f) There shall be filed on behalf of the Maritime Advisory Committee on Occupational Safety and Health a charter in accordance with the Federal Advisory Committee Act upon the expiration of each successive two-year period.
