
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1912 - ADVISORY COMMITTEES ON STANDARDS
##### Operation of Advisory Committees
###### ยง 1912.28 Contents of notice.

(a) The notice shall give the name of the committee, and the time and place of the meeting.

(b) The notice shall describe fully or summarize adequately the agenda.

(c) The notice shall announce that the meeting is open to the public.

(d) The notice shall indicate that interested persons have an opportunity to file statements in written form with the committee. The notice may specify whether the statements are to be filed before or during the meeting.

(1) The chairman may permit oral statements before the committee by interested persons. In exercising his discretion in this regard, the chairman shall take into consideration the number of persons in attendance, the nature and extent of their proposed individual participation, the extent to which presentations would anticipate presentations which may be made in any rulemaking proceeding under section 6 of the Act subsequent to the recommendations of the committee, and the time, resources, and facilities available to the committee. When counsel is made available to the committee, the chairman shall consult counsel before making a decision on whether to permit oral statements. In his discretion, the chairman, upon consultation with counsel if made available to the committee, may allow or preclude the questioning of committee members or other participants.

(2) The person calling the meeting may provide in the notice of the meeting that summaries of any proposed oral presentations be filed in advance of the meeting, and may allow or preclude the questioning of committee members or other participants.
