
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1913 - RULES OF AGENCY PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE CONCERNING OSHA ACCESS TO EMPLOYEE MEDICAL RECORDS
##### ยง 1913.10 Rules of agency practice and procedure concerning OSHA access to employee medical records.
###### Scope and application.

(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) (3) through (6) below, this section applies to all requests by OSHA personnel to obtain access to records in order to examine or copy personally identifiable employee medical information, whether or not pursuant to the access provisions of 29 CFR 1910.1020(e).

(2) For the purposes of this section, "personally identifiable employee medical information" means employee medical information accompanied by either direct identifiers (name, address, social security number, payroll number, etc.) or by information which could reasonably be used in the particular circumstances indirectly to identify specific employees (e.g., exact age, height, weight, race, sex, date of initial employment, job title, etc.).

(3) This section does not apply to OSHA access to, or the use of, aggregate employee medical information or medical records on individual employees which is not in a personally identifiable form. This section does not apply to records required by 29 CFR part 1904, to death certificates, or to employee exposure records, including biological monitoring records treated by 29 CFR 1910.1020(c)(5) or by specific occupational safety and health standards as exposure records.

(4) This section does not apply where OSHA compliance personnel conduct an examination of employee medical records solely to verify employer compliance with the medical surveillance recordkeeping requirements of an occupational safety and health standard, or with 29 CFR 1910.1020. An examination of this nature shall be conducted on-site and, if requested, shall be conducted under the observation of the recordholder. The OSHA compliance personnel shall not record and take off-site any information from medical records other than documentation of the fact of compliance or non-compliance.

(5) This section does not apply to agency access to, or the use of, personally identifiable employee medical information obtained in the course of litigation.

(6) This section does not apply where a written directive by the OSHA Medical Records Officer authorizes appropriately qualified personnel to conduct limited reviews of specific medical information mandated by an occupational safety and health standard, or of specific biological monitoring test results.
