
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1913 - RULES OF AGENCY PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE CONCERNING OSHA ACCESS TO EMPLOYEE MEDICAL RECORDS
##### ยง 1913.10 Rules of agency practice and procedure concerning OSHA access to employee medical records.
###### Medical records maintained in electronic form.

(n)(1) In general, when accessing and/or copying personally identifiable employee medical information in electronic form, OSHA personnel shall follow all of the requirements set forth in this section.

(2) When personally identifiable employee medical information in electronic form is taken off-site, the Principal OSHA Investigator is primarily responsible for ensuring that such information is properly used and kept secured.

(i) The Principal OSHA Investigator is responsible for preventing any accidental or unintentional disclosure of, modification to, or destruction of personally identifiable employee medical information in electronic form.

(ii) The Principal OSHA Investigator is responsible for controlling the flow of data into, through, and from agency computer operations.

(iii) The Principal OSHA Investigator shall ensure the distribution and review of medical information in electronic form is limited to only those OSHA personnel and contractors with a need for access.

(3) The transfer and/or duplication of medical information in electronic form shall be kept to the minimum necessary to accomplish the purpose for which it was obtained.

(4) Electronic files containing personally identifiable employee medical information shall be downloaded only to a computer hard drive or laptop that is secured in accordance with Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) 201-2 "Personal Identity Verification (PIV) of Federal Employees and Contractors" and "Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12: Policy for a Common Identification Standard for Federal Employees and Contractors (HSPD-12)."

(5) Electronic files containing personally identifiable employee medical information shall not be transferred to authorized personnel through email attachment unless appropriately encrypted.

(6) When an employer or other record holder(s) provides access to employee medical information through a properly encrypted email attachment, the attachment shall be downloaded to a secured hard drive or laptop. After the attachment is downloaded, the email shall be permanently deleted.

(7) Personally identifiable employee medical information in electronic form shall be secured when not in use.

(i) Medical information in electronic form shall only be maintained or stored where facilities and conditions are designed to prevent unauthorized access.

(ii) Personally identifiable employee medical information in electronic form shall be maintained only for so long as needed to accomplish the purpose for access.

(iii) When no longer needed, the Principal OSHA Investigator shall ensure that all personally identifiable employee medical information on electronic files has been deleted, destroyed, or returned to the original record holder.

(iv) The disposal of personally identifiable employee medical information maintained in electronic form shall be accomplished in such a manner as to make the data unattainable by unauthorized personnel.
