
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1913 - RULES OF AGENCY PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE CONCERNING OSHA ACCESS TO EMPLOYEE MEDICAL RECORDS
##### ยง 1913.10 Rules of agency practice and procedure concerning OSHA access to employee medical records.
###### Internal agency use of personally identifiable employee medical information.

(h)(1) The Principal OSHA Investigator shall in each instance of access be primarily responsible for assuring that personally identifiable employee medical information is used and kept secured in accordance with this section.

(2) The Principal OSHA Investigator, the OSHA Medical Records Officer, the Assistant Secretary, and any other authorized person listed on a written access order may permit the examination or use of personally identifiable employee medical information by agency employees and contractors who have a need for access, and appropriate qualifications for the purpose for which they are using the information. No OSHA employee or contractor is authorized to examine or otherwise use personally identifiable employee medical information unless so permitted.

(3) Where a need exists, access to personally identifiable employee medical information may be provided to attorneys in the Office of the Solicitor of Labor, and to agency contractors who are physicians or who have contractually agreed to abide by the requirements of this section and implementing agency directives and instructions.

(4) OSHA employees and contractors are only authorized to use personally identifiable employee medical information for the purposes for which it was obtained, unless the specific written consent of an employee is obtained as to a secondary purpose, or the procedures of paragraphs (d) through (g) of this section are repeated with respect to the secondary purpose.

(5) Whenever practicable, the examination of personally identifiable employee medical information shall be performed on-site with a minimum of medical information taken off-site in a personally identifiable form.
