
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1915 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS FOR SHIPYARD EMPLOYMENT
##### Subpart B - Confined and Enclosed Spaces and Other Dangerous Atmospheres in Shipyard Employment
###### ยง 1915.12 Precautions and the order of testing before entering confined and enclosed spaces and other dangerous atmospheres.
####### Training of employees entering confined and enclosed spaces or other dangerous atmospheres.

(d)(1) The employer shall ensure that each employee that enters a confined or enclosed space and other areas with dangerous atmospheres is trained to perform all required duties safely.

(2) The employer shall ensure that each employee who enters a confined space, enclosed space, or other areas with dangerous atmospheres is trained to:

(i) Recognize the characteristics of the confined space;

(ii) Anticipate and be aware of the hazards that may be faced during entry;

(iii) Recognize the adverse health effects that may be caused by the exposure to a hazard;

(iv) Understand the physical signs and reactions related to exposures to such hazards;

(v) Know what personal protective equipment is needed for safe entry into and exit from the space;

(vi) Use personal protective equipment; and

(vii) Where necessary, be aware of the presence and proper use of barriers that may be needed to protect an entrant from hazards.

(3) The employer shall ensure that each entrant into confined or enclosed spaces or other dangerous atmospheres is trained to exit the space or dangerous atmosphere whenever:

(i) The employer or his or her representative orders evacuation;

(ii) An evacuation signal such as an alarm is activated ; or

(iii) The entrant perceives that he or she is in danger.

(4) The employer shall provide each employee with training:

(i) Before the entrant begins work addressed by this section; and

(ii) Whenever there is a change in operations or in an employee's duties that presents a hazard about which the employee has not previously been trained.

(5) The employer shall certify that the training required by paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(4) of this section has been accomplished.

(i) The certification shall contain the employee's name, the name of the certifier, and the date(s) of the certification.

(ii) The certification shall be available for inspection by the Assistant Secretary, the Director, employees, and their representatives.
