
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1915 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS FOR SHIPYARD EMPLOYMENT
##### Subpart B - Confined and Enclosed Spaces and Other Dangerous Atmospheres in Shipyard Employment
###### ยง 1915.13 Cleaning and other cold work.
####### Requirements for performing cleaning or cold work.

(b)(1) Liquid residues of hazardous materials shall be removed from work spaces as thoroughly as practicable before employees start cleaning operations or cold work in a space. Special care shall be taken to prevent the spilling or the draining of these materials into the water surrounding the vessel, or for shore-side operations, onto the surrounding work area.

(2) Testing shall be conducted by a competent person to determine the concentration of flammable, combustible, toxic, corrosive, or irritant vapors within the space prior to the beginning of cleaning or cold work.

(3) Continuous ventilation shall be provided at volumes and flow rates sufficient to ensure that the concentration(s) of:

(i) Flammable vapor is maintained below 10 percent of the lower explosive limit; and

(ii) Toxic, corrosive, or irritant vapors are maintained within the permissible exposure limits and below IDLH levels.

(4) Testing shall be conducted by the competent person as often as necessary during cleaning or cold work to assure that air concentrations are below 10 percent of the lower explosive limit and within the PELs and below IDLH levels. Factors such as, but not limited to, temperature, volatility of the residues and other existing conditions in and about the spaces are to be considered in determining the frequency of testing necessary to assure a safe atmosphere.

(5) Spills or other releases of flammable, combustible, toxic, corrosive, and irritant materials shall be cleaned up as work progresses.

(6) An employee may not enter a confined or enclosed space or other dangerous atmosphere if the concentration of flammable or combustible vapors in work spaces exceeds 10 percent of the lower explosive limit. Exception: An employee may enter for emergency rescue or for a short duration for installation of ventilation equipment provided:

(i) No ignition sources are present;

(ii) The atmosphere in the space is monitored continuously;

(iii) The atmosphere in the space is maintained above the upper explosive limit; and

(iv) Respiratory protection, personal protective equipment, and clothing are provided in accordance with subpart I of this part.

(7) A competent person shall test ventilation discharge areas and other areas where discharged vapors may collect to determine if vapors discharged from the spaces being ventilated are accumulating in concentrations hazardous to employees.

(8) If the tests required in paragraph (b)(7) of this section indicate that concentrations of exhaust vapors that are hazardous to employees are accumulating, all work in the contaminated area shall be stopped until the vapors have dissipated or been removed.

(9) Only explosion-proof, self-contained portable lamps, or other electric equipment approved by a National Recognized Testing Laboratory (NRTL) for the hazardous location shall be used in spaces described in paragraph (a) of this section until such spaces have been certified as "Safe for Workers."

(10) The employer shall prominently post signs that prohibit sources of ignition within or near a space that has contained flammable or combustible liquids or gases in bulk quantities:

(i) At the entrance to those spaces;

(ii) In adjacent spaces; and

(iii) In the open area adjacent to those spaces.

(11) All air moving equipment and its component parts, including duct work, capable of generating a static electric discharge of sufficient energy to create a source of ignition, shall be bonded electrically to the structure of a vessel or vessel section or, in the case of land-side spaces, grounded to prevent an electric discharge in the space.

(12) Fans shall have non-sparking blades, and portable air ducts shall be of non-sparking materials.
