
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1915 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS FOR SHIPYARD EMPLOYMENT
##### Subpart B - Confined and Enclosed Spaces and Other Dangerous Atmospheres in Shipyard Employment
###### Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 1915 - Compliance Assistance Guidelines for Confined and Enclosed Spaces and Other Dangerous Atmospheres
####### Section 1915.12(b)(3) Flammable atmospheres.

Atmospheres with a concentration of flammable vapors at or above 10 percent of the lower explosive limit (LEL) are considered hazardous when located in confined spaces. However, atmospheres with flammable vapors below 10 percent of the LEL are not necessarily safe.

Such atmospheres are too lean to burn. Nevertheless, when a space contains or produces measurable flammable vapors below the 10 percent LEL, it might indicate that flammable vapors are being released or introduced into the space and could present a hazard in time. Therefore, the cause of the vapors should be investigated and, if possible, eliminated prior to entry.

Some situations that have produced measurable concentrations of flammable vapors that could exceed 10 percent of the LEL in time are:

1. Pipelines that should have been blanked or disconnected have opened, allowing product into the space.

2. The vessel may have shifted, allowing product not previously cleaned and removed during washing to move into other areas of the vessel.

3. Residues may be producing the atmosphere by releasing flammable vapor.
