
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 4 - LABOR STANDARDS FOR FEDERAL SERVICE CONTRACTS
#### Subpart C - Application of the McNamara-O'Hara Service Contract Act
##### Specific Exclusions
###### § 4.117 Work subject to requirements of Walsh-Healey Act.
####### et seq.

(a) The Act, in paragraph (2) of section 7, exempts from its provisions "any work required to be done in accordance with the provision of the Walsh-Healey Public Contracts Act" (49 Stat. 2036, 41 U.S.C. 35). It will be noted that like the similar provision in the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act (40 U.S.C. 329(b)), this is an exemption for "work", i.e., specifications or requirements, rather than for "contracts" subject to the Walsh-Healey Act. The purpose of the exemption was to eliminate possible overlapping of the differing labor standards of the two Acts, which otherwise might be applied to employees performing work on a contract covered by the Service Contract Act if such contract and their work under it should also be deemed to be covered by the Walsh-Healey Act. The Walsh-Healey Act applies to contracts in excess of $10,000 for the manufacture or furnishing of materials, supplies, articles or equipment. Thus, there is no overlap if the principal purpose of the contract is the manufacture or furnishing of such materials etc., rather than the furnishing of services of the character referred to in the Service Contract Act, for such a contract is not within the general coverage of the Service Contract Act. In such cases the exemption in section 7(2) is not pertinent. See, for example, the discussion in §§ 4.131 and 4.132.

(b) Further, contracts principally for remanufacturing of equipment which is so extensive as to be equivalent to manufacturing are subject to the Walsh-Healey Act. Remanufacturing shall be deemed to be manufacturing when the criteria in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section are met.

(1) Major overhaul of an item, piece of equipment, or materiel which is degraded or inoperable, and under which all of the following conditions exist:

(i) The item or equipment is required to be completely or substantially torn down into individual components parts; and

(ii) Substantially all of the parts are reworked, rehabilitated, altered and/or replaced; and

(iii) The parts are reassembled so as to furnish a totally rebuilt item or piece of equipment; and

(iv) Manufacturing processes similar to those which were used in the manufacturing of the item or piece of equipment are utilized; and

(v) The disassembled componets, if usable (except for situations where the number of items or pieces of equipment involved are too few to make it practicable) are commingled with existing inventory and, as such, lose their identification with respect to a particular piece of equipment; and

(vi) The items or equipment overhauled are restored to original life expectancy, or nearly so; and

(vii) Such work is performed in a facility owned or operated by the contractor.

(2) Major modification of an item, piece of equipment, or materiel which is wholly or partially obsolete, and under which all of the following conditions exist:

(i) The item or equipment is required to be completely or substantially torn down; and

(ii) Outmoded parts are replaced; and

(iii) The item or equipment is rebuilt or reassembled; and

(iv) The contract work results in the furnishing of a substantially modified item in a usable and serviceable condition; and

(v) The work is performed in a facility owned or operated by the contractor.

(3) Remanufacturing does not include the repair of damaged or broken equipment which does not require a complete teardown, overhaul, and rebuild as described in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, or the periodic and routine maintenance, preservation, care, adjustment, upkeep, or servicing of equipment to keep it in usable, serviceable, working order. Such contracts typically are billed on an hourly rate (labor plus materials and parts) basis. Any contract principally for the work described in this paragraph (b)(3) is subject to the Service Contract Act. Examples of such work include:

(i) Repair of an automobile, truck, or other vehicle, construction equipment, tractor, crane, aerospace, air conditioning and refrigeration equipment, electric motors, and ground powered industrial or vehicular equipment;

(ii) Repair of typewriters and other office equipment (see § 4.123(e));

(iii) Repair of appliances, radios television, calculators, and other electronic equipment;

(iv) Inspecting, testing, calibration, painting, packaging, lubrication, tune-up, or replacement of internal parts of equipment listed in paragraphs (b)(3)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section; and

(v) Reupholstering, reconditioning, repair, and refinishing of furniture.

(4) Application of the Service Contract Act or the Walsh-Healey Act to any similar type of contract not decided above will be decided on a case-by-case basis by the Administrator.
