
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1915 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS FOR SHIPYARD EMPLOYMENT
##### Subpart C - Surface Preparation and Preservation
###### ยง 1915.35 Painting.
####### Paints mixed with toxic vehicles or solvents.

(a)(1) When paints mixed with toxic vehicles or solvents are sprayed, the following conditions shall apply:

(i) In confined spaces, employees continuously exposed to such spraying shall be protected by air line respirators in accordance with the requirements of subpart I of this part.

(ii) In tanks or compartments, employees continuously exposed to such spraying shall be protected by air line respirators in accordance with the requirements of subpart I. Where mechanical ventilation is provided, employees shall be protected by respirators in accordance with the requirements of subpart I of this part.

(iii) In large and well ventilated areas, employees exposed to such spraying shall be protected by respirators in accordance with the requirements of subpart I of this part.

(2) Where brush application of paints with toxic solvents is done in confined spaces or in other areas where lack of ventilation creates a hazard, employees shall be protected by filter respirators in accordance with the requirements of subpart I of this part.

(3) When flammable paints or vehicles are used, precautions shall be taken in accordance with the requirements of ยง 1915.36.

(4) The metallic parts of air moving devices, including fans, blowers, and jet-type air movers, and all duct work shall be electrically bonded to the vessel's structure.
