
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1915 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS FOR SHIPYARD EMPLOYMENT
##### Subpart C - Surface Preparation and Preservation
###### ยง 1915.36 Flammable liquids.

(a) In all cases when liquid solvents, paint and preservative removers, paints or vehicles, other than those covered by ยง 1915.35(b), are capable of producing a flammable atmosphere under the conditions of use, the following precautions shall be taken:

(1) Smoking, open flames, arcs and spark-producing equipment shall be prohibited in the area.

(2) Ventilation shall be provided in sufficient quantities to keep the concentration of vapors below ten (10) percent of their lower explosive limit. Frequent tests shall be made by a competent person to ascertain the concentration.

(3) Scrapings and rags soaked with these materials shall be kept in a covered metal container.

(4) Only explosion proof lights, approved by the Underwriters' Laboratories for use in Class I, Group D atmospheres, or approved as permissible by the Mine Safety and Health Administration or the U.S. Coast Guard, shall be used.

(5) A competent person shall inspect all power and lighting cables to ensure that the insulation is in excellent condition, free of all cracks and worn spots, that there are no connections within fifty (50) feet of the operation, that lines are not overloaded, and that they are suspended with sufficient slack to prevent undue stress or chafing.

(6) Suitable fire extinguishing equipment shall be immediately available in the work area and shall be maintained in a state of readiness for instant use.
