
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1915 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS FOR SHIPYARD EMPLOYMENT
##### Subpart D - Welding, Cutting and Heating
###### ยง 1915.51 Ventilation and protection in welding, cutting and heating.
####### Welding, cutting or heating of metals of toxic significance.

(d)(1) Welding, cutting or heating in any enclosed spaces aboard the vessel involving the metals specified below shall be performed with either general mechanical or local exhaust ventilation meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section:

(i) Zinc-bearing base or filler metals or metals coated with zinc-bearing materials.

(ii) Lead base metals.

(iii) Cadmium-bearing filler materials.

(iv) Chromium-bearing metals or metals coated with chromium-bearing materials.

(2) Welding, cutting or heating in any enclosed spaces aboard the vessel involving the metals specified below shall be performed with local exhaust ventilation in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section or employees shall be protected by air line respirators in accordance with the requirements of ยง 1915.154:

(i) Metals containing lead, other than as an impurity, or metals coated with lead-bearing materials.

(ii) Cadmium-bearing or cadmium coated base metals.

(iii) Metals coated with mercury-bearing metals.

(iv) Beryllium-containing base or filler metals. Because of its high toxicity, work involving beryllium shall be done with both local exhaust ventilation and air line respirators.

(3) Employees performing such operations in the open air shall be protected by filter type respirators, and employees performing such operations on beryllium-containing base or filler metals shall be protected by air line respirators, in accordance with the requirements of ยง 1915.154.

(4) Other employees exposed to the same atmosphere as the welders or burners shall be protected in the same manner as the welder or burner.
