
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1915 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS FOR SHIPYARD EMPLOYMENT
##### Subpart E - Scaffolds, Ladders and Other Working Surfaces
###### ยง 1915.71 Scaffolds or staging.
####### Independent pole wood scaffolds.

(c)(1) All pole uprights shall be set plump. Poles shall rest on a foundation of sufficient size and strength to distribute the loan and to prevent displacement.

(2) In light-duty scaffolds, not more than 24 feet in height, poles may be spliced by overlapping the ends not less than 4 feet and securely nailing them together. A substantial cleat shall be nailed to the lower section to form a support for the upper section except when bolted connections are used.

(3) All other poles to be spliced shall be squared at the ends of each splice, abutted, and rigidly fastened together by not less than two cleats securely nailed or bolted thereto. Each cleat shall overlap each pole end by at least 24 inches and shall have a width equal to the face of the pole to which it is attached. The combined cross sectional area of the cleats shall be not less than the cross sectional area of the pole.

(4) Ledgers shall extend over two consecutive pole spaces and shall overlap the poles at each end by not less than 4 inches. They shall be left in position to brace the poles as the platform is raised with the progress of the work. Ledgers shall be level and shall be securely nailed or bolted to each pole and shall be placed against the inside face of each pole.

(5) All bearers shall be set with their greater dimension vertical and shall extend beyond the ledgers upon which they rest.

(6) Diagonal bracing shall be provided between the parallel poles, and cross bracing shall be provided between the inner and outer poles or from the outer poles to the ground.

(7) Minimum dimensions and spacing of members shall be in accordance with Table E-1 in ยง 1915.118.

(8) Platform planking shall be in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (i) of this section.

(9) Backrails and toeboards shall be in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (j) of this section.
