
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1915 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS FOR SHIPYARD EMPLOYMENT
##### Subpart E - Scaffolds, Ladders and Other Working Surfaces
###### ยง 1915.71 Scaffolds or staging.
####### Wood trestle and extension trestle ladders.

(e)(1) The use of trestle ladders, or extension sections or base sections of extension trestle ladders longer than 20 feet is prohibited. The total height of base and extension may, however, be more than 20 feet.

(2) The minimum dimensions of the side rails of the trestle ladder, or the base sections of the extension trestle ladder, shall be as follows:

(i) Ladders up to and including those 16 feet long shall have side rails of not less than 1x 2inch lumber.

(ii) Ladders over 16 feet long and up to and including those 20 feet long shall have side rails of not less than 1x 3 inch lumber.

(3) The side rails of the extension section of the extension trestle ladder shall be parallel and shall have minimum dimensions as follows:

(i) Ladders up to and including 12 feet long shall have side rails of not less than 1x 2inch lumber.

(ii) Ladders over 12 feet long and up to and including those 16 feet long shall have side rails of not less than 1x 2inch lumber.

(iii) Ladders over 16 feet long and up to and including those 20 feet long shall have side rails of not less than 1x 2inch lumber.

(4) Trestle ladders and base sections of extension trestle ladders shall be so spread that when in an open position the spread of the trestle at the bottom, inside to inside, shall be not less than 5inches per foot of the length of the ladder.

(5) The width between the side rails at the bottom of the trestle ladder or of the base section of the extension trestle ladder shall be not less than 21 inches for all ladders and sections 6 feet or less in length. For longer lengths of ladder, the width shall be increased at least 1 inch for each additional foot of length. The width between the side rails of the extension section of the trestle ladder shall be not less than 12 inches.

(6) In order to limit spreading, the top ends of the side rails of both the trestle ladder and of the base section of the extension trestle ladder shall be beveled, or of equivalent construction, and shall be provided with a metal hinge.

(7) A metal spreader or locking device to hold the front and back sections in an open position, and to hold the extension section securely in the elevated position, shall be a component of each trestle ladder or extension ladder.

(8) Rungs shall be parallel and level. On the trestle ladder, or on the base section of the extension trestle ladder, rungs shall be spaced not less than 8 inches nor more than 18 inches apart; on the extension section of the extension trestle ladder, rungs shall be spaced not less than 6 inches nor more than 12 inches apart.

(9) Platform planking shall be in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (i) of this section, except that the width of the platform planking shall not exceed the distance between the side rails.

(10) Backrails and toeboards shall be in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (j) of this section.
