
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1915 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS FOR SHIPYARD EMPLOYMENT
##### Subpart E - Scaffolds, Ladders and Other Working Surfaces
###### ยง 1915.72 Ladders.
####### Construction of portable wood cleated ladders up to 30 feet in length.

(b)(1) Wood side rails shall be made from West Coast hemlock, Eastern spruce, Sitka spruce, or wood of equivalent strength. Material shall be seasoned, straight-grained wood, and free from shakes, checks, decay or other defects which will impair its strength. The use of low density woods is prohibited.

(2) Side rails shall be dressed on all sides and kept free of splinters.

(3) All knots shall be sound and hard. The use of material containing loose knots is prohibited. Knots shall not appear on the narrow face of the rail and, when in the side face, shall be not more thaninch in diameter or withininch of the edge of the rail or nearer than 3 inches to a tread or rung.

(4) Pitch pockets not exceedinginch in width, 2 inches in length andinch in depth are permissible in wood side rails, provided that not more than one such pocket appears in each 4 feet of length.

(5) The width between side rails at the base shall be not less than 11inches for ladders 10 feet or less in length. For longer ladders this width shall be increased at leastinch for each additional 2 feet in length.

(6) Side rails shall be at least 1x 3inches in cross section.

(7) Cleats (meaning rungs rectangular in cross section with the wide dimension parallel to the rails) shall be of the material used for side rails, straight-grained and free from knots. Cleats shall be mortised into the edges of the side railsinch, or filler blocks shall be used on the rails between the cleats. The cleats shall be secured to each rail with three 10d common wire nails or fastened with through bolts or other fasteners of equivalent strength. Cleats shall be uniformly spaced not more than 12 inches apart.

(8) Cleats 20 inches or less in length shall be at least 25/32 x 3 inches in cross section. Cleats over 20 inches but not more than 30 inches in length shall be at least 25/32 x 3inches in cross section.
