
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1915 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS FOR SHIPYARD EMPLOYMENT
##### Subpart E - Scaffolds, Ladders and Other Working Surfaces
###### ยง 1915.71 Scaffolds or staging.
####### Painters' suspended scaffolds.

(f)(1) The supporting hooks of swinging scaffolds shall be constructed to be equivalent in strength to mild steel or wrought iron, shall be forged with care, shall be not less thaninch in diameter, and shall be secured to a safe anchorage at all times.

(2) The ropes supporting a swinging scaffold shall be equivalent in strength to first-gradeinch diameter manila rope properly rigged into a set of standard 6 inch blocks consisting of at least one double and one single block.

(3) Manila and wire ropes shall be carefully examined before each operation and thereafter as frequently as may be necessary to ensure their safe condition.

(4) Each end of the scaffold platform shall be supported by a wrought iron or mild steel stirrup or hanger, which in turn is supported by the suspension ropes.

(5) Stirrups shall be constructed so as to be equivalent in strength to wrought ironinch in diameter.

(6) The stirrups shall be formed with a horizontal bottom member to support the platform, shall be provided with means to support the guardrail and midrail and shall have a loop or eye at the top for securing the supporting hook on the block.

(7) Two or more swinging scaffolds shall not at any time be combined into one by bridging the distance between them with planks or any other form of platform.

(8) No more than two persons shall be permitted to work at one time on a swinging scaffold built to the minimum specifications contained in this paragraph. Where heavier construction is used, the number of persons permitted to work on the scaffold shall be determined by the size and the safe working load of the scaffold.

(9) Backrails and toeboards shall be in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (j) of this section.

(10) The swinging scaffold platform shall be one of the three types described in paragraphs (f)(11), (12), and (13) of this section.

(11) The ladder-type platform consists of boards upon a horizontal ladder-like structure, referred to herein as the ladder, the side rails of which are parallel. If this type of platform is used the following requirements shall be met.

(i) The width between the side rails shall be no more than 20 inches.

(ii) The side rails of ladders in ladder-type platforms shall be equivalent in strength to a beam of clear straight-grained spruce of the dimensions contained in Table E-2 in ยง 1915.118.

(iii) The side rails shall be tied together with tie rods. The tie rods shall be not less thaninch in diameter, located no more than 5 feet apart, pass through the rails, and be riveted up tight against washers at both ends.

(iv) The rungs shall be of straight-grained oak, ash, or hickory, not less than 1inches diameter, withinch tenons mortised into the side rails not less thaninch and shall be spaced no more than 18 inches on centers.

(v) Flooring strips shall be spaced no more thaninch apart except at the side rails, where 1 inch spacing is permissible.

(vi) Flooring strips shall be cleated on their undersides.

(12) The plank-type platform consists of planks supported on the stirrups or hangers. If this type of platform is used, the following requirements shall be met:

(i) The planks of plank-type platforms shall be of not less than 2 x 10 inch lumber.

(ii) The platform shall be no more than 24 inches in width.

(iii) The planks shall be tied together by cleats of not less than 1 x 6 inch lumber, nailed on their undersides at intervals of not more than 4 feet.

(iv) The planks shall extend not less than 6 inches nor more than 18 inches beyond the supporting stirrups.

(v) A cleat shall be nailed across the platform on the underside at each end outside the stirrup to prevent the platform from slipping off the stirrup.

(vi) Stirrup supports shall be not more than 10 feet apart.

(13) The beam-type platform consists of longitudinal side stringers with cross beams set on edge and spaced not more than 4 feet apart on which longitudinal platform planks are laid. If this type platform is used, the following requirements shall be met:

(i) The side stringers shall be of sound, straight-grained lumber, free from knots, and of not less than 2 x 6 inch lumber, set on edge.

(ii) The stringers shall be supported on the stirrups with a clear span between stirrups of not more than 16 feet.

(iii) The stringers shall be bolted to the stirrups by U-bolts passing around the stirrups and bolted through the stringers with nuts drawn up tight on the inside face.

(iv) The ends of the stringers shall extend beyond the stirrups not less than 6 inches nor more than 12 inches at each end of the platform.

(v) The platform shall be supported on cross beams of 2 x 6 inch lumber between the side stringers securely nailed thereto and spaced not more than 4 feet on centers.

(vi) The platform shall be not more than 24 inches wide.

(vii) The platform shall be formed of boardsinch in thickness by not less than 6 inches in width, nailed tightly together, and extending to the outside face of the stringers.

(viii) The ends of all platform boards shall rest on the top of the cross beams, shall be securely nailed, and at no intermediate points in the length of the platform shall there be any cantilever ends.
