
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1915 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS FOR SHIPYARD EMPLOYMENT
##### Subpart F - General Working Conditions
###### ยง 1915.89 Control of hazardous energy (lockout/tags-plus).
####### Lockout/tags-plus coordination.

(7)(i) The employer shall establish and implement lockout/tags-plus coordination when:

(A) Employees on vessels and in vessel sections are servicing multiple machinery, equipment, or systems at the same time; or

(B) Employees on vessels, in vessel sections, and at landside facilities are performing multiple servicing operations on the same machinery, equipment, or system at the same time.

(ii) The coordination process shall include a lockout/tags-plus coordinator and a lockout/tags-plus log. Each log shall be specific to each vessel, vessel section, and landside work area.

(iii) The employer shall designate a lockout/tags-plus coordinator who is responsible for overseeing and approving:

(A) The application of each lockout and tags-plus system;

(B) The verification of hazardous-energy isolation before the servicing of any machinery, equipment, or system begins; and

(C) The removal of each lockout and tags-plus system.

(iv) The employer shall ensure that the lockout/tags-plus coordinator maintains and administers a continuous log of each lockout and tags-plus system. The log shall contain:

(A) Location of machinery, equipment, or system to be serviced;

(B) Type of machinery, equipment, or system to be serviced;

(C) Name of the authorized employee applying the lockout/tags-plus system;

(D) Date that the lockout/tags-plus system is applied;

(E) Name of authorized employee removing the lock or tags-plus system; and

(F) Date that lockout/tags-plus system is removed.
