
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1915 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS FOR SHIPYARD EMPLOYMENT
##### Subpart F - General Working Conditions
###### ยง 1915.89 Control of hazardous energy (lockout/tags-plus).
####### Incident investigation.

(p)(1) The employer shall investigate each incident that resulted in, or could reasonably have resulted in, energization or startup, or the release of hazardous energy, while servicing machinery, equipment, or systems.

(2) Promptly but not later than 24 hours following the incident, the employer shall initiate an incident investigation and notify each employee who was, or could reasonably have been, affected by the incident.

(3) The employer shall ensure that the incident investigation is conducted by at least one employee who has the knowledge of, and experience in, the employer's lockout/tags-plus program and procedures, and in investigating and analyzing incidents involving the release of hazardous energy. The employer may also use additional individuals to participate in investigating the incident.

(4) The employer shall ensure that the individual(s) conducting the investigation prepare(s) a written report of the investigation that includes:

(i) The date and time of the incident;

(ii) The date and time the incident investigation began;

(iii) Location of the incident;

(iv) A description of the incident;

(v) The factors that contributed to the incident;

(vi) A copy of any lockout/tags-plus log that was current at the time of the incident; and

(vii) Any corrective actions that need to be taken as a result of the incident.

(5) The employer shall review the written incident report with each employee whose job tasks are relevant to the incident investigation findings, including contract employees when applicable.

(6) The employer shall ensure that the incident investigation and written report are completed, and all corrective actions implemented, within 30 days following the incident.

(7) If the employer demonstrates that it is infeasible to implement all of the corrective actions within 30 days, the employer shall prepare a written abatement plan that contains an explanation of the circumstances causing the delay, a proposed timetable for the abatement, and a summary of the steps the employer is taking in the interim to protect employees from hazardous energy while servicing machinery, equipment, or systems.
