
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1915 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS FOR SHIPYARD EMPLOYMENT
##### Subpart H - Tools and Related Equipment
###### ยง 1915.131 General precautions.

The provisions of this section shall apply to ship repairing, shipbuilding and shipbreaking.

(a) Hand lines, slings, tackles of adequate strength, or carriers such as tool bags with shoulder straps shall be provided and used to handle tools, materials, and equipment so that employees will have their hands free when using ship's ladders and access ladders. The use of hose or electric cords for this purpose is prohibited.

(b) When air tools of the reciprocating type are not in use, the dies and tools shall be removed.

(c) All portable, power-driven circular saws shall be equipped with guards above and below the base plate or shoe. The upper guard shall cover the saw to the depth of the teeth, except for the minimum arc required to permit the base to be tilted for bevel cuts. The lower guard shall cover the saw to the depth of the teeth, except for the minimum arc required to allow proper retraction and contact with the work. When the tool is withdrawn from the work, the lower guard shall automatically and instantly return to the covering position.

(d) The moving parts of machinery on a dry dock shall be guarded.

(e) Before use, pneumatic tools shall be secured to the extension hose or whip by some positive means to prevent the tool from becoming accidentally disconnected from the whip.

(f) The moving parts of drive mechanisms, such as gearing and belting on large portable tools, shall be adequately guarded.

(g) Headers, manifolds and widely spaced hose connections on compressed air lines shall bear the word "air" in letters at least 1-inch high, which shall be painted either on the manifolds or separate hose connections, or on signs permanently attached to the manifolds or connections. Grouped air connections may be marked in one location.

(h) Before use, compressed air hose shall be examined. Visibly damaged and unsafe hose shall not be used.
