
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1915 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS FOR SHIPYARD EMPLOYMENT
##### Subpart H - Tools and Related Equipment
###### ยง 1915.135 Powder actuated fastening tools.
####### Instruction of operators.

(c)Before employees are permitted to use powder actuated tools, they shall have been thoroughly instructed by a competent person with respect to the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section and the safe use of such tools as follows:

(1) Before using a tool, the operator shall inspect it to determine that it is clean, that all moving parts operate freely and that the barrel is free from obstructions.

(2) When a tool develops a defect during use, the operator shall immediately cease to use it and shall notify his supervisor.

(3) Tools shall not be loaded until just prior to the intended firing time and the tool shall not be left unattended while loaded.

(4) The tool, whether loaded or empty, shall not be pointed at any person, and hands shall be kept clear of the open barrel end.

(5) In case of a misfire, the operator shall hold the tool in the operating position for at least 15 seconds and shall continue to hold the muzzle against the work surface during disassembly or opening of the tool and removal of the powder load.

(6) Neither tools nor powder charges shall be left unattended in places where they would be available to unauthorized persons.
