
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1915 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS FOR SHIPYARD EMPLOYMENT
##### Subpart G - Gear and Equipment for Rigging and Materials Handling
###### ยง 1915.116 Use of gear.

(a) The provisions of this section shall apply to ship repairing, shipbuilding and shipbreaking except that paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section shall apply to ship repairing and shipbuilding only.

(b) Loads shall be safely rigged before being hoisted.

(c) Plates shall be handled on and off hulls by means of shackles whenever possible. Clips or pads of ample size shall be welded to the plate to receive the shackle pins when there are no holes in the plate. When it is not possible to make holes in or to weld pads to the plate, alligator tongs, grab clamps or screw clamps may be used. In such cases special precautions shall be taken to keep employees from under such lifts.

(d) Tag lines shall be provided on loads likely to swing or to need guidance.

(e) When slings are secured to eye-bolts, the slings shall be so arranged, using spreaders if necessary, that the pull is within 20 degrees of the axis of the bolt.

(f) Slings shall be padded by means of wood blocks or other suitable material where they pass over sharpe edges or corners of loads so as to prevent cutting or kinking.

(g) Skips shall be rigged to be handled by not less than 3 legged bridles, and all legs shall always be used. When open end skips are used, means shall be taken to prevent the contents from falling.

(h) Loose ends of idle legs of slings in use shall be hung on the hook.

(i) Employees shall not be permitted to ride the hook or the load.

(j) Loads (tools, equipment or other materials) shall not be swung or suspended over the heads of employees.

(k) Pieces of equipment or structure susceptible to falling or dislodgement shall be secured or removed as early as possible.

(l) An individual who is familiar with the signal code in use shall be assigned to act as a signalman when the hoist operator cannot see the load being handled. Communications shall be made by means of clear and distinct visual or auditory signals except that verbal signals shall not be permitted.

(m) Pallets, when used, shall be of such material and contruction and so maintained as to safely support and carry the loads being handled on them.

(n) A section of hatch through which materials or equipment are being raised, lowered, moved, or otherwise shifted manually or by a crane, winch, hoist, or derrick, shall be completely opened. The beam or pontoon left in place adjacent to an opening shall be sufficiently lashed, locked or otherwise secured to prevent it from moving so that it cannot be displaced by accident.

(o) Hatches shall not be open or closed while employees are in the square of the hatch below.

(p) Before loads or empty lifting gear are raised, lowered, or swung, clear and sufficient advance warning shall be given to employees in the vincinity of such operations.

(q) At no time shall an employee be permitted to place himself in a hazardous position between a swinging load and a fixed object.
