
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1915 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS FOR SHIPYARD EMPLOYMENT
##### Subpart H - Tools and Related Equipment
###### ยง 1915.135 Powder actuated fastening tools.
####### General precautions.

(b)(1) Powder actuated fastening tools shall be tested each day before loading to ensure that the safety devices are in proper working condition. Any tool found not to be in proper working order shall be immediately removed from service until repairs are made.

(2) Powder actuated fastening tools shall not be used in an explosive or flammable atmosphere.

(3) All tools shall be used with the type of shield or muzzle guard appropriate for a particular use.

(4) Fasteners shall not be driven into very hard or brittle materials such as cast iron, glazed tile, surface hardened steel, glass block, live rock, face brick or hollow title.

(5) Fasteners shall not be driven into soft materials unless such materials are backed by a substance that will prevent the pin or fastener from passing completely through and creating a flying missile hazard on the opposite side.

(6) Unless a special guard, fixture or jig is used, fasteners shall not be driven directly into materials such as brick or concrete within 3 inches of the unsupported edge or corner, or into steel surfaces withininch of the unsupported edge or corner. When fastening other material, such as 2 x 4 inch lumber to a concrete surface, fasteners of greater thaninch shank diameter shall not be used and fasteners shall not be driven within 2 inches of the unsupported edge or corner of the work surface.

(7) Fasteners shall not be driven through existing holes unless a positive guide is used to secure accurate alignment.

(8) No attempt shall be made to drive a fastener into a spalled area caused by an unsatisfactory fastening.

(9) Employees using powder actuated fastening tools shall be protected by personal protective equipment in accordance with the requirements of subpart I of this part.
