
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1915 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS FOR SHIPYARD EMPLOYMENT
##### Subpart I - Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)
###### ยง 1915.159 Personal fall arrest systems (PFAS).
####### Criteria for selection, use and care of systems and system components.

(c)(1) Lanyards shall be attached to employees using personal fall arrest systems, as follows:

(i) The attachment point of a body harness shall be located in the center of the wearer's back near the shoulder level, or above the wearer's head. If the free fall distance is limited to less than 20 inches (50.8 cm), the attachment point may be located in the chest position; and

(ii) The attachment point of a body belt shall be located in the center of the wearer's back.

(2) Ropes and straps (webbing) used in lanyards, lifelines and strength components of body belts and body harnesses shall be made from synthetic fibers or wire rope.

(3) Ropes, belts, harnesses, and lanyards shall be compatible with their hardware.

(4) Lifelines and lanyards shall be protected against cuts, abrasions, burns from hot work operations and deterioration by acids, solvents, and other chemicals.

(5) Personal fall arrest systems shall be inspected prior to each use for mildew, wear, damage, and other deterioration. Defective components shall be removed from service.

(6) Personal fall arrest systems and components subjected to impact loading shall be immediately removed from service and shall not be used again for employee protection until inspected and determined by a qualified person to be undamaged and suitable for reuse.

(7) The employer shall provide for prompt rescue of employees in the event of a fall or shall ensure that employees are able to rescue themselves.

(8) Body belts shall be at least one and five-eighths inches (4.13 cm) wide.

(9) Personal fall arrest systems and components shall be used only for employee fall protection and not to hoist materials.
