
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1915 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS FOR SHIPYARD EMPLOYMENT
##### Subpart I - Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)
###### ยง 1915.159 Personal fall arrest systems (PFAS).
####### Criteria for lifelines, lanyards, and personal fall arrest systems.

(b)(1) When vertical lifelines are used, each employee shall be provided with a separate lifeline.

(2) Vertical lifelines and lanyards shall have a minimum tensile strength of 5,000 pounds (22.24 Kn).

(3) Self-retracting lifelines and lanyards that automatically limit free fall distances to 2 feet (0.61 m) or less shall be capable of sustaining a minimum tensile load of 3,000 pounds (13.34 Kn) applied to a self-retracting lifeline or lanyard with the lifeline or lanyard in the fully extended position.

(4) Self-retracting lifelines and lanyards which do not limit free fall distance to 2 feet (0.61 m) or less, ripstitch lanyards and tearing and deforming lanyards shall be capable of sustaining a minimum static tensile load of 5,000 pounds (22.24 Kn) applied to the device when they are in the fully extended position.

(5) Horizontal lifelines shall be designed, installed, and used under the supervision of a qualified person, and shall only be used as part of a complete personal fall arrest system that maintains a safety factor of at least two.

(6) Effective November 20, 1996, personal fall arrest systems shall:

(i) Limit the maximum arresting force on a falling employee to 900 pounds (4 Kn) when used with a body belt;

(ii) Limit the maximum arresting force on a falling employee to 1,800 pounds (8 Kn) when used with a body harness;

(iii) Bring a falling employee to a complete stop and limit the maximum deceleration distance an employee travels to 3.5 feet (1.07 m), and

(iv) Have sufficient strength to withstand twice the potential impact energy of an employee free falling a distance of 6 feet (1.83 m), or the free fall distance permitted by the system, whichever is less;

(7) Personal fall arrest systems shall be rigged such that an employee can neither free fall more than 6 feet (1.83 m) nor contact any lower level.
