
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1915 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS FOR SHIPYARD EMPLOYMENT
##### Subpart K - Portable, Unfired Pressure Vessels, Drums and Containers, Other Than Ship's Equipment
###### ยง 1915.172 Portable air receivers and other unfired pressure vessels.

(a) Portable, unfired pressure vessels, built after the effective date of this regulation, shall be marked and reported indicating that they have been designed and constructed to meet the standards of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section VIII, Rules for Construction of Unfired Pressure Vessels, 1963. They shall be subjected to a hydrostatic pressure test of one and one-half times the working pressure of the vessels.

(b) Portable, unfired pressure vessels, not built to the code requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, and built prior to the effective date of this regulation, shall be examined quarterly by a competent person. They shall be subjected yearly to a hydrostatic pressure test of one and one-half times the working pressure of the vessels.

(c) The relief valves on the portable, unfired pressure vessels in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall be set to the safe working pressure of the vessels, or set to the lowest safe working pressure of the systems, whichever is lower.

(d) A certification record of such examinations and tests made in compliance with the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall be maintained. The certification record shall include the date of examinations and tests, the signature of the person who performed the examinations or tests and the serial number, or other identifier, of the equipment examined and tested.
