
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1915 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS FOR SHIPYARD EMPLOYMENT
##### Subpart P - Fire Protection in Shipyard Employment
###### Appendix A to Subpart P of Part 1915 - Model Fire Safety Plan (Non-Mandatory)

The purpose of this fire safety plan is to inform our employees of how we will control and reduce the possibility of fire in the workplace and to specify what equipment employees may use in case of fire.

A. Measures to contain fires.

B. Teaching selected employees how to use fire protection equipment.

C. What to do if you discover a fire.

D. Potential ignition sources for fires and how to control them.

E. Types of fire protection equipment and systems that can control a fire.

F. The level of firefighting capability present in the facility, vessel, or vessel section.

G. Description of the personnel responsible for maintaining equipment, alarms, and systems that are installed to prevent or control fire ignition sources, and to control fuel source hazards.

A. A demonstration of alarm procedures, if more than one type exists.

B. The work site emergency alarm system.

C. Procedures for reporting fires.

A. Emergency escape procedures and route assignments.

B. Procedures to account for all employees after completing an emergency evacuation.

C. What type of evacuation is needed and what the employee's role is in carrying out the plan.

D. Helping physically impaired employees.

Names, job titles, or departments of individuals who can be contacted for further information about this plan.
