
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1915 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS FOR SHIPYARD EMPLOYMENT
##### Subpart Z - Toxic and Hazardous Substances
###### ยง 1915.1001 Asbestos.
####### Signs.

(8)(i) Warning signs that demarcate the regulated area shall be provided and displayed at each location where a regulated area is required to be established by paragraph (e) of this section. Signs shall be posted at such a distance from such a location that an employee may read the signs and take necessary protective steps before entering the area marked by the signs.

(ii) The warning signs required by this paragraph (k)(8) shall bear the following legend:

(iii) In addition, where the use of respirators and protective clothing is required in the regulated area under this section, the warning signs shall include the following:

(iv) The employer shall ensure that employees working in and contiguous to regulated areas comprehend the warning signs required to be posted by paragraph (k)(8) of this section. Means to ensure employee comprehension may include the use of foreign languages, pictographs, and graphics.

(v) When a building/vessel owner or employer identifies previously installed PACM and/or ACM, labels or signs shall be affixed or posted so that employees will be notified of what materials contain PACM and/or ACM. The employer shall attach such labels in areas where they will clearly be noticed by employees who are likely to be exposed, such as at the entrance to mechanical room/areas. Signs required by paragraph (k)(6) of this section may be posted in lieu of labels, so long as they contain information required for labeling. The employer shall ensure, to the extent feasible, that employees who come in contact with these signs or labels can comprehend them. Means to ensure employee comprehension may include the use of foreign languages, pictographs, graphics, and awareness training.

(vi) Prior to June 1, 2016, employers may use the following legend in lieu of that specified in paragraph (k)(8)(ii) of this section:

(vii) Prior to June 1, 2016, employers may use the following legend in lieu of that specified in paragraph (k)(8)(iii) of this section:
