
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1917 - MARINE TERMINALS
##### Subpart B - Marine Terminal Operations
###### ยง 1917.17 Railroad facilities.

(a) Work shall be performed in railcars only if floors of the railcars are in visibly safe condition for the work activity being conducted and equipment being used.

(b) A route shall be established to allow employees to pass to and from places of employment without passing under, over or through railcars, or between cars less than 10 feet (3 m) apart on the same track.

(c) The employer shall direct that no employees remain in railcars after work is concluded.

(d) Railcars shall be chocked or otherwise prevented from moving:

(1) While dockboards or carplates are in position; or

(2) While employees are working within, on or under the railcars or near the tracks at the ends of the cars.

(e) When employees are working in, on, or under a railcar, positive means shall be taken to protect them from exposure to impact from moving railcars.

(f) Before cars are moved, unsecured and overhanging stakes, wire straps, banding and similar objects shall be removed or placed so as not to create hazards.

(g) The employer shall institute all necessary controls during railcar movement to safeguard personnel. If winches or capstans are employed for movement, employees shall stand clear of the hauling rope and shall not stand between the rope and the cars.

(h) Before being opened fully, doors shall be opened slightly to ensure that the load has not shifted during transit. Special precautions shall be taken if the doors being opened are visibly damaged.

(i) If powered industrial trucks are used to open railcar doors, the trucks or the railcar doors shall be equipped with door opening attachments. Employees shall stand clear of the railcar doors while they are being opened and closed.

(j) Only railcar door openers or powered industrial trucks equipped with door opening attachments shall be used to open jammed doors.

(k) Employees shall not remain in or on gondolas or flat cars when drafts that create overhead, caught-in, caught-between or struck-by hazards are being landed in or on the railcar; end gates, if raised, shall be secured.

(l) Operators of railcar dumps shall have an unrestricted view of dumping operations and shall have emergency means of stopping movement.

(m) Recessed railroad switches shall be enclosed to provide a level surface.

(n) Warning signs shall be posted where doorways open onto tracks, at blind corners and at similar places where vision may be restricted.

(o) Warning signs shall be posted if insufficient clearance for personnel exists between railcars and structures.
