
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1917 - MARINE TERMINALS
##### Subpart C - Cargo Handling Gear and Equipment
###### ยง 1917.43 Powered industrial trucks.
####### General.

(b)(1) After October 3, 1983, modifications, such as adding counterweights, that might affect the vehicle's capacity or safety shall not be performed without either the manufacturer's prior written approval or the written approval of a professional engineer experienced with the equipment who has consulted with the manufacturer, if available. Capacity, operation and maintenance instruction plates, tags or decals shall be changed to conform to the equipment as modified.

(2) Unauthorized personnel shall not ride on powered industrial trucks. A safe place to ride shall be provided when riding is authorized.

(3) When a powered industrial truck is left unattended, load-engaging means shall be fully lowered, controls neutralized and brakes set. Unless the truck is in view and within 25 feet (7.62 m) of the operator, power shall be shut off. Wheels shall be blocked or curbed if the truck is on an incline.

(4) Powered industrial trucks shall not be operated inside highway vehicles or railcars having damage which could affect operational safety.

(5) Powered industrial trucks shall be marked with their rated capacities, which shall be visible to the operator.

(6) Only stable and safely arranged loads within the rated capacity of the truck shall be handled.

(7) The employer shall direct drivers to ascend and descend grades slowly.

(8) The employer shall direct drivers to slow down and sound the horn at crossaisles and other locations where visibility is obstructed.

(9) If the load obstructs the forward view, the employer shall direct drivers to travel with the load trailing.

(10) Steering knobs shall not be used unless the truck is equipped with power steering.

(11) When powered industrial trucks use cargo lifting devices that have a means of engagement hidden from the operator, a means shall be provided to enable the operator to determine that the cargo has been engaged.

(12) When cargo is being towed on pipe trucks or similar equipment, a safe means shall be provided to protect the driver from sliding loads.
