
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1917 - MARINE TERMINALS
##### Subpart C - Cargo Handling Gear and Equipment
###### ยง 1917.43 Powered industrial trucks.
####### Trailer-spotting tractors.
######## Exception:

(a) The requirements of this section apply to general vehicle use within marine terminals.The provisions of paragraphs (c) and (l) of this section do not apply when preempted by applicable regulations of the Department of Transportation.

(b) Private vehicle parking in marine terminals shall be allowed only in designated areas.

(c) Trailers shall not be disconnected from tractors at loading docks until the road wheels have been immobilized. The road wheels shall be immobilized from the time the brake system is disconnected until braking is again provided. Supplementary front end support shall be employed as necessary to prevent tipping when a trailer is entered by a material handling vehicle. Rear end support shall be employed if rear wheels are so far forward as to allow tipping when the trailer is entered.

(d) The employer shall direct motor vehicle operators to comply with any posted speed limits and other traffic control signs or signals, and written traffic instructions.

(e) Stop signs shall be posted at main entrances and exits of structures where visibility is impaired, and at blind intersections, unless direct traffic control or warning mirror systems or other systems of equivalent safety are provided.

(f) Vehicular routes, traffic rules, and parking areas shall be established, identified, and used.

(g) The employer shall direct vehicle drivers to warn employees in traffic lanes of the vehicle's approach.

(h) Signs indicating pedestrian traffic shall be clearly posted at vehicular check-in and check-out lines and similar locations where employees may be working.

(i) A distance of not less than 20 feet (6.1 m) shall be maintained between the first two vehicles in a check-in, check-out, roadability, or vessel loading/discharging line. This distance shall be maintained between any subsequent vehicles behind which employees are required to work.

(j) No unattended vehicle shall be left with its engine running unless secured against movement (see ยง 1917.43(b)(3) for powered industrial trucks).

(k) When the rear of a vehicle is elevated to facilitate loading or discharging, a ramp shall be provided and secured. The vehicle shall be secured against accidental movement during loading or discharging.

(l) Only highway vehicle floors in safe condition shall be used.

(m) When flatbed trucks, platform containers or similar conveyances are loaded or discharged and the cargo consists of pipe or other products which could spread or roll to endanger employees, the cargo shall be contained to prevent movement.

(n) Vehicles used to transport employees within a terminal shall be maintained in safe working order and safety devices shall not be removed or made inoperative.
