
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1917 - MARINE TERMINALS
##### Subpart C - Cargo Handling Gear and Equipment
###### ยง 1917.45 Cranes and derricks (See also ยง 1917.50).
####### Protection for employees being hoisted.

(j)(1) No employee shall be hoisted by the load hoisting apparatus of a crane or derrick except:

(i) On intermodal container spreaders, equipped in accordance with paragraph (j)(8) of this section; or

(ii) In a boatswain's chair or other device rigged to prevent it from accidental disengagement from the hook or supporting member; or

(iii) On a platform meeting the following requirements:

(A) Enclosed by a railing or other means providing protection equivalent to that described in ยง 1917.112(c). If equipped with open railings, the platform shall be fitted with toe boards;

(B) Having a safety factor of four based on ultimate strength;

(C) Bearing a plate or permanent marking indicating maximum load rating, which shall not be exceeded, and the weight of the platform itself;

(D) Equipped with a device to prevent access doors, when used, from opening accidentally;

(E) Equipped with overhead protection for employees on the platform if they are exposed to falling objects or overhead hazards;

(F) Secured to the load line by means other than wedge and socket attachments, unless the free (bitter) end of the line is secured back to itself by a clamp placed as close above the wedge as possible.

(2) Except in an emergency, the hoisting mechanism of all cranes or derricks used to hoist personnel shall operate only in power up and power down, with automatic brake application when not hoisting or lowering.

(3) Variable radius booms of a crane or derrick used to hoist personnel shall be so constructed or secured as to prevent accidental boom movement.

(4) Platforms or devices used to hoist employees shall be inspected for defects before each day's use and shall be removed from service if defective.

(5) Employees being hoisted shall remain in continuous sight of and communication with the operator or signalman.

(6) Operators shall remain at the controls when employees are hoisted.

(7) Cranes shall not travel while employees are hoisted, except in emergency or in normal tier to tier transfer of employees during container operations.

(8) When intermodal container spreaders are used to transfer employees to or from the tops of containers, the spreaders shall be equipped with a personnel platform equipped with fixed railings, provided that the railings have one or more openings for access. The openings shall be fitted with a means of closure, such as chains with hooks. Existing railings shall be at least 36 inches (0.91 m) in height. New railings installed after October 3, 1983 shall be 42 inches (1.07 m), plus or minus 3 inches (7.62 cm), in height. The provisions of paragraphs (j)(1)(iii)(C), (j)(1)(iii)(D), and (j)(1)(iii)(F) of this section also apply to personnel platforms when such container spreaders are used.

(9) Employees shall not be hoisted on intermodal container spreaders while a load is engaged.

(10) All cranes and derricks used to hoist personnel shall be equipped with an anti-two-blocking device.
