
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1917 - MARINE TERMINALS
##### Subpart C - Cargo Handling Gear and Equipment
###### ยง 1917.49 Spouts, chutes, hoppers, bins, and associated equipment.

(a) Standing and running rigging and associated gear used as a permanent part of spouts, chutes or similar devices shall be inspected before each use and shall not be used if it has any functional defects. (See also ยง 1917.50(c)(2) for certification requirements.)

(b) Direct communication shall be provided between the discharge or shipboard control end of loading spouts and chutes and the point in the terminal from which the flow of cargo is controlled.

(c) Chute and hopper openings which present a hazard shall be guarded to prevent employees from falling through them.

(d) When employees are working on hoppers, the hopper shall be equipped with a safe walkway and means of access.

(e) When necessary for the safety of employees, chutes shall be equipped with sideboards to afford protection from falling objects.

(f) Chutes shall be firmly placed and secured to prevent them from falling.

(g) When necessary for the safety of employees, provisions shall be made for braking objects other than bulk commodities at the delivery end of the chute.

(h) Before an employee enters an empty bin:

(1) Personnel controlling the flow of cargo into the bin shall have been notified of the entry; and

(2) The power supply to the equipment carrying the cargo to the bin shall be turned off, locked out and tagged.

(i) Before an employee enters a bin containing a bulk commodity such as coal or sugar, the employer shall ensure that:

(1) Personnel controlling the flow of cargo into the bin have been notified of the entry;

(2) The power supply to the equipment carrying the cargo to the bin is turned off, locked out and tagged.

(3) The employee entering the bin wears a lifeline and safety harness; and

(4) A standby attendant equipped to perform a rescue is continuously stationed outside the bin until the employee has left the bin.

(j) Bin top openings that present a hazard to employees shall be covered to prevent employees from falling into bins.

(k) Chutes and hoppers shall be repaired only by designated persons.

(l)(1) Before power shoveling operations begin, a designated person shall inspect the equipment to be used. The inspection shall include at least the eye bolts, wires, and sheaves.

(2) Power shovels and associated equipment with defects affecting safe operation shall not be used.

(3) Before adjustments are made to a power shovel, wire, or associated equipment, the power supply to the shovel shall be turned off, locked out, and tagged, the belt stopped, and the hopper closed.
