
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1917 - MARINE TERMINALS
##### Subpart C - Cargo Handling Gear and Equipment
###### ยง 1917.50 Certification of marine terminal material handling devices (See also mandatory appendix I, of this part).

(a) The employer shall not use any material handling device listed in paragraph (c) of this section until he has ascertained that the device has been certificated, as evidenced by current and valid documents attesting to compliance with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.

(1) Certification surveys are to be completed for the conditions of use found at the time such surveys are completed, with the understanding that equipment owners/users can change the configurations of the equipment according to the manufacturer's specifications without affecting the established certification status for the equipment.

(2) In cases of foreign manufactured cranes, there shall be an owner's warranty that the design is adequate for the intended use. The warranty shall be based on a thorough examination of the design specifications by a registered professional engineer familiar with the equipment.

(b) The certifications required by this section shall be performed:

(1) In accordance with part 1919 of this chapter, by persons then currently accredited by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration as provided in that part; or

(2) In accordance with standards established and enforced by the state in which the device is located or by a political subdivision thereof, which have been found by the Secretary to be compatible with part 1919 of this chapter, by persons designated as competent to perform such certification by competent state authority and recognized as such by the Secretary.

(c) The marine terminal material handling devices listed below shall be certificated in the following manner:

(1) Each crane and derrick shall be tested as a unit quadrennially, and shall be examined annually. Certificates of tests and examinations shall be made readily available for inspection.

(2) Bulk cargo spouts and suckers, together with any portable extensions and rigging or outriggers supporting them vertically, shall be examined annually. Certificates attesting to the required examination shall be made readily available for inspection.

(3) Vertical pocket or bucket conveyors such as banana, sugar, and grain marine legs (other than those within a grain elevator structure) used within a marine terminal facility shall be examined annually. The annual examination shall include all supporting structures, rigging and mechanical components and observation of all steps of operations. Certificates attesting to the required examinations shall be readily available for inspection.

(4)(i) House fall cargo-handling gear in use shall be proof load tested as a unit upon initial certification and every fourth year thereafter. An examination shall be carried out in conjunction with each unit proof load test and annually thereafter. The unit test shall consist of a proof load of 25 percent in excess of the rated safe working load. Examinations shall include all supporting structures and components. Certificates attesting to the required tests and examinations shall be readily available for inspection.

(ii) House fall span beams or other house fall block supports shall be marked with the safe working load, which shall not be exceeded.
