
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1917 - MARINE TERMINALS
##### Subpart C - Cargo Handling Gear and Equipment
###### § 1917.50 Certification of marine terminal material handling devices (See also mandatory appendix I, of this part).
####### Special gear.

(5)(i) Special stevedoring gear provided by the employer, the strength of which depends upon components other than commonly used stock items such as shackles, ropes, or chains, and that has a Safe Working Load (SWL) greater than five short tons (10,000 lbs or 4.54 metric tons) shall be inspected and tested as a unit before initial use (see Table A in paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section). In addition, any special stevedoring gear that suffers damage necessitating structural repair shall be inspected and retested after repair and before being returned to service.

(ii) Special stevedoring gear provided by the employer that has a SWL of five short tons (10,000 lbs or 4.54 metric tons) or less shall be inspected and tested as a unit before initial use according to paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section or by a designated person (see Table A in this paragraph (c)(5)(ii)).

(iii) Every spreader that is not a part of ship's gear and is used for handling intermodal containers shall be inspected and tested before initial use to a proof load equal to 25 percent greater than its rated capacity. In addition, any spreader that suffers damage necessitating structural repair shall be inspected and retested after repair and before being returned to service.

(iv) All cargo handling gear covered by this section with a SWL greater than five short tons (10,000 lbs. or 4.54 metric tons) shall be proof load tested according to Table A of this section every 4 years in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section or by a designated person.

(v) Certificates and inspection and test records attesting to the tests required by this section shall be available for inspection.

(6) Wire rope and loose gear obtained after October 3, 1983, and used for material handling shall have been tested and certificated before being placed into use in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs (a), (c), and (d) of §§ 1919.31 and 1919.32 through 1919.34 of this chapter as applicable. Certificates attesting to the required tests, inspections and examinations shall be available.

(d) Disassembly and reassembly of equipment does not require recertification of the equipment provided that the equipment is reassembled and used in a manner consistent with its certification.

(e) For equipment certificated in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section and transferred to a job site in another state, the current certification shall remain valid until the next inspection or examination becomes due.

(f) Certification procedures shall not be construed as a substitute for, or cause for elimination of, normal operational inspection and maintenance routine throughout the year.

(g)(1) Every unit of equipment requiring quadrennial certification shall have had such quadrennial certification within the previous 48 months. Equipment requiring annual certification shall have had such annual certification within the previous 12 months, except that no annual certification is required within 12 months after any required quadrennial certification. Annual examinations for certification may be accomplished up to one month early without effect on subsequent due dates.

(2) When certificated equipment is out of service for 6 months or more beyond the due date of a certification inspection, an examination equivalent to an initial certification, including unit proof load test, shall be performed before the equipment re-enters service.

(h) Loose gear obtained after October 3, 1983 shall bear a legible mark indicating that it has been tested (see paragraph (c)(6) of this section). Single sheave blocks shall be marked with safe working loads and proof test loads. Marks relating to testing shall be identifiable on the related certificates, which shall be available.
