
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1917 - MARINE TERMINALS
##### Subpart F - Terminal Facilities
###### ยง 1917.118 Fixed ladders.
####### Ladder specifications.

(d)(1)(i) Ladders installed before October 3, 1983, shall be capable of withstanding without damage a minimum concentrated load, applied uniformly over a 3inch (8.9 cm) width at the rung center, of 200 pounds (890 N).

(ii) Ladders installed after October 3, 1983 shall be capable of withstanding 250 pounds (1,112 N) applied as described in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section. If used by more than one employee simultaneously, the ladder as a unit shall be capable of simultaneous additional loading in 250 pound (1,112 N) increments for each additional employee, applied to a corresponding number of rungs. The unit shall have a safety factor of four (4), based on ultimate strength, in the designed service.

(2)(i) Ladders installed before October 3, 1983, shall have rungs evenly spaced from nine to 16inches (22.9 to 41.9 cm) apart, center to center.

(ii) Ladders installed after October 3, 1983 shall have rungs evenly spaced from 12+/-2 inches (30.5+/-5.08 cm) apart, center to center.

(3)(i) Ladders installed before October 3, 1983 shall have a width between side rails of at least 10 inches (25.4 cm).

(ii) Ladders installed after October 3, 1983 shall have a width between side rails of at least 12 inches (30.48 cm).

(4) The minimum distance between the rung center line and the nearest permanent object behind the rung shall be 4 inches (10.16 cm), except that in ladders installed after October 3, 1983, the minimum distance shall be 7 inches (17.78 cm) unless physical limitations make a lesser distance, not less than 4inches (11.43 cm), necessary.

(5) When a ladder passes through an opening or past overhead obstructions, a minimum 24 inch (.61 m) clearance shall exist between the climbing side and any obstruction. Where this distance is less than 30 inches (0.76 m), a deflection device shall be installed for guidance through the opening.

(6) The side rails of ladders shall extend at least 36 inches (0.91 m) above the top landing surface, unless grab bars or equivalent holds are provided.

(7) Ladders whose pitch exceeds 90&#xB0; to the horizontal (slanting backward on the climbing side) shall not be used.
