
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1917 - MARINE TERMINALS
##### Subpart F - Terminal Facilities
###### ยง 1917.118 Fixed ladders.
####### Protection against falls.

(e)(1) Fixed ladders more than 20 feet (6.1 m) in height shall be provided with a cage, well, or ladder safety device.

(2) When a well or cage is used, ladders with length of climb exceeding 30 feet (9.14 m) shall comply with the following provisions:

(i) The ladder shall consist of multiple sections not exceeding 30 feet (9.14 m) each;

(ii) Each section shall be horizontally offset from adjacent sections, except as specified in paragraph (e)(2)(iv) of this section, and

(iii) A landing platform capable of supporting a load of 100 pounds per square foot (4.79 kPa) and fitted with guardrails complying with Sec. 1917.112(c) shall be provided at least every 30 feet (9.14 m), except as specified in paragraph (e)(2)(iv) of this section.

(iv) For ladders installed after October 3, 1983, offset sections and landing platforms are not required if hinged platforms capable of supporting 100 pounds per square foot (4.79 kPa), and which are kept closed except when opened for passage, are within the cage or well at intervals not exceeding 30 feet (9.14 m).

(3) Ladders equipped with ladder safety devices shall have rest platforms;

(i) Capable of supporting a load of 100 pounds per square foot (4.79 kPa);

(ii) Located at intervals of 150 feet (45.7 m) or less; and

(iii) Protected by guardrails complying with ยง 1917.112(c) of three sides.

(4) Where used, ladder safety devices shall:

(i) Be installed and maintained in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions, which shall be available for inspection;

(ii) Be repaired only with replacement parts having performance capability at least equal to that of the original parts;

(iii) Have a connection length between carrier centerlines and safety belts of 10+/-2 inches (25.4+/-5.08 cm); and

(iv) Be installed in a manner that does not reduce the ladder's structural capability.

(5) Ladder cages or wells shall:

(i) Be of rigid construction that allows unobstructed use but prevents an employee from falling through or dislodging the cage or well by falling against it;

(ii) Have smooth inner surfaces;

(iii) Extend at least 36 inches (0.91m) above landings; and

(iv) Extend to within 8 feet (2.44 m) above the ground or base, except that a maximum of 20 feet (6.1 m) is permitted where the cage or well would extend into traffic lanes.

(6) Ladders installed after (effective date of standard) on radio, microwave communications, electrical power and similar towers, poles and structures, including stacks and chimneys, shall meet the requirements of this paragraph (e).
