
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1917 - MARINE TERMINALS
##### Subpart F - Terminal Facilities
###### ยง 1917.119 Portable ladders.
####### Ladder usage.

(f)(1) Ladders made by fastening rungs or devices across a single rail are prohibited.

(2) Ladders shall not be used:

(i) As guys, braces or skids; or

(ii) As platforms, runways or scaffolds.

(3) Metal and wire-reinforced ladders with wooden side rails shall not be used when employees on the ladder might come into contact with energized electrical conductors.

(4) Individual sections from different multi-sectional ladders or two or more single straight ladders shall not be tied or fastened together to achieve additional length.

(5) Except for combination ladders, self-supporting ladders shall not be used as single straight ladders.

(6) Unless intended for cantilever operation, non-self-supporting ladders shall not be used to climb above the top support point.

(7) Ladders shall extend at least 36 inches (0.91 m) above the upper support level if employees are to leave or mount the ladder at that level, except that where such extension is impractical other equivalent means such as grab bars may be used to provide a hand grip.

(8) Ladders shall be securely positioned on a level and firm base.

(9) Ladders shall be fitted with slip-resistant bases and secured at top or bottom to prevent the ladder from slipping.

(10) The employer shall direct that ladders shall be placed so that employees climbing are not exposed to injury from projecting objects or doors that open toward the ladder.
