
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1917 - MARINE TERMINALS
##### Subpart F - Terminal Facilities
###### ยง 1917.120 Fixed stairways.
####### New installations.

(b)(1) Fixed stairs installed after October 3, 1983 shall be positioned within the range of 30 degrees to 50 degrees to the horizontal with uniform riser height and tread width throughout each run and be capable of a minimum loading of 100 pounds per square foot (445 N) and a minimum concentrated load of 300 pounds (1,334 N) at the center of any treadspan. Riser height shall be from 6 to 7.5 inches (15.24 to 19.05 cm), stair width a minimum of 22 inches (55.88 cm) between vertical barriers, tread depth a minimum of 12+/-2 inches (30.48+/-5.08 cm), and tread nosing shall be straight leading edges.

(2) Stair landings shall be at least 20 inches (50.8 cm) in depth. Where doors or gates open on a stairway, a landing platform shall be provided. Door swing shall not reduce effective standing area on the landing to less than 18 inches (45.72 cm) in depth.

(3) Fixed stairs having four or more risers shall have stair railings or handrails complying with ยง 1917.112(c)(1).

(4) Railing height from tread surface at the riser face shall be 33+/-3 inches (83.82 cm +/-7.62 cm).

(5) Restricted areas. When physical features require stairs steeper than those provided for by paragraph (b)(1) of this section, stairs at angles of 50&#xB0; to 75&#xB0; from the horizontal may be used if they:

(i) Are capable of a single concentrated load of 200 pounds (890 N) at the tread centers;

(ii) Have open treads at least 4 inches (10.16 cm) in depth and 18 inches (45.72 cm) in width with a uniformly spaced vertical rise between treads of 6 to 9.5 inches (15.24 to 24.13 cm); and

(iii) Have handrails that meet the requirements of ยง 1917.112(c)(1) on both sides and that are not less than 30 inches (76.2 cm) in height from the tread surface at the riser face.

(6) Maintenance. Fixed stairways shall be maintained in safe condition and shall not be obstructed.
