
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1917 - MARINE TERMINALS
##### Subpart G - Related Terminal Operations and Equipment
###### ยง 1917.151 Machine guarding.
####### General.

(b)(1) Danger zones on machines and equipment used by employees shall be guarded.

(2) Where chips and dust produced by machine operation may result in a hazard to the operator, the machinery shall be equipped with an effective exhaust system at the point of origin, or other equally effective means shall be provided to protect the operator.

(3) Fixed machinery shall be secured to prevent shifting.

(4) A power cut-off device for machinery and equipment shall be provided at the operator's working position.

(5) Machines driven by belts and shafting shall be fitted with a belt-locking or equivalent protective device if the belt can be shifted.

(6) In operations where injury to the operator might result if motors were to restart after power failures, provisions shall be made to prevent machines from automatically restarting upon restoration of power.

(7) The power supply to machines shall be turned off, locked out, and tagged out during repair, adjustment, or servicing.

(8) Machines shall be maintained in a safe working condition.

(9) Only designated employees shall maintain or repair machinery and equipment.

(10) Machines with defects that affect the safety of operation shall not be used.
