
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1917 - MARINE TERMINALS
##### Subpart G - Related Terminal Operations and Equipment
###### ยง 1917.151 Machine guarding.
####### Abrasive wheels and machinery.

(g)(1) Abrasive wheels shall be used only on machines having enclosure guards to restrain pieces of grinding wheels and to protect employees if the wheel breaks, except as provided in paragraphs (g)(2) and (g)(3) of this section. Where the operator must stand in front of the safety guard opening, the safety guard shall be adjustable or have an adjustable tongue or piece at the top of the opening. The safety guard or the tongue shall be adjusted so that they are always close to the periphery of the wheel. Guards shall be aligned with the wheel and the strength of fastenings shall be greater than the strength of the guard.

(2) When the work provides equivalent protection, or when the machine is designed as a portable saw, guards may be constructed with the spindle end, nut and outer flange exposed. When the work entirely covers the side of the wheel, the side covers of the guard may be removed.

(3) Guarding is not required:

(i) For wheels used for internal work while the wheel is contained within the work being ground; or

(ii) For mounted wheels 2 inches (5 cm) and smaller in diameter used in portable operations.

(4) Work rests shall be used on fixed grinding machines. Work rests shall be rigidly constructed and adjustable for wheel wear. They shall be adjusted closely to the wheel with a maximum opening of-inch (3.18 mm) and shall be securely clamped. Adjustment shall not be made while the wheel is in motion.

(5) Grinding wheels shall fit freely on the spindle. The spindle nut shall be tightened only enough to hold the wheel in place.

(6) Grinding machine wheels shall turn at a speed that is compatible with the rated speed of the wheel.

(7) Flanges and blotters shall be used only with wheels designed for their use. Flanges shall be of a type ensuring retention of pieces of the wheel in case of breakage.

(8) Abrasive wheels with operational defects shall not be used.
