
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1917 - MARINE TERMINALS
##### Subpart G - Related Terminal Operations and Equipment
###### ยง 1917.156 Fuel handling and storage.
####### Fuel containers.

(2)(i) When removable fuel containers are used, the escape of fuel when containers are exchanged shall be minimized by:

(A) Automatic quick-closing couplings (closing in both directions when uncoupled) in fuel lines; or

(B) Closing fuel container valves and allowing engines to run until residual fuel is exhausted.

(ii) Pressure-relief valve openings shall be in continuous contact with the vapor space (top) of the cylinder.

(iii) Fuel containers shall be secured to prevent their being jarred loose, slipping or rotating.

(iv) Containers shall be located to prevent damage to the container. If located within a compartment, that compartment shall be vented. Containers near the engine or exhaust system shall be shielded against direct heat radiation.

(v) Container installation shall provide the container with at least the vehicle's road clearance under maximum spring deflection, which shall be to the bottom of the container or to the lowest fitting on the container or housing, whichever is lower.

(vi) Valves and connections shall be protected from contact damage. Permanent protection shall be provided for fittings on removable containers.

(vii) Defective containers shall be removed from service.
