
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1917 - MARINE TERMINALS
##### Subpart G - Related Terminal Operations and Equipment
###### ยง 1917.153 Spray painting (See also ยง 1917.2, definition of Hazardous cargo, materials, substance, or atmosphere).
####### Additional requirements for spray booths.

(e)(1) Spray booths shall be substantially constructed of noncombustible material and have smooth interior surfaces. Spray booth floors shall be covered with noncombustible material. As an aid to cleaning, paper may be used to cover the floor during painting operations if it is removed after the painting is completed.

(2) Spray booths shall be separated from other operations by at least 3 feet (0.91m) or by fire-retardant partitions or walls.

(3) A space of at least 3 feet (0.91m) on all sides of the spray booth shall be maintained free of storage or combustible materials.

(4) Metal parts of spray booths, exhaust ducts, piping and airless high-pressure spray guns and conductive objects being sprayed shall be grounded.

(5) Electric motors driving exhaust fans shall not be located inside booths or ducts.

(6) Belts shall not enter ducts or booths unless the belts are completely enclosed.

(7) Exhaust ducts shall be made of steel, shall have sufficient access doors to permit cleaning, and shall have a minimum clearance of 18 inches (0.46m) from combustible materials. Any installed dampers shall be fully opened when the ventilating system is operating.

(8) Spray booths shall not be alternately used to spray different types of coating materials if the combination of the materials may spontaneously ignite unless deposits of the first material are removed from the booth and from exhaust ducts before spraying of the second material begins.
