
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1917 - MARINE TERMINALS
##### Subpart G - Related Terminal Operations and Equipment
###### ยง 1917.156 Fuel handling and storage.
####### Liquid fuel.

(a)(1) Only designated persons shall conduct fueling operations.

(2) In case of spillage, filler caps shall be replaced and spillage disposed of before engines are started.

(3) Engines shall be stopped and operators shall not be on the equipment during refueling operations.

(4) Smoking and open flames shall be prohibited in areas used for fueling, fuel storage or enclosed storage of equipment containing fuel.

(5) Equipment shall be refueled only at designated locations.

(6) Liquid fuels not handled by pump shall be handled and transported only in portable containers or equivalent means designed for that purpose. Portable containers shall be metal, have tight closures with screw or spring covers and shall be equipped with spouts or other means to allow pouring without spilling. Leaking containers shall not be used.

(7) Flammable liquids may be dispensed in the open from a tank or from other vehicles equipped for delivering fuel to another vehicle only if:

(i) Dispensing hoses do not exceed 50 feet (15.24 m) in length; and

(ii) Any powered dispensing nozzles used are of the automatic-closing type.

(8) Liquid fuel dispensing devices shall be provided with an easily accessible and clearly identified shut-off device, such as a switch or circuit breaker, to shut off the power in an emergency.

(9) Liquid fuel dispensing devices, such as pumps, shall be mounted either on a concrete island or be otherwise protected against collision damage.
