
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1917 - MARINE TERMINALS
##### Subpart G - Related Terminal Operations and Equipment
###### ยง 1917.157 Battery charging and changing.

(a) Only designated persons shall change or charge batteries.

(b) Battery charging and changing shall be performed only in areas designated by the employer.

(c) Smoking and other ignition sources are prohibited in charging areas.

(d) Filler caps shall be in place when batteries are being moved.

(e) Parking brakes shall be applied before batteries are charged or changed.

(f) When a jumper battery is connected to a battery in a vehicle, the ground lead shall connect to ground away from the vehicle's battery. Ignition, lights and accessories on the vehicle shall be turned off before connections are made.

(g) Batteries shall be free of corrosion buildup and cap vent holes shall be open.

(h) Adequate ventilation shall be provided during charging.

(i) Facilities for flushing the eyes, body and work area with water shall be provided wherever electrolyte is handled, except that this requirement does not apply when employees are only checking battery electrolyte levels or adding water.

(j) Carboy tilters or siphons shall be used to handle electrolyte in large containers.

(k) Battery handling equipment which could contact battery terminals or cell connectors shall be insulated or otherwise protected.

(l) Metallic objects shall not be placed on uncovered batteries.

(m) When batteries are being charged, the vent caps shall be in place.

(n) Chargers shall be turned off when leads are being connected or disconnected.

(o) Installed batteries shall be secured to avoid physical or electrical contact with compartment walls or components.
