
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 4 - LABOR STANDARDS FOR FEDERAL SERVICE CONTRACTS
#### Subpart C - Application of the McNamara-O'Hara Service Contract Act
##### Specific Exclusions
###### ยง 4.123 Administrative limitations, variances, tolerances, and exemptions.
####### i.e.,

(A) The services under the prime contract or subcontract are commercial-they are offered and sold regularly to non-Governmental customers, and are provided by the contractor (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of normal business operations.

(B) The prime contract or subcontract will be awarded on a sole source basis or the contractor or subcontractor will be selected for award on the basis of other factors in addition to price. In such cases, price must be equal to or less important than the combination of other non-price or cost factors in selecting the contractor.

(C) The prime contract or subcontract services are furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices. An established price is a price included in a catalog, price list, schedule, or other form that is regularly maintained by the contractor or subcontractor, is either published or otherwise available for inspection by customers, and states prices at which sales are currently, or were last, made to a significant number of buyers constituting the general public. An established market price is a current price, established in the usual course of trade between buyers and sellers free to bargain, which can be substantiated from sources independent of the manufacturer or contractor.

(D) Each service employee who will perform services under the Government contract or subcontract will spend only a small portion of his or her time (a monthly average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 percent of available hours during the contract period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the government contract or subcontract.

(E) The contractor utilizes the same compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract or subcontract as the contractor uses for these employees and for equivalent employees servicing commercial customers.

(F) The contracting officer (or prime contractor with respect to a subcontract) determines in advance, based on the nature of the contract requirements and knowledge of the practices of likely offerors, that all or nearly all offerors will meet the requirements in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section. Where the services are currently being performed under contract, the contracting officer or prime contractor shall consider the practices of the existing contractor in making a determination regarding the requirements in paragraph (e)(2)(ii). If upon receipt of offers, the contracting officer finds that he or she did not correctly determine that all or nearly all offerors would meet the requirements, the Service Contract Act shall apply to the procurement, even if the successful offeror has certified in accordance with paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(G) of this section.

(G) The contractor certifies in the prime contract or subcontract, as applicable, to the provisions in paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(A) and (C) through (E) of this section. Certification by the prime contractor as to its compliance with respect to the prime contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services. If the contracting officer or prime contractor has reason to doubt the validity of the certification, SCA stipulations shall be included in the prime contract or subcontract.

(iii)(A) If the Administrator determines after award of the prime contract that any of the requirements in paragraph (e)(2) of this section for exemption has not been met, the exemption will be deemed inapplicable, and the contract shall become subject to the Service Contract Act. In such case, the corrective procedures in ยง 4.5(c) shall be followed.

(B) The prime contractor is responsible for compliance with the requirements of the Service Contract Act by its subcontractors, including compliance with all of the requirements of this exemption (see ยง 4.114(b)). If the Department of Labor determines that any of the requirements in paragraph (e)(2) for exemption has not been met with respect to a subcontract, the exemption will be deemed inapplicable, and the prime contractor may be responsible for compliance with the Act, as of the date of contract award.

(iv) The exemption set forth in this paragraph (e)(2) does not apply to solicitations and contracts:

(A) Entered into under the Javits-Wagner-O'Day Act, 41 U.S.C. 47;

(B) For the operation of a Government facility or portion thereof (but may be applicable to subcontracts for services set forth in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) that meet all of the criteria of paragraph (e)(2)(ii)); or

(C) Subject to section 4(c) of the Service Contract Act, as well as any options or extensions under such contract.
