
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1918 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR LONGSHORING
##### Subpart E - Opening and Closing Hatches
###### ยง 1918.42 Hatch beam and pontoon bridles.

(a) Hatch beam and pontoon bridles shall be:

(1) Long enough to reach the holes, rings, or other lifting attachments on the hatch beams and pontoons easily;

(2) Of adequate strength to lift the load safely; and

(3) Properly maintained, including covering or blunting of protruding ends in wire rope splices.

(b) Bridles for lifting hatch beams shall be equipped with toggles, shackles, or hooks, or other devices of such design that they cannot become accidentally dislodged from the hatch beams with which they are used. Hooks other than those described in this section may be used only when they are hooked into the standing part of the bridle. Toggles, when used, shall be at least one inch (2.54 cm) longer than twice the largest diameter of the holes into which they are placed.

(c) Bridles used for lifting pontoons and plugs shall have the number of legs required by the design of the pontoon or plug, and all of which shall be used. Where any use of a bridle requires fewer than the number of legs provided, idle legs shall be hung on the hook or ring, or otherwise prevented from swinging free.

(d) At least two legs of all strongback and pontoon bridles shall be equipped with a lanyard at least eight feet (2.44 m) long and in good condition. The bridle end of the lanyard shall be of chain or wire.
