
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1918 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR LONGSHORING
##### Subpart F - Vessel's Cargo Handling Gear
###### § 1918.51 General requirements (See also § 1918.11 and appendix III of this part).

(a) The safe working load specified in the cargo gear certification papers or marked on the booms shall not be exceeded. Any limitations imposed by the certificating authority shall be followed.

(b) All components of cargo handling gear, including tent gantlines and associated rigging, shall be inspected by the employer or a designated person before each use and at appropriate intervals during use. Any gear that is found unsafe shall not be used until it is made safe.

(c) The employer shall determine the load ratings shown on the vessel's wire rope certificates for all wire rope and wire rope slings comprising part of ship's gear and shall observe these load ratings.

(d) The following limitations shall apply to the use of wire rope as a part of the ship's cargo handling gear:

(1) Eye splices in wire ropes shall have at least three tucks with a whole strand of the rope and two tucks with one-half of the wire cut from each strand. Other forms of splices or connections that the employer demonstrates will provide the same level of safety may be used;

(2) Except for eye splices in the ends of wires, each wire rope used in hoisting or lowering, in guying derricks, or as a topping lift, preventer, segment of a multi-part preventer, or pendant, shall consist of one continuous piece without knot or splice; and

(3) Wire rope and wire rope slings exhibiting any of the defects or conditions specified in § 1918.62(b)(3)(i) through (vi) shall not be used.

(e) Natural and synthetic fiber rope slings exhibiting any of the defects or conditions specified in § 1918.62(e) (1) through (7) shall not be used.

(f) Synthetic web slings exhibiting any of the defects or conditions specified in § 1918.62(g)(2)(i) through (vi) shall not be used.

(g) Chains, including slings, exhibiting any of the defects or conditions specified in § 1918.62 (h)(3) (iii), (iv), or (h)(6) shall not be used.
