
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 29 - LABOR STANDARDS FOR THE REGISTRATION OF APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAMS
#### ยง 29.7 Apprenticeship agreement.

The apprenticeship agreement must contain, explicitly or by reference:

(a) Names and signatures of the contracting parties (apprentice, and the program sponsor or employer), and the signature of a parent or guardian if the apprentice is a minor.

(b) The date of birth and, on a voluntary basis, Social Security number of the apprentice.

(c) Contact information of the Program Sponsor and Registration Agency.

(d) A statement of the occupation in which the apprentice is to be trained, and the beginning date and term (duration) of apprenticeship.

(e) A statement showing:

(1) The number of hours to be spent by the apprentice in work on the job in a time-based program; or a description of the skill sets to be attained by completion of a competency-based program, including the on-the-job learning component; or the minimum number of hours to be spent by the apprentice and a description of the skill sets to be attained by completion of hybrid program; and

(2) The number of hours to be spent in related instruction in technical subjects related to the occupation, which is recommended to be not less than 144 hours per year.

(f) A statement setting forth a schedule of the work processes in the occupation or industry divisions in which the apprentice is to be trained and the approximate time to be spent at each process.

(g) A statement of the graduated scale of wages to be paid to the apprentice and whether or not the required related instruction is compensated.

(h) Statements providing:

(1) For a specific period of probation during which the apprenticeship agreement may be cancelled by either party to the agreement upon written notice to the registration agency, without adverse impact on the sponsor.

(2) That, after the probationary period, the agreement may be:

(i) Cancelled at the request of the apprentice, or

(ii) Suspended or cancelled by the sponsor, for good cause, with due notice to the apprentice and a reasonable opportunity for corrective action, and with written notice to the apprentice and to the Registration Agency of the final action taken.

(i) A reference incorporating as part of the agreement the standards of the apprenticeship program as they exist on the date of the agreement and as they may be amended during the period of the agreement.

(j) A statement that the apprentice will be accorded equal opportunity in all phases of apprenticeship employment and training, without discrimination because of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, age (40 or older), genetic information, or disability.

(k) Contact information (name, address, phone, and e-mail if appropriate) of the appropriate authority designated under the program to receive, process and make disposition of controversies or differences arising out of the apprenticeship agreement when the controversies or differences cannot be adjusted locally or resolved in accordance with the established procedure or applicable collective bargaining provisions.

(l) A request for demographic data, including the apprentice's race, sex, and ethnicity, and disability status.
