
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1918 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR LONGSHORING
##### Appendix V to Part 1918 - Basic Elements of a First Aid Training Program (Non-mandatory)
###### not

e. seizures including tonic-clonic and absence seizures. Importance ofputting gags in mouth.

f. pregnancy including the appropriate care of any abdominal injury or vaginal bleeding.

a. the danger of entering a confined space to administer first aid without having the appropriate respiratory protection.

b. if first aid personnel will be required to assist evacuations from confined spaces, additional training will be needed.

Instruction in the principles and first aid intervention of injuries to the following sites:

a. including skull fractures, concussions, and mental status assessments with particular attention to temporary loss of consciousness and the need for referral to a physician.

b. including the appropriate approach to the management of the individual who has suffered a potential neck injury or fracture.

a. foreign bodies, corneal abrasions and lacerations.

b. chemical burns and the importance of flushing out the eye.

c. the importance of not applying antibiotics without physician supervision.

a. nose injuries and nose bleeds.

a. oral injuries, lip and tongue injuries, and broken and removed teeth. The importance of preventing inhalation of blood and teeth.

a. rib fractures, flail chest, and penetrating wounds.

a. blunt injuries, penetrating injuries, and protruding organs.

a. finger/toe nail hematoma, lacerations, splinters, finger nail avulsion, ring removal, and foreign bodies.

b. the importance of identifying amputation care hospitals in the area. When an amputation occurs, appropriate handling of amputated fingers, hands, and feet during the immediate transportation of the victim and body part to the hospital.
