
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1919 - GEAR CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart B - Procedure Governing Accreditation
###### ยง 1919.9 Reconsideration and review.

(a) Any person aggrieved by the action of the Assistant Secretary or his authorized representative in denying, granting, suspending or revoking an accreditation under this part may within 15 days after such action, (1) file a written request for reconsideration thereof by the Assistant Secretary or the authorized representative of the Assistant Secretary who made the decision in the first instance, or (2) file a written request for review of the decision by the Assistant Secretary or an authorized representative of the Assistant Secretary, who has taken no part in the action which is the subject for review.

(b) A request for reconsideration shall be granted where the applicant shows that there is additional evidence which may materially affect the decision and that there were reasonable grounds for failure to adduce such evidence in the original proceedings.

(c) Any person aggrieved by the action of the Assistant Secretary or authorized representative of the Assistant Secretary in denying a request for reconsideration may, within 15 days after the denial of such request, file with the Assistant Secretary or his authorized representative a written request for review.

(d) Any person aggrieved by the reconsidered determination of the Assistant Secretary or authorized representative of the Assistant Secretary, may within 15 days after such determination, file with the Assistant Secretary a written request for review.

(e) A request for review shall be granted where reasonable grounds for the review are set forth in the request.

(f) If a request for reconsideration or review is granted, all interested persons shall be afforded an opportunity to present their views.

(g) No cargo gear certification function shall be performed by any person seeking reconsideration or review under this section pending the final decision with respect to such reconsideration or review.
