
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1919 - GEAR CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart E - Certification of Vessels: Tests and Proof Loads; Heat Treatment; Competent Persons
###### ยง 1919.27 Unit proof tests - winches, derricks and gear accessory thereto.

(a) Winches, with the whole of the gear accessory thereto (including derricks, goosenecks, eye plates, eye bolts, or other attachments), shall be tested with a proof load which shall exceed the safe working load as follows:

(b) The proof load shall be lifted with the vessel's normal tackle with the derrick at an angle not more than 15 degrees to the horizontal, or, at the designed minimum angle when this is greater, or, when this is impracticable, at the lowest practicable angle. The angle at which the test was made shall be stated in the certificate of test. After the proof load has been lifted, it shall be swung as far as possible in both directions. In applying the proof load, the design factors of the gear concerned will determine whether the load is applied with a single part fall or with a purchase and the certificate of test shall state the means used. Where winches are fitted with mechanical brakes for manual operation they shall be demonstrated to be in satisfactory operating condition.

(c) In the case of heavy lift derrick barges, proof loads shall be applied, except as limited by design and stability considerations, at the maximum and minimum radii for which designed, as well as at any intermediate radius which the surveyor may deem necessary, and shall be swung as far as possible in both directions. Data with respect to each proof load applied shall be entered in the test certificate.

(d) No items of cargo gear furnished by outside sources shall be used as a part of the vessel's gear for the purpose of accomplishing the proof test.

(e) All tests prescribed by this section should in general be carried out by dead load, except that in the case of quadrennial tests, replacements, or renewals, spring or hydraulic balances may be used where dead loads are not reasonably available. However, no exception shall be allowed in the case of gear on new vessels.

(f) The test shall not be regarded as satisfactory unless the indicator remains constant under the proof load for a period of at least 5 minutes.

(g)(1) The safe working load, determined pursuant to the requirements of this section, shall be applicable only to a swinging derrick. When using two fixed derricks in "union purchase" rigs, the safe working load should generally be reduced. It is recommended that owners obtain union purchase safe working load certification based upon design study and analysis by, or acceptable to, a qualified technical office of an accredited gear certification agency, with the recognition that such determinations are valid only for the conditions contemplated in the analysis.

(2) Where both guys and preventers are fitted, union purchase certification shall state whether the guy or the preventer is the working strength member, when the guy is for slewing only, and when the guy and preventer should share working loads as far as practicable.

(h) When necessary in the proof testing of heavy derricks, the appropriate shrouds and stays shall be rigged.
