
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1919 - GEAR CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart F - Accreditation To Certificate Shore-Based Equipment
###### ยง 1919.50 Eligibility for accreditation to certificate shore-based material handling devices covered by ยง 1917.50 of this chapter, safety and health regulations for marine terminals.

(a) A person applying for accreditation to carry out certification activities and to issue and maintain the requisite records must be:

(1) A manufacturer of cranes or derricks or of specialized equipment of the type for which accreditation application is made, or a person or organization representing such a manufacturer in a technical capacity; or

(2) Technically experienced and qualified to carry out examinations and/or testing, as applicable, of vessels or shore-based equipment or gear of the type for which accreditation application is made.

(b) The owner of shore-based equipment affected may designate a member of his organization to carry out certification functions respecting the owner's equipment, on the following conditions:

(1) The designee is technically experienced and qualified in the inspection and maintenance or design of the type of equipment involved, aside from employment as an operator only.

(2) The designee has applied to an accredited, nationally operating certification agency and has been granted appointment or equivalent recognition by that agency as a surveyor for the purpose intended.

(3) Certification activities carried out by the designee are cleared through the offices, and are subject to the approval, of the accredited certificating agency. When equipment is found satisfactory for use upon any survey, said equipment may be used pending receipt of notification of such approval or any disapproval.

(4) In cases where equipment is certificated by a person designated by the equipment owner, the cognizant accredited certification agency retains the right to inspect such equipment as desired and convenient in order to ascertain the adequacy of the certification activity performed.

(c) Accreditation to conduct such nondestructive examination as may be a part of any certification activity may be granted to applicants found competent and equipped to carry out this activity.

(d) Unless exemptions are granted at the discretion of the Assistant Secretary in cases of practical difficulties or unnecessary hardship, applicants for accreditation as specified in this section shall be prepared to carry out all necessary functions, except that any requisite wire rope tests, nondestructive examinations, and heat treatments may be carried out by the manufacturer of the gear concerned or by another person accredited specifically for these purposes.

(e) A person applying for accreditation shall have a satisfactory record of relevant experience and performance, and shall be in sound financial condition.
