
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 4 - LABOR STANDARDS FOR FEDERAL SERVICE CONTRACTS
#### Subpart C - Application of the McNamara-O'Hara Service Contract Act
##### Particular Application of Contract Coverage Principles
###### ยง 4.133 Beneficiary of contract services.

(a) The Act does not say to whom the services under a covered contract must be furnished. So far as its language is concerned, it is enough if the contract is "entered into" by and with the Government and if its principal purpose is "to furnish services in the United States through the use of service employees". It is clear that Congress intended to cover at least contracts for services of direct benefit to the Government, its property, or its civilian or military personnel for whose needs it is necessary or desirable for the Government to make provision for such services. For example, the legislative history makes specific reference to such contracts as those for furnishing food service and laundry and dry cleaning service for personnel at military installations. Furthermore, there is no limitation in the Act regarding the beneficiary of the services, nor is there any indication that only contracts for services of direct benefit to the Government, as distinguished from the general public, are subject to the Act. Therefore, where the principal purpose of the Government contract is to provide services through the use of service employees, the contract is covered by the Act, regardless of the direct beneficiary of the services or the source of the funds from which the contractor is paid for the service, and irrespective of whether the contractor performs the work in its own establishment, on a Government installation, or elsewhere. The fact that the contract requires or permits the contractor to provide the services directly to individual personnel as a concessionaire, rather than through the contracting agency, does not negate coverage by the Act.
