
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart D - Occupational Health and Environmental Controls
###### ยง 1926.57 Ventilation.
####### TLV,TLV,TLV

(v) Hazard potential shall be determined from Table D-57.9, with the value indicating greater hazard being used. When the hazardous material may be either a vapor with a threshold limit value () in p.p.m. or a mist with ain mg./m., theindicating the greater hazard shall be used (for example, A takes precedence over B or C; B over C; C over D).

(vi) Rate of gas, vapor, or mist evolution is a numerical index, on a scale of from 1 to 4, inclusive, both of the relative capacity of the tank to produce gas, vapor, or mist and of the relative energy with which it is projected or carried upwards from the tank. Rate is evaluated in terms of

(A) The temperature of the liquid in the tank in degrees Fahrenheit;

(B) The number of degrees Fahrenheit that this temperature is below the boiling point of the liquid in degrees Fahrenheit;

(C) The relative evaporation of the liquid in still air at room temperature in an arbitrary scale-fast, medium, slow, or nil; and

(D) The extent that the tank gases or produces mist in an arbitrary scale-high, medium, low, and nil. (See Table D-57.10, Note 2.) Gassing depends upon electrochemical or mechanical processes, the effects of which have to be individually evaluated for each installation (see Table D-57.10, Note 3).

(vii) Rate of evolution shall be determined from Table D-57.10. When evaporation and gassing yield different rates, the lowest numerical value shall be used.
