
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 30 - EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY IN APPRENTICESHIP
#### ยง 30.5 Utilization analysis for race, sex, and ethnicity.
##### Availability analysis

(c)-(1) The purpose of the availability analysis is to establish a benchmark against which the demographic composition of the sponsor's apprenticeship program can be compared in order to determine whether barriers to equal opportunity may exist with regard to the sponsor's apprenticeship program.

(2) Availability is an estimate of the number of qualified individuals available for apprenticeship by race, sex, and ethnicity expressed as a percentage of all qualified persons available for apprenticeship in the sponsor's relevant recruitment area.

(3) In determining availability, the following factors must be considered for each major occupation group represented in the sponsor's registered apprenticeship program standards:

(i) The percentage of individuals who are eligible for enrollment in the apprenticeship program. within the sponsor's relevant recruitment area broken down by race, sex, and ethnicity; and

(ii) The percentage of the sponsor's employees who are eligible for enrollment in the apprenticeship program broken down by race, sex, and ethnicity.

(4) In determining availability, the relevant recruitment area is defined as the geographical area from which the sponsor usually seeks or reasonably could seek apprentices. The sponsor must identify the relevant recruitment area in its written affirmative action plan. The sponsor may not draw its relevant recruitment area in such a way as to have the effect of excluding individuals based on race, sex, or ethnicity from consideration, and must develop a brief rationale for selection of that recruitment area.

(5) Availability will be derived from the most current and discrete statistical information available. Examples of such information include census data, data from local job service offices, and data from colleges or other training institutions.

(6) Sponsors, working with the Registration Agency, will conduct availability analyses at each compliance review.
