
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart E - Personal Protective and Life Saving Equipment
###### ยง 1926.102 Eye and face protection.
####### e.g.

(2) The employer shall ensure that each affected employee uses eye protection that provides side protection when there is a hazard from flying objects. Detachable side protectors (clip-on or slide-on side shields) meeting the pertinent requirements of this section are acceptable.

(3) The employer shall ensure that each affected employee who wears prescription lenses while engaged in operations that involve eye hazards wears eye protection that incorporates the prescription in its design, or wears eye protection that can be worn over the prescription lenses without disturbing the proper position of the prescription lenses or the protective lenses.

(4) Eye and face PPE shall be distinctly marked to facilitate identification of the manufacturer.

(5) Protectors shall meet the following minimum requirements:

(i) They shall provide adequate protection against the particular hazards for which they are designed.

(ii) They shall be reasonably comfortable when worn under the designated conditions.

(iii) They shall fit snugly and shall not unduly interfere with the movements of the wearer.

(iv) They shall be durable.

(v) They shall be capable of being disinfected.

(vi) They shall be easily cleanable.
