
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart F - Fire Protection and Prevention
###### ยง 1926.152 Flammable liquids.
####### Service and refueling areas.

(g)(1) Flammable liquids shall be stored in approved closed containers, in tanks located underground, or in aboveground portable tanks.

(2) The tank trucks shall comply with the requirements covered in the Standard for Tank Vehicles for Flammable and Combustible Liquids, NFPA No. 385-1966.

(3) The dispensing hose shall be an approved type.

(4) The dispensing nozzle shall be an approved automatic-closing type without a latch-open device.

(5) Underground tanks shall not be abandoned.

(6) Clearly identified and easily accessible switch(es) shall be provided at a location remote from dispensing devices to shut off the power to all dispensing devices in the event of an emergency.

(7)(i) Heating equipment of an approved type may be installed in the lubrication or service area where there is no dispensing or transferring of Category 1, 2, or 3 flammable liquids, provided the bottom of the heating unit is at least 18 inches above the floor and is protected from physical damage.

(ii) Heating equipment installed in lubrication or service areas, where Category 1, 2, or 3 flammable liquids are dispensed, shall be of an approved type for garages, and shall be installed at least 8 feet above the floor.

(8) There shall be no smoking or open flames in the areas used for fueling, servicing fuel systems for internal combustion engines, receiving or dispensing of flammable liquids.

(9) Conspicuous and legible signs prohibiting smoking shall be posted.

(10) The motors of all equipment being fueled shall be shut off during the fueling operation.

(11) Each service or fueling area shall be provided with at least one fire extinguisher having a rating of not less than 20-B:C located so that an extinguisher will be within 75 feet of each pump, dispenser, underground fill pipe opening, and lubrication or service area.
