
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart F - Fire Protection and Prevention
###### ยง 1926.152 Flammable liquids.
####### Spacing (shell-to-shell) between aboveground tanks.

(ii)(A) The distance between any two flammable liquid storage tanks shall not be less than 3 feet (0.912 m).

(B) Except as provided in paragraph (i)(2)(ii)(C) of this section, the distance between any two adjacent tanks shall not be less than one-sixth the sum of their diameters. When the diameter of one tank is less than one-half the diameter of the adjacent tank, the distance between the two tanks shall not be less than one-half the diameter of the smaller tank.

(C) Where crude petroleum in conjunction with production facilities are located in noncongested areas and have capacities not exceeding 126,000 gallons (3,000 barrels), the distance between such tanks shall not be less than 3 feet (0.912 m).

(D) Where unstable flammable liquids are stored, the distance between such tanks shall not be less than one-half the sum of their diameters.

(E) When tanks are compacted in three or more rows or in an irregular pattern, greater spacing or other means shall be provided so that inside tanks are accessible for firefighting purposes.

(F) The minimum separation between a liquefied petroleum gas container and a flammable liquid storage tank shall be 20 feet (6.08 m), except in the case of flammable liquid tanks operating at pressures exceeding 2.5 p.s.i.g. or equipped with emergency venting which will permit pressures to exceed 2.5 p.s.i.g. in which case the provisions of paragraphs (i)(2)(ii) (A) and (B) of this section shall apply. Suitable means shall be taken to prevent the accumulation of flammable liquids under adjacent liquefied petroleum gas containers such as by diversion curbs or grading. When flammable liquid storage tanks are within a diked area, the liquefied petroleum gas containers shall be outside the diked area and at least 10 feet (3.04 m) away from the centerline of the wall of the diked area. The foregoing provisions shall not apply when liquefied petroleum gas containers of 125 gallons (473.125 L) or less capacity are installed adjacent to fuel oil supply tanks of 550 gallons (2,081.75 L) or less capacity.

(iii) [Reserved]
