
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart F - Fire Protection and Prevention
###### ยง 1926.152 Flammable liquids.
####### Tank openings other than vents.

(iv)(A) Connections for all tank openings shall be vapor or liquidtight. Vents are covered in paragraph (i)(4)(ii) of this section.

(B) Each connection to a tank inside of buildings through which liquid can normally flow shall be provided with an internal or an external valve located as close as practical to the shell of the tank. Such valves, when external, and their connections to the tank shall be of steel except when the chemical characteristics of the liquid stored are incompatible with steel. When materials other than steel are necessary, they shall be suitable for the pressures, structural stresses, and temperatures involved, including fire exposures.

(C) Flammable liquid tanks located inside of buildings, except in one-story buildings designed and protected for flammable liquid storage, shall be provided with an automatic-closing heat-actuated valve on each withdrawal connection below the liquid level, except for connections used for emergency disposal, to prevent continued flow in the event of fire in the vicinity of the tank. This function may be incorporated in the valve required in paragraph (i)(4)(iv)(B) of this section, and if a separate valve, shall be located adjacent to the valve required in paragraph (i)(4)(iv)(B) of this section.

(D) Openings for manual gaging, if independent of the fill pipe (see paragraph (i)(4)(iv)(F) of this section), shall be provided with a vaportight cap or cover. Each such opening shall be protected against liquid overflow and possible vapor release by means of a spring loaded check valve or other approved device.

(E) For Category 2 flammable liquids, or Category 3 flammable liquids with a flashpoint below 100 &#xB0;F (37.8 &#xB0;C), other than crude oils, gasolines, and asphalts, the fill pipe shall be so designed and installed as to minimize the possibility of generating static electricity by terminating within 6 inches (15.24 cm) of the bottom of the tank.

(F) The fill pipe inside of the tank shall be installed to avoid excessive vibration of the pipe.

(G) The inlet of the fill pipe shall be located outside of buildings at a location free from any source of ignition and not less than 5 feet (1.52 m) away from any building opening. The inlet of the fill pipe shall be closed and liquidtight when not in use. The fill connection shall be properly identified.

(H) Tanks inside buildings shall be equipped with a device, or other means shall be provided, to prevent overflow into the building.
