
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart F - Fire Protection and Prevention
###### ยง 1926.152 Flammable liquids.
####### Tank openings other than vents.

(v)(A) Connections for all tank openings shall be vapor or liquid tight.

(B) Openings for manual gaging, if independent of the fill pipe, shall be provided with a liquid-tight cap or cover. If inside a building, each such opening shall be protected against liquid overflow and possible vapor release by means of a spring loaded check valve or other approved device.

(C) Fill and discharge lines shall enter tanks only through the top. Fill lines shall be sloped toward the tank.

(D) For Category 2 flammable liquids, or Category 3 flammable liquids with a flashpoint below 100 &#xB0;F (37.8 &#xB0;C), other than crude oils, gasolines, and asphalts, the fill pipe shall be so designed and installed as to minimize the possibility of generating static electricity by terminating within 6 inches (15.24 cm) of the bottom of the tank.

(E) Filling and emptying connections which are made and broken shall be located outside of buildings at a location free from any source of ignition and not less than 5 feet (1.52 m) away from any building opening. Such connection shall be closed and liquidtight when not in use. The connection shall be properly identified.
