
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart F - Fire Protection and Prevention
###### ยง 1926.153 Liquefied petroleum gas (LP-Gas).
####### Design pressure and classification of storage containers.

(2)Storage containers shall be designed and classified in accordance with Table F-31.

(3) Containers with foundations attached (portable or semiportable b containers with suitable steel "runners" or "skids" and popularly known in the industry as "skid tanks") shall be designed, installed, and used in accordance with these rules subject to the following provisions:

(i) If they are to be used at a given general location for a temporary period not to exceed 6 months they need not have fire-resisting foundations or saddles but shall have adequate ferrous metal supports.

(ii) They shall not be located with the outside bottom of the container shell more than 5 feet (1.52 m) above the surface of the ground unless fire-resisting supports are provided.

(iii) The bottom of the skids shall not be less than 2 inches (5.08 cm) or more than 12 inches (30.48 cm) below the outside bottom of the container shell.

(iv) Flanges, nozzles, valves, fittings, and the like, having communication with the interior of the container, shall be protected against physical damage.

(v) When not permanently located on fire-resisting foundations, piping connections shall be sufficiently flexible to minimize the possibility of breakage or leakage of connections if the container settles, moves, or is otherwise displaced.

(vi) Skids, or lugs for attachment of skids, shall be secured to the container in accordance with the code or rules under which the container is designed and built (with a minimum factor of safety of four) to withstand loading in any direction equal to four times the weight of the container and attachments when filled to the maximum permissible loaded weight.

(4) Field welding where necessary shall be made only on saddle plates or brackets which were applied by the manufacturer of the tank.

(n) When LP-Gas and one or more other gases are stored or used in the same area, the containers shall be marked to identify their content. Marking shall be in compliance with American National Standard Z48.1-1954, "Method of Marking Portable Compressed Gas Containers To Identify the Material Contained."
