
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart H - Materials Handling, Storage, Use, and Disposal
###### ยง 1926.250 General requirements for storage.
####### Material storage.

(b)(1) Material stored inside buildings under construction shall not be placed within 6 feet of any hoistway or inside floor openings, nor within 10 feet of an exterior wall which does not extend above the top of the material stored.

(2) Each employee required to work on stored material in silos, hoppers, tanks, and similar storage areas shall be equipped with personal fall arrest equipment meeting the requirements of subpart M of this part.

(3) Noncompatible materials shall be segregated in storage.

(4) Bagged materials shall be stacked by stepping back the layers and cross-keying the bags at least every 10 bags high.

(5) Materials shall not be stored on scaffolds or runways in excess of supplies needed for immediate operations.

(6) Brick stacks shall not be more than 7 feet in height. When a loose brick stack reaches a height of 4 feet, it shall be tapered back 2 inches in every foot of height above the 4-foot level.

(7) When masonry blocks are stacked higher than 6 feet, the stack shall be tapered back one-half block per tier above the 6-foot level.

(8) Lumber:

(i) Used lumber shall have all nails withdrawn before stacking.

(ii) Lumber shall be stacked on level and solidly supported sills.

(iii) Lumber shall be so stacked as to be stable and self-supporting.

(iv) Lumber piles shall not exceed 20 feet in height provided that lumber to be handled manually shall not be stacked more than 16 feet high.

(9) Structural steel, poles, pipe, bar stock, and other cylindrical materials, unless racked, shall be stacked and blocked so as to prevent spreading or tilting.
