
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart H - Materials Handling, Storage, Use, and Disposal
###### ยง 1926.251 Rigging equipment for material handling.
####### Wire rope.

(c)(1) Employers must not use improved plow-steel wire rope and wire-rope slings with loads in excess of the rated capacities (i.e., working load limits) indicated on the sling by permanently affixed and legible identification markings prescribed by the manufacturer.

(2) Protruding ends of strands in splices on slings and bridles shall be covered or blunted.

(3) Wire rope shall not be secured by knots, except on haul back lines on scrapers.

(4) The following limitations shall apply to the use of wire rope:

(i) An eye splice made in any wire rope shall have not less than three full tucks. However, this requirement shall not operate to preclude the use of another form of splice or connection which can be shown to be as efficient and which is not otherwise prohibited.

(ii) Except for eye splices in the ends of wires and for endless rope slings, each wire rope used in hoisting or lowering, or in pulling loads, shall consist of one continuous piece without knot or splice.

(iii) Eyes in wire rope bridles, slings, or bull wires shall not be formed by wire rope clips or knots.

(iv) Wire rope shall not be used if, in any length of eight diameters, the total number of visible broken wires exceeds 10 percent of the total number of wires, or if the rope shows other signs of excessive wear, corrosion, or defect.

(5) When U-bolt wire rope clips are used to form eyes, Table H-2 shall be used to determine the number and spacing of clips.

(i) When used for eye splices, the U-bolt shall be applied so that the "U" section is in contact with the dead end of the rope.

(i1) [Reserved]

(6) Slings shall not be shortened with knots or bolts or other makeshift devices.

(7) Sling legs shall not be kinked.

(8) Slings used in a basket hitch shall have the loads balanced to prevent slippage.

(9) Slings shall be padded or protected from the sharp edges of their loads.

(10) Hands or fingers shall not be placed between the sling and its load while the sling is being tightened around the load.

(11) Shock loading is prohibited.

(12) A sling shall not be pulled from under a load when the load is resting on the sling.
