
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart I - Tools - Hand and Power
###### ยง 1926.302 Power-operated hand tools.
####### Powder-actuated tools.

(e)(1) Only employees who have been trained in the operation of the particular tool in use shall be allowed to operate a powder-actuated tool.

(2) The tool shall be tested each day before loading to see that safety devices are in proper working condition. The method of testing shall be in accordance with the manufacturer's recommended procedure.

(3) Any tool found not in proper working order, or that develops a defect during use, shall be immediately removed from service and not used until properly repaired.

(4) Personal protective equipment shall be in accordance with subpart E of this part.

(5) Tools shall not be loaded until just prior to the intended firing time. Neither loaded nor empty tools are to be pointed at any employees. Hands shall be kept clear of the open barrel end.

(6) Loaded tools shall not be left unattended.

(7) Fasteners shall not be driven into very hard or brittle materials including, but not limited to, cast iron, glazed tile, surface-hardened steel, glass block, live rock, face brick, or hollow tile.

(8) Driving into materials easily penetrated shall be avoided unless such materials are backed by a substance that will prevent the pin or fastener from passing completely through and creating a flying missile hazard on the other side.

(9) No fastener shall be driven into a spalled area caused by an unsatisfactory fastening.

(10) Tools shall not be used in an explosive or flammable atmosphere.

(11) All tools shall be used with the correct shield, guard, or attachment recommended by the manufacturer.

(12) Powder-actuated tools used by employees shall meet all other applicable requirements of American National Standards Institute, A10.3-1970, Safety Requirements for Explosive-Actuated Fastening Tools.
