
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart J - Welding and Cutting
###### ยง 1926.353 Ventilation and protection in welding, cutting, and heating.
####### Mechanical ventilation.

(a)For purposes of this section, mechanical ventilation shall meet the following requirements:

(1) Mechanical ventilation shall consist of either general mechanical ventilation systems or local exhaust systems.

(2) General mechanical ventilation shall be of sufficient capacity and so arranged as to produce the number of air changes necessary to maintain welding fumes and smoke within safe limits, as defined in subpart D of this part.

(3) Local exhaust ventilation shall consist of freely movable hoods intended to be placed by the welder or burner as close as practicable to the work. This system shall be of sufficient capacity and so arranged as to remove fumes and smoke at the source and keep the concentration of them in the breathing zone within safe limits as defined in subpart D of this part.

(4) Contaminated air exhausted from a working space shall be discharged into the open air or otherwise clear of the source of intake air.

(5) All air replacing that withdrawn shall be clean and respirable.

(6) Oxygen shall not be used for ventilation purposes, comfort cooling, blowing dust from clothing, or for cleaning the work area.
