
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart L - Scaffolds
###### (Non-mandatory) Appendix A to Subpart L of Part 1926 - Scaffold Specifications

This appendix provides non-mandatory guidelines to assist employers in complying with the requirements of subpart L of this part. An employer may use these guidelines and tables as a starting point for designing scaffold systems. However, the guidelines do not provide all the information necessary to build a complete system, and the employer is still responsible for designing and assembling these components in such a way that the completed system will meet the requirements of ยง 1926.451(a). Scaffold components which are not selected and loaded in accordance with this Appendix, and components for which no specific guidelines or tables are given in this appendix (e.g., joints, ties, components for wood pole scaffolds more than 60 feet in height, components for heavy-duty horse scaffolds, components made with other materials, and components with other dimensions, etc.) must be designed and constructed in accordance with the capacity requirements of ยง 1926.451(a), and loaded in accordance with ยง 1926.451(d)(1).

1. General guidelines and tables.

2. Specific guidelines and tables.

(a) Pole scaffolds:

Single-pole wood pole scaffolds.

Independent wood pole scaffolds.

(b) Tube and coupler scaffolds.

(c) Fabricated frame scaffolds.

(d) Plasterers', decorators' and large area scaffolds.

(e) Bricklayers' square scaffolds.

(f) Horse scaffolds.

(g) Form scaffolds and carpenters' bracket scaffolds.

(h) Roof bracket scaffolds.

(i) Outrigger scaffolds (one level).

(j) Pump jack scaffolds.

(k) Ladder jack scaffolds.

(l) Window jack scaffolds.

(m) Crawling boards (chicken ladders).

(n) Step, platform and trestle ladder scaffolds.

(o) Single-point adjustable suspension scaffolds.

(p) Two-point adjustable suspension scaffolds.

(q)(1) Stonesetters' multi-point adjustable suspension scaffolds.

(2) Masons' multi-point adjustable suspension scaffolds.

(r) Catenary scaffolds.

(s) Float (ship) scaffolds.

(t) Interior hung scaffolds.

(u) Needle beam scaffolds.

(v) Multi-level suspension scaffolds.

(w) Mobile scaffolds.

(x) Repair bracket scaffolds.

(y) Stilts.

(z) Tank builders' scaffolds.

(a) The following tables, and the tables in part 2-Specific guidelines and tables, assume that all load-carrying timber members (except planks) of the scaffold are a minimum of 1,500 lb-f/in(stress grade) construction grade lumber. All dimensions are nominal sizes as provided in the American Softwood Lumber Standards, dated January 1970, except that, where rough sizes are noted, only rough or undressed lumber of the size specified will satisfy minimum requirements.

(b) Solid sawn wood used as scaffold planks shall be selected for such use following the grading rules established by a recognized lumber grading association or by an independent lumber grading inspection agency. Such planks shall be identified by the grade stamp of such association or agency. The association or agency and the grading rules under which the wood is graded shall be certified by the Board of Review, American Lumber Standard Committee, as set forth in the American Softwood Lumber Standard of the U.S. Department of Commerce.

(i) Allowable spans shall be determined in compliance with the National Design Specification for Wood Construction published by the National Forest Products Association; paragraph 5 of ANSI A10.8-1988 Scaffolding-Safety Requirements published by the American National Standards Institute; or for 2 x 10 inch (nominal) or 2 x 9 inch (rough) solid sawn wood planks, as shown in the following table:

(ii) The maximum permissible span for 1x 9-inch or wider wood plank of full thickness with a maximum intended load of 50 lb/ft.shall be 4 feet.

(c) Fabricated planks and platforms may be used in lieu of solid sawn wood planks. Maximum spans for such units shall be as recommended by the manufacturer based on the maximum intended load being calculated as follows:

(d) Guardrails shall be as follows:

(i) Toprails shall be equivalent in strength to 2 inch by 4 inch lumber; or

1inch xinch structural angle iron; or

1 inch x .070 inch wall steel tubing; or 1.990 inch x .058 inch wall aluminum tubing.

(ii) Midrails shall be equivalent in strength to 1 inch by 6 inch lumber; or

1inch x 1inch xinch structural angle iron; or

1 inch x .070 inch wall steel tubing; or

1.990 inch x .058 inch wall aluminum tubing.

(iii) Toeboards shall be equivalent in strength to 1 inch by 4 inch lumber; or

1inch x 1inch structural angle iron; or

1 inch x .070 inch wall steel tubing; or

1.990 inch x .058 inch wall aluminum tubing.

(iv) Posts shall be equivalent in strength to 2 inch by 4 inch lumber; or

1inch x 1inch xstructural angle iron; or

1 inch x .070 inch wall steel tubing; or

1.990 inch x .058 inch wall aluminum tubing.

(v) Distance between posts shall not exceed 8 feet.

(e) Overhead protection shall consist of 2 inch nominal planking laid tight, or-inch plywood.

(f) Screen installed between toeboards and midrails or toprails shall consist of No. 18 gauge U.S. Standard wire one inch mesh.

(a) Pole Scaffolds.

(b) Tube and coupler scaffolds.
