
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart M - Fall Protection
###### ยง 1926.500 Scope, application, and definitions applicable to this subpart.
####### Scope and application.

(a)(1) This subpart sets forth requirements and criteria for fall protection in construction workplaces covered under 29 CFR part 1926. Exception: The provisions of this subpart do not apply when employees are making an inspection, investigation, or assessment of workplace conditions prior to the actual start of construction work or after all construction work has been completed.

(2) Section 1926.501 sets forth those workplaces, conditions, operations, and circumstances for which fall protection shall be provided except as follows:

(i) Requirements relating to fall protection for employees working on scaffolds are provided in subpart L of this part.

(ii) Requirements relating to fall protection for employees working on cranes and derricks are provided in subpart CC of this part.

(iii) Fall protection requirements for employees performing steel erection work (except for towers and tanks) are provided in subpart R of this part.

(iv) Requirements relating to fall protection for employees working on certain types of equipment used in tunneling operations are provided in subpart S of this part.

(v) Requirements relating to fall protection for employees engaged in the erection of tanks and communication and broadcast towers are provided in ยง 1926.105.

(vi) Subpart V of this part provides requirements relating to fall protection for employees working from aerial lifts or on poles, towers, or similar structures while engaged in the construction of electric transmission or distribution lines or equipment.

(vii) Requirements relating to fall protection for employees working on stairways and ladders are provided in subpart X of this part.

(3) Section 1926.502 sets forth the requirements for the installation, construction, and proper use of fall protection required by part 1926, except as follows:

(i) Performance requirements for guardrail systems used on scaffolds and performance requirements for falling object protection used on scaffolds are provided in subpart L of this part.

(ii) Performance requirements for stairways, stairrail systems, and handrails are provided in subpart X of this part.

(iii) Additional performance requirements for fall arrest and work-positioning equipment are provided in subpart V of this part.

(iv) Section 1926.502 does not apply to the erection of tanks and communication and broadcast towers. (Note: Section 1926.104 sets the criteria for body belts, lanyards and lifelines used for fall protection during tank and communication and broadcast tower erection. Paragraphs (b),(c) and (f) of ยง 1926.107 provide definitions for the pertinent terms.)

(v) Criteria for steps, handholds, ladders, and grabrails/guardrails/railings required by subpart CC are provided in subpart CC. Sections 1926.502(a), (c) through (e), and (i) apply to activities covered under subpart CC unless otherwise stated in subpart CC. No other paragraphs of ยง 1926.502 apply to subpart CC.

(4) Section 1926.503 sets forth requirements for training in the installation and use of fall protection systems, except in relation to steel erection activities and the use of equipment covered by subpart CC.
