
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart L - Scaffolds
###### (Non-mandatory) Appendix A to Subpart L of Part 1926 - Scaffold Specifications
####### Tank builder's scaffold.

(z)(1) The maximum distance between brackets to which scaffolding and guardrail supports are attached shall be no more than 10 feet 6 inches.

(2) Not more than three employees shall occupy a 10 feet 6 inch span of scaffold planking at any time.

(3) A taut wire or synthetic rope supported on the scaffold brackets shall be installed at the scaffold plank level between the innermost edge of the scaffold platform and the curved plate structure of the tank shell to serve as a safety line in lieu of an inner guardrail assembly where the space between the scaffold platform and the tank exceeds 12 inches (30.48 cm). In the event the open space on either side of the rope exceeds 12 inches (30.48 cm), a second wire or synthetic rope appropriately placed, or guardrails in accordance with ยง 1926.451(g)(4), shall be installed in order to reduce that open space to less than 12 inches (30.48 cm).

(4) Scaffold planks of rough full-dimensioned 2-inch (5.1 cm) x 12-inch (30.5 cm) Douglas Fir or Southern Yellow Pine of Select Structural Grade shall be used. Douglas Fir planks shall have a fiber stress of at least 1900 lb/in(130,929 n/cm) and a modulus of elasticity of at least 1,900,000 lb/in(130,929,000 n/cm), while Yellow Pine planks shall have a fiber stress of at least 2500 lb/in(172,275 n/cm) and a modulus of elasticity of at least 2,000,000 lb/in(137,820,000 n/cm).

(5) Guardrails shall be constructed of a taut wire or synthetic rope, and shall be supported by angle irons attached to brackets welded to the steel plates. These guardrails shall comply with ยง 1926.451(g)(4). Guardrail supports shall be located at no greater than 10 feet 6 inch intervals.
