
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart M - Fall Protection
###### Appendix C to Subpart M of Part 1926 - Personal Fall Arrest Systems
####### Snap-hook considerations.

(j)(1) Although not required by this standard for all connections until January 1, 1998, locking snaphooks designed for connection to suitable objects (of sufficient strength) are highly recommended in lieu of the nonlocking type. Locking snaphooks incorporate a positive locking mechanism in addition to the spring loaded keeper, which will not allow the keeper to open under moderate pressure without someone first releasing the mechanism. Such a feature, properly designed, effectively prevents roll-out from occurring.

(2) As required by ยง 1926.502(d)(6), the following connections must be avoided (unless properly designed locking snaphooks are used) because they are conditions which can result in roll-out when a nonlocking snaphook is used:

(i) Direct connection of a snaphook to a horizontal lifeline.

(ii) Two (or more) snaphooks connected to one dee-ring.

(iii) Two snaphooks connected to each other.

(iv) A snaphook connected back on its integral lanyard.

(v) A snaphook connected to a webbing loop or webbing lanyard.

(vi) Improper dimensions of the dee-ring, rebar, or other connection point in relation to the snaphook dimensions which would allow the snaphook keeper to be depressed by a turning motion of the snaphook.
