
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart M - Fall Protection
###### Appendix D to Subpart M of Part 1926 - Positioning Device Systems
####### General.

(a)(1) Single strap positioning devices shall have one end attached to a fixed anchorage and the other end connected to a body belt or harness in the same manner as they would be used to protect employees. Double strap positioning devices, similar to window cleaner's belts, shall have one end of the strap attached to a fixed anchorage and the other end shall hang free. The body belt or harness shall be attached to the strap in the same manner as it would be used to protect employees. The two strap ends shall be adjusted to their maximum span.

(2) The fixed anchorage shall be rigid, and shall not have a deflection greater than .04 inches (1 mm) when a force of 2,250 pounds (10 kN) is applied.

(3) During the testing of all systems, a test weight of 250 pounds plus or minus 3 pounds (113 kg plus or minus 1.6 kg) shall be used. The weight shall be a rigid object with a girth of 38 inches plus or minus 4 inches (96 cm plus or minus 10 cm).

(4) Each test shall consist of dropping the specified weight one time without failure of the system being tested. A new system shall be used for each test.

(5) The test weight for each test shall be hoisted exactly 4 feet (1.2 m above its "at rest" position), and shall be dropped so as to permit a vertical free fall of 4 feet (1.2 m).

(6) The test is failed whenever any breakage or slippage occurs which permits the weight to fall free of the system.

(7) Following the test, the system need not be capable of further operation; however, all such incapacities shall be readily apparent.
