
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 1 - PROCEDURES FOR PREDETERMINATION OF WAGE RATES
#### ยง 1.3 Obtaining and compiling wage rate information.
##### Signed collective bargaining agreements.

(2)The Administrator may request the parties to an agreement to submit statements certifying to its scope and application.

(3) Wage rates determined for public construction by State and local officials pursuant to State and local prevailing wage legislation.

(4) In making wage rate determinations pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 113, the highway department of the State in which a project in the Federal-Aid highway system is to be performed shall be consulted. Before making a determination of wage rates for such a project the Administrator shall give due regard to the information thus obtained.

(5) Wage rate data submitted to the Department of Labor by contracting agencies pursuant to 29 CFR 5.5(a)(1)(ii).

(6) Any other information pertinent to the determination of prevailing wage rates.

(c) The Administrator may initially obtain or supplement such information obtained on a voluntary basis by such means, including the holding of hearings, and from any sources determined to be necessary. All information of the types described in ยง 1.3(b) of this part, pertinent to the determination of the wages prevailing at the time of issuance of the wage determination, will be evaluated in the light of ยง 1.2(a) of this part.

(d) In compiling wage rate data for building and residential wage determinations, the Administrator will not use data from Federal or federally assisted projects subject to Davis-Bacon prevailing wage requirements unless it is determined that there is insufficient wage data to determine the prevailing wages in the absence of such data. Data from Federal or federally assisted projects will be used in compiling wage rate data for heavy and highway wage determinations.
