
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart N - Helicopters, Hoists, Elevators, and Conveyors
###### ยง 1926.552 Material hoists, personnel hoists, and elevators.
####### General requirements.

(a)(1) The employer shall comply with the manufacturer's specifications and limitations applicable to the operation of all hoists and elevators. Where manufacturer's specifications are not available, the limitations assigned to the equipment shall be based on the determinations of a professional engineer competent in the field.

(2) Rated load capacities, recommended operating speeds, and special hazard warnings or instructions shall be posted on cars and platforms.

(3) Wire rope shall be removed from service when any of the following conditions exists:

(i) In hoisting ropes, six randomly distributed broken wires in one rope lay or three broken wires in one strand in one rope lay;

(ii) Abrasion, scrubbing, flattening, or peening, causing loss of more than one-third of the original diameter of the outside wires;

(iii) Evidence of any heat damage resulting from a torch or any damage caused by contact with electrical wires;

(iv) Reduction from nominal diameter of more than three sixty-fourths inch for diameters up to and including three-fourths inch; one-sixteenth inch for diameters seven-eights to 1inches; and three thirty-seconds inch for diameters 1to 1inches.

(4) Hoisting ropes shall be installed in accordance with the wire rope manufacturers' recommendations.

(5) The installation of live booms on hoists is prohibited.

(6) The use of endless belt-type manlifts on construction shall be prohibited.
