
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart N - Helicopters, Hoists, Elevators, and Conveyors
###### ยง 1926.552 Material hoists, personnel hoists, and elevators.
####### Material hoists.

(b)(1)(i) Operating rules shall be established and posted at the operator's station of the hoist. Such rules shall include signal system and allowable line speed for various loads. Rules and notices shall be posted on the car frame or crosshead in a conspicuous location, including the statement "No Riders Allowed."

(ii) No person shall be allowed to ride on material hoists except for the purposes of inspection and maintenance.

(2) All entrances of the hoistways shall be protected by substantial gates or bars which shall guard the full width of the landing entrance. All hoistway entrance bars and gates shall be painted with diagonal contrasting colors, such as black and yellow stripes.

(i) Bars shall be not less than 2- by 4-inch wooden bars or the equivalent, located 2 feet from the hoistway line. Bars shall be located not less than 36 inches nor more than 42 inches above the floor.

(ii) Gates or bars protecting the entrances to hoistways shall be equipped with a latching device.

(3) Overhead protective covering of 2-inch planking,-inch plywood, or other solid material of equivalent strength, shall be provided on the top of every material hoist cage or platform.

(4) The operator's station of a hoisting machine shall be provided with overhead protection equivalent to tight planking not less than 2 inches thick. The support for the overhead protection shall be of equal strength.

(5) Hoist towers may be used with or without an enclosure on all sides. However, whichever alternative is chosen, the following applicable conditions shall be met:

(i) When a hoist tower is enclosed, it shall be enclosed on all sides for its entire height with a screen enclosure of-inch mesh, No. 18 U.S. gauge wire or equivalent, except for landing access.

(ii) When a hoist tower is not enclosed, the hoist platform or car shall be totally enclosed (caged) on all sides for the full height between the floor and the overhead protective covering with-inch mesh of No. 14 U.S. gauge wire or equivalent. The hoist platform enclosure shall include the required gates for loading and unloading. A 6-foot high enclosure shall be provided on the unused sides of the hoist tower at ground level.

(6) Car arresting devices shall be installed to function in case of rope failure.

(7) All material hoist towers shall be designed by a licensed professional engineer.

(8) All material hoists shall conform to the requirements of ANSI A10.5-1969, Safety Requirements for Material Hoists.
