
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart N - Helicopters, Hoists, Elevators, and Conveyors
###### ยง 1926.555 Conveyors.
####### General requirements.

(a)(1) Means for stopping the motor or engine shall be provided at the operator's station. Conveyor systems shall be equipped with an audible warning signal to be sounded immediately before starting up the conveyor.

(2) If the operator's station is at a remote point, similar provisions for stopping the motor or engine shall be provided at the motor or engine location.

(3) Emergency stop switches shall be arranged so that the conveyor cannot be started again until the actuating stop switch has been reset to running or "on" position.

(4) Screw conveyors shall be guarded to prevent employee contact with turning flights.

(5) Where a conveyor passes over work areas, aisles, or thoroughfares, suitable guards shall be provided to protect employees required to work below the conveyors.

(6) All crossovers, aisles, and passageways shall be conspicuously marked by suitable signs, as required by subpart G of this part.

(7) Conveyors shall be locked out or otherwise rendered inoperable, and tagged out with a "Do Not Operate" tag during repairs and when operation is hazardous to employees performing maintenance work.

(8) All conveyors in use shall meet the applicable requirements for design, construction, inspection, testing, maintenance, and operation, as prescribed in the ANSI B20.1-1957, Safety Code for Conveyors, Cableways, and Related Equipment.
