
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart P - Excavations
###### Appendix B to Subpart P of Part 1926 - Sloping and Benching
####### Configurations.

(4)Configurations of sloping and benching systems shall be in accordance with Figure B-1.

(All slopes stated below are in the horizontal to vertical ratio)

1. All simple slope excavation 20 feet or less in depth shall have a maximum allowable slope of:1.

Exception: Simple slope excavations which are open 24 hours or less (short term) and which are 12 feet or less in depth shall have a maximum allowable slope of:1.

2. All benched excavations 20 feet or less in depth shall have a maximum allowable slope ofto 1 and maximum bench dimensions as follows:

3. All excavations 8 feet or less in depth which have unsupported vertically sided lower portions shall have a maximum vertical side of 3feet.

All excavations more than 8 feet but not more than 12 feet in depth which unsupported vertically sided lower portions shall have a maximum allowable slope of 1:1 and a maximum vertical side of 3feet.

All excavations 20 feet or less in depth which have vertically sided lower portions that are supported or shielded shall have a maximum allowable slope of:1. The support or shield system must extend at least 18 inches above the top of the vertical side.

4. All other simple slope, compound slope, and vertically sided lower portion excavations shall be in accordance with the other options permitted under ยง 1926.652(b).

1. All simple slope excavations 20 feet or less in depth shall have a maximum allowable slope of 1:1.

2. All benched excavations 20 feet or less in depth shall have a maximum allowable slope of 1:1 and maximum bench dimensions as follows:

3. All excavations 20 feet or less in depth which have vertically sided lower portions shall be shielded or supported to a height at least 18 inches above the top of the vertical side. All such excavations shall have a maximum allowable slope of 1:1.

4. All other sloped excavations shall be in accordance with the other options permitted in ยง 1926.652(b).

1. All simple slope excavations 20 feet or less in depth shall have a maximum allowable slope of 1:1.

2. All excavations 20 feet or less in depth which have vertically sided lower portions shall be shielded or supported to a height at least 18 inches above the top of the vertical side. All such excavations shall have a maximum allowable slope of 1:1.

3. All other sloped excavations shall be in accordance with the other options permitted in ยง 1926.652(b).

1. All excavations 20 feet or less in depth made in layered soils shall have a maximum allowable slope for each layer as set forth below.

2. All other sloped excavations shall be in accordance with the other options permitted in ยง 1926.652(b).
