
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart P - Excavations
###### Appendix C to Subpart P of Part 1926 - Timber Shoring for Trenches
####### Presentation of Information.

(c)Information is presented in several forms as follows:

(1) Information is presented in tabular form in Tables C-1.1, C-1.2, and C-1.3, and Tables C-2.1, C-2.2 and C-2.3 following paragraph (g) of the appendix. Each table presents the minimum sizes of timber members to use in a shoring system, and each table contains data only for the particular soil type in which the excavation or portion of the excavation is made. The data are arranged to allow the user the flexibility to select from among several acceptable configurations of members based on varying the horizontal spacing of the crossbraces. Stable rock is exempt from shoring requirements and therefore, no data are presented for this condition.

(2) Information concerning the basis of the tabular data and the limitations of the data is presented in paragraph (d) of this appendix, and on the tables themselves.

(3) Information explaining the use of the tabular data is presented in paragraph (e) of this appendix.

(4) Information illustrating the use of the tabular data is presented in paragraph (f) of this appendix.

(5) Miscellaneous notations regarding Tables C-1.1 through C-1.3 and Tables C-2.1 through C-2.3 are presented in paragraph (g) of this Appendix.
