
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart P - Excavations
###### Appendix D to Subpart P of Part 1926 - Aluminum Hydraulic Shoring for Trenches
####### Presentation of Information.

(c)Information is presented in several forms as follows:

(1) Information is presented in tabular form in Tables D-1.1, D-1.2, D-1.3 and E-1.4. Each table presents the maximum vertical and horizontal spacings that may be used with various aluminum member sizes and various hydraulic cylinder sizes. Each table contains data only for the particular soil type in which the excavation or portion of the excavation is made. Tables D-1.1 and D-1.2 are for vertical shores in Types A and B soil. Tables D-1.3 and D1.4 are for horizontal waler systems in Types B and C soil.

(2) Information concerning the basis of the tabular data and the limitations of the data is presented in paragraph (d) of this appendix.

(3) Information explaining the use of the tabular data is presented in paragraph (e) of this appendix.

(4) Information illustrating the use of the tabular data is presented in paragraph (f) of this appendix.

(5) Miscellaneous notations (footnotes) regarding Table D-1.1 through D-1.4 are presented in paragraph (g) of this appendix.

(6) Figures, illustrating typical installations of hydraulic shoring, are included just prior to the Tables. The illustrations page is entitled "Aluminum Hydraulic Shoring; Typical Installations."
