
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart P - Excavations
###### Appendix D to Subpart P of Part 1926 - Aluminum Hydraulic Shoring for Trenches
####### Example to Illustrate the Use of the Tables:

(f)

(1) Example 1:

A trench dug in Type A soil is 6 feet deep and 3 feet wide. From Table D-1.1: Find vertical shores and 2 inch diameter cylinders spaced 8 feet on center (o.c.) horizontally and 4 feet on center (o.c.) vertically. (See Figures 1 & 3 for typical installations.)

(2) Example 2:

A trench is dug in Type B soil that does not require sheeting, 13 feet deep and 5 feet wide. From Table D-1.2: Find vertical shores and 2 inch diameter cylinders spaced 6.5 feet o.c. horizontally and 4 feet o.c. vertically. (See Figures 1 & 3 for typical installations.)

(3) A trench is dug in Type B soil that does not require sheeting, but does experience some minor raveling of the trench face. The trench is 16 feet deep and 9 feet wide. From Table D-1.2: Find vertical shores and 2 inch diameter cylinder (with special oversleeves as designated by footnote #B2) spaced 5.5 feet o.c. horizontally and 4 feet o.c. vertically, plywood (per footnote (g)(7) to the D-1 Table) should be used behind the shores. (See Figures 2 & 3 for typical installations.)

(4) Example 4: A trench is dug in previously disturbed Type B soil, with characteristics of a Type C soil, and will require sheeting. The trench is 18 feet deep and 12 feet wide. 8 foot horizontal spacing between cylinders is desired for working space. From Table D-1.3: Find horizontal wale with a section modulus of 14.0 spaced at 4 feet o.c. vertically and 3 inch diameter cylinder spaced at 9 feet maximum o.c. horizontally. 3 x 12 timber sheeting is required at close spacing vertically. (See Figure 4 for typical installation.)

(5) Example 5: A trench is dug in Type C soil, 9 feet deep and 4 feet wide. Horizontal cylinder spacing in excess of 6 feet is desired for working space. From Table D-1.4: Find horizontal wale with a section modulus of 7.0 and 2 inch diameter cylinders spaced at 6.5 feet o.c. horizontally. Or, find horizontal wale with a 14.0 section modulus and 3 inch diameter cylinder spaced at 10 feet o.c. horizontally. Both wales are spaced 4 feet o.c. vertically. 3 x 12 timber sheeting is required at close spacing vertically. (See Figure 4 for typical installation.)
