
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart P - Excavations
###### Appendix D to Subpart P of Part 1926 - Aluminum Hydraulic Shoring for Trenches
####### Footnotes, and general notes, for Tables D-1.1, D-1.2, D-1.3, and D-1.4.

(g)

(1) For applications other than those listed in the tables, refer to ยง 1926.652(c)(2) for use of manufacturer's tabulated data. For trench depths in excess of 20 feet, refer to ยง 1926.652(c)(2) and ยง 1926.652(c)(3).

(2) 2 inch diameter cylinders, at this width, shall have structural steel tube (3.5 x 3.5 x 0.1875) oversleeves, or structural oversleeves of manufacturer's specification, extending the full, collapsed length.

(3) Hydraulic cylinders capacities. (i) 2 inch cylinders shall be a minimum 2-inch inside diameter with a safe working capacity of not less than 18,000 pounds axial compressive load at maximum extension. Maximum extension is to include full range of cylinder extensions as recommended by product manufacturer.

(ii) 3-inch cylinders shall be a minimum 3-inch inside diameter with a safe work capacity of not less than 30,000 pounds axial compressive load at maximum extension. Maximum extension is to include full range of cylinder extensions as recommended by product manufacturer.

(4) All spacing indicated is measured center to center.

(5) Vertical shoring rails shall have a minimum section modulus of 0.40 inch.

(6) When vertical shores are used, there must be a minimum of three shores spaced equally, horizontally, in a group.

(7) Plywood shall be 1.125 in. thick softwood or 0.75 inch. thick, 14 ply, arctic white birch (Finland form). Please note that plywood is not intended as a structural member, but only for prevention of local raveling (sloughing of the trench face) between shores.

(8) See appendix C for timber specifications.

(9) Wales are calculated for simple span conditions.

(10) See appendix D, item (d), for basis and limitations of the data.
