
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart P - Excavations
###### Appendix D to Subpart P of Part 1926 - Aluminum Hydraulic Shoring for Trenches
####### Use of Tables D-1.1, D-1.2, D-1.3 and D-1.4.

(e)The members of the shoring system that are to be selected using this information are the hydraulic cylinders, and either the vertical shores or the horizontal wales. When a waler system is used the vertical timber sheeting to be used is also selected from these tables. The Tables D-1.1 and D-1.2 for vertical shores are used in Type A and B soils that do not require sheeting. Type B soils that may require sheeting, and Type C soils that always require sheeting are found in the horizontal wale Tables D-1.3 and D-1.4. The soil type must first be determined in accordance with the soil classification system described in appendix A to subpart P of part 1926. Using the appropriate table, the selection of the size and spacing of the members is made. The selection is based on the depth and width of the trench where the members are to be installed. In these tables the vertical spacing is held constant at four feet on center. The tables show the maximum horizontal spacing of cylinders allowed for each size of wale in the waler system tables, and in the vertical shore tables, the hydraulic cylinder horizontal spacing is the same as the vertical shore spacing.
