
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart P - Excavations
###### Appendix D to Subpart P of Part 1926 - Aluminum Hydraulic Shoring for Trenches
####### Basis and limitations of the data.

(d)(1) Vertical shore rails and horizontal wales are those that meet the Section Modulus requirements in the D-1 Tables. Aluminum material is 6061-T6 or material of equivalent strength and properties.

(2) Hydraulic cylinders specifications. (i) 2-inch cylinders shall be a minimum 2-inch inside diameter with a minimum safe working capacity of no less than 18,000 pounds axial compressive load at maximum extension. Maximum extension is to include full range of cylinder extensions as recommended by product manufaturer.

(ii) 3-inch cylinders shall be a minimum 3-inch inside diameter with a safe working capacity of not less than 30,000 pounds axial compressive load at extensions as recommended by product manufacturer.

(3) Limitation of application.

(i) It is not intended that the aluminum hydraulic specification apply to every situation that may be experienced in the field. These data were developed to apply to the situations that are most commonly experienced in current trenching practice. Shoring systems for use in situations that are not covered by the data in this appendix must be otherwise designed as specified in ยง 1926.652(c).

(ii) When any of the following conditions are present, the members specified in the Tables are not considered adequate. In this case, an alternative aluminum hydraulic shoring system or other type of protective system must be designed in accordance with ยง 1926.652.

(A) When vertical loads imposed on cross braces exceed a 100 Pound gravity load distributed on a one foot section of the center of the hydraulic cylinder.

(B) When surcharge loads are present from equipment weighing in excess of 20,000 pounds.

(C) When only the lower portion or a trench is shored and the remaining portion of the trench is sloped or benched unless: The sloped portion is sloped at an angle less steep than three horizontal to one vertical; or the members are selected from the tables for use at a depth which is determined from the top of the overall trench, and not from the toe of the sloped portion.
