
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart Q - Concrete and Masonry Construction
###### ยง 1926.703 Requirements for cast-in-place concrete.
####### Shoring and reshoring.

(b)(1) All shoring equipment (including equipment used in reshoring operations) shall be inspected prior to erection to determine that the equipment meets the requirements specified in the formwork drawings.

(2) Shoring equipment found to be damaged such that its strength is reduced to less than that required by ยง 1926.703(a)(1) shall not be used for shoring.

(3) Erected shoring equipment shall be inspected immediately prior to, during, and immediately after concrete placement.

(4) Shoring equipment that is found to be damaged or weakened after erection, such that its strength is reduced to less than that required by ยง 1926.703(a)(1), shall be immediately reinforced.

(5) The sills for shoring shall be sound, rigid, and capable of carrying the maximum intended load.

(6) All base plates, shore heads, extension devices, and adjustment screws shall be in firm contact, and secured when necessary, with the foundation and the form.

(7) Eccentric loads on shore heads and similar members shall be prohibited unless these members have been designed for such loading.

(8) Whenever single post shores are used one on top of another (tiered), the employer shall comply with the following specific requirements in addition to the general requirements for formwork:

(i) The design of the shoring shall be prepared by a qualified designer and the erected shoring shall be inspected by an engineer qualified in structural design.

(ii) The single post shores shall be vertically aligned.

(iii) The single post shores shall be spliced to prevent misalignment.

(iv) The single post shores shall be adequately braced in two mutually perpendicular directions at the splice level. Each tier shall also be diagonally braced in the same two directions.

(9) Adjustment of single post shores to raise formwork shall not be made after the placement of concrete.

(10) Reshoring shall be erected, as the original forms and shores are removed, whenever the concrete is required to support loads in excess of its capacity.
