
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart Q - Concrete and Masonry Construction
###### Appendix A to Subpart Q of Part 1926 - References to subpart Q of Part 1926

The following non-mandatory references provide information which can be helpful in understanding and complying with the requirements contained in subpart Q.

- Accident Prevention Manual for Industrial Operations; Eighth Edition; National Safety Council.

- Building Code Requirements for Reinforced Concrete (ACI 318-83).

- Formwork for Concrete (ACI SP-4).

- Recommended Practice for Concrete Formwork (ACI 347-78).

- Safety Requirements for Concrete and Masonry Work (ANSI A10.9-1983).

- Standard Test Method for Compressive Strength of Cylindrical Concrete Specimens (ASTM C39-86).

- Standard Test Method for Making and Curing Concrete Test Specimens in the Field (ASTM C31-85).

- Standard Test Method for Penetration Resistance of Hardened Concrete (ASTM C803-82).

- Standard Test Method for Compressive Strength of Concrete Cylinders Cast In-Place in Cylindrical Molds (ASTM C873-85).

- Standard Method for Developing Early Age Compressive Test Values and Projecting Later Age Strengths (ASTM C918-80).

- Recommended Practice for Inspection and Testing Agencies for Concrete, Steel and Bituminous Materials as Used in Construction (ASTM E329-77).

- Method of Making and Curing Concrete Test Specimens in the Laboratory (ASTM C192-88).

- Methods of Obtaining and Testing Drilled Cores and Sawed Beams of Concrete (ASTM C42-87).

- Methods of Securing, Preparing and Testing Specimens from Hardened Lightweight Insulating Concrete for Compressive Strength (ASTM C513-86).

- Test Method for Comprehensive Strength of Lightweight Insulating Concrete (ASTM C495-86).

- Method of Making, Accelerating Curing, and Testing of Concrete Compression Test Specimens (ASTM C684-81).

- Test Method for Compressive Strength of Concrete Using Portions of Beams Broken in Flexure (ASTM C116-68 (1980)).
