
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart Q - Concrete and Masonry Construction
###### ยง 1926.706 Requirements for masonry construction.

(a) A limited access zone shall be established whenever a masonry wall is being constructed. The limited access zone shall conform to the following.

(1) The limited access zone shall be established prior to the start of construction of the wall.

(2) The limited access zone shall be equal to the height of the wall to be constructed plus four feet, and shall run the entire length of the wall.

(3) The limited access zone shall be established on the side of the wall which will be unscaffolded.

(4) The limited access zone shall be restricted to entry by employees actively engaged in constructing the wall. No other employees shall be permitted to enter the zone.

(5) The limited access zone shall remain in place until the wall is adequately supported to prevent overturning and to prevent collapse unless the height of wall is over eight feet, in which case, the limited access zone shall remain in place until the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section have been met.

(b) All masonry walls over eight feet in height shall be adequately braced to prevent overturning and to prevent collapse unless the wall is adequately supported so that it will not overturn or collapse. The bracing shall remain in place until permanent supporting elements of the structure are in place.
