
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart R - Steel Erection
###### ยง 1926.753 Hoisting and rigging.
####### General.

(c)(1) Pre-shift visual inspection of cranes.

(i) Cranes being used in steel erection activities shall be visually inspected prior to each shift by a competent person; the inspection shall include observation for deficiencies during operation. At a minimum this inspection shall include the following:

(A) All control mechanisms for maladjustments;

(B) Control and drive mechanism for excessive wear of components and contamination by lubricants, water or other foreign matter;

(C) Safety devices, including but not limited to boom angle indicators, boom stops, boom kick out devices, anti-two block devices, and load moment indicators where required;

(D) Air, hydraulic, and other pressurized lines for deterioration or leakage, particularly those which flex in normal operation;

(E) Hooks and latches for deformation, chemical damage, cracks, or wear;

(F) Wire rope reeving for compliance with hoisting equipment manufacturer's specifications;

(G) Electrical apparatus for malfunctioning, signs of excessive deterioration, dirt, or moisture accumulation;

(H) Hydraulic system for proper fluid level;

(I) Tires for proper inflation and condition;

(J) Ground conditions around the hoisting equipment for proper support, including ground settling under and around outriggers, ground water accumulation, or similar conditions;

(K) The hoisting equipment for level position; and

(L) The hoisting equipment for level position after each move and setup.

(ii) If any deficiency is identified, an immediate determination shall be made by the competent person as to whether the deficiency constitutes a hazard.

(iii) If the deficiency is determined to constitute a hazard, the hoisting equipment shall be removed from service until the deficiency has been corrected.

(iv) The operator shall be responsible for those operations under the operator's direct control. Whenever there is any doubt as to safety, the operator shall have the authority to stop and refuse to handle loads until safety has been assured.

(2) A qualified rigger (a rigger who is also a qualified person) shall inspect the rigging prior to each shift in accordance with ยง 1926.251.

(3) The headache ball, hook or load shall not be used to transport personnel except as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.

(4) Cranes or derricks may be used to hoist employees on a personnel platform when work under this subpart is being conducted, provided that all provisions of ยง 1926.1431 (except for ยง 1926.1431(a)) are met.

(5) Safety latches on hooks shall not be deactivated or made inoperable except:

(i) When a qualified rigger has determined that the hoisting and placing of purlins and single joists can be performed more safely by doing so; or

(ii) When equivalent protection is provided in a site-specific erection plan.
