
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart R - Steel Erection
###### ยง 1926.753 Hoisting and rigging.
####### Multiple lift rigging procedure.

(e)(1) A multiple lift shall only be performed if the following criteria are met:

(i) A multiple lift rigging assembly is used;

(ii) A maximum of five members are hoisted per lift;

(iii) Only beams and similar structural members are lifted; and

(iv) All employees engaged in the multiple lift have been trained in these procedures in accordance with ยง 1926.761(c)(1).

(v) No crane is permitted to be used for a multiple lift where such use is contrary to the manufacturer's specifications and limitations.

(2) Components of the multiple lift rigging assembly shall be specifically designed and assembled with a maximum capacity for total assembly and for each individual attachment point. This capacity, certified by the manufacturer or a qualified rigger, shall be based on the manufacturer's specifications with a 5 to 1 safety factor for all components.

(3) The total load shall not exceed:

(i) The rated capacity of the hoisting equipment specified in the hoisting equipment load charts;

(ii) The rigging capacity specified in the rigging rating chart.

(4) The multiple lift rigging assembly shall be rigged with members:

(i) Attached at their center of gravity and maintained reasonably level;

(ii) Rigged from top down; and

(iii) Rigged at least 7 feet (2.1 m) apart.

(5) The members on the multiple lift rigging assembly shall be set from the bottom up.

(6) Controlled load lowering shall be used whenever the load is over the connectors.
