
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart R - Steel Erection
###### ยง 1926.757 Open web steel joists.
####### General.

(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, where steel joists are used and columns are not framed in at least two directions with solid web structural steel members, a steel joist shall be field-bolted at the column to provide lateral stability to the column during erection. For the installation of this joist:

(i) A vertical stabilizer plate shall be provided on each column for steel joists. The plate shall be a minimum of 6 inch by 6 inch (152 mm by 152 mm) and shall extend at least 3 inches (76 mm) below the bottom chord of the joist with ainch (21 mm) hole to provide an attachment point for guying or plumbing cables.

(ii) The bottom chords of steel joists at columns shall be stabilized to prevent rotation during erection.

(iii) Hoisting cables shall not be released until the seat at each end of the steel joist is field-bolted, and each end of the bottom chord is restrained by the column stabilizer plate.

(2) Where constructibility does not allow a steel joist to be installed at the column:

(i) an alternate means of stabilizing joists shall be installed on both sides near the column and shall:

(A) provide stability equivalent to paragraph (a)(1) of this section;

(B) be designed by a qualified person;

(C) be shop installed; and

(D) be included in the erection drawings.

(ii) hoisting cables shall not be released until the seat at each end of the steel joist is field-bolted and the joist is stabilized.

(3) Where steel joists at or near columns span 60 feet (18.3 m) or less, the joist shall be designed with sufficient strength to allow one employee to release the hoisting cable without the need for erection bridging.

(4) Where steel joists at or near columns span more than 60 feet (18.3 m), the joists shall be set in tandem with all bridging installed unless an alternative method of erection, which provides equivalent stability to the steel joist, is designed by a qualified person and is included in the site-specific erection plan.

(5) A steel joist or steel joist girder shall not be placed on any support structure unless such structure is stabilized.

(6) When steel joist(s) are landed on a structure, they shall be secured to prevent unintentional displacement prior to installation.

(7) No modification that affects the strength of a steel joist or steel joist girder shall be made without the approval of the project structural engineer of record.
