
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart R - Steel Erection
###### ยง 1926.757 Open web steel joists.
####### Landing and placing loads.

(e)(1) During the construction period, the employer placing a load on steel joists shall ensure that the load is distributed so as not to exceed the carrying capacity of any steel joist.

(2) Except for paragraph (e)(4) of this section, no construction loads are allowed on the steel joists until all bridging is installed and anchored and all joist-bearing ends are attached.

(3) The weight of a bundle of joist bridging shall not exceed a total of 1,000 pounds (454 kg). A bundle of joist bridging shall be placed on a minimum of three steel joists that are secured at one end. The edge of the bridging bundle shall be positioned within 1 foot (.30 m) of the secured end.

(4) No bundle of decking may be placed on steel joists until all bridging has been installed and anchored and all joist bearing ends attached, unless all of the following conditions are met:

(i) The employer has first determined from a qualified person and documented in a site-specific erection plan that the structure or portion of the structure is capable of supporting the load;

(ii) The bundle of decking is placed on a minimum of three steel joists;

(iii) The joists supporting the bundle of decking are attached at both ends;

(iv) At least one row of bridging is installed and anchored;

(v) The total weight of the bundle of decking does not exceed 4,000 pounds (1816 kg); and

(vi) Placement of the bundle of decking shall be in accordance with paragraph (e)(5) of this section.

(5) The edge of the construction load shall be placed within 1 foot (.30 m) of the bearing surface of the joist end.
