
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart R - Steel Erection
###### ยง 1926.757 Open web steel joists.
####### Erection bridging.

(d)(1) Where the span of the steel joist is equal to or greater than the span shown in Tables A and B, the following shall apply:

(i) A row of bolted diagonal erection bridging shall be installed near the midspan of the steel joist;

(ii) Hoisting cables shall not be released until this bolted diagonal erection bridging is installed and anchored; and

(iii) No more than one employee shall be allowed on these spans until all other bridging is installed and anchored.

(2) Where the span of the steel joist is over 60 feet (18.3 m) through 100 feet (30.5 m), the following shall apply:

(i) All rows of bridging shall be bolted diagonal bridging;

(ii) Two rows of bolted diagonal erection bridging shall be installed near the third points of the steel joist;

(iii) Hoisting cables shall not be released until this bolted diagonal erection bridging is installed and anchored; and

(iv) No more than two employees shall be allowed on these spans until all other bridging is installed and anchored.

(3) Where the span of the steel joist is over 100 feet (30.5 m) through 144 feet (43.9 m), the following shall apply:

(i) All rows of bridging shall be bolted diagonal bridging;

(ii) Hoisting cables shall not be released until all bridging is installed and anchored; and

(iii) No more than two employees shall be allowed on these spans until all bridging is installed and anchored.

(4) For steel members spanning over 144 feet (43.9 m), the erection methods used shall be in accordance with ยง 1926.756.

(5) Where any steel joist specified in paragraphs (c)(2) and (d)(1), (d)(2), and (d)(3) of this section is a bottom chord bearing joist, a row of bolted diagonal bridging shall be provided near the support(s). This bridging shall be installed and anchored before the hoisting cable(s) is released.

(6) When bolted diagonal erection bridging is required by this section, the following shall apply:

(i) The bridging shall be indicated on the erection drawing;

(ii) The erection drawing shall be the exclusive indicator of the proper placement of this bridging;

(iii) Shop-installed bridging clips, or functional equivalents, shall be used where the bridging bolts to the steel joists;

(iv) When two pieces of bridging are attached to the steel joist by a common bolt, the nut that secures the first piece of bridging shall not be removed from the bolt for the attachment of the second; and

(v) Bridging attachments shall not protrude above the top chord of the steel joist.
