
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart R - Steel Erection
###### ยง 1926.760 Fall protection.
####### Controlled Decking Zone (CDZ).

(c)A controlled decking zone may be established in that area of the structure over 15 and up to 30 feet above a lower level where metal decking is initially being installed and forms the leading edge of a work area. In each CDZ, the following shall apply:

(1) Each employee working at the leading edge in a CDZ shall be protected from fall hazards of more than two stories or 30 feet (9.1 m), whichever is less.

(2) Access to a CDZ shall be limited to only those employees engaged in leading edge work.

(3) The boundaries of a CDZ shall be designated and clearly marked. The CDZ shall not be more than 90 feet (27.4 m) wide and 90 (27.4 m) feet deep from any leading edge. The CDZ shall be marked by the use of control lines or the equivalent. Examples of acceptable procedures for demarcating CDZ's can be found in appendix D to this subpart.

(4) Each employee working in a CDZ shall have completed CDZ training in accordance with ยง 1926.761.

(5) Unsecured decking in a CDZ shall not exceed 3,000 square feet (914.4 m).

(6) Safety deck attachments shall be performed in the CDZ from the leading edge back to the control line and shall have at least two attachments for each metal decking panel.

(7) Final deck attachments and installation of shear connectors shall not be performed in the CDZ.
