
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart R - Steel Erection
###### ยง 1926.761 Training.
####### Controlled Decking Zone Procedures.
######## Components of a site-specific erection plan.

(c)In developing a site-specific erection plan, a steel erector considers the following elements:

(1) The sequence of erection activity, developed in coordination with the controlling contractor, that includes the following:

(i) Material deliveries:

(ii) Material staging and storage; and

(iii) Coordination with other trades and construction activities.

(2) A description of the crane and derrick selection and placement procedures, including the following:

(i) Site preparation;

(ii) Path for overhead loads; and

(iii) Critical lifts, including rigging supplies and equipment.

(3) A description of steel erection activities and procedures, including the following:

(i) Stability considerations requiring temporary bracing and guying;

(ii) Erection bridging terminus point;

(iii) Anchor rod (anchor bolt) notifications regarding repair, replacement and modifications;

(iv) Columns and beams (including joists and purlins);

(v) Connections;

(vi) Decking; and

(vii) Ornamental and miscellaneous iron.

(4) A description of the fall protection procedures that will be used to comply with ยง 1926.760.

(5) A description of the procedures that will be used to comply with ยง 1926.759.

(6) A description of the special procedures required for hazardous non-routine tasks.

(7) A certification for each employee who has received training for performing steel erection operations as required by ยง 1926.761.

(8) A list of the qualified and competent persons.

(9) A description of the procedures that will be utilized in the event of rescue or emergency response.
