
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart S - Underground Construction, Caissons, Cofferdams and Compressed Air
###### ยง 1926.800 Underground construction.
####### Gassy operations-additional requirements.

(i)(1) Only acceptable equipment, maintained in suitable condition, shall be used in gassy operations.

(2) Mobile diesel-powered equipment used in gassy operations shall be either approved in accordance with the requirements of 30 CFR part 36 (formerly Schedule 31) by MSHA, or shall be demonstrated by the employer to be fully equivalent to such MSHA-approved equipment, and shall be operated in accordance with that part.

(3) Each entrance to a gassy operation shall be prominently posted with signs notifying all entrants of the gassy classification.

(4) Smoking shall be prohibited in all gassy operations and the employer shall be responsible for collecting all personal sources of ignition, such as matches and lighters, from all persons entering a gassy operation.

(5) A fire watch as described in ยง 1926.352(e) shall be maintained when hot work is performed.

(6) Once an operation has met the criteria in paragraph (h)(2) warranting classification as gassy, all operations in the affected area, except the following, shall be discontinued until the operation either is in compliance with all of the gassy operation requirements or has been declassified in accordance with paragraph (h)(3) of this section:

(i) Operations related to the control of the gas concentration;

(ii) Installation of new equipment, or conversion of existing equipment, to comply with this paragraph (i); and

(iii) Installation of above-ground controls for reversing the air flow.
