
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart S - Underground Construction, Caissons, Cofferdams and Compressed Air
###### ยง 1926.800 Underground construction.
####### Ventilation.

(k)(1)(i) Fresh air shall be supplied to all underground work areas in sufficient quantities to prevent dangerous or harmful accumulation of dusts, fumes, mists, vapors or gases.

(ii) Mechanical ventilation shall be provided in all underground work areas except when the employer can demonstrate that natural ventilation provides the necessary air quality through sufficient air volume and air flow.

(2) A minimum of 200 cubic feet (5.7 m) of fresh air per minute shall be supplied for each employee underground.

(3) The linear velocity of air flow in the tunnel bore, in shafts, and in all other underground work areas shall be at least 30 feet (9.15 m) per minute where blasting or rock drilling is conducted, or where other conditions likely to produce dust, fumes, mists, vapors, or gases in harmful or explosive quantities are present.

(4) The direction of mechanical air flow shall be reversible.

(5) Following blasting, ventilation systems shall exhaust smoke and fumes to the outside atmosphere before work is resumed in affected areas.

(6) Ventilation doors shall be designed and installed so that they remain closed when in use, regardless of the direction of the air flow.

(7) When ventilation has been reduced to the extent that hazardous levels of methane or flammable gas may have accumulated, a competent person shall test all affected areas after ventilation has been restored and shall determine whether the atmosphere is within flammable limits before any power, other than for acceptable equipment, is restored or work is resumed.

(8) Whenever the ventilation system has been shut down with all employees out of the underground area, only competent persons authorized to test for air contaminants shall be allowed underground until the ventilation has been restored and all affected areas have been tested for air contaminants and declared safe.

(9) When drilling rock or concrete, appropriate dust control measures shall be taken to maintain dust levels within limits set in ยง 1926.55. Such measures may include, but are not limited to, wet drilling, the use of vacuum collectors, and water mix spray systems.

(10)(i) Internal combustion engines, except diesel-powered engines on mobile equipment, are prohibited underground.

(ii) Mobile diesel-powered equipment used underground in atmospheres other than gassy operations:

(A) Shall comply with MSHA provisions in 30 CFR 57.5067; or

(B) If purchased on or before July 15, 2019, may alternatively comply with MSHA provisions under 30 CFR part 32 (revised as of July 1, 1996) (formerly Schedule 24), or be demonstrated by the employer to be fully equivalent to such MSHA-approved equipment, and be operated in accordance with that part.

(iii) For purposes of this paragraph (k)(10), when an applicable MSHA provision uses the term "mine," use the phrase "underground construction site." (Each brake horsepower of a diesel engine requires at least 100 cubic feet (2.832 m) of air per minute for suitable operation in addition to the air requirements for personnel. Some engines may require a greater amount of air to ensure that the allowable levels of carbon monoxide, nitric oxide, and nitrogen dioxide are not exceeded.)

(11) Potentially gassy or gassy operations shall have ventilation systems installed which shall:

(i) Be constructed of fire-resistant materials; and

(ii) Have acceptable electrical systems, including fan motors.

(12) Gassy operations shall be provided with controls located above ground for reversing the air flow of ventilation systems.

(13) In potentially gassy or gassy operations, wherever mine-type ventilation systems using an offset main fan installed on the surface are used, they shall be equipped with explosion-doors or a weak-wall having an area at least equivalent to the cross-sectional area of the airway.
