
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart S - Underground Construction, Caissons, Cofferdams and Compressed Air
###### ยง 1926.800 Underground construction.
####### Fire prevention and control.

(m)Fire prevention and protection requirements applicable to underground construction operations are found in subpart F of this part, except as modified by the following additional standards.

(1) Open flames and fires are prohibited in all underground construction operations except as permitted for welding, cutting and other hot work operations in paragraph (n) of this section.

(2)(i) Smoking may be allowed only in areas free of fire and explosion hazards.

(ii) Readily visible signs prohibiting smoking and open flames shall be posted in areas having fire or explosion hazards.

(3) The employer may store underground no more than a 24-hour supply of diesel fuel for the underground equipment used at the worksite.

(4) The piping of diesel fuel from the surface to an underground location is permitted only if:

(i) Diesel fuel is contained at the surface in a tank whose maximum capacity is no more than the amount of fuel required to supply for a 24-hour period the equipment serviced by the underground fueling station; and

(ii) The surface tank is connected to the underground fueling station by an acceptable pipe or hose system that is controlled at the surface by a valve, and at the shaft bottom by a hose nozzle; and

(iii) The pipe is empty at all times except when transferring diesel fuel from the surface tank to a piece of equipment in use underground; and

(iv) Hoisting operations in the shaft are suspended during refueling operations if the supply piping in the shaft is not protected from damage.

(5)(i) Gasoline shall not be carried, stored, or used underground.

(ii) Acetylene, liquefied petroleum gas, and Methylacetylene Propadiene Stabilized gas may be used underground only for welding, cutting and other hot work, and only in accordance with subpart J of this part, and paragraphs (j), (k), (m), and (n) of this section.

(6) Oil, grease, and diesel fuel stored underground shall be kept in tightly sealed containers in fire-resistant areas at least 300 feet (91.44 m) from underground explosive magazines, and at least 100 feet (30.48 m) from shaft stations and steeply inclined passageways. Storage areas shall be positioned or diked so that the contents of ruptured or overturned containers will not flow from the storage area.

(7) Flammable or combustible materials shall not be stored above ground within 100 feet (30.48 m) of any access opening to any underground operation. Where this is not feasible because of space limitations at the jobsite, such materials may be located within the 100-foot limit, provided that:

(i) They are located as far as practicable from the opening; and

(ii) Either a fire-resistant barrier of not less than one-hour rating is placed between the stored material and the opening, or additional precautions are taken which will protect the materials from ignition sources.

(8) Fire-resistant hydraulic fluids shall be used in hydraulically-actuated underground machinery and equipment unless such equipment is protected by a fire suppression system or by multi-purpose fire extinguisher(s) rated at of sufficient capacity for the type and size of hydraulic equipment involved, but rated at least 4A:40B:C.

(9)(i) Electrical installations in underground areas where oil, grease, or diesel fuel are stored shall be used only for lighting fixtures.

(ii) Lighting fixtures in storage areas, or within 25 feet (7.62 m) of underground areas where oil, grease, or diesel fuel are stored, shall be approved for Class I, Division 2 locations, in accordance with subpart K of this part.

(10) Leaks and spills of flammable or combustible fluids shall be cleaned up immediately.

(11) A fire extinguisher of at least 4A:40B:C rating or other equivalent extinguishing means shall be provided at the head pulley and at the tail pulley of underground belt conveyors.

(12) Any structure located underground or within 100 feet (30.48 m) of an opening to the underground shall be constructed of material having a fire-resistance rating of at least one hour.
