
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart S - Underground Construction, Caissons, Cofferdams and Compressed Air
###### ยง 1926.800 Underground construction.
####### Additional monitoring for potentially gassy and gassy operations.

(2)Operations which meet the criteria for potentially gassy and gassy operations set forth in paragraph (h) of this section shall be subject to the additional monitoring requirements of this paragraph.

(i) A test for oxygen content shall be conducted in the affected underground work areas and work areas immediately adjacent to such areas at least at the beginning and midpoint of each shift.

(ii) When using rapid excavation machines, continuous automatic flammable gas monitoring equipment shall be used to monitor the air at the heading, on the rib, and in the return air duct. The continuous monitor shall signal the heading, and shut down electric power in the affected underground work area, except for acceptable pumping and ventilation equipment, when 20 percent or more of the lower explosive limit for methane or other flammable gases is encountered.

(iii) A manual flammable gas monitor shall be used as needed, but at least at the beginning and midpoint of each shift, to ensure that the limits prescribed in paragraphs (h) and (j) are not exceeded. In addition, a manual electrical shut down control shall be provided near the heading.

(iv) Local gas tests shall be made prior to and continuously during any welding, cutting, or other hot work.

(v) In underground operations driven by drill-and-blast methods, the air in the affected area shall be tested for flammable gas prior to re-entry after blasting, and continuously when employees are working underground.
