
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart S - Underground Construction, Caissons, Cofferdams and Compressed Air
###### ยง 1926.800 Underground construction.
####### Underground areas.

(3)(i)(A) A competent person shall inspect the roof, face, and walls of the work area at the start of each shift and as often as necessary to determine ground stability.

(B) Competent persons conducting such inspections shall be protected from loose ground by location, ground support or equivalent means.

(ii) Ground conditions along haulageways and travelways shall be inspected as frequently as necessary to ensure safe passage.

(iii) Loose ground that might be hazardous to employees shall be taken down, scaled or supported.

(iv) (A) Torque wrenches shall be used wherever bolts that depend on torsionally applied force are used for ground support.

(B) A competent person shall determine whether rock bolts meet the necessary torque, and shall determine the testing frequency in light of the bolt system, ground conditions and the distance from vibration sources.

(v) Suitable protection shall be provided for employees exposed to the hazard of loose ground while installing ground support systems.

(vi) Support sets shall be installed so that the bottoms have sufficient anchorage to prevent ground pressures from dislodging the support base of the sets. Lateral bracing (collar bracing, tie rods, or spreaders) shall be provided between immediately adjacent sets to ensure added stability.

(vii) Damaged or dislodged ground supports that create a hazardous condition shall be promptly repaired or replaced. When replacing supports, the new supports shall be installed before the damaged supports are removed.

(viii) A shield or other type of support shall be used to maintain a safe travelway for employees working in dead-end areas ahead of any support replacement operation.
