
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart S - Underground Construction, Caissons, Cofferdams and Compressed Air
###### ยง 1926.800 Underground construction.
####### Drilling.

(q)(1) A competent person shall inspect all drilling and associated equipment prior to each use. Equipment defects affecting safety shall be corrected before the equipment is used.

(2) The drilling area shall be inspected for hazards before the drilling operation is started.

(3) Employees shall not be allowed on a drill mast while the drill bit is in operation or the drill machine is being moved.

(4) When a drill machine is being moved from one drilling area to another, drill steel, tools, and other equipment shall be secured and the mast shall be placed in a safe position.

(5) Receptacles or racks shall be provided for storing drill steel located on jumbos.

(6) Employees working below jumbo decks shall be warned whenever drilling is about to begin.

(7) Drills on columns shall be anchored firmly before starting drilling, and shall be retightened as necessary thereafter.

(8) (i) The employer shall provide mechanical means on the top deck of a jumbo for lifing unwieldy or heavy material.

(ii) When jumbo decks are over 10 feet (3.05 m) in height, the employer shall install stairs wide enough for two persons.

(iii) Jumbo decks more than 10 feet (3.05 m) in height shall be equipped with guardrails on all open sides, excluding access openings of platforms, unless an adjacent surface provides equivalent fall protection.

(iv) (A) Only employees assisting the operator shall be allowed to ride on jumbos, unless the jumbo meets the requirements of paragraph (r)(6)(ii) of this section.

(B) Jumbos shall be chocked to prevent movement while employees are working on them.

(v) (A) Walking and working surfaces of jumbos shall be maintained to prevent the hazards of slipping, tripping and falling.

(B) Jumbo decks and stair treads shall be designed to be slip-resistent and secured to prevent accidental displacement.

(9) Scaling bars shall be available at scaling operations and shall be maintained in good condition at all times. Blunted or severely worn bars shall not be used.

(10)(i) Blasting holes shall not be drilled through blasted rock (muck) or water.

(ii) Employees in a shaft shall be protected either by location or by suitable barrier(s) if powered mechanical loading equipment is used to remove muck containing unfired explosives.

(11) A caution sign reading "Buried Line," or similar wording shall be posted where air lines are buried or otherwise hidden by water or debris.
