
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart S - Underground Construction, Caissons, Cofferdams and Compressed Air
###### ยง 1926.800 Underground construction.
####### Haulage.

(r)(1)(i) A competent person shall inspect haulage equipment before each shift.

(ii) Equipment defects affecting safety and health shall be corrected before the equipment is used.

(2) Powered mobile haulage equipment shall have suitable means of stopping.

(3)(i) Power mobile haulage equipment, including trains, shall have audible warning devices to warn employees to stay clear. The operator shall sound the warning device before moving the equipment and whenever necessary during travel.

(ii) The operator shall assure that lights which are visible to employees at both ends of any mobile equipment, including a train, are turned on whenever the equipment is operating.

(4) In those cabs where glazing is used, the glass shall be safety glass, or its equivalent, and shall be maintained and cleaned so that vision is not obstructed.

(5) Anti-roll back devices or brakes shall be installed on inclined conveyor drive units to prevent conveyors from inadvertently running in reverse.

(6)(i) (A) Employees shall not be permitted to ride a power-driven chain, belt, or bucket conveyor unless the conveyor is specifically designed for the transportation of persons.

(B) Endless belt-type manlifts are prohibited in underground construction.

(C) General requirements also applicable to underground construction for use of conveyors in construction are found in ยง 1926.555 of this part.

(ii) No employee shall ride haulage equipment unless it is equipped with seating for each passenger and protects passengers from being struck, crushed, or caught between other equipment or surfaces. Members of train crews may ride on a locomotive if it is equipped with handholds and nonslip steps or footboards. Requirements applicable to Underground Construction for motor vehicle transportation of employees are found in ยง 1926.601 of this part.

(7) Powered mobile haulage equipment, including trains, shall not be left unattended unless the master switch or motor is turned off; operating controls are in neutral or park position; and the brakes are set, or equivalent precautions are taken to prevent rolling.

(8) Whenever rails serve as a return for a trolley circuit, both rails shall be bonded at every joint and crossbonded every 200 feet (60.96 m).

(9) When dumping cars by hand, the car dumps shall have tiedown chains, bumper blocks, or other locking or holding devices to prevent the cars from overturning.

(10) Rocker-bottom or bottom-dump cars shall be equipped with positive locking devices to prevent unintended dumping.

(11) Equipment to be hauled shall be loaded and secured to prevent sliding or dislodgement.

(12)(i) Mobile equipment, including rail-mounted equipment, shall be stopped for manual connecting or service work.

(ii) Employees shall not reach between moving cars during coupling operations.

(iii) Couplings shall not be aligned, shifted or cleaned on moving cars or locomotives.

(13)(i) Safety chains or other connections shall be used in addition to couplers to connect man cars or powder cars whenever the locomotive is uphill of the cars.

(ii) When the grade exceeds one percent and there is a potential for runaway cars, safety chains or other connections shall be used in addition to couplers to connect haulage cars or, as an alternative, the locomotive must be downhill of the train.

(iii) Such safety chains or other connections shall be capable of maintaining connection between cars in the event of either coupler disconnect, failure or breakage.

(14) Parked rail equipment shall be chocked, blocked, or have brakes set to prevent inadvertent movement.

(15) Berms, bumper blocks, safety hooks, or equivalent means shall be provided to prevent overtravel and overturning of haulage equipment at dumping locations.

(16) Bumper blocks or equivalent stopping devices shall be provided at all track dead ends.

(17)(i) Only small handtools, lunch pails or similar small items may be transported with employees in man-cars, or on top of a locomotive.

(ii) When small hand tools or other small items are carried on top of a locomotive, the top shall be designed or modified to retain them while traveling.

(18)(i) Where switching facilities are available, occupied personnel-cars shall be pulled, not pushed. If personnel-cars must be pushed and visibility of the track ahead is hampered, then a qualified person shall be stationed in the lead car to give signals to the locomotive operator.

(ii) Crew trips shall consist of personnel-loads only.
