
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart S - Underground Construction, Caissons, Cofferdams and Compressed Air
###### ยง 1926.803 Compressed air.
####### Man locks and special decompression chambers,Man locks.

(g)-(1)(i) Except in emergency, no employees employed in compressed air shall be permitted to pass from the working chamber to atmospheric pressure until after decompression, in accordance with the procedures in this subpart.

(ii) The lock attendant in charge of a man lock shall be under the direct supervision of the appointed physician. He shall be stationed at the lock controls on the free air side during the period of compression and decompression and shall remain at the lock control station whenever there are men in the working chamber or in the man lock.

(iii) Except where air pressure in the working chamber is below 12 p.s.i.g., each man lock shall be equipped with automatic controls which, through taped programs, cams, or similar apparatus, shall automatically regulate decompressions. It shall also be equipped with manual controls to permit the lock attendant to override the automatic mechanism in the event of an emergency, as provided in paragraph (g)(1)(viii) of this section.

(iv) A manual control, which can be used in the event of an emergency, shall be placed inside the man lock.

(v) A clock, thermometer, and continuous recording pressure gauge with a 4-hour graph shall be installed outside of each man lock and shall be changed prior to each shift's decompression. The chart shall be of sufficient size to register a legible record of variations in pressure within the man lock and shall be visible to the lock attendant. A copy of each graph shall be submitted to the appointed physician after each shift. In addition, a pressure gauge, clock, and thermometer shall also be installed in each man lock. Additional fittings shall be provided so that test gauges may be attached whenever necessary.

(vi) Except where air pressure is below 12 p.s.i.g. and there is no danger of rapid flooding, all caissons having a working area greater than 150 square feet, and each bulkhead in tunnels of 14 feet or more in diameter, or equivalent area, shall have at least two locks in perfect working condition, one of which shall be used exclusively as a man lock, the other, as a materials lock.

(vii) Where only a combination man-and-materials lock is required, this single lock shall be of sufficient capacity to hold the employees constituting two successive shifts.

(viii) Emergency locks shall be large enough to hold an entire heading shift and a limit maintained of 12 p.s.i.g. There shall be a chamber available for oxygen decompression therapy to 28 p.s.i.g.

(ix) The man lock shall be large enough so that those using it are not compelled to be in a cramped position, and shall not have less than 5 feet clear head room at the center and a minimum of 30 cubic feet of air space per occupant.

(x) Locks on caissons shall be so located that the bottom door shall be not less than 3 feet above the water level surrounding the caisson on the outside. (The water level, where it is affected by tides, is construed to mean high tide.)

(xi) In addition to the pressure gauge in the locks, an accurate pressure gauge shall be maintained on the outer and inner side of each bulkhead. These gauges shall be accessible at all times and shall be kept in accurate working order.

(xii) Man locks shall have an observation port at least 4 inches in diameter located in such a position that all occupants of the man lock may be observed from the working chamber and from the free air side of the lock.

(xiii) Adequate ventilation in the lock shall be provided.

(xiv) Man locks shall be maintained at a minimum temperature of 70 &#xB0;F.

(xv) When locks are not in use and employees are in the working chamber, lock doors shall be kept open to the working chamber, where practicable.

(xvi) Provision shall be made to allow for rescue parties to enter the tunnel if the working force is disabled.

(xvii) A special decompression chamber of sufficient size to accommodate the entire force of employees being decompressed at the end of a shift shall be provided whenever the regularly established working period requires a total time of decompression exceeding 75 minutes.
