
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart S - Underground Construction, Caissons, Cofferdams and Compressed Air
###### ยง 1926.803 Compressed air.
####### Electricity.

(j)(1) All lighting in compressed-air chambers shall be by electricity exclusively, and two independent electric-lighting systems with independent sources of supply shall be used. The emergency source shall be arranged to become automatically operative in the event of failure of the regularly used source.

(2) The minimum intensity of light on any walkway, ladder, stairway, or working level shall be not less than 10 foot-candles, and in all workplaces the lighting shall at all times be such as to enable employees to see clearly.

(3) All electrical equipment and wiring for light and power circuits shall comply with the requirements of subpart K of this part for use in damp, hazardous, high temperature, and compressed air environments.

(4) External parts of lighting fixtures and all other electrical equipment, when within 8 feet of the floor, shall be constructed of noncombustible, nonabsorptive, insulating materials, except that metal may be used if it is effectively grounded.

(5) Portable lamps shall be equipped with noncombustible, nonabsorptive, insulating sockets, approved handles, basket guards, and approved cords.

(6) The use of worn or defective portable and pendant conductors is prohibited.
