
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart S - Underground Construction, Caissons, Cofferdams and Compressed Air
###### ยง 1926.803 Compressed air.
####### Fire prevention and protection.

(l)(1) Firefighting equipment shall be available at all times and shall be maintained in working condition.

(2) While welding or flame-cutting is being done in compressed air, a firewatch with a fire hose or approved extinguisher shall stand by until such operation is completed.

(3) Shafts and caissons containing flammable material of any kind, either above or below ground, shall be provided with a waterline and a fire hose connected thereto, so arranged that all points of the shaft or caisson are within reach of the hose stream.

(4) Fire hose shall be at least 1inches in nominal diameter; the water pressure shall at all times be adequate for efficient operation of the type of nozzle used; and the water supply shall be such as to ensure an uninterrupted flow. Fire hose, when not in use, shall be located or guarded to prevent injury thereto.

(5) The power house, compressor house, and all buildings housing ventilating equipment, shall be provided with at least one hose connection in the water line, with a fire hose connected thereto. A fire hose shall be maintained within reach of structures of wood over or near shafts.

(6) Tunnels shall be provided with a 2-inch minimum diameter water line extending into the working chamber and to within 100 feet of the working face. Such line shall have hose outlets with 100 feet of fire hose attached and maintained as follows: One at the working face; one immediately inside of the bulkhead of the working chamber; and one immediately outside such bulkhead. In addition, hose outlets shall be provided at 200-foot intervals throughout the length of the tunnel, and 100 feet of fire hose shall be attached to the outlet nearest to any location where flammable material is being kept or stored or where any flame is being used.

(7) In addition to fire hose protection required by this subpart, on every floor of every building not under compressed air, but used in connection with the compressed air work, there shall be provided at least one approved fire extinguisher of the proper type for the hazard involved. At least two approved fire extinguishers shall be provided in the working chamber as follows: One at the working face and one immediately inside the bulkhead (pressure side). Extinguishers in the working chamber shall use water as the primary extinguishing agent and shall not use any extinguishing agent which could be harmful to the employees in the working chamber. The fire extinguisher shall be protected from damage.

(8) Highly combustible materials shall not be used or stored in the working chamber. Wood, paper, and similar combustible material shall not be used in the working chamber in quantities which could cause a fire hazard. The compressor building shall be constructed of non-combustible material.

(9) Man locks shall be equipped with a manual type fire extinguisher system that can be activated inside the man lock and also by the outside lock attendant. In addition, a fire hose and portable fire extinguisher shall be provided inside and outside the man lock. The portable fire extinguisher shall be the dry chemical type.

(10) Equipment, fixtures, and furniture in man locks and special decompression chambers shall be constructed of noncombustible materials. Bedding, etc., shall be chemically treated so as to be fire resistant.

(11) Head frames shall be constructed of structural steel or open frame-work fireproofed timber. Head houses and other temporary surface buildings or structures within 100 feet of the shaft, caisson, or tunnel opening shall be built of fire-resistant materials.

(12) No oil, gasoline, or other combustible material shall be stored within 100 feet of any shaft, caisson, or tunnel opening, except that oils may be stored in suitable tanks in isolated fireproof buildings, provided such buildings are not less than 50 feet from any shaft, caisson, or tunnel opening, or any building directly connected thereto.

(13) Positive means shall be taken to prevent leaking flammable liquids from flowing into the areas specifically mentioned in the preceding paragraph.

(14) All explosives used in connection with compressed air work shall be selected, stored, transported, and used as specified in subpart U of this part.
