
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart S - Underground Construction, Caissons, Cofferdams and Compressed Air
###### Appendix A to Subpart S of Part 1926 - Decompression Tables
####### Explanation.

1.The decompression tables are computed for working chamber pressures from 0 to 14 pounds, and from 14 to 50 pounds per square inch gauge inclusive by 2-pound increments and for exposure times for each pressure extending from one-half to over 8 hours inclusive. Decompressions will be conducted by two or more stages with a maximum of four stages, the latter for a working chamber pressure of 40 pounds per square inch gauge or over.

Stage 1 consists of a reduction in ambient pressure ranging from 10 to a maximum of 16 pounds per square inch, but in no instance will the pressure be reduced below 4 pounds at the end of stage 1. This reduction in pressure in stage 1 will always take place at a rate not greater than 5 pounds per minute.

Further reduction in pressure will take place during stage 2 and subsequent stages as required at a slower rate, but in no event at a rate greater than 1 pound per minute.

Decompression Table No. 1 indicates in the body of the table the total decompression time in minutes for various combinations of working chamber pressure and exposure time.

Decompression Table No. 2 indicates for the same various combinations of working chamber pressure and exposure time the following:

a. The number of stages required;

b. The reduction in pressure and the terminal pressure for each required stage;

c. The time in minutes through which the reduction in pressure is accomplished for each required stage;

d. The pressure reduction rate in minutes per pound for each required stage;
