
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart U - Blasting and the Use of Explosives
###### ยง 1926.907 Use of safety fuse.

(a) Safety fuse shall only be used where sources of extraneous electricity make the use of electric blasting caps dangerous. The use of a fuse that has been hammered or injured in any way shall be forbidden.

(b) The hanging of a fuse on nails or other projections which will cause a sharp bend to be formed in the fuse is prohibited.

(c) Before capping safety fuse, a short length shall be cut from the end of the supply reel so as to assure a fresh cut end in each blasting cap.

(d) Only a cap crimper of approved design shall be used for attaching blasting caps to safety fuse. Crimpers shall be kept in good repair and accessible for use.

(e) No unused cap or short capped fuse shall be placed in any hole to be blasted; such unused detonators shall be removed from the working place and destroyed.

(f) No fuse shall be capped, or primers made up, in any magazine or near any possible source of ignition.

(g) No one shall be permitted to carry detonators or primers of any kind on his person.

(h) The minimum length of safety fuse to be used in blasting shall be as required by State law, but shall not be less than 30 inches.

(i) At least two men shall be present when multiple cap and fuse blasting is done by hand lighting methods.

(j) Not more than 12 fuses shall be lighted by each blaster when hand lighting devices are used. However, when two or more safety fuses in a group are lighted as one by means of igniter cord, or other similar fuse-lighting devices, they may be considered as one fuse.

(k) The so-called "drop fuse" method of dropping or pushing a primer or any explosive with a lighted fuse attached is forbidden.

(l) Cap and fuse shall not be used for firing mudcap charges unless charges are separated sufficiently to prevent one charge from dislodging other shots in the blast.

(m) When blasting with safety fuses, consideration shall be given to the length and burning rate of the fuse. Sufficient time, with a margin of safety, shall always be provided for the blaster to reach a place of safety.
