
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 32 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
#### Subpart D - Procedures
##### ยง 32.45 Investigations.
###### Adoption of grievance procedures.

(b)A recipient shall adopt an internal review procedure incorporating appropriate due process standards which provides for the prompt and equitable resolution of complaints alleging any action prohibited by this part. The complainant or his or her representative shall file the complaint with the recipient for processing under those procedures. A complaint must be filed not later than 180 days from the date of the alleged discrimination, unless the time for filing is extended by the Assistant Secretary for good cause shown. The recipient shall maintain records on all complaints filed alleging violation of the Act and shall make such records available to the Assistant Secretary upon request. The complaint and all actions take thereunder shall be kept confidential by the recipient. If the complaint has not been resolved under those procedures satisfactorily to the complainant within 60 days of the filing or referral, the complainant or his or her representative may file a complaint with the Assistant Secretary within 30 days of the recipient level decision or 90 days from the date of filing the complaint, whichever is earlier. Upon such filing, the Assistant Secretary will proceed as provided in this section. Exhaustion of recipient level procedures shall be required except where:

(1) The recipient has not acted within the timeframe specified in this section; or

(2) The recipient's procedures are not in compliance with this section; or

(3) An emergency situation is determined to exist by the Assistant Secretary.
