
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 32 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
#### Subpart E - Auxiliary Matters
##### ยง 32.48 Post-termination proceedings.

(a) An applicant or recipient adversely affected by an order suspending, terminating or refusing to grant or continue Federal financial assistance shall be restored to full eligibility to receive Federal financial assistance if it satisfies the terms and conditions of that order for such eligibility, brings itself into compliance with this part and satisfies the Assistant Secretary that it will fully comply with section 504 and this part.

(b) Any applicant or recipient adversely affected by an order suspending, terminating or refusing to grant or continue Federal financial assistance may request the Assistant Secretary to restore fully its eligibility to receive Federal financial assistance. Any such request shall be supported by information showing that the applicant or recipient has met the requirements of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph. If the Assistant Secretary determines that those requirements have been satisfied, the applicant's or recipient's eligibility shall be restored.

(c) If the Assistant Secretary denies any such request, the applicant or recipient may submit a written request for a hearing, specifying why it believes the Assistant Secretary to have been in error. It shall thereupon be given an expeditious hearing, with a decision on the record, in accordance with rules of procedure specified in this part. The applicant or recipient will be restored to such eligibility if it proves at such hearing that it satisfied the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. While proceedings under this paragraph are pending, the sanctions imposed by the order suspending, terminating or refusing to grant or continue Federal financial assistance shall remain in effect.
