
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 32 - NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES RECEIVING FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
#### Appendix A to Part 32

Accommodations may take many forms based on the type of handicap and the needs of the individual. In developing appropriate accommodations, the individual should be consulted as to particular needs.

The following is a list of possible types of accommodations provided for guidance and technical assistance. These suggestions are not mandatory, and other forms of accommodation not described herein may be required if they are appropriate to meet the needs of particular handicapped individuals.

(a) Job restructuring means the procedure which includes:

(1) Identifying the separate tasks that comprise a job or group of jobs;

(2) Developing new position descriptions which retain some of the tasks of the original job; and

(3) Developing a career ladder which builds upward from the new positions which contain the lesser skilled tasks to regular jobs. A restructured job can be clearly different from the original one in terms of skills, knowledge, abilities, and work experience needed to perform the work. Job restructuring is intended to maximize the abilities of the particular handicapped person and is not intended to permit a recipient to underemploy or job-stereotype that person. A restructured job, for example, could be one in which the more highly skilled but physically less demanding duties are retained, e.g. operating controls and switches in a steel mill, and less skilled, physically taxing duties, e.g. lifting, pulling, are reassigned to non-handicapped employees.

(b) Modify job or program schedules, for example, by allowing for a flexible schedule a few days a week so that a participant or employee may undergo medical treatment or therapy. Work-times or participation in program activities may also be altered to permit handicapped individuals to travel to and from work during non-rush hours. For employees or participants who become unable to perform the duties of their positions because of a physical or mental condition, recipients may be required to grant liberal time off or leave without pay when paid sick leave is exhausted and when the disability is of a nature that it is likely to respond to treatment of hospitalization. See, e.g., 339 Federal Personnel Manual-1-3(b)(1).

(c) Modify program and work procedures and training time.

(d) Relocate particular offices or jobs or program activities so that they are in facilities accessible to and usable by qualified handicapped persons. For example, an employee or participant with a respiratory ailment can be placed in a "nonsmoking" and/or well-ventilated office.

(e) Acquire or modify equipment or devices. For hearing-impaired participants or employees, this may include placing amplifiers on telephone receivers, making telephone equipment compatible with hearing aids, providing flashing lights to supplement telephone rings or installing telecommunications devices (TDD's or TTY's). For blind participants or employees, this may include providing tape recorders or dictating machines for those who cannot type. For wheelchair-users, this may include raising on blocks a desk that is otherwise too low for the employee, rather than purchasing a specially-made desk. A recipient is not obligated to acquire or modify equipment that enables a participant or employee to perform a particular job or participate in a particular program until after an employee with a need for these modifications is hired for a particular office or admitted to a program.

(f) Provide readers, interpreters, and similar assistance as needed for deaf, blind and other handicapped participants or employees. In most instances, this would not require a full-time assistant.

(g) Decrease reliance solely on one form of communication. For example, for deaf participants or employees this may include supplementing program or job orientation sessions with written manuals and other visual materials. If appropriate, a visual warning system should be installed. It may also include providing flashing lights to supplement auditory signals such as sirens and alarm bells. For blind employees, this may include making some communications available in braille, enlarged print, or on cassette recordings. A recipient should tailor the accommodations listed above to the needs of the individual participants or employees who have been admitted to a particular program or hired for a particular office.

(h) Provide human relations-sensitivity training on issues pertaining to handicapped discrimination to all recipient employees.

(i) Conduct ongoing training and planning sessions with recipient supervisors, managers, personnel, technical experts and disability rights advocates to implement and evaluate methods of reasonable accommodation.

(a) Announce program and job vacancies in a form readily understandable by mentally handicapped persons and by persons with impaired vision or hearing, for example, by making the announcements available in braille or on cassette tapes. ยง 32.4(e) of DOL's proposed section 504 regulations requires recipients to insure that communications with applicants are available to persons with impaired vision or hearing. Recipients shall undertake to explain, as appropriate, program and job announcements to mentally handicapped participants or employees or applicants. For example, this might entail notifying known mentally handicapped participants or employees of openings for positions that they might be able to perform and taking specific steps to clearly explain the nature of the program or job and its benefits to that individual.

(b) Provide readers, interpreters, and other similar assistance during the application, testing, and interview process.

(c) Appropriately adjust or modify examinations so that the test results accurately reflect the applicant's skills, aptitude or whatever other factor the test purports to measure, rather than reflecting the applicant's impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skills (except where those skills are the factors that the test purports to measure). This may require the extension of traditional time deadlines or allowing, for example, a blind person to answer an examination orally.

(d) If necessary waive traditional tests and permit the applicant to demonstrate his or her skills through alternate techniques and utilization of adapted tools, aids, and devices.
