
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 33 - ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
#### ยง 33.9 Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
##### General.

(a)The Department shall operate such program or activity so that the program or activity, when viewed in its entirety, is readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps. This paragraph does not-

(1) Necessarily require the Department to make each of its existing facilities accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps;

(2) Require the Department to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens.

(b)(1) If a Department official believes that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the official shall prepare a report for the Secretary of Labor which objectively considers and evaluates these issues based on the nature of the program and all departmental resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity. In preparing the report, the Department official shall make reasonable efforts to ensure that the person(s) requesting accommodation in the particular program or activity has an opportunity to provide any relevant information. The report shall specifically address any such information. Upon completion, the report and all information before the program official shall be transmitted to the Secretary for a decision to be made in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(2) The Secretary shall decide, after considering the material submitted by the program official and all departmental resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity, whether the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or result in undue financial and administrative burdens. A decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion and shall be transmitted to the person(s) requesting accommodation. This decision represents the final administrative action of the Department.

(3) The Department has the burden of proving that compliance with paragraph (a) of this section would result in such alteration or undue burdens.

(c) If an action would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the Department shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such a burden but would nevertheless ensure that qualified individuals with handicaps receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
