
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart X - Stairways and Ladders
###### ยง 1926.1052 Stairways.
####### General.

(a)The following requirements apply to all stairways as indicated:

(1) Stairways that will not be a permanent part of the structure on which construction work is being performed shall have landings of not less than 30 inches (76 cm) in the direction of travel and extend at least 22 inches (56 cm) in width at every 12 feet (3.7 m) or less of vertical rise.

(2) Stairs shall be installed between 30&#xB0; and 50&#xB0; from horizontal.

(3) Riser height and tread depth shall be uniform within each flight of stairs, including any foundation structure used as one or more treads of the stairs. Variations in riser height or tread depth shall not be over-inch (0.6 cm) in any stairway system.

(4) Where doors or gates open directly on a stairway, a platform shall be provided, and the swing of the door shall not reduce the effective width of the platform to less than 20 inches (51 cm).

(5) Metal pan landings and metal pan treads, when used, shall be secured in place before filling with concrete or other material.

(6) All parts of stairways shall be free of hazardous projections, such as protruding nails.

(7) Slippery conditions on stairways shall be eliminated before the stairways are used to reach other levels.
