
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 33 - ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
#### ยง 33.11 Communications.

(a) The Department shall take appropriate steps to ensure effective communication with applicants, participants, personnel of other Federal entities, and members of the public.

(1) The Department shall furnish appropriate auxiliary aids where necessary to afford an individual with handicaps an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, a program or activity conducted by the Department.

(i) In determining what type of auxiliary aid is necessary, the Department shall give primary consideration to the requests of the individual with handicaps.

(ii) The Department need not provide individually prescribed devices, readers for personal use or study, or other devices of a personal nature.

(2) Where the Department communicates with applicants and beneficiaries by telephone, telecommunications devices for deaf persons (TDDs), or equally effective telecommunications systems shall be used.

(b) The Department shall ensure that interested persons, including persons with impaired vision or hearing, can obtain information as to the existence and location of accessible services, activities, and facilities.

(c) The Department shall provide signage at a primary entrance to each of its accessible facilities, directing users to a location at which they can obtain information about accessible facilities. The international symbol for accessibility shall be used at each primary entrance of an accessible facility.

(d) The Department shall take appropriate steps to provide individuals with handicaps with information regarding their section 504 rights under the Department's programs or activities. If the Department uses recruitment materials, informational publications, or other materials which it distributes or makes available to participants, beneficiaries, referral sources, applicants, employees, or the public, it shall include in those materials or publications a statement of the policy described in ยง 33.6 of this part and information as to complaint procedures. The requirements of this paragraph may be met either by including applicable inserts in existing materials and publications or by revising and reprinting such materials, as appropriate.

(e) This section does not require the Department to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens.

(1) If a Department official believes that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the official shall prepare a report for the Secretary of Labor which objectively considers and evaluates these issues based on the nature of the program and all departmental resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity. In preparing the report, the Department official shall make reasonable efforts to ensure that the person(s) requesting accommodation in the particular program or activity has an opportunity to provide any relevant information. The report shall specifically address any such information. Upon completion, the report and all information before the program official shall be transmitted to the Secretary for a decision to be made in accordance with paragraph (e)(2) of this section.

(2) The Secretary shall decide, after considering the material submitted by the program official and all departmental resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity, whether the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or result in undue financial and administrative burdens. A decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion and shall be transmitted to the person(s) requesting accommodation. This decision represents the final administrative action of the Department.

(3) The Department has the burden of proving that compliance with paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, as applicable, would result in such alteration or undue burdens.

(f) If an action required to comply with this section would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the Department shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such a burden but would nevertheless ensure that, to the maximum extent possible, individuals with handicaps receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
