
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 4 - LABOR STANDARDS FOR FEDERAL SERVICE CONTRACTS
#### Subpart D - Compensation Standards
##### Compliance with Compensation Standards
###### ยง 4.171 "Bona fide" fringe benefits.

(a) To be considered a "bona fide" fringe benefit for purposes of the Act, a fringe benefit plan, fund, or program must constitute a legally enforceable obligation which meets the following criteria:

(1) The provisions of a plan, fund, or program adopted by the contractor, or by contract as a result of collective bargaining, must be specified in writing, and must be communicated in writing to the affected employees. Contributions must be made pursuant to the terms of such plan, fund, or program. The plan may be either contractor-financed or a joint contractor-employee contributory plan. For example, employer contributions to Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs) approved by IRS are permissible. However, any contributions made by employees must be voluntary, and if such contributions are made through payroll deductions, such deductions must be made in accordance with ยง 4.168. No contribution toward fringe benefits made by the employees themselves, or fringe benefits provided from monies deducted from the employee's wages may be included or used by an employer in satisfying any part of any fringe benefit obligation under the Act.

(2) The primary purpose of the plan must be to provide systematically for the payment of benefits to employees on account of death, disability, advanced age, retirement, illness, medical expenses, hospitalization, supplemental unemployment benefits, and the like.

(3) The plan must contain a definite formula for determining the amount to be contributed by the contractor and a definite formula for determining the benefits for each of the employees participating in the plan.

(4) Except as provided in paragraph (b), the contractor's contributions must be paid irrevocably to a trustee or third person pursuant to an insurance agreement, trust or other funded arrangement. The trustee must assume the usual fiduciary responsibilities imposed upon trustees by applicable law. The trust or fund must be set up in such a way that the contractor will not be able to recapture any of the contributions paid in nor in any way divert the funds to its own use or benefit.
