
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart Z - Toxic and Hazardous Substances
###### ยง 1926.1127 Cadmium.
####### Employee information and training.

(4)(i) The employer shall train each employee who is potentially exposed to cadmium in accordance with the requirements of this section. The employer shall institute a training program, ensure employee participation in the program, and maintain a record of the contents of the training program.

(ii) Training shall be provided prior to or at the time of initial assignment to a job involving potential exposure to cadmium and at least annually thereafter.

(iii) The employer shall make the training program understandable to the employee and shall assure that each employee is informed of the following:

(A) The health hazards associated with cadmium exposure, with special attention to the information incorporated in appendix A to this section;

(B) The quantity, location, manner of use, release, and storage of cadmium in the workplace and the specific nature of operations that could result in exposure to cadmium, especially exposures above the PEL;

(C) The engineering controls and work practices associated with the employee's job assignment;

(D) The measures employees can take to protect themselves from exposure to cadmium, including modification of such habits as smoking and personal hygiene, and specific procedures the employer has implemented to protect employees from exposure to cadmium such as appropriate work practices, emergency procedures, and the provision of personal protective equipment;

(E) The purpose, proper selection, fitting, proper use, and limitations of respirators and protective clothing;

(F) The purpose and a description of the medical surveillance program required by paragraph (l) of this section;

(G) The contents of this section and its appendices, and,

(H) The employee's rights of access to records under ยง 1926.33(g) (1) and (2).

(iv) Additional access to information and training program and materials.

(A) The employer shall make a copy of this section and its appendices readily available to all affected employees and shall provide a copy without cost if requested.

(B) Upon request, the employer shall provide to the Assistant Secretary or the Director all materials relating to the employee information and the training program.
