
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 4 - LABOR STANDARDS FOR FEDERAL SERVICE CONTRACTS
#### Subpart D - Compensation Standards
##### Compliance with Compensation Standards
###### ยง 4.173 Meeting requirements for vacation fringe benefits.
####### Determining length of service for vacation eligibility.

(a)It has been found that for many types of service contracts performed at Federal facilities a successor contractor will utilize the employees of the previous contractor in the performance of the contract. The employees typically work at the same location providing the same services to the same clientele over a period of years, with periodic, often annual, changes of employer. The incumbent contractor, when bidding on a contract, must consider his liability for vacation benefits for those workers in his employ. If prospective contractors who plan to employ the same personnel were not required to furnish these employees with the same prevailing vacation benefits, it would place the incumbent contractor at a distinct competitive disadvantage as well as denying such employees entitlement to prevailing vacation benefits.

(1) Accordingly, most vacation fringe benefit determinations issued under the Act require an employer to furnish to employees working on the contract a specified amount of paid vacation upon completion of a specified length of service with a contractor or successor. This requirement may be stated in the determination, for example, as "one week paid vacation after one year of service with a contractor or successor" or by a determination which calls for "one week's paid vacation after one year of service". Unless specified otherwise in an applicable fringe benefit determination, an employer must take the following two factors into consideration in determining when an employee has completed the required length of service to be eligible for vacation benefits:

(i) The total length of time spent by an employee in any capacity in the continuous service of the present (successor) contractor, including both the time spent in performing on regular commercial work and the time spent in performing on the Government contract itself, and

(ii) Where applicable, the total length of time spent in any capacity as an employee in the continuous service of any predecessor contractor(s) who carried out similar contract functions at the same Federal facility.

(2) The application of these principles may be illustrated by the example given above of a fringe benefit determination calling for "one week paid vacation after one year of service with a contractor or successor". In that example, if a contractor has an employee who has worked for him for 18 months on regular commercial work and only for 6 months on a Government service contract, that employee would be eligible for the one week vacation since his total service with the employer adds up to more than 1 year. Similarly, if a contractor has an employee who worked for 16 months under a janitorial service contract at a particular Federal base for two different predecessor contractors, and only 8 months with the present employer, that employee would also be considered as meeting the "after one year of service" test and would thus be eligible for the specified vacation.

(3) The "contractor or successor" requirement set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is not affected by the fact that a different contracting agency may have contracted for the services previously or by the agency's dividing and/or combining the contract services. However, prior service as a Federal employee is not counted toward an employee's eligibility for vacation benefits under fringe benefit determinations issued pursuant to the Act.
