
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 4 - LABOR STANDARDS FOR FEDERAL SERVICE CONTRACTS
#### Subpart D - Compensation Standards
##### Compliance with Compensation Standards
###### ยง 4.173 Meeting requirements for vacation fringe benefits.
####### Eligibility requirement-continuous service.

(b)Under the principles set forth above, if an employee's total length of service adds up to at least one year, the employee is eligible for vacation with pay. However, such service must have been rendered continuously for a period of not less than one year for vacation eligibility. The term "continuous service" does not require the combination of two entirely separate periods of employment. Whether or not there is a break in the continuity of service so as to make an employee ineligible for a vacation benefit is dependent upon all the facts in the particular case. No fixed time period has been established for determining whether an employee has a break in service. Rather, as illustrated below, the reason(s) for an employee's absence from work is the primary factor in determining whether a break in service occurred.

(1) In cases where employees have been granted leave with or without pay by their employer, or are otherwise absent with permission for such reasons as sickness or injury, or otherwise perform no work on the contract because of reasons beyond their control, there would not be a break in service. Likewise, the absence from work for a few days, with or without notice, does not constitute a break in service, without a formal termination of employment. The following specific examples are illustrative situations where it has been determined that a break in service did not occur:

(i) An employee absent for five months due to illness but employed continuously for three years.

(ii) A strike after which employees returned to work.

(iii) An interim period of three months between contracts caused by delays in the procurement process during which time personnel hired directly by the Government performed the necessary services. However, the successor contractor in this case was not held liable for vacation benefits for those employees who had anniversary dates of employment during the interim period because no employment relationship existed during such period.

(iv) A mess hall closed three months for renovation. Contractor employees were considered to be on temporary layoff during the renovation period and did not have a break in service.

(2) Where an employee quits, is fired for cause, or is otherwise terminated (except for temporary layoffs), there would be a break in service even if the employee were rehired at a later date. However, an employee may not be discharged and rehired as a subterfuge to evade the vacation requirement.
