
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart CC - Cranes and Derricks in Construction
###### ยง 1926.1404 Assembly/Disassembly - general requirements (applies to all assembly and disassembly operations).
####### see

(2) The outriggers must be set to remove the equipment weight from the wheels, except for locomotive cranes (paragraph (q)(6) of this section for use of outriggers on locomotive cranes). This provision does not apply to stabilizers.

(3) When outrigger floats are used, they must be attached to the outriggers. When stabilizer floats are used, they must be attached to the stabilizers.

(4) Each outrigger or stabilizer must be visible to the operator or to a signal person during extension and setting.

(5) Outrigger and stabilizer blocking must:

(i) Meet the requirements in paragraphs (h)(2) and (h)(3) of this section.

(ii) Be placed only under the outrigger or stabilizer float/pad of the jack or, where the outrigger or stabilizer is designed without a jack, under the outer bearing surface of the extended outrigger or stabilizer beam.

(6) For locomotive cranes, when using outriggers or stabilizers to handle loads, the manufacturer's procedures must be followed. When lifting loads without using outriggers or stabilizers, the manufacturer's procedures must be met regarding truck wedges or screws.
