
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart CC - Cranes and Derricks in Construction
###### ยง 1926.1407 Power line safety (up to 350 kV) - assembly and disassembly.
####### Preventing encroachment/electrocution.

(b)Where encroachment precautions are required under Option (2), or Option (3) of this section, all of the following requirements must be met:

(1) Conduct a planning meeting with the Assembly/Disassembly director (A/D director), operator, assembly/disassembly crew and the other workers who will be in the assembly/disassembly area to review the location of the power line(s) and the steps that will be implemented to prevent encroachment/electrocution.

(2) If tag lines are used, they must be nonconductive.

(3) At least one of the following additional measures must be in place. The measure selected from this list must be effective in preventing encroachment.

The additional measures are:

(i) Use a dedicated spotter who is in continuous contact with the equipment operator. The dedicated spotter must:

(A) Be equipped with a visual aid to assist in identifying the minimum clearance distance. Examples of a visual aid include, but are not limited to: A clearly visible line painted on the ground; a clearly visible line of stanchions; a set of clearly visible line-of-sight landmarks (such as a fence post behind the dedicated spotter and a building corner ahead of the dedicated spotter).

(B) Be positioned to effectively gauge the clearance distance.

(C) Where necessary, use equipment that enables the dedicated spotter to communicate directly with the operator.

(D) Give timely information to the operator so that the required clearance distance can be maintained.

(ii) A proximity alarm set to give the operator sufficient warning to prevent encroachment.

(iii) A device that automatically warns the operator when to stop movement, such as a range control warning device. Such a device must be set to give the operator sufficient warning to prevent encroachment.

(iv) A device that automatically limits range of movement, set to prevent encroachment.

(v) An elevated warning line, barricade, or line of signs, in view of the operator, equipped with flags or similar high-visibility markings.
