
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart CC - Cranes and Derricks in Construction
###### § 1926.1408 Power line safety (up to 350 kV) - equipment operations.
####### see

(3) Erect and maintain an elevated warning line, barricade, or line of signs, in view of the operator, equipped with flags or similar high-visibility markings, at 20 feet from the power line (if using Option (2) of this section) or at the minimum approach distance under Table A (§ 1926.1408) (if using Option (3) of this section). If the operator is unable to see the elevated warning line, a dedicated spotter must be used as described in § 1926.1408(b)(4)(ii) in addition to implementing one of the measures described in §§ 1926.1408(b)(4)(i), (iii), (iv) and (v).

(4) Implement at least one of the following measures:

(i) A proximity alarm set to give the operator sufficient warning to prevent encroachment.

(ii) A dedicated spotter who is in continuous contact with the operator. Where this measure is selected, the dedicated spotter must:

(A) Be equipped with a visual aid to assist in identifying the minimum clearance distance. Examples of a visual aid include, but are not limited to: A clearly visible line painted on the ground; a clearly visible line of stanchions; a set of clearly visible line-of-sight landmarks (such as a fence post behind the dedicated spotter and a building corner ahead of the dedicated spotter).

(B) Be positioned to effectively gauge the clearance distance.

(C) Where necessary, use equipment that enables the dedicated spotter to communicate directly with the operator.

(D) Give timely information to the operator so that the required clearance distance can be maintained.

(iii) A device that automatically warns the operator when to stop movement, such as a range control warning device. Such a device must be set to give the operator sufficient warning to prevent encroachment.

(iv) A device that automatically limits range of movement, set to prevent encroachment.

(v) An insulating link/device, as defined in § 1926.1401, installed at a point between the end of the load line (or below) and the load.

(5) The requirements of paragraph (b)(4) of this section do not apply to work covered by subpart V of this part.
