
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart CC - Cranes and Derricks in Construction
###### ยง 1926.1412 Inspections.
####### Each shift.

(d)(1) A competent person must begin a visual inspection prior to each shift the equipment will be used, which must be completed before or during that shift. The inspection must consist of observation for apparent deficiencies. Taking apart equipment components and booming down is not required as part of this inspection unless the results of the visual inspection or trial operation indicate that further investigation necessitating taking apart equipment components or booming down is needed. Determinations made in conducting the inspection must be reassessed in light of observations made during operation. At a minimum the inspection must include all of the following:

(i) Control mechanisms for maladjustments interfering with proper operation.

(ii) Control and drive mechanisms for apparent excessive wear of components and contamination by lubricants, water or other foreign matter.

(iii) Air, hydraulic, and other pressurized lines for deterioration or leakage, particularly those which flex in normal operation.

(iv) Hydraulic system for proper fluid level.

(v) Hooks and latches for deformation, cracks, excessive wear, or damage such as from chemicals or heat.

(vi) Wire rope reeving for compliance with the manufacturer's specifications.

(vii) Wire rope, in accordance with ยง 1926.1413(a).

(viii) Electrical apparatus for malfunctioning, signs of apparent excessive deterioration, dirt or moisture accumulation.

(ix) Tires (when in use) for proper inflation and condition.

(x) Ground conditions around the equipment for proper support, including ground settling under and around outriggers/stabilizers and supporting foundations, ground water accumulation, or similar conditions. This paragraph does not apply to the inspection of ground conditions for railroad tracks and their underlying support when the railroad tracks are part of the general railroad system of transportation that is regulated pursuant to the Federal Railroad Administration under 49 CFR part 213.

(xi) The equipment for level position within the tolerances specified by the equipment manufacturer's recommendations, both before each shift and after each move and setup.

(xii) Operator cab windows for significant cracks, breaks, or other deficiencies that would hamper the operator's view.

(xiii) Rails, rail stops, rail clamps and supporting surfaces when the equipment has rail traveling. This paragraph does not apply to the inspection of rails, rail stops, rail clamps and supporting surfaces when the railroad tracks are part of the general railroad system of transportation that is regulated pursuant to the Federal Railroad Administration under 49 CFR part 213.

(xiv) Safety devices and operational aids for proper operation.
