
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart CC - Cranes and Derricks in Construction
###### ยง 1926.1412 Inspections.
####### Annual/comprehensive.

(f)(1) At least every 12 months the equipment must be inspected by a qualified person in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section (each shift) except that the corrective action set forth in paragraphs (f)(4), (f)(5), and (f)(6) of this section must apply in place of the corrective action required by paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section.

(2) In addition, at least every 12 months, the equipment must be inspected by a qualified person. Disassembly is required, as necessary, to complete the inspection. The equipment must be inspected for all of the following:

(i) Equipment structure (including the boom and, if equipped, the jib):

(A) Structural members: Deformed, cracked, or significantly corroded.

(B) Bolts, rivets and other fasteners: loose, failed or significantly corroded.

(C) Welds for cracks.

(ii) Sheaves and drums for cracks or significant wear.

(iii) Parts such as pins, bearings, shafts, gears, rollers and locking devices for distortion, cracks or significant wear.

(iv) Brake and clutch system parts, linings, pawls and ratchets for excessive wear.

(v) Safety devices and operational aids for proper operation (including significant inaccuracies).

(vi) Gasoline, diesel, electric, or other power plants for safety-related problems (such as leaking exhaust and emergency shut-down feature) and conditions, and proper operation.

(vii) Chains and chain drive sprockets for excessive wear of sprockets and excessive chain stretch.

(viii) Travel steering, brakes, and locking devices, for proper operation.

(ix) Tires for damage or excessive wear.

(x) Hydraulic, pneumatic and other pressurized hoses, fittings and tubing, as follows:

(A) Flexible hose or its junction with the fittings for indications of leaks.

(B) Threaded or clamped joints for leaks.

(C) Outer covering of the hose for blistering, abnormal deformation or other signs of failure/impending failure.

(D) Outer surface of a hose, rigid tube, or fitting for indications of excessive abrasion or scrubbing.

(xi) Hydraulic and pneumatic pumps and motors, as follows:

(A) Performance indicators: Unusual noises or vibration, low operating speed, excessive heating of the fluid, low pressure.

(B) Loose bolts or fasteners.

(C) Shaft seals and joints between pump sections for leaks.

(xii) Hydraulic and pneumatic valves, as follows:

(A) Spools: Sticking, improper return to neutral, and leaks.

(B) Leaks.

(C) Valve housing cracks.

(D) Relief valves: Failure to reach correct pressure (if there is a manufacturer procedure for checking pressure, it must be followed).

(xiii) Hydraulic and pneumatic cylinders, as follows:

(A) Drifting caused by fluid leaking across the piston.

(B) Rod seals and welded joints for leaks.

(C) Cylinder rods for scores, nicks, or dents.

(D) Case (barrel) for significant dents.

(E) Rod eyes and connecting joints: Loose or deformed.

(xiv) Outrigger or stabilizer pads/floats for excessive wear or cracks.

(xv) Slider pads for excessive wear or cracks.

(xvi) Electrical components and wiring for cracked or split insulation and loose or corroded terminations.

(xvii) Warning labels and decals originally supplied with the equipment by the manufacturer or otherwise required under this standard: Missing or unreadable.

(xviii) Originally equipped operator seat (or equivalent): Missing.

(xix) Operator seat: Unserviceable.

(xx) Originally equipped steps, ladders, handrails, guards: Missing.

(xxi) Steps, ladders, handrails, guards: In unusable/unsafe condition.

(3) This inspection must include functional testing to determine that the equipment as configured in the inspection is functioning properly.

(4) If any deficiency is identified, an immediate determination must be made by the qualified person as to whether the deficiency constitutes a safety hazard or, though not yet a safety hazard, needs to be monitored in the monthly inspections.
