
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 4 - LABOR STANDARDS FOR FEDERAL SERVICE CONTRACTS
#### Subpart D - Compensation Standards
##### Compliance with Compensation Standards
###### ยง 4.173 Meeting requirements for vacation fringe benefits.
####### Vesting and payment of vacation benefits.

(c)(1) In the example given in paragraph (a)(1) of this section of a fringe benefit determination calling for "one week paid vacation after 1 year of service with a contractor or successor", an employee who renders the "one year of service" continuously becomes eligible for the "one week paid vacation" (i.e., 40 hours of paid vacation, unless otherwise specified in an applicable wage determination) upon his anniversary date of employment and upon each succeeding anniversary date thereafter. However, there is no accrual or vesting of vacation eligibility before the employee's anniversary date of employment, and no segment of time smaller than one year need be considered in computing the employer's vacation liability, unless specifically provided for in a particular fringe benefit determination. For example, an employee who has worked 13 months for an employer subject to such stipulations and is separated without receiving any vacation benefit is entitled only to one full week's (40 hours) paid vacation. He would not be entitled to the additional fraction of one-twelfth of one week's paid vacation for the month he worked in the second year unless otherwise stated in the applicable wage determination. An employee who has not met the "one year of service" requirement would not be entitled to any portion of the "one week paid vacation".

(2) Eligibility for vacation benefits specified in a particular wage determination is based on completion of the stated period of past service. The individual employee's anniversary date (and each annual anniversary date of employment thereafter) is the reference point for vesting of vacation eligibility, but does not necessarily mean that the employee must be given the vacation or paid for it on the date on which it is vested. The vacation may be scheduled according to a reasonable plan mutually agreed to and communicated to the employees. A "reasonable" plan may be interpreted to be a plan which allows the employer to maintain uninterrupted contract services but allows the employee some choice, by seniority or similar factor, in the scheduling of vacations. However, the required vacation must be given or payment made in lieu thereof before the next anniversary date, before completion of the current contract, or before the employee terminates employment, whichever occurs first.
