
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart CC - Cranes and Derricks in Construction
###### ยง 1926.1414 Wire rope - selection and installation criteria.
####### Requirements.

(2)(i) Types II and III with an operating design factor of less than 5 must not be used for duty cycle or repetitive lifts.

(ii) Rotation resistant ropes (including Types I, II and III) must have an operating design factor of no less than 3.5.

(iii) Type I must have an operating design factor of no less than 5, except where the wire rope manufacturer and the equipment manufacturer approves the design factor, in writing.

(iv) Types II and III must have an operating design factor of no less than 5, except where the requirements of paragraph (e)(3) of this section are met.

(3) When Types II and III with an operating design factor of less than 5 are used (for non-duty cycle, non-repetitive lifts), the following requirements must be met for each lifting operation:

(i) A qualified person must inspect the rope in accordance with ยง 1926.1413(a). The rope must be used only if the qualified person determines that there are no deficiencies constituting a hazard. In making this determination, more than one broken wire in any one rope lay must be considered a hazard.

(ii) Operations must be conducted in such a manner and at such speeds as to minimize dynamic effects.

(iii) Each lift made under ยง 1926.1414(e)(3) must be recorded in the monthly and annual inspection documents. Such prior uses must be considered by the qualified person in determining whether to use the rope again.
