
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart CC - Cranes and Derricks in Construction
###### ยง 1926.1419 Signals - general requirements.
####### Suitability.,etc.

(e)The signals used (hand, voice, audible, or new), and means of transmitting the signals to the operator (such as direct line of sight, video, radio,), must be appropriate for the site conditions.

(f) During operations requiring signals, the ability to transmit signals between the operator and signal person must be maintained. If that ability is interrupted at any time, the operator must safely stop operations requiring signals until it is reestablished and a proper signal is given and understood.

(g) If the operator becomes aware of a safety problem and needs to communicate with the signal person, the operator must safely stop operations. Operations must not resume until the operator and signal person agree that the problem has been resolved.

(h) Only one person may give signals to a crane/derrick at a time, except in circumstances covered by paragraph (j) of this section.

(i) [Reserved]

(j) Anyone who becomes aware of a safety problem must alert the operator or signal person by giving the stop or emergency stop signal. (ยง 1926.1417(y) requires the operator to obey a stop or emergency stop signal).

(k) All directions given to the operator by the signal person must be given from the operator's direction perspective.

(l) [Reserved]
