
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart CC - Cranes and Derricks in Construction
###### ยง 1926.1426 Free fall and controlled load lowering.
####### Boom free fall prohibitions.

(a)(1) The use of equipment in which the boom is designed to free fall (live boom) is prohibited in each of the following circumstances:

(i) An employee is in the fall zone of the boom or load.

(ii) An employee is being hoisted.

(iii) The load or boom is directly over a power line, or over any part of the area extending the Table A of ยง 1926.1408 clearance distance to each side of the power line; or any part of the area extending the Table A clearance distance to each side of the power line is within the radius of vertical travel of the boom or the load.

(iv) The load is over a shaft, except where there are no employees in the shaft.

(v) The load is over a cofferdam, except where there are no employees in the fall zone of the boom or the load.

(vi) Lifting operations are taking place in a refinery or tank farm.

(2) The use of equipment in which the boom is designed to free fall (live boom) is permitted only where none of the circumstances listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section are present and:

(i) The equipment was manufactured prior to October 31, 1984; or

(ii) The equipment is a floating crane/derrick or a land crane/derrick on a vessel/flotation device.
