
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart CC - Cranes and Derricks in Construction
###### ยง 1926.1427 Operator training, certification, and evaluation.
####### Operator training.

(b)The employer must provide each operator-in-training with sufficient training, through a combination of formal and practical instruction, to ensure that the operator-in-training develops the skills, knowledge, and ability to recognize and avert risk necessary to operate the equipment safely for assigned work.

(1) The employer must provide instruction on the knowledge and skills listed in paragraphs (j)(1) and (2) of this section to the operator-in-training.

(2) The operator-in-training must be continuously monitored on site by a trainer while operating equipment.

(3) The employer may only assign tasks within the operator-in-training's ability. However, except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(v) of this section, the operator-in-training shall not operate the equipment in any of the following circumstances unless certified in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section:

(i) If any part of the equipment, load line, or load (including rigging and lifting accessories), if operated up to the equipment's maximum working radius in the work zone (see ยง 1926.1408(a)(1)), could get within 20 feet of a power line that is up to 350 kV, or within 50 feet of a power line that is over 350 kV.

(ii) If the equipment is used to hoist personnel.

(iii) In multiple-equipment lifts.

(iv) If the equipment is used over a shaft, cofferdam, or in a tank farm.

(v) In multiple-lift rigging operations, except where the operator's trainer determines that the operator-in-training's skills are sufficient for this high-skill work.

(4) The employer must ensure that an operator-in-training is monitored as follows when operating equipment covered by this subpart:

(i) While operating the equipment, the operator-in-training must be continuously monitored by an individual ("operator's trainer") who meets all of the following requirements:

(A) The operator's trainer is an employee or agent of the operator-in-training's employer.

(B) The operator's trainer has the knowledge, training, and experience necessary to direct the operator-in-training on the equipment in use.

(ii) While monitoring the operator-in-training, the operator's trainer performs no tasks that detract from the trainer's ability to monitor the operator-in-training.

(iii) For equipment other than tower cranes: The operator's trainer and the operator-in-training must be in direct line of sight of each other. In addition, they must communicate verbally or by hand signals. For tower cranes: The operator's trainer and the operator-in-training must be in direct communication with each other.

(iv) The operator-in-training must be monitored by the operator's trainer at all times, except for short breaks where all of the following are met:

(A) The break lasts no longer than 15 minutes and there is no more than one break per hour.

(B) Immediately prior to the break the operator's trainer informs the operator-in-training of the specific tasks that the operator-in-training is to perform and limitations to which he/she must adhere during the operator trainer's break.

(C) The specific tasks that the operator-in-training will perform during the operator trainer's break are within the operator-in-training's abilities.
