
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 4 - LABOR STANDARDS FOR FEDERAL SERVICE CONTRACTS
#### Subpart D - Compensation Standards
##### Compliance with Compensation Standards
###### ยง 4.173 Meeting requirements for vacation fringe benefits.
####### Contractor liability for vacation benefits.

(d)(1) The liability for an employee's vacation is not prorated among contractors unless specifically provided for under a particular fringe benefit determination. The contractor by whom a person is employed at the time the vacation right vests, i.e., on the employee's anniversary date of employment, must provide the full benefit required by the determination which is applicable on that date. For example, an employee, who had not previously performed similar contract work at the same facility, was first hired by a predecessor contractor on July 1, 1978. July 1 is the employee's anniversary date. The predecessor's contract ended June 30, 1979, but the employee continued working on the contract for the successor. Since the employee did not have an anniversary date of employment during the predecessor's contract, the predecessor would not have any vacation liability with respect to this employee. However, on July 1, 1979 the employee's entitlement to the full vacation benefit vested and the successor contractor would be liable for the full amount of the employee's vacation benefit.

(2) The requirements for furnishing data relative to employee hiring dates in situations where such employees worked for "predecessor" contractors are set forth in ยง 4.6. However, a contractor is not relieved from any obligation to provide vacation benefits because of any difficulty in obtaining such data.
