
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart CC - Cranes and Derricks in Construction
###### ยง 1926.1431 Hoisting personnel.
####### Personnel platform criteria.

(e)(1) A qualified person familiar with structural design must design the personnel platform and attachment/suspension system used for hoisting personnel.

(2) The system used to connect the personnel platform to the equipment must allow the platform to remain within 10 degrees of level, regardless of boom angle.

(3) The suspension system must be designed to minimize tipping of the platform due to movement of employees occupying the platform.

(4) The personnel platform itself (excluding the guardrail system and personal fall arrest system anchorages), must be capable of supporting, without failure, its own weight and at least five times the maximum intended load.

(5) All welding of the personnel platform and its components must be performed by a certified welder familiar with the weld grades, types and material specified in the platform design.

(6) The personnel platform must be equipped with a guardrail system which meets the requirements of subpart M of this part, and must be enclosed at least from the toeboard to mid-rail with either solid construction material or expanded metal having openings no greater thaninch (1.27 cm). Points to which personal fall arrest systems are attached must meet the anchorage requirements in subpart M of this part.

(7) A grab rail must be installed inside the entire perimeter of the personnel platform except for access gates/doors.
