
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart CC - Cranes and Derricks in Construction
###### § 1926.1431 Hoisting personnel.
####### Trial lift and inspection.

(h)(1) A trial lift with the unoccupied personnel platform loaded at least to the anticipated liftweight must be made from ground level, or any other location where employees will enter the platform, to each location at which the platform is to be hoisted and positioned. Where there is more than one location to be reached from a single set-up position, either individual trial lifts for each location, or a single trial lift, in which the platform is moved sequentially to each location, must be performed; the method selected must be the same as the method that will be used to hoist the personnel.

(2) The trial lift must be performed immediately prior to each shift in which personnel will be hoisted. In addition, the trial lift must be repeated prior to hoisting employees in each of the following circumstances:

(i) The equipment is moved and set up in a new location or returned to a previously used location.

(ii) The lift route is changed, unless the competent person determines that the new route presents no new factors affecting safety.

(3) The competent person must determine that:

(i) Safety devices and operational aids required by this section are activated and functioning properly. Other safety devices and operational aids must meet the requirements of §§ 1926.1415 and 1926.1416.

(ii) Nothing interferes with the equipment or the personnel platform in the course of the trial lift.

(iii) The lift will not exceed 50 percent of the equipment's rated capacity at any time during the lift.

(iv) The load radius to be used during the lift has been accurately determined.

(4) Immediately after the trial lift, the competent person must:

(i) Conduct a visual inspection of the equipment, base support or ground, and personnel platform, to determine whether the trial lift has exposed any defect or problem or produced any adverse effect.

(ii) Confirm that, upon the completion of the trial lift process, the test weight has been removed.

(5) Immediately prior to each lift:

(i) The platform must be hoisted a few inches with the personnel and materials/tools on board and inspected by a competent person to ensure that it is secure and properly balanced.

(ii) The following conditions must be determined by a competent person to exist before the lift of personnel proceeds:

(A) Hoist ropes must be free of deficiencies in accordance with § 1926.1413(a).

(B) Multiple part lines must not be twisted around each other.

(C) The primary attachment must be centered over the platform.

(D) If the load rope is slack, the hoisting system must be inspected to ensure that all ropes are properly seated on drums and in sheaves.
