
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart CC - Cranes and Derricks in Construction
###### ยง 1926.1431 Hoisting personnel.
####### Hoisting personnel in drill shafts.

(o)When hoisting employees into and out of drill shafts that are up to and including 8 feet in diameter, all of the following requirements must be met:

(1) The employee must be in either a personnel platform or on a boatswain's chair.

(2) If using a personnel platform, paragraphs (a) through (n) of this section apply.

(3) If using a boatswain's chair:

(i) The following paragraphs of this section apply: (a), (c), (d)(1), (d)(3), (d)(4), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), (f)(1), (f)(2)(i), (f)(3)(i), (g), (h), (k)(1), (k)(6), (k)(8), (k)(9), (k)(11)(i), (m), (n). Where the terms "personnel platform" or "platform" are used in these paragraphs, substitute them with "boatswain's chair."

(ii) A signal person must be stationed at the shaft opening.

(iii) The employee must be hoisted in a slow, controlled descent and ascent.

(iv) The employee must use personal fall protection equipment, including a full body harness, attached independent of the crane/derrick.

(v) The fall protection equipment must meet the applicable requirements in ยง 1926.502.

(vi) The boatswain's chair itself (excluding the personal fall arrest system anchorages), must be capable of supporting, without failure, its own weight and at least five times the maximum intended load.

(vii) No more than one person must be hoisted at a time.
