
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart CC - Cranes and Derricks in Construction
###### ยง 1926.1431 Hoisting personnel.
####### Hoisting personnel for storage-tank (steel or concrete), shaft and chimney operations.

(s)When hoisting an employee in storage tank (steel or concrete), shaft and chimney operations, the following requirements must be met:

(1) The employee must be in a personnel platform except when the employer can demonstrate that use of a personnel platform is infeasible; in such a case, a boatswain's chair must be used.

(2) If using a personnel platform, paragraphs (a) through (n) of this section apply.

(3) If using a boatswain's chair:

(i) The following paragraphs of this section apply: (a), (c), (d)(1), (d)(3), (d)(4), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), (f)(1), (f)(2)(i), (f)(3)(i), (g), (h), (k)(1), (k)(6), (k)(8), (k)(9), (k)(11)(i), (m), (n). Where the terms "personnel platform" or "platform" are used in these paragraphs, substitute them with "boatswains chair."

(ii) The employee must be hoisted in a slow, controlled descent and ascent.

(iii) The employee must use personal fall protection equipment, including a full body harness, attached independent of the crane/derrick. When there is no adequate structure for attachment of personal fall arrest equipment as required in ยง 1926.502(d)(15), the attachment must be to the lower load block or overhaul ball.

(iv) The fall protection equipment must meet the applicable requirements in ยง 1926.502.

(v) The boatswain's chair itself (excluding the personal fall arrest system anchorages), must be capable of supporting, without failure, its own weight and at least five times the maximum intended load.

(vi) No more than one person must be hoisted at a time.
