
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart CC - Cranes and Derricks in Construction
###### ยง 1926.1431 Hoisting personnel.
####### Hoisting personnel for pile driving operations.

(p)When hoisting an employee in pile driving operations, the following requirements must be met:

(1) The employee must be in a personnel platform or boatswain's chair.

(2) For lattice boom cranes: Clearly mark the cable (so that it can easily be seen by the operator) at a point that will give the operator sufficient time to stop the hoist to prevent two-blocking, or use a spotter who is in direct communication with the operator to inform the operator when this point is reached. For telescopic boom cranes: Clearly mark the cable (so that it can be easily seen by the operator) at a point that will give the operator sufficient time to stop the hoist to prevent two-blocking, and use a spotter who is in direct communication with the operator to inform the operator when this point is reached.

(3) If using a personnel platform, paragraphs (b) through (n) of this section apply.

(4) If using a boatswain's chair:

(i) The following paragraphs of this section apply: (a), (c), (d)(1), (d)(3), (d)(4), (e)(1), (e)(2), (e)(3), (f)(1), (f)(2)(i), (f)(3)(i), (g), (h), (j), (k)(1), (k)(6), (k)(8), (k)(9), (k)(11)(i), (m), and (n). Where the terms "personnel platform" or "platform" are used in these paragraphs, substitute them with "boatswains chair."

(ii) The employee must be hoisted in a slow, controlled descent and ascent.

(iii) The employee must use personal fall protection equipment, including a full body harness, independently attached to the lower load block or overhaul ball.

(iv) The fall protection equipment must meet the applicable requirements in ยง 1926.502.

(v) The boatswain's chair itself (excluding the personal fall arrest system anchorages), must be capable of supporting, without failure, its own weight and at least five times the maximum intended load.

(vi) No more than one person must be hoisted at a time.

(q) [Reserved]
