
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart CC - Cranes and Derricks in Construction
###### ยง 1926.1433 Design, construction and testing.
####### Rated capacity and related information.,see

(1)The information available in the cab (ยง 1926.1417(c)) regarding "rated capacity" and related information must include, at a minimum, the following information:

(i) A complete range of the manufacturer's equipment rated capacities, as follows:

(A) At all manufacturer approved operating radii, boom angles, work areas, boom lengths and configurations, jib lengths and angles (or offset).

(B) Alternate ratings for use and nonuse of option equipment which affects rated capacities, such as outriggers, stabilizers, and extra counterweights.

(ii) A work area chart for which capacities are listed in the load chart. (An example of this type of chart is in ASME B30.5-2004, section 5-1.1.3, Figure 11).

(iii) The work area figure and load chart must clearly indicate the areas where no load is to be handled.

(iv) Recommended reeving for the hoist lines must be shown.

(v) Recommended parts of hoist reeving, size, and type of wire rope for various equipment loads.

(vi) Recommended boom hoist reeving diagram, where applicable; size, type and length of wire rope.

(vii) Tire pressure (where applicable).

(viii) Caution or warnings relative to limitations on equipment and operating procedures, including an indication of the least stable direction.

(ix) Position of the gantry and requirements for intermediate boom suspension (where applicable).

(x) Instructions for boom erection and conditions under which the boom, or boom and jib combinations, may be raised or lowered.

(xi) Whether the hoist holding mechanism is automatically or manually controlled, whether free fall is available, or any combination of these.

(xii) The maximum telescopic travel length of each boom telescopic section.

(xiii) Whether sections are telescoped manually or with power.

(xiv) The sequence and procedure for extending and retracting the telescopic boom section.

(xv) Maximum loads permitted during the boom extending operation, and any limiting conditions or cautions.

(xvi) Hydraulic relief valve settings specified by the manufacturer.

(2) Load hooks (including latched and unlatched types), ball assemblies and load blocks must be of sufficient weight to overhaul the line from the highest hook position for boom or boom and jib lengths and the number of parts of the line in use.

(3) Hook and ball assemblies and load blocks must be marked with their rated capacity and weight.
