
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart CC - Cranes and Derricks in Construction
###### ยง 1926.1436 Derricks.
####### Guy derricks.

(2)(i) The minimum number of guys must be 6, with equal spacing, except where a qualified person or derrick manufacturer approves variations from these requirements and revises the rated capacity to compensate for such variations.

(ii) Guy derricks must not be used unless the employer has the following guy information from the manufacturer or a qualified person, when not available from the manufacturer:

(A) The number of guys.

(B) The spacing around the mast.

(C) The size, grade, and construction of rope to be used for each guy.

(iii) For guy derricks manufactured after December 18, 1970, in addition to the information required in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, the employer must have the following guy information from the manufacturer or a qualified person, when not available from the manufacturer:

(A) The amount of initial sag or tension.

(B) The amount of tension in guy line rope at anchor.

(iv) The mast base must permit the mast to rotate freely with allowance for slight tilting of the mast caused by guy slack.

(v) The mast cap must:

(A) Permit the mast to rotate freely.

(B) Withstand tilting and cramping caused by the guy loads.

(C) Be secured to the mast to prevent disengagement during erection.

(D) Be provided with means for attaching guy ropes.
