
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart CC - Cranes and Derricks in Construction
###### ยง 1926.1437 Floating cranes/derricks and land cranes/derricks on barges.
####### Load charts.

(1)(i) The employer must not exceed the manufacturer load charts applicable to operations on water. When using these charts, the employer must comply with all parameters and limitations (such as dynamic and environmental parameters) applicable to the use of the charts.

(ii) The employer must ensure that load charts take into consideration a minimum wind speed of 40 miles per hour.

(2) The employer must ensure that the requirements for maximum allowable list and maximum allowable trim as specified in Table M1 of this section are met.

(3) The employer must ensure that the equipment is stable under the conditions specified in Tables M2 and M3 of this section. (: Freeboard is the vertical distance between the water line and the main deck of the vessel.)

(4) If the equipment is employer-made, it must not be used unless the employer has documents demonstrating that the load charts and applicable parameters for use meet the requirements of paragraphs (m)(1) through (3) of this section. Such documents must be signed by a registered professional engineer who is a qualified person with respect to the design of this type of equipment (including the means of flotation).

(5) The employer must ensure that the barge, pontoons, vessel or other means of flotation used:

(i) Are structurally sufficient to withstand the static and dynamic loads of the crane/derrick when operating at the crane/derrick's maximum rated capacity with all planned and actual deck loads and ballasted compartments.

(ii) Have a subdivided hull with one or more longitudinal watertight bulkheads for reducing the free-surface effect.

(iii) Have access to void compartments to allow for inspection and pumping.
