
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart CC - Cranes and Derricks in Construction
###### ยง 1926.1437 Floating cranes/derricks and land cranes/derricks on barges.
####### Land cranes/derricks.

(n)For land cranes/derricks used on barges, pontoons, vessels or other means of flotation, the employer must ensure that:

(1) The rated capacity of the equipment (including but not limited to modification of load charts) applicable for use on land is reduced to:

(i) Account for increased loading from list, trim, wave action, and wind.

(ii) Be applicable to a specified location(s) on the specific barge, pontoons, vessel or other means of flotation that will be used, under the environmental conditions expected and encountered.

(iii) The conditions required in paragraphs (n)(3) and (n)(4) of this section are met.

(2) The rated capacity modification required in paragraph (n)(1) of this section is performed by the equipment manufacturer, or a qualified person who has expertise with respect to both land crane/derrick capacity and the stability of vessels/flotation devices.

(3) For list and trim.

(i) The maximum allowable list and the maximum allowable trim for the barge, pontoon, vessel or other means of flotation must not exceed the amount necessary to ensure that the conditions in paragraph (n)(4) of this section are met. In addition, the maximum allowable list and the maximum allowable trim does not exceed the least of the following: 5 degrees, the amount specified by the crane/derrick manufacturer, or, when, an amount is not so specified, the amount specified by the qualified person.

(ii) The maximum allowable list and the maximum allowable trim for the land crane/derrick does not exceed the amount specified by the crane/derrick manufacturer, or, when, an amount is not so specified, the amount specified by the qualified person.

(4) For the following conditions:

(i) All deck surfaces of the barge, pontoons, vessel or other means of flotation used are above water.

(ii) The entire bottom area of the barge, pontoons, vessel or other means of flotation used is submerged.

(5) Physical attachment, corralling, rails system and centerline cable system meet the requirements in Option (1), Option (2), Option (3), or Option (4) of this section, and that whichever option is used also meets the requirements of paragraph (n)(5)(v) of this section.
