
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1926 - SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION
##### Subpart CC - Cranes and Derricks in Construction
###### ยง 1926.1437 Floating cranes/derricks and land cranes/derricks on barges.
####### Option (4)-Centerline cable system.

(iv)The crane/derrick is prevented from shifting by being mounted to a wire rope system. The employer must ensure that the wire rope system meets the following requirements:

(A) The wire rope and attachments are of sufficient size and strength to support the side load of crane/derrick.

(B) The wire rope is attached physically to the vessel/flotation device.

(C) The wire rope is attached to the crane/derrick by appropriate attachment methods (such as shackles or sheaves) on the undercarriage, and that the method used will allow the crew to secure the crane/derrick from movement during operation and to move the crane/derrick longitudinally along the vessel/flotation device for repositioning.

(D) Means are installed to prevent the crane/derrick from passing the forward or aft end of the wire rope attachments.

(E) The crane/derrick is secured from movement during operation.

(v) The systems/means used to comply with Option (1), Option (2), Option (3), or Option (4) of this section are designed by a marine engineer, registered professional engineer familiar with floating crane/derrick design, or qualified person familiar with floating crane/derrick design.
