
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 4 - LABOR STANDARDS FOR FEDERAL SERVICE CONTRACTS
#### Subpart D - Compensation Standards
##### Compliance with Compensation Standards
###### ยง 4.174 Meeting requirements for holiday fringe benefits.
####### Determining eligibility for holiday benefits-in general.

(a)(1) Most fringe benefit determinations list a specific number of named holidays for which payment is required. Unless specified otherwise in an applicable determination, an employee who performs any work during the workweek in which a named holiday occurs is entitled to the holiday benefit, regardless of whether the named holiday falls on a Sunday, another day during the workweek on which the employee is not normally scheduled to work, or on the employee's day off. In addition, holiday benefits cannot be denied because the employee has not been employed by the contractor for a designated period prior to the named holiday or because the employee did not work the day before or the day after the holiday, unless such qualifications are specifically included in the determination.

(2) An employee who performs no work during the workweek in which a named holiday occurs is generally not entitled to the holiday benefit. However, an employee who performs no work during the workweek because he is on paid vacation or sick leave in accordance with the terms of the applicable fringe benefit determination is entitled to holiday pay or another day off with pay to substitute for the named holiday. In addition, an employee who performs no work during the workweek because of a layoff does not forfeit his entitlement to holiday benefits if the layoff is merely a subterfuge by the contractor to avoid the payment of such benefits.

(3) The obligation to furnish holiday pay for the named holiday may be discharged if the contractor furnishes another day off with pay in accordance with a plan communicated to the employees involved. However, in such instances the holidays named in the fringe benefit determination are the reference points for determining whether an employee is eligible to receive holiday benefits. In other words, if an employee worked in a workweek in which a listed holiday occurred, the employee is entitled to pay for that holiday. Some determinations may provide for a specific number of holidays without naming them. In such instances the contractor is free to select the holidays to be taken in accordance with a plan communicated to the employees involved, and the agreed-upon holidays are the reference points for determining whether an employee is eligible to receive holiday benefits.
