
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 1 - PROCEDURES FOR PREDETERMINATION OF WAGE RATES
#### ยง 1.5 Procedure for requesting wage determinations.
##### Provided,

(a) The Department of Labor publishes general wage determinations under the Davis-Bacon Act on the WDOL Internet Web site. If there is a general wage determination applicable to the project, the agency may use it without notifying the Department of Labor,That questions concerning its use shall be referred to the Department of Labor in accordance with ยง 1.6(b).

(b)(1) If a general wage determination is not available, the Federal agency shall request a wage determination under the Davis-Bacon Act or any of its related prevailing wage statutes by submitting Form SF-308 to the Department of Labor at this address: U.S. Department of Labor, Wage and Hour Division, Branch of Government Construction Contract Wage Determination, Washington, DC 20210. In preparing Form SF-308, the agency shall check only those classifications that will be needed in the performance of the work. Inserting a note such as "entire schedule" or "all applicable classifications" is not sufficient. Additional classifications needed that are not on the form may be typed in the blank spaces or on a separate list and attached to the form.

(2) In completing SF-308, the agency shall furnish:

(i) A sufficiently detailed description of the work to indicate the type of construction involved. Additional description or separate attachment, if necessary for identification of type of project, shall be furnished.

(ii) The county (or other civil subdivision) and State in which the proposed project is located.

(3) Such request for a wage determination shall be accompanied by any pertinent wage payment information that may be available. When the requesting agency is a State highway department under the Federal-Aid Highway Acts as codified in 23 U.S.C. 113, such agency shall also include its recommendations as to the wages which are prevailing for each classification of laborers and mechanics on similar construction in the area.

(c) The time required for processing requests for wage determinations varies according to the facts and circumstances in each case. An agency should anticipate that such processing in the Department of Labor will take at least 30 days.
