
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1928 - OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STANDARDS FOR AGRICULTURE
##### Subpart D - Safety for Agricultural Equipment
###### ยง 1928.57 Guarding of farm field equipment, farmstead equipment, and cotton gins.
####### Functional components.

(3)(i) Functional components, such as choppers, rotary beaters, mixing augers, feed rolls, conveying augers, grain spreaders, stirring augers, sweep augers, and feed augers, which must be exposed for proper function, shall be guarded to the fullest extent which will not substantially interfere with the normal functioning of the component.

(ii) Sweep arm material gathering mechanisms used on the top surface of materials within silo structures shall be guarded. The lower or leading edge of the guard shall be located no more than 12 inches above the material surface and no less than 6 inches in front of the leading edge of the rotating member of the gathering mechanism. The guard shall be parallel to, and extend the fullest practical length of, the material gathering mechanism.

(iii) Exposed auger flighting on portable grain augers shall be guarded with either grating type guards or solid baffle style covers as follows:

(A) The largest dimensions or openings in grating type guards through which materials are required to flow shall be 4inches. The area of each opening shall be no larger than 10 square inches. The opening shall be located no closer to the rotating flighting than 2inches.

(B) Slotted openings in solid baffle style covers shall be no wider than 1inches, or closer than 3inches to the exposed flighting.
