
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 4 - LABOR STANDARDS FOR FEDERAL SERVICE CONTRACTS
#### Subpart D - Compensation Standards
##### Compliance with Compensation Standards
###### ยง 4.174 Meeting requirements for holiday fringe benefits.
####### Payment of holiday benefits.

(c)(1) A full-time employee who is eligible to receive payment for a named holiday must receive a full day's pay up to 8 hours unless a different standard is used in the fringe benefit determination, such as one reflecting collectively bargained holiday benefit requirements issued pursuant to section 4(c) of the Act or a different historic practice in an industry or locality. Thus, for example, a contractor must furnish 7 hours of holiday pay to a full-time employee whose scheduled workday consists of 7 hours. An employee whose scheduled workday is 10 hours would be entitled to a holiday payment of 8 hours unless a different standard is used in the determination. As discussed in ยง 4.172, such holiday pay must include the full amount of other fringe benefits to which the employee is entitled.

(2) Unless a different standard is used in the wage determination, a full-time employee who works on the day designated as a holiday must be paid, in addition to the amount he ordinarily would be entitled to for that day's work, the cash equivalent of a full-day's pay up to 8 hours or be furnished another day off with pay.

(3) If the fringe benefit determination lists the employee's birthday as a paid holiday and that day coincides with another listed holiday, the contractor may discharge his obligation to furnish payment for the second holiday by either substituting another day off with pay with the consent of the employee, furnishing holiday benefits of an extra day's pay, or if the employee works on the holiday in question, furnish holiday benefits of two extra days' pay.

(4) As stated in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, an employee's entitlement to holiday pay fully vests by working in the workweek in which the named holiday occurs. Accordingly, any employee who is terminated before receiving the full amount of holiday benefits due him must be paid the holiday benefits as a final cash payment.

(5) The rules and regulations for furnishing holiday pay to temporary and part-time employees are discussed in ยง 4.176.

(6) The rules and regulations for furnishing equivalent fringe benefits or cash equivalents in lieu of holiday pay are discussed in ยง 4.177.
