
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1955 - PROCEDURES FOR WITHDRAWAL OF APPROVAL OF STATE PLANS
##### Subpart B - Notice of Formal Proceeding
###### § 1955.10 Publication of notice of formal proceeding.

(a) The Assistant Secretary, prior to any notice of a formal proceeding under this subpart, shall by letter, provide the State with an opportunity to show cause within 45 days why a proceeding should not be instituted for withdrawal of approval of a plan or any portion thereof. When a State fails to show cause why a formal proceeding for withdrawal of approval should not be instituted, the State shall be deemed to have waived its right to a formal proceeding under paragraph (b) of this section and the Assistant Secretary shall cause to be published in thea notice of withdrawal of approval of the State plan.

(b)(1) Whenever the Assistant Secretary, on the basis of a petition under § 1955.5 or on his own initiative, determines that approval of a State plan or any portion thereof should be withdrawn, and the State has not waived its right under § 1955.3(b) or paragraph (a) of this section to a formal proceeding, he shall publish a notice of proposed withdrawal in theas set out in § 1955.11 and cause such notice, in the form of a complaint, to be served on the State in accordance with § 1955.15.

(2) Not later than 5 days following the publication of the notice in thethe State agency shall publish, or cause to be published, within the State reasonable notice containing a summary of the information in the Federal notice, as well as the location or locations where a copy of the full notice is available for inspection and public copying.

(3) Two copies of such notice shall be served on the Assistant Secretary in accordance with § 1955.15.

(c) Not less than 30 days following publication of the notice in thethe State shall submit a statement of those items in the notice which are being contested and a brief statement of the facts relied upon, including whether the use of witnesses is intended. This statement shall be served on the Assistant Secretary in accordance with § 1955.15. When a State fails to respond to the notice of proposed withdrawal under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the State shall be deemed to have waived its right to a formal proceeding and the Assistant Secretary shall cause to be published in thea notice of withdrawal of approval.
