
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1955 - PROCEDURES FOR WITHDRAWAL OF APPROVAL OF STATE PLANS
##### Subpart C - Consent Findings and Summary Decisions
###### ยง 1955.22 Summary decision.

(a)(1) Where no genuine issue of material fact is found to have been raised, the administrative law judge shall issue an initial decision to become final 30 days after service thereof upon each party unless, within those 30 days, any party has filed written exceptions to the decision with the Secretary. Requests for extension of time to file exceptions may be granted if the requests are received by the Secretary no later than 25 days after service of the decision.

(2) If any timely exceptions are filed, the Secretary may set a time for filing any response to the exceptions with supporting reasons. All exceptions and responses thereto shall be served on all the parties.

(b)(1) The Secretary, after consideration of the decision, the exceptions, and any supporting briefs filed therewith and any responses to the exceptions with supporting reasons, shall issue a final decision.

(2) An initial decision and a final decision under this section shall include a statement of:

(i) Findings of fact and conclusions of law and the reasons and bases therefor on all issues presented;

(ii) Reference to any material fact based on official notice; and

(iii) The terms and conditions of the rule or order made.

(c) Where a genuine material question of fact is raised, the administrative law judge shall, and in any other case may, set the case for an evidentiary hearing. A notice of such hearing shall be published in theat least 30 days prior to the hearing date.
