
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 4 - LABOR STANDARDS FOR FEDERAL SERVICE CONTRACTS
#### Subpart D - Compensation Standards
##### Compliance with Compensation Standards
###### ยง 4.175 Meeting requirements for health, welfare, and/or pension benefits.
####### Employees not enrolled in or excluded from participating in fringe benefit plans.

(c)(1) Some health and welfare and pension plans contain eligibility exclusions for certain employees. For example, temporary and part-time employees may be excluded from participating in such plans. Also, employees receiving benefits through participation in plans of an employer other than the Government contractor or by a spouse's employer may be prevented from receiving benefits from the contractor's plan because of prohibitions against "double coverage". While such exclusions do not invalidate an otherwise bona fide insurance plan, employer contributions to such a plan cannot be considered to be made on behalf of the excluded employees. Accordingly, under fringe benefit determination requirements as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the employees excluded from participation in the health insurance plan must be furnished equivalent bona fide fringe benefits or be paid a cash equivalent payment during the period that they are not eligible to participate in the plan.

(2) It is not required that all employees participating in a fringe benefit plan be entitled to receive benefits from that plan at all times. For example, under some plans, newly hired employees who are eligible to participate in an insurance plan from their first day of employment may be prohibited from receiving benefits from the plan during a specified "waiting period". Contributions made on behalf of such employees would serve to discharge the contractor's obligation to furnish the fringe benefit. However, if no contributions are made for such employees, no credit may be taken toward the contractor's fringe benefit obligations.
