
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1981 - PROCEDURES FOR THE HANDLING OF DISCRIMINATION COMPLAINTS UNDER SECTION 6 OF THE PIPELINE SAFETY IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2002
##### Subpart A - Complaints, Investigations, Findings, and Preliminary Orders
###### ยง 1981.101 Definitions.

"Act" or "Pipeline Safety Act" means section 6 of the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002, Public Law No. 107-355, December 17, 2002, 49 U.S.C. 60129.

"Assistant Secretary" means the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health or the person or persons to whom he or she delegates authority under the Act.

"Complainant" means the employee who filed a complaint under the Act or on whose behalf a complaint was filed.

"Employee" means an individual presently or formerly working for a person owning or operating a pipeline facility or a contractor or subcontractor of such a person, an individual applying to work for a person owning or operating a pipeline facility or a contractor or subcontractor of such a person, or an individual whose employment could be affected by a person owning or operating a pipeline facility or a contractor or subcontractor of such a person.

"Employer" means a person owning or operating a pipeline facility or a contractor or subcontractor of such a person.

"Gas pipeline facility" includes a pipeline, a right of way, a facility, a building, or equipment used in transporting gas or treating gas during its transportation.

"Hazardous liquid pipeline facility" includes a pipeline, a right of way, a facility, a building, or equipment used or intended to be used in transporting hazardous liquid.

"Named person" means the person alleged to have violated the Act.

"OSHA" means the Occupational Safety and Health Administration of the United States Department of Labor.

"Person" means a corporation, company, association, firm, partnership, joint stock company, an individual, a State, a municipality, and a trustee, receiver, assignee, or personal representative of a person.

"Pipeline facility" means a gas pipeline facility and a hazardous liquid pipeline facility.

"Secretary" means the Secretary of Labor or persons to whom authority under the Act has been delegated.
