
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 1 - PROCEDURES FOR PREDETERMINATION OF WAGE RATES
#### ยง 1.6 Use and effectiveness of wage determinations.

(a)(1) Project wage determinations initially issued shall be effective for 180 calendar days from the date of such determinations. If such a wage determination is not used in the period of its effectiveness it is void. Accordingly, if it appears that a wage determination may expire between bid opening and contract award (or between initial endorsement under the National Housing Act or the execution of an agreement to enter into a housing assistance payments contract under section 8 of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937, and the start of construction) the agency shall request a new wage determination sufficiently in advance of the bid opening to assure receipt prior thereto. However, when due to unavoidable circumstances a determination expires before award but after bid opening (or before the start of construction, but after initial endorsement under the National Housing Act, or before the start of construction but after the execution of an agreement to enter into a housing assistance payments contract under section 8 of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937), the head of the agency or his or her designee may request the Administrator to extend the expiration date of the wage determination in the bid specifications instead of issuing a new wage determination. Such request shall be supported by a written finding, which shall include a brief statement of the factual support, that the extension of the expiration date of the determination is necessary and proper in the public interest to prevent injustice or undue hardship or to avoid serious impairment in the conduct of Government business. The Administrator will either grant or deny the request for an extension after consideration of all of the circumstances, including an examination to determine if the previously issued rates remain prevailing. If the request for extension is denied, the Administrator will proceed to issue a new wage determination for the project.

(2) General wage determinations issued pursuant to ยง 1.5(a), notice of which is published on WDOL, shall contain no expiration date.

(b) Contracting agencies are responsible for insuring that only the appropriate wage determination(s) are incorporated in bid solicitations and contract specifications and for designating specifically the work to which such wage determinations will apply. Any question regarding application of wage rate schedules shall be referred to the Administrator, who shall give foremost consideration to area practice in resolving the question.

(c)(1) Project and general wage determinations may be modified from time to time to keep them current. A modification may specify only the items being changed, or may be in the form of a supersedeas wage determination, which replaces the entire wage determination. Such actions are distinguished from a determination by the Administrator under paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) of this section that an erroneous wage determination has been issued or that the wrong wage determination or wage rate schedule has been utilized by the agency.

(2)(i) All actions modifying a project wage determination received by the agency before contract award (or the start of construction where there is no contract award) shall be effective except as follows:

(A) In the case of contracts entered into pursuant to competitive bidding procedures, modifications received by the agency less than 10 days before the opening of bids shall be effective unless the agency finds that there is not a reasonable time still available before bid opening, to notify bidders of the modification and a report of the finding is inserted in the contract file. A copy of such report shall be made available to the Administrator upon request. No such report shall be required if the modification is received after bid opening.

(B) In the case of projects assisted under the National Housing Act, modifications shall be effective if received prior to the beginning of construction or the date the mortgage is initially endorsed, whichever occurs first.

(C) In the case of projects to receive housing assistance payments under section 8 of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937, modifications shall be effective if received prior to the beginning of construction or the date the agreement to enter into a housing assistance payments contract is executed, whichever occurs first.

(ii) Modifications to project wage determinations and supersedeas wage determinations shall not be effective after contract award (or after the beginning of construction where there is no contract award).

(iii) Actual written notice of a modification shall constitute receipt.

(3) All actions modifying a general wage determination shall be effective with respect to any project to which the determination applies, if notice of such actions is published before contract award (or the start of construction where there is no contract award), except as follows:

(i) In the case of contracts entered into pursuant to competitive bidding procedures, a modification, notice of which is published less than 10 days before the opening of bids, shall be effective unless the agency finds that there is not a reasonable time still available before bid opening to notify bidders of the modification and a report of the finding is inserted in the contract file. A copy of such report shall be made available to the Administrator upon request. No such report shall be required if notice of the modification is published after bid opening.

(ii) In the case of projects assisted under the National Housing Act, a modification shall be effective if notice of such modification is published prior to the beginning of construction or the date the mortgage is initially endorsed, whichever occurs first.

(iii) In the case of projects to receive housing assistance payments under section 8 of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937, a modification shall be effective if notice of such modification is published prior to the beginning of construction or the date the agreement to enter into a housing assistance payments contract is signed, whichever occurs first.

(iv) If under paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section the contract has not been awarded within 90 days after bid opening, or if under paragraph (c)(3)(ii) or (iii) of this section construction has not begun within 90 days after initial endorsement or the signing of the agreement to enter into a housing assistance payments contract, any modification, notice of which is published on WDOL prior to award of the contract or the beginning of construction, as appropriate, shall be effective with respect to that contract unless the head of the agency or his or her designee requests and obtains an extension of the 90-day period from the Administrator. Such request shall be supported by a written finding, which shall include a brief statement of the factual support, that the extension is necessary and proper in the public interest to prevent injustice or undue hardship or to avoid serious impairment in the conduct of Government business. The Administrator will either grant or deny the request for an extension after consideration of all the circumstances.

(v) A modification to a general wage determination is "published" within the meaning of this section on the date notice of a modification or a supersedeas wage determination is published on WDOL or on the date the agency receives actual written notice of the modification from the Department of Labor, whichever occurs first. Archived versions of Davis-Bacon and Related Acts wage determinations that are no longer current may be accessed in the "Archived DB WD" database of WDOL for information purposes only. Contracting officers should not use an archived wage determination in a contract action without prior approval of the Department of Labor.

(vi) A supersedeas wage determination or a modification to an applicable general wage determination, notice of which is published after contract award (or after the beginning of construction where there is no contract award) shall not be effective.

(d) Upon his/her own initiative or at the request of an agency, the Administrator may correct any wage determination, without regard to paragraph (c) of this section, whenever the Administrator finds such a wage determination contains clerical errors. Such corrections shall be included in any bid specifications containing the wage determination, or in any on-going contract containing the wage determination in question, retroactively to the start of construction.

(e) Written notification by the Department of Labor prior to the award of a contract (or the start of construction under the National Housing Act, under section 8 of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937, or where there is no contract award) that: (1) There is included in the bidding documents or solicitation the wrong wage determination or the wrong schedule or that (2) a wage determination is withdrawn by the Department of Labor as a result of a decision by the Administrative Review Board, shall be effective immediately without regard to paragraph (c) of this section.
