
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XX - Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
#### PART 2200 - RULES OF PROCEDURE
##### Subpart C - Pleadings and Motions
###### ยง 2200.37 Petitions for modification of the abatement period.
####### When and where filed; posting requirement; responses to petition.

(c)A petition for modification of abatement date shall be filed with the Area Director of the United States Department of Labor who issued the citation no later than the close of the next working day following the date on which abatement was originally required. A later-filed petition shall be accompanied by the employer's statement of exceptional circumstances explaining the delay.

(1) A copy of such petition shall be posted in a conspicuous place where all affected employees will have notice of the petition or near each location where the violation occurred. The petition shall remain posted for a period of 10 working days.

(2) Affected employees or the representatives may file an objection in writing to such petition with the aforesaid Area Director. Failure to file such objection within 10 working days of the date of posting of such petition shall constitute a waiver of any further right to object to said petition.

(3) The Secretary or the Secretary's duly authorized agent shall have the authority to approve any uncontested petition for modification of abatement date filed pursuant to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. Such uncontested petitions shall become final orders pursuant to sections 10(a) and (c) of the Act, 29 U.S.C. 659(a) and (c).

(4) The Secretary or the Secretary's authorized representative shall not exercise the Secretary's approval power until the expiration of 15 working days from the date the petition was posted pursuant to paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section by the employer.
