
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XX - Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
#### PART 2200 - RULES OF PROCEDURE
##### Subpart E - Hearings
###### ยง 2200.73 Interlocutory review.
####### Petition for interlocutory review.

(b)Within 7 days following the service of a Judge's ruling from which review is sought, a party may file a petition for interlocutory review with the Commission. Responses to the petition, if any, shall be filed within 7 days following service of the petition. Service of the filed petition on the other parties and intervenors shall be accomplished in a manner prescribed in ยง 2200.7(c). A copy of the petition and responses shall be filed with the Judge. The petition is denied unless granted within 30 days of the date of receipt by the Commission's Executive Secretary. A corporate party that files a petition for interlocutory review or a response to such a petition under this section shall file with the Commission a copy of its declaration of corporate parents, subsidiaries, and affiliates previously filed with the Judge under the requirements of ยง 2200.35 or ยง 2200.37(d)(4). In its discretion the Commission may refuse to accept for filing a petition or response that fails to comply with this disclosure requirement. A corporate party filing the declaration required by this paragraph shall have a continuing duty to advise the Executive Secretary of any changes to its declaration until the petition is deemed denied or a decision is issued on the merits.
