
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XX - Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
#### PART 2200 - RULES OF PROCEDURE
##### Subpart G - Miscellaneous Provisions
###### ยง 2200.100 Settlement.
####### Filing; service and notice.

(c)A Notification of Settlement submitted after a Judge's report has been issued shall be filed with the Executive Secretary. Proof of service shall be filed with the Notification of Settlement, showing service upon all parties and authorized employee representatives in the manner prescribed by ยง 2200.7(c) and (d) and the posting of notice to non-party affected employees in the manner prescribed by ยง 2200.7(g). The parties shall also file a draft order terminating the proceedings for adoption by the Judge or, if the Judge's report has been issued, by the Commission. If the time has not expired under these rules for electing party status, an order acknowledging the termination of the proceedings before the Commission because of the settlement shall not be issued until at least 14 days after service or posting to consider any affected employee's or authorized employee representative's objection to the reasonableness of any abatement time. The affected employee or authorized employee representative shall file any such objection within this time. If such objection is filed, the Commission or the Judge shall provide an opportunity for the affected employees or authorized employee representative to be heard and present evidence on the objection, which shall be limited to the reasonableness of the abatement period.
