
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XX - Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
#### PART 2200 - RULES OF PROCEDURE
##### Subpart M - Simplified Proceedings
###### ยง 2200.200 Purpose.

(a) The purpose of the Simplified Proceedings subpart is to provide simplified procedures for resolving contests under the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, so that parties before the Commission may reduce the time and expense of litigation while being assured due process and a hearing that meets the requirements of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 554. These procedural rules will be applied to accomplish this purpose.

(b) Procedures under this subpart are simplified in a number of ways. The major differences between these procedures and those provided in subparts A through G of the Commission's rules of procedure are as follows.

(1) Complaints and answers are not required.

(2) Pleadings generally are not required. Early discussions among the parties and the Judge are required to narrow and define the disputes between the parties.

(3) The Secretary is required to provide the employer with certain informational documents early in the proceeding.

(4) Discovery is not permitted except as ordered by the Judge.

(5) Interlocutory appeals are not permitted.

(6) Hearings are less formal. The admission of evidence is not controlled by the Federal Rules of Evidence except as provided for in ยง 2200.209(c). The Judge may allow the parties to argue their case orally at the conclusion of the hearing, and may allow or require post-hearing briefs or statements of position. The judge may render a decision from the bench.
