
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XX - Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
#### PART 2200 - RULES OF PROCEDURE
##### Subpart H - Settlement Part
###### ยง 2200.120 Settlement procedure.
####### Report of Settlement Judge.

(f)(1) The Settlement Judge shall promptly notify the Chief Administrative Law Judge in writing of the status of the case at the conclusion of the settlement period or such time that the Settlement Judge determines further negotiations would be fruitless. If the Settlement Judge has made such a determination and a settlement agreement is not achieved within 75 days of the case being assigned to voluntary settlement proceedings or within 120 days of being assigned for mandatory settlement proceedings, the Settlement Judge shall then advise the Chief Administrative Law Judge in writing. The Chief Administrative Law Judge may then in the Chief Administrative Law Judge's discretion allow an additional period of time, for further proceedings under this section. If at the expiration of the period allotted under this paragraph the Settlement Judge has not approved a full settlement, the Settlement Judge shall furnish to the Chief Administrative Law Judge copies of any written stipulations and orders embodying the terms of any partial settlement the parties have reached.

(2) At the termination of the settlement period without a full settlement, the Chief Administrative Law Judge shall promptly assign the case to an Administrative Law Judge other than the Settlement Judge or Chief Administrative Law Judge for appropriate action on the remaining issues. If all the parties, the Settlement Judge, and the Chief Administrative Law Judge agree, the Settlement Judge may be retained as the Hearing Judge.
