
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XX - Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
#### PART 2200 - RULES OF PROCEDURE
##### Subpart H - Settlement Part
###### ยง 2200.120 Settlement procedure.
####### Confidentiality of settlement proceedings.

(3)(i) All statements made and all information presented during the course of settlement proceedings under this section shall be regarded as confidential and shall not be divulged outside of these proceedings except with the consent of the parties. The Settlement Judge shall issue appropriate orders to protect the confidentiality of settlement proceedings.

(ii) The Settlement Judge shall not divulge any statements or information presented during private negotiations with a party or the party's representative during settlement proceedings except with the consent of that party.

(iii) The following shall not be admissible in any subsequent hearing, except by stipulation of the parties:

(A) Evidence of statements or conduct in settlement proceedings under this section within the scope of Federal Rule of Evidence 408,

(B) Notes or other material prepared by or maintained by the Settlement Judge in connection with settlement proceedings, and

(C) Communications between the Settlement Judge and the Chief Administrative Law Judge in connection with settlement proceedings including the report of the Settlement Judge under paragraph (f) of this section.

(iv) Documents and factual information disclosed in the settlement proceeding may not be used in litigation unless obtained through appropriate discovery or subpoena.

(v) With respect to the Settlement Judge's participation in settlement proceedings, the Settlement Judge shall not discuss the merits of the case with any other person, nor appear as a witness in any hearing of the case.

(vi) The requirements of paragraph (d)(3) of this section apply unless disclosure is required by any applicable law or public policy.
