
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XXV - Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - General
##### PART 2509 - INTERPRETIVE BULLETINS RELATING TO THE EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT OF 1974
###### ยง 2509.2015-02 Interpretive bulletin relating to state savings programs that sponsor or facilitate plans covered by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
####### Shaw,Delta Air Lines, Inc.,,see, e.g., Travelers,,California Div. of Labor Standards Enforcement,Dillingham Constr., N.A.,,Egelhoff,Egelhoff,,Dillingham,

Section 514 of ERISA provides that Title I "shall supersede any and all State laws insofar as they . . . relate to any employee benefit plan" covered by the statute. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that "[a] law `relates to' an employee benefit plan, in the normal sense of the phrase, if it has a connection with or reference to such a plan."v.463 U.S. 85, 96-97 (1983) (footnote omitted);514 U.S. at 656. A law has a "reference to" ERISA plans if the law "acts immediately and exclusively upon ERISA plans" or "the existence of ERISA plans is essential to the law's operation."v.519 U.S. 316, 325-326 (1997). In determining whether a state law has a "connection with ERISA plans," the U.S. Supreme Court "look[s] both to `the objectives of the ERISA statute as a guide to the scope of the state laws that Congress understood would survive,' as well as to the nature of the effect of the state law on ERISA plans," to "determine whether [the] state law has the forbidden connection" with ERISA plans.v.532 U.S. 141, 147 (2001) (quoting519 U.S. at 325). In various decisions, the Court has concluded that ERISA preempts state laws that: (1) Mandate employee benefit structures or their administration; (2) provide alternative enforcement mechanisms; or (3) bind employers or plan fiduciaries to particular choices or preclude uniform administrative practice, thereby functioning as a regulation of an ERISA plan itself.

In the Department's view, state laws of the sort outlined above interact with ERISA in such a way that section 514 preemption principles and purposes would not appear to come into play in the way they have in past preemption cases. Although the approaches described above involve ERISA plans, they do not appear to undermine ERISA's exclusive regulation of ERISA-covered plans. The approaches do not mandate employee benefit structures or their administration, provide alternative regulatory or enforcement mechanisms, bind employers or plan fiduciaries to particular choices, or preclude uniform administrative practice in any way that would regulate ERISA plans.
