
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XXV - Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Definitions and Coverage Under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974
##### PART 2510 - DEFINITION OF TERMS USED IN SUBCHAPTERS C, D, E, F, G, AND L OF THIS CHAPTER
###### ยง 2510.3-5 Definition of employer - Association Health Plans.
####### In general.

(a)The purpose of this section is to clarify which persons may act as an "employer" within the meaning of section 3(5) of the Act in sponsoring a multiple employer group health plan. Section 733(a)(1) defines the term "group health plan," in relevant part, as an employee welfare benefit plan to the extent that the plan provides medical care to employees or their dependents through insurance, reimbursement, or otherwise. The Act defines an "employee welfare benefit plan" in section 3(1), in relevant part, as any plan, fund, or program established or maintained by an employer, employee organization, or by both an employer and an employee organization, for the purpose of providing certain listed welfare benefits to participants or their beneficiaries. For purposes of being able to establish and maintain a welfare benefit plan, an "employer" under section 3(5) of the Act includes any person acting directly as an employer, or any person acting indirectly in the interest of an employer in relation to an employee benefit plan. A group or association of employers is specifically identified in section 3(5) of the Act as a person able to act directly or indirectly in the interest of an employer, including for purposes of establishing or maintaining an employee welfare benefit plan. A bona fide group or association shall be deemed to be able to act in the interest of an employer within the meaning of section 3(5) of the Act by satisfying the criteria set forth in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section. This section does not invalidate any existing advisory opinions, or preclude future advisory opinions, from the Department under section 3(5) of the Act that address other circumstances in which the Department will view a person as able to act directly or indirectly in the interest of direct employers in sponsoring an employee welfare benefit plan that is a group health plan.
