
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 37 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE NONDISCRIMINATION AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY PROVISIONS OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT OF 1998 (WIA)
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 37.9 What are a recipient's responsibilities to communicate with individuals with disabilities?

(a) Recipients must take appropriate steps to ensure that communications with beneficiaries, registrants, applicants, eligible applicants/registrants, participants, applicants for employment, employees, and members of the public who are individuals with disabilities, are as effective as communications with others.

(b) A recipient must furnish appropriate auxiliary aids or services where necessary to afford individuals with disabilities an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, the WIA Title I-financially assisted program or activity. In determining what type of auxiliary aid or service is appropriate and necessary, such recipient must give primary consideration to the requests of the individual with a disability.

(c) Where a recipient communicates by telephone with beneficiaries, registrants, applicants, eligible applicants/registrants, participants, applicants for employment, and/or employees, the recipient must use telecommunications devices for individuals with hearing impairments (TDDs/TTYs), or equally effective communications systems, such as telephone relay services.

(d) A recipient must ensure that interested individuals, including individuals with visual or hearing impairments, can obtain information as to the existence and location of accessible services, activities, and facilities.

(e)(1) A recipient must provide signage at a primary entrance to each of its inaccessible facilities, directing users to a location at which they can obtain information about accessible facilities. The signage provided must meet the most current standards prescribed by the General Services Administration under the Architectural Barriers Act at 41 CFR 101-19.6. Alternative standards for the signage may be adopted when it is clearly evident that such alternative standards provide equivalent or greater access to the information.

(2) The international symbol for accessibility must be used at each primary entrance of an accessible facility.

(f) This section does not require a recipient to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a service, program, or activity.

(1) In those circumstances where a recipient believes that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the WIA Title I-financially assisted program, activity, or service, the recipient has the burden of proving that compliance with this section would result in such an alteration.

(2) The decision that compliance would result in such an alteration must be made by the recipient after considering all resources available for use in the funding and operation of the WIA Title I-financially assisted program, activity, or service, and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion.

(3) If an action required to comply with this section would result in the fundamental alteration described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the recipient must take any other action that would not result in such an alteration, but would nevertheless ensure that, to the maximum extent possible, individuals with disabilities receive the benefits or services provided by the recipient.
