
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XXV - Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter C - Reporting and Disclosure Under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974
##### PART 2520 - RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR REPORTING AND DISCLOSURE
###### Subpart A - General Reporting and Disclosure Requirements
####### ยง 2520.101-3 Notice of blackout periods under individual account plans.
######## Notice to issuer of employer securities.

(c)(1) The notice required by paragraph (a) of this section shall be furnished to the issuer of any employer securities held by the plan and subject to the blackout period. Such notice shall contain the information described in paragraph (b)(1)(i), (ii), (iii) and (vi) of this section and shall be furnished in accordance with the time frames prescribed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. In the event of a change in the length of the blackout period specified in such notice, the plan administrator shall furnish an updated notice to the issuer in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(4) of this section.

(2) For purposes of this section, notice to the agent for service of legal process for the issuer shall constitute notice to the issuer, unless the issuer has provided the plan administrator with the name of another person for service of notice, in which case the plan administrator shall furnish notice to such person. Such notice shall be in writing, except that the notice may be in electronic or other form to the extent the person to whom notice must be furnished consents to receive the notice in such form.

(3) If the issuer designates the plan administrator as the person for service of notice pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the issuer shall be deemed to have been furnished notice on the same date as notice is furnished to affected participants and beneficiaries pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.
