
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XXV - Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter C - Reporting and Disclosure Under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974
##### PART 2520 - RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR REPORTING AND DISCLOSURE
###### Subpart A - General Reporting and Disclosure Requirements
####### ยง 2520.101-5 Annual funding notice for defined benefit pension plans.
######## Special rules and definitions for material effect disclosures.

(g)(1) The term "current plan year" means the plan year after the notice year. Thus, for example, if the notice year is January 1, 2017 through December 31, 2017, then the current plan year would be January 1, 2018 through December 31, 2018.

(2) An event described in paragraph (b)(7) of this section is recognized as "taking effect" in the current plan year if the effect of the event is taken into account for the first time for funding under section 430 or 431 of the Internal Revenue Code, as applicable, in such year.

(3) An event described in paragraph (b)(7) of this section has a "material effect" if it results, or is projected to result, in an increase or decrease of five percent or more in the value of assets or liabilities from the valuation date of the notice year. For this measurement, calculate assets and liabilities in the same manner as under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(4) An event described in paragraph (b)(7) of this section has a "material effect" if, in the judgment of the plan's enrolled actuary, the effect of the event is considered material for purposes of the plan's funding status under section 430 or 431, as applicable, of the Internal Revenue Code, without regard to paragraph (g)(3) of this section.

(5) An event described in paragraph (b)(7) of this section is "known" only if it is known by the plan administrator prior to 120 days before the due date of the notice. Thus, if an event otherwise described in paragraph (b)(7) first becomes known to a plan administrator 120 days or less before the due date of a notice, the plan administrator is not required to explain, or project the effect of, the event in that notice.

(6) The term "other known event" includes, but is not limited to, an extension of coverage under the existing terms of the plan to a new group of employees; a plan merger, consolidation, or spinoff pursuant to regulations under section 414(l) of the Internal Revenue Code; or, a shutdown of any facility, plant, store, or such other similar corporate event that creates immediate eligibility for benefits that would not otherwise be immediately payable for participants separating from service. The term does not include market fluctuations.

(7) With respect to events described in paragraph (g)(4) of this section, the plan administrator may, instead of projecting the effect on plan liabilities to the end of the current plan year, include an explanation why the event is considered material by the enrolled actuary.
