
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XXV - Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter C - Reporting and Disclosure Under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974
##### PART 2520 - RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR REPORTING AND DISCLOSURE
###### Subpart B - Contents of Plan Descriptions and Summary Plan Descriptions
####### Subpart C - Annual Report Requirements
######## ยง 2520.103-11 Assets held for investment purposes.
######### Examples.

(c)(1) On February 1, 1977, plan N purchases an interest in registered investment company F (fund F). Fund F is not a party in interest with respect to plan N. On November 1, 1977, plan N sells this interest in fund F and purchases 1,000 shares of stock S, which the plan holds for the rest of the plan year. Plan N must include in its schedule of assets held for investment purposes the 1,000 shares of stock S under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, but need not include the interest in fund F because of paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section.

(2) On February 1, 1977, plan N purchases a parcel of real estate from Mr. M, who is not a party in interest with respect to plan N. On November 1, 1977, plan N sells the parcel of real estate for cash to Mr. X, who is not a party in interest with respect to plan N. Plan N uses the cash from this transaction to purchase a 1-year certificate of deposit in bank B, which it holds until maturity in 1978. Plan N must include in its schedule of assets held for investment purposes the 1-year certificate of deposit in bank B under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, and must also include the parcel of real estate under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.
