
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XXV - Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter C - Reporting and Disclosure Under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974
##### PART 2520 - RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR REPORTING AND DISCLOSURE
###### Subpart B - Contents of Plan Descriptions and Summary Plan Descriptions
####### § 2520.104-46 Waiver of examination and report of an independent qualified public accountant for employee benefit plans with fewer than 100 participants.
######## Limitations.

(d)(1) The waiver described in this section does not affect the obligation of a plan described in paragraph (b) (1) or (2) of this section to file a Form 5500 "Annual Return/Report of Employee Benefit Plan," including any required schedules or statements prescribed by the instructions to the form. See § 2520.104-41.

(2) For purposes of this section, an employee pension benefit plan for which simplified annual reporting has been prescribed includes an employee pension benefit plan which elects to file a Form 5500 as a small plan pursuant to § 2520.103-1(d) with respect to the plan year for which the waiver is claimed. See § 2520.104-41.

(3) For purposes of this section, an employee welfare benefit plan that covers fewer than 100 participants at the beginning of the plan year includes an employee welfare benefit plan which elects to file a Form 5500 as a small plan pursuant to § 2520.103-1(d) with respect to the plan year for which the waiver is claimed. See § 2520.104-41.

(4) A plan that elects to file a Form 5500 as a large plan pursuant to § 2520.103-1(d) may not claim a waiver under this section.
