
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XXV - Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter C - Reporting and Disclosure Under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974
##### PART 2520 - RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR REPORTING AND DISCLOSURE
###### Subpart F - Disclosure Requirements
####### § 2520.104b-3 Summary of material modifications to the plan and changes in the information required to be included in the summary plan description.

(a) The administrator of an employee benefit plan subject to the provisions of part 1 of title I of the Act shall, in accordance with § 2520.104b-1(b), furnish a summary description of any material modification to the plan and any change in the information required by section 102(b) of the Act and § 2520.102-3 of these regulations to be included in the summary plan description to each participant covered under the plan and each beneficiary receiving benefits under the plan. Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the plan administrator shall furnish this summary, written in a manner calculated to be understood by the average plan participant, not later than 210 days after the close of the plan year in which the modification or change was adopted. This disclosure date is not affected by retroactive application to a prior plan year of an amendment which makes a material modification to the plan; a modification does not occur before it is adopted. For example, a calendar year plan adopts a modification in April, 1978. The modification, by its terms, applies retroactively to the 1977 plan year. A summary description of the material modification is furnished on or before July 29, 1979. A plan which adopts an amendment which makes a material modification to the plan which takes effect on a date in the future must disclose a summary of that modification within 210 days after the close of the plan year in which the modification or change is adopted. Under the authority of sections 104(a)(3) and 110 of the Act, a summary description of a material modification or change is not required to be disclosed if it is rescinded or otherwise does not take effect. For example, a calendar year plan adopts a modification in June, 1978. The modification, by its terms, becomes effective beginning in plan year 1979. Before the beginning of plan year 1979, the prospective modification is withdrawn. No summary of the material modification is required to be disclosed.

(b) The summary of material modifications to the plan or changes in information required to be included in the summary plan description need not be furnished separately if the changes or modifications are described in a timely summary plan description. For example, a calendar year plan adopts a material modification on June 3, 1976. The modification is incorporated in a summary plan description furnished on July 15, 1977. No separate summary of the material modification is furnished. The plan adopts another material modification September 15, 1977. A separate summary of the modification is furnished on or before July 29, 1978.

(c) The copy of the summary plan description furnished in accordance with §§ 2520.104b-2(a)(1)(i) and 2520.104b-4 shall be acompanied by all summaries of material modifications or changes in information required to be included in the summary plan description which have not been incorporated into that summary plan description.
