
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XXV - Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter C - Reporting and Disclosure Under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974
##### PART 2520 - RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR REPORTING AND DISCLOSURE
###### Subpart F - Disclosure Requirements
####### ยง 2520.104b-31 Alternative method for disclosure through electronic media - Notice-and-access.
######## Content of notice of internet availability.

(3)(i) A notice of internet availability furnished pursuant to this section must contain the information set forth in paragraphs (d)(3)(i)(A) through (H) of this section:

(A) A prominent statement-for example as a title, legend, or subject line-that reads: "Disclosure About Your Retirement Plan."

(B) A statement that reads: "Important information about your retirement plan is now available. Please review this information."

(C) An identification of the covered document by name (for example, a statement that reads: "your Quarterly Benefit Statement is now available") and a brief description of the covered document if identification only by name would not reasonably convey the nature of the covered document.

(D) The internet website address, or a hyperlink to such address, where the covered document is available. The website address or hyperlink must be sufficiently specific to provide ready access to the covered document and will satisfy this standard if it leads the covered individual either directly to the covered document or to a login page that provides, or immediately after a covered individual logs on provides, a prominent link to the covered document.

(E) A statement of the right to request and obtain a paper version of the covered document, free of charge, and an explanation of how to exercise this right.

(F) A statement of the right, free of charge, to opt out of electronic delivery and receive only paper versions of covered documents, and an explanation of how to exercise this right.

(G) A cautionary statement that the covered document is not required to be available on the website for more than one year or, if later, after it is superseded by a subsequent version of the covered document.

(H) A telephone number to contact the administrator or other designated representative of the plan.

(ii) A notice of internet availability furnished pursuant to this section may contain a statement as to whether action by the covered individual is invited or required in response to the covered document and how to take such action, or that no action is required, provided that such statement is not inaccurate or misleading.
