
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XXV - Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter C - Reporting and Disclosure Under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974
##### PART 2520 - RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR REPORTING AND DISCLOSURE
###### Subpart F - Disclosure Requirements
####### ยง 2520.105-3 Lifetime income disclosure for individual account plans.
######## insert rate,insert date

(ii) For purposes of paragraph (d)(5)(i) of this section, the plan administrator may use the following model language: "The estimated monthly payments in this statement are based on an interest rate of [], which is the 10-year constant maturity U.S. Treasury securities yield rate as of [], as required by federal regulations. This rate fluctuates based on market conditions. The lower the interest rate, the smaller your monthly payment will be, and the higher the interest rate, the larger your monthly payment will be."

(6)(i) An explanation of the mortality assumptions in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(ii) For purposes of paragraph (d)(6)(i) of this section, the plan administrator may use the following model language: "The estimated monthly payments in this statement are based on how long you and a spouse who is assumed to be your age are expected to live. For this purpose, federal regulations require that your life expectancy be estimated using gender neutral mortality assumptions established by the Internal Revenue Service."

(7)(i) An explanation that the monthly payment amounts required under paragraphs (b)(3) and (4) of this section are illustrations only.

(ii) For purposes of paragraph (d)(7)(i) of this section, the plan administrator may use the following model language: "The estimated monthly payments in this statement are for illustrative purposes only; they are not a guarantee."

(8)(i) An explanation that the actual monthly payments that may be purchased with the amount specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section will depend on numerous factors and may vary substantially from the illustrations under this section.

(ii) For purposes of paragraph (d)(8)(i) of this section, the plan administrator may use the following model language: "The estimated monthly payments in this statement are based on prevailing market conditions and other assumptions required under federal regulations. If you decide to purchase an annuity, the actual payments you receive will depend on a number of factors and may vary substantially from the estimated monthly payments in this statement. For example, your actual age at retirement, your actual account balance (reflecting future investment gains and losses, contributions, distributions, and fees), and the market conditions at the time of purchase will affect your actual payment amounts. The estimated monthly payments in this statement are the same whether you are male or female. This is required for annuities payable from an employer's plan. However, the same amount paid for an annuity available outside of an employer's plan may provide a larger monthly payment for males than for females since females are expected to live longer."

(9)(i) An explanation that the monthly payment amounts required under paragraphs (b)(3) and (4) of this section are fixed amounts that would not increase for inflation.

(ii) For purposes of paragraph (d)(9)(i) of this section, the plan administrator may use the following model language: "Unlike Social Security payments, the estimated monthly payments in this statement do not increase each year with a cost-of-living adjustment. Therefore, as prices increase over time, the fixed monthly payments will buy fewer goods and services."

(10)(i) An explanation that the monthly payment amounts required under paragraphs (b)(3) and (4) of this section are based on total benefits accrued, regardless of whether such benefits are nonforfeitable.

(ii) For purposes of paragraph (d)(10)(i) of this section, the plan administrator may use the following model language: "The estimated monthly payment amounts in this statement assume that your account balance is 100% vested."

(11)(i) An explanation that the account balance includes the outstanding balance of any participant loan, unless the participant is in default of repayment on such loan.

(ii) For purposes of paragraph (d)(11)(i) of this section, the plan administrator may use the following model language: "If you have taken a loan from the plan and are not in default on the loan, the estimated monthly payments in this statement assume that the loan has been fully repaid."
