
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XXV - Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter C - Reporting and Disclosure Under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974
##### PART 2520 - RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR REPORTING AND DISCLOSURE
###### Subpart F - Disclosure Requirements
####### ยง 2520.105-3 Lifetime income disclosure for individual account plans.
######## insert the last day of the statement period,insert 67 or current age if older

(ii) For purposes of paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, the plan administrator may use the following model language: "The estimated monthly payments in this statement assume that payments begin [] and that you are [] on this date. Monthly payments beginning at a younger age would be lower than shown since payments would be made over more years. Monthly payments beginning at an older age would be higher than shown since they would be made over fewer years."

(2)(i) An explanation of a single life annuity.

(ii) For purposes of paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, the plan administrator may use the following model language: "A single life annuity is an arrangement that pays you a fixed amount of money each month for the rest of your life. Following your death, no further payments would be made to your spouse or heirs."

(3)(i) An explanation of a qualified joint and 100% survivor annuity, the availability of other survivor percentage annuities, and the impact of choosing a lower survivor percentage.

(ii) For purposes of paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section, the plan administrator may use the following model language: "A qualified joint and 100% survivor annuity is an arrangement that pays you and your spouse a fixed monthly payment for the rest of your joint lives. In addition, after your death, this type of annuity would continue to provide the same fixed monthly payment to your surviving spouse for their life. An annuity with a lower survivor percentage may be available, and reducing the survivor percentage (below 100%) would increase monthly payments during your lifetime, but would decrease what your surviving spouse would receive after your death."

(4)(i) An explanation of the marital status assumptions in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(ii) For purposes of paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section, the plan administrator may use the following model language: "The estimated monthly payments for a qualified joint and 100% survivor annuity in this statement assume that you are married with a spouse who is the same age as you (even if you do not currently have a spouse, or if you have a spouse who is a different age). If your spouse is younger, monthly payments would be lower than shown since they would be expected to be paid over more years. If your spouse is older, monthly payments would be higher than shown since they would be expected to be paid over fewer years."

(5)(i) An explanation of the interest rate assumptions in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
