
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 37 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE NONDISCRIMINATION AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY PROVISIONS OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT OF 1998 (WIA)
#### Subpart D - Compliance Procedures
##### ยง 37.85 Are there any other circumstances in which the Director will send a complaint to another authority?
###### et seq.

(4) Title I of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended (42 U.S.C. 12101).

(c) Where the complaint alleges discrimination by an entity that operates a program or activity financially assisted by a Federal grantmaking agency other than the Department, but that participates as a partner in a One-Stop delivery system, the following procedures apply:

(1) Where the complaint alleges discrimination on a basis that is prohibited both by Section 188 of WIA and by a civil rights law enforced by the Federal grantmaking agency, then CRC and the grantmaking agency have dual jurisdiction over the complaint, and the Director will refer the complaint to the grantmaking agency for processing. In such circumstances, the grantmaking agency's regulations will govern the processing of the complaint.

(2) Where the complaint alleges discrimination on a basis that is prohibited by Section 188 of WIA, but not by any civil rights laws enforced by the Federal grantmaking agency, then CRC has sole jurisdiction over the complaint, and will retain the complaint and process it pursuant to this part. Such bases generally include religion, political affiliation or belief, citizenship, and/or participation in a WIA Title I-financially assisted program or activity.

(d) Where the Director makes a referral under this section, he or she must notify the complainant and the respondent about the referral.
