
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 37 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE NONDISCRIMINATION AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY PROVISIONS OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT OF 1998 (WIA)
#### Subpart D - Compliance Procedures
##### § 37.95 What procedures apply if the Director finds that a recipient has violated the nondiscrimination and equal opportunity provisions of WIA or this part?
###### Violations below State level.

(b)Where the Director has determined that a violation of the nondiscrimination and equal opportunity provisions of WIA or this part has occurred below the State level, the Director must so notify the Governor and the violating recipient(s) through the issuance of a Letter of Findings, Notice to Show Cause or Initial Determination, as appropriate, under § 37.62 or §§ 37.63, 37.66 and 37.67, or § 37.91, respectively.

(1) Such issuance must:

(i) Direct the Governor to initiate negotiations immediately with the violating recipient(s) to secure compliance by voluntary means;

(ii) Direct the Governor to complete such negotiations within 30 days of the Governor's receipt of the Notice to Show Cause or within 45 days of the Governor's receipt of the Letter of Findings or Initial Determination, as applicable. The Director reserves the right to enter into negotiations with the recipient at any time during the period. For good cause shown, the Director may approve an extension of time to secure voluntary compliance. The total time allotted to secure voluntary compliance must not exceed 60 days.

(iii) Include a determination as to whether compliance must be achieved by:

(A) Immediate correction of the violation(s) and written assurance that such violations have been corrected, under § 37.96;

(B) Entering into a written Conciliation Agreement under § 37.97; or

(C) Both.

(2) If the Governor determines, at any time during the period described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, that a recipient's compliance cannot be achieved by voluntary means, the Governor must so notify the Director.

(3) If the Governor is able to secure voluntary compliance under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, he or she must submit to the Director for approval, as applicable:

(i) Written assurance that the required action has been taken, as described in § 37.96;

(ii) A copy of the Conciliation Agreement, as described in § 37.97; or

(iii) Both.

(4) The Director may disapprove any written assurance or Conciliation Agreement submitted for approval under paragraph (b)(3) of this section that fails to satisfy each of the applicable requirements provided in § 37.96 or § 37.97.
