
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XXV - Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter G - Administration and Enforcement Under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974
##### PART 2570 - PROCEDURAL REGULATIONS UNDER THE EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT INCOME SECURITY ACT
###### Subpart B - Procedures Governing the Filing and Processing of Prohibited Transaction Exemption Applications
####### § 2570.40 Conferences.

(a) Any conference between the Department and an applicant pertaining to a requested exemption will be held in Washington, DC, except that a telephone conference will be held at the applicant's request.

(b) An applicant is entitled to only one conference with respect to any exemption application. An applicant will not be entitled to a conference, however, where the Department has held a hearing on the exemption under either § 2570.46 or § 2570.47 of this subpart.

(c) Insofar as possible, conferences will be scheduled as joint conferences with all applicants present where:

(1) More than one applicant has requested an exemption with respect to the same or similar types of transactions;

(2) The Department is considering the applications together as a request for a class exemption;

(3) The Department contemplates not granting the exemption; and

(4) More than one applicant has requested a conference.

(d) In instances where the applicant has requested a conference pursuant to § 2570.38(b) and also has submitted additional information pursuant to § 2570.39, the Department will schedule a conference under this section for a date and time that occurs within 20 days after the date on which the Department has provided either oral or written notification to the applicant that, after reviewing the additional information, it is still not prepared to propose the requested exemption. If, for reasons beyond its control, the applicant cannot attend a conference within the 20-day limit described in this paragraph, the applicant may request an extension of time for the scheduling of a conference, provided that such request is made before the expiration of the 20-day limit. The Department will only grant such an extension in unusual circumstances and for a brief period as determined, respectively, by the Department in its sole discretion.

(e) In instances where the applicant has requested a conference pursuant to § 2570.38(b) but has not expressed an intent to submit additional information in support of the exemption application as provided in § 2570.39, the Department will schedule a conference under this section for a date and time that occurs within 40 days after the date of the issuance of the tentative denial letter described in § 2570.38(a). If, for reasons beyond its control, the applicant cannot attend a conference within the 40-day limit described in this paragraph, the applicant may request an extension of time for the scheduling of a conference, provided that such request is made before the expiration of the 40-day limit. The Department will only grant such an extension in unusual circumstances and for a brief period as determined, respectively, by the Department in its sole discretion.

(f) In instances where the applicant has requested a conference pursuant to § 2570.38(b) of this subpart, has notified the Department of its intent to submit additional information pursuant to § 2570.39, and has failed to furnish such information within 40 days from the date of the tentative denial letter, the Department will schedule a conference under this section for a date and time that occurs within 60 days after the date of the issuance of the tentative denial letter described in § 2570.38(a). If, for reasons beyond its control, the applicant cannot attend a conference within the 60-day limit described in this paragraph, the applicant may request an extension of time for the scheduling of a conference, provided that such request is made before the expiration of the 60-day limit. The Department will only grant such an extension in unusual circumstances and for a brief period as determined, respectively, by the Department in its sole discretion.

(g) If the applicant fails to either timely schedule or appear for a conference agreed to by the Department pursuant to this section, the applicant will be deemed to have waived its right to a conference.

(h) Within 20 days after the date of any conference held under this section, the applicant may submit to the Department (electronically or in paper form) any additional written data, arguments, or precedents discussed at the conference but not previously or adequately presented in writing. If, for reasons beyond its control, the applicant is unable to submit the additional information within this 20-day limit, the applicant may request an extension of time to furnish the information, provided that such request is made before the expiration of the 20-day limit described in this paragraph. The Department will only grant such an extension in unusual circumstances and for a brief period as determined, respectively, by the Department in its sole discretion.
