
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 37 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE NONDISCRIMINATION AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY PROVISIONS OF THE WORKFORCE INVESTMENT ACT OF 1998 (WIA)
#### Subpart E - Federal Procedures For Effecting Compliance
##### ยง 37.115 What procedures does the Department follow for post-termination proceedings?

(a) A grant applicant or recipient adversely affected by a Final Decision and Order issued under ยง 37.112(b) will be restored, where appropriate, to full eligibility to receive WIA Title I financial assistance if the grant applicant or recipient satisfies the terms and conditions of the Final Decision and Order and brings itself into compliance with the nondiscrimination and equal opportunity provisions of WIA and this part.

(b) A grant applicant or recipient adversely affected by a Final Decision and Order issued under ยง 37.112(b) may at any time petition the Director to restore its eligibility to receive WIA Title I financial assistance. A copy of the petition must be served on the parties to the original proceeding that led to the Final Decision and Order. The petition must be supported by information showing the actions taken by the grant applicant or recipient to bring itself into compliance. The grant applicant or recipient has the burden of demonstrating that it has satisfied the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. While proceedings under this section are pending, sanctions imposed by the Final Decision and Order under ยง 37.112(b) (1) and (2) must remain in effect.

(c) The Director must issue a written decision on the petition for restoration.

(1) If the Director determines that the grant applicant or recipient has not brought itself into compliance, he or she must issue a decision denying the petition.

(2) Within 30 days of its receipt of the Director's decision, the recipient or grant applicant may file a petition for review of the decision by the Secretary, setting forth the grounds for its objection to the Director's decision.

(3) The petition must be served on the Director and on the Office of the Solicitor, Civil Rights Division.

(4) The Director may file a response to the petition within 14 days.

(5) The Secretary must issue the final agency decision denying or granting the recipient's or grant applicant's request for restoration to eligibility.
