
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 4 - LABOR STANDARDS FOR FEDERAL SERVICE CONTRACTS
#### Subpart D - Compensation Standards
##### § 4.163 Section 4(c) of the Act.
###### Sections 2(a) and 4(c) must be read in conjunction.

(d)The Senate report accompanying the bill which amended the Act in 1972 states that "Sections 2(a)(1), 2(a)(2), and 4(c) must be read in harmony to reflect the statutory scheme." (S. Rept. 92-1131, 92nd Cong., 2nd Sess. 4.) Therefore, since section 4(c) refers only to the predecessor contractor's collective bargaining agreement, the reference to collective bargaining agreements in sections 2(a)(1) and 2(a)(2) can only be read to mean a predecessor contractor's collective bargaining agreement. The fact that a successor contractor may have its own collective bargaining agreement does not negate the clear mandate of the statute that the wages and fringe benefits called for by the predecessor contractor's collective bargaining agreement shall be the minimum payable under a new (successor) contract nor does it negate the application of a prevailing wage determination issued pursuant to section 2(a) where there was no applicable predecessor collective bargaining agreement. 48 Comp. Gen. 22, 23-24 (1968). In addition, because section 2(a) only applies to covered contracts in excess of $2,500, the requirements of section 4(c) likewise apply only to successor contracts which may be in excess of $2,500. However, if the successor contract is in excess of $2,500, section 4(c) applies regardless of the amount of the predecessor contract. (See §§ 4.141-4.142 for determining contract amount.)
