
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 4 - LABOR STANDARDS FOR FEDERAL SERVICE CONTRACTS
#### Subpart D - Compensation Standards
##### § 4.163 Section 4(c) of the Act.
###### Interpretation of wage and fringe benefit provisions of wage determinations issued pursuant to sections 2(a) and 4(c).

(j)Wage determinations which are issued for successor contracts subject to section 4(c) are intended to accurately reflect the rates and fringe benefits set forth in the predecessor's collective bargaining agreement. However, failure to include in the wage determination any job classification, wage rate, or fringe benefit encompassed in the collective bargaining agreement does not relieve the successor contractor of the statutory requirement to comply at a minimum with the terms of the collective bargaining agreement insofar as wages and fringe benefits are concerned. Since the successor's obligations are governed by the terms of the collective bargaining agreement, any interpretation of the wage and fringe benefit provisions of the collective bargaining agreement where its provisions are unclear must be based on the intent of the parties to the collective bargaining agreement, provided that such interpretation is not violative of law. Therefore, some of the principles discussed in §§ 4.170 through 4.177 regarding specific interpretations of the fringe benefit provisions of prevailing wage determinations may not be applicable to wage determinations issued pursuant to section 4(c). As provided in section 2(a)(2), a contractor may satisfy its fringe benefit obligations under any wage determination "by furnishing any equivalent combinations of fringe benefits or by making equivalent or differential payments in cash" in accordance with the rules and regulations set forth in § 4.177 of this subpart.

(k) No provision of this section shall be construed as permitting a successor contractor to pay its employees less than the wages and fringe benefits to which such employees would have been entitled under the predecessor contractor's collective bargaining agreement. Thus, some of the principles discussed in § 4.167 may not be applicable in section 4(c) successorship situations. For example, unless the predecessor contractor's collective bargaining agreement allowed the deduction from employees' wages of the reasonable cost or fair value for providing board, lodging, or other facilities, the successor may not include such costs as part of the applicable minimum wage specified in the wage determination. Likewise, unless the predecessor contractor's agreement allowed a tip credit (§ 4.6(q)), the successor contractor may not take a tip credit toward satisfying the minimum wage requirements under sections 2(a)(1) and 4(c).
