
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XXV - Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter L - Group Health Plans
##### PART 2590 - RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR GROUP HEALTH PLANS
###### Subpart D - Surprise Billing and Transparency Requirements
####### ยง 2590.716-7 Complaints process for surprise medical bills regarding group health plans and group health insurance coverage.
######## Complaints process.

(b)(1) DOL will consider the date a complaint is filed to be the date upon which DOL receives an oral or written statement that identifies information about the complaint sufficient to identify the parties involved and the action or inaction complained of.

(2) DOL will notify complainants, by oral or written means, of receipt of the complaint no later than 60 business days after the complaint is received. DOL will include a response acknowledging receipt of the complaint, notifying the complainant of their rights and obligations under the complaints process, and describing the next steps of the complaint resolution process. As part of the response, DOL may request additional information needed to process the complaint. Such additional information may include:

(i) Explanations of benefits;

(ii) Processed claims;

(iii) Information about the health care provider, facility, or provider of air ambulance services involved;

(iv) Information about the group health plan or health insurance issuer covering the individual;

(v) Information to support a determination regarding whether the service was an emergency service or non-emergency service;

(vi) The summary plan description, policy, certificate, contract of insurance, membership booklet, outline of coverage, or other evidence of coverage the plan or issuer provides to participants or beneficiaries;

(vii) Documents regarding the facts in the complaint in the possession of, or otherwise attainable by, the complainant; or

(viii) Any other information DOL may need to make a determination of facts for an investigation.

(3) DOL will make reasonable efforts consistent with agency practices to notify the complainant of the outcome of the complaint after the submission is processed through appropriate methods as determined by DOL. A complaint is considered processed after DOL has reviewed the complaint and accompanying information and made an outcome determination. Based on the nature of the complaint and the plan or issuer involved, DOL may-

(i) Refer the complainant to another appropriate Federal or State resolution process;

(ii) Notify the complainant and make reasonable efforts to refer the complainant to the appropriate State or Federal regulatory authority if DOL receives a complaint where another entity has enforcement jurisdiction over the plan or issuer;

(iii) Refer the plan or issuer for an investigation for enforcement action; or

(iv) Provide the complainant with an explanation of the resolution of the complaint and any corrective action taken.
