
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XXV - Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter L - Group Health Plans
##### PART 2590 - RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR GROUP HEALTH PLANS
###### Subpart D - Surprise Billing and Transparency Requirements
####### ยง 2590.716-8 Independent dispute resolution process.
######## Certification of IDR entity,In general.

(e)-(1)In order to be selected under paragraph (c)(1) of this section-

(i) An IDR entity must meet the standards described in this paragraph (e) and be certified by the Secretary, jointly with the Secretaries of Health and Human Services and the Treasury, as set forth in this paragraph (e) of this section and guidance promulgated by the Secretary. Once certified, the IDR entity will be provided with a certified IDR entity number.

(ii) An IDR entity must provide written documentation to the Secretary regarding general company information (such as contact information, Taxpayer Identification Number, and website), as well as the applicable service area in which the IDR entity intends to conduct payment determinations under the Federal IDR process. IDR entities may choose to submit their application for all States, or self-limit to a particular subset of States.

(iii) An IDR entity that the Secretary, jointly with the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, certifies must enter into an agreement as a condition of certification. The agreement shall include specified provisions encompassed by this section, including, but not limited to, the requirements applicable to certified IDR entities when making payment determinations as well as the requirements regarding certification and revocation (such as specifications for wind down activities and reallocation of certified IDR entity fees, where warranted).
