
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XXV - Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter L - Group Health Plans
##### PART 2590 - RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR GROUP HEALTH PLANS
###### Subpart D - Surprise Billing and Transparency Requirements
####### ยง 2590.716-8 Independent dispute resolution process.
######## Process.

(iii)(A) The Secretary, jointly with the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, will acknowledge receipt of the petition within 10 business days of receipt of the petition.

(B) If the Secretary finds that the petition adequately shows a failure of the IDR entity seeking certification or the certified IDR entity to follow the requirements of this paragraph (e), the Secretary, jointly with the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, will notify the IDR entity seeking certification or the certified IDR entity by providing a de-identified copy of the petition. Following the notification, the IDR entity seeking certification or certified IDR entity will have 10 business days to provide a response. After the time period for providing the response has passed, the Secretary, jointly with the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, will review the response (if any), determine whether a denial or revocation of a certification is warranted, and issue a notice of the decision to the IDR entity or certified IDR entity and to the petitioner. This decision will be subject to the appeal requirements of paragraph (e)(6)(v) of this section.

(C) Effect on certification under petition. Regarding a petition for revocation of a certified IDR entity's certification, if the Secretary, jointly with the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, finds that the petition adequately shows a failure to comply with the requirements of this paragraph (e), following the Secretary's notification of the failure to the certified IDR entity under paragraph (e)(5)(iii)(B) of this section, the certified IDR entity may continue to work on previously assigned determinations but may not accept new determinations until the Secretary issues a notice of the decision to the certified IDR entity finding that a revocation of certification is not warranted.
