
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XXV - Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter L - Group Health Plans
##### PART 2590 - RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR GROUP HEALTH PLANS
###### Subpart D - Surprise Billing and Transparency Requirements
####### ยง 2590.717-2 Independent dispute resolution process for air ambulance services.
######## Considerations for air ambulance services.

(2)In determining which offer to select, in addition to considering the applicable qualifying payment amount(s), the certified IDR entity must consider information submitted by a party that relates to the following circumstances:

(i) The quality and outcomes measurements of the provider that furnished the services.

(ii) The acuity of the condition of the participant or beneficiary receiving the service, or the complexity of furnishing the service to the participant or beneficiary.

(iii) The training, experience, and quality of the medical personnel that furnished the air ambulance services.

(iv) Ambulance vehicle type, including the clinical capability level of the vehicle.

(v) Population density of the point of pick-up (as defined in 42 CFR 414.605) for the air ambulance (such as urban, suburban, rural, or frontier).

(vi) Demonstrations of good faith efforts (or lack thereof) made by the nonparticipating provider of air ambulance services or the plan or issuer to enter into network agreements with each other and, if applicable, contracted rates between the provider of air ambulance services and the plan or issuer, as applicable, during the previous 4 plan years.
