
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XXVII - Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
#### PART 2700 - PROCEDURAL RULES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 2700.8 Computation of time.

Unless otherwise provided for in the Act, these rules, or by order, the due date for a pleading or other deadline for party or Commission action (hereinafter "due date") is determined sequentially as follows:

(a) Except to the extent otherwise provided herein (see, e.g., §§ 2700.24 and 2700.45), when the period of time prescribed for action is less than 11 days, Saturdays, Sundays, and federal holidays shall be excluded in determining the due date.

(b) When a party serves a pleading by a method of delivery resulting in other than same-day service, the due date for party action in response is extended 5 additional calendar days beyond the date otherwise prescribed, after consideration of paragraph (a) of this section where applicable.

(c) The day from which the designated period begins to run shall not be included in determining the due date. The last day of the prescribed period for action, after consideration of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section where applicable, shall be included and be the due date, unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, federal holiday, or other day on which the Commission's offices are not open or the Commission is open but unable to accept filings, in which event the due date shall be the next day which is not one of the aforementioned days.

(d) The time of filing with the Commission shall be determined using Washington, DC, local time. For filing by electronic means and by facsimile transmission, the due date ends at midnight Washington, DC, local time. For filing by other means, the due date ends at 5:00 p.m. Washington, DC, local time.
