
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 4 - LABOR STANDARDS FOR FEDERAL SERVICE CONTRACTS
#### Subpart E - Enforcement
##### ยง 4.187 Recovery of underpayments.
###### United States,Sancolmar Industries, Inc.,,party responsible,,Waite, Inc.,,Spruce-Up Corp.,,Ventilation and Cleaning Engineers, Inc.,,Fred Van Elk,,Murcole, Inc.,,Emile J. Bouchet,,Darwyn L. Grover,,United States,Islip Machine Works, Inc.,,United States,Sancolmar Industries, Inc.,

(2) The failure to perform a statutory public duty under the Service Contract Act is not only a corporate liability but also the personal liability of each officer charged by reason of his or her corporate office while performing that duty.v.347 F. Supp. 404, 408 (E.D. N.Y. 1972). Accordingly, it has been held by administrative decisions and by the courts that the termas used in section 3(a) of the Act, imposes personal liability for violations of any of the contract stipulations required by sections 2(a)(1) and (2) and 2(b) of the Act on corporate officers who control, or are responsible for control of, the corporate entity, as they, individually, have an obligation to assure compliance with the requirements of the Act, the regulations, and the contracts. See, for example,Decision of the ALJ, SCA 530-566, October 19, 1976,Decision of the Administrator SCA 368-370, August 19, 1976,Decision of the ALJ, SCA 176, August 23, 1973, Assistant Secretary, May 17, 1974, Secretary, September 27, 1974;Decision of the ALJ, SCA 254-58, May 28, 1974, Administrator, November 25, 1974;Decision of the ALJ, SCA 195-198, April 11, 1974;Decision of the ALJ, SCA 38, February 24, 1970;Decision of the ALJ, SCA 485, August 15, 1976;v.179 F. Supp. 585 (E.D. N.Y. 1959);v.347 F. Supp. 404 (E.D. N.Y. 1972).

(3) In essence, individual liability attaches to the corporate official who is responsible for, and therefore causes or permits, the violation of the contract stipulations required by the Act, i.e., corporate officers who control the day-to-day operations and management policy are personally liable for underpayments because they cause or permit violations of the Act.
