
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XXVII - Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
#### PART 2704 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EQUAL ACCESS TO JUSTICE ACT IN COMMISSION PROCEEDINGS
##### Subpart B - Information Required From Applicants
###### ยง 2704.201 Contents of application - in general.

(a) An application for an award of fees and expenses under the Act shall be made to the Chief Administrative Law Judge of the Commission at 1331 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Suite 520N, Washington, DC 20004-1710. The application shall identify the applicant and the underlying proceeding for which an award is sought.

(b) The application shall state the amount of fees and expenses for which an award is sought. The application may also include a request that attorney's fees be awarded at a rate higher than $125 per hour because of an increase in the cost of living or other special factors.

(c) The application may also include any other matters that the applicant wishes the Commission to consider in determining whether and in what amount an award should be made.

(d) The application should be signed by the applicant or an authorized officer or attorney of the applicant. It shall also contain or be accompanied by a written verification under oath or under penalty of perjury that the information provided in the application is true and correct.

(e) Upon receipt of an application, the Chief Administrative Law Judge shall immediately assign it for disposition to the administrative law judge who presided over the underlying Mine Act proceeding.
