
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 38 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE NONDISCRIMINATION AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY PROVISIONS OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart D - Compliance Procedures
##### Compliance Reviews
###### § 38.65 Authority to monitor the activities of a Governor.

(a) The Director may periodically review the adequacy of the Nondiscrimination Plan established by a Governor, as well as the adequacy of the Governor's performance under the Nondiscrimination Plan, to determine compliance with the requirements of §§ 38.50 through 38.55. The Director may review the Nondiscrimination Plan during a compliance review under §§ 38.62 and 38.63, or at another time.

(b) Nothing in this subpart limits or precludes the Director from monitoring directly any recipient or from investigating any matter necessary to determine a recipient's compliance with the nondiscrimination and equal opportunity provisions of WIOA or this part.

(c) Where the Director determines that the Governor has not complied with the oversight and monitoring responsibilities set forth in the nondiscrimination and equal opportunity requirements of WIOA or this part, the Director may:

(1) Issue a Letter of Findings. The Letter of Findings must advise the Governor, in writing, of:

(i) The preliminary findings of the review;

(ii) The proposed remedial or corrective action under § 38. 90 and the time within which the remedial or corrective action should be completed;

(iii) Whether it will be necessary for the Governor to enter into a conciliation agreement as described in §§ 38.91 and 38.93; and

(iv) The opportunity to engage in voluntary compliance negotiations.

(2) If a Governor refuses or fails to take remedial or corrective actions or to enter into a conciliation agreement, the Director may follow the procedures outlined in §§ 38.89, 38.90, and 38.91.
