
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 38 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE NONDISCRIMINATION AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY PROVISIONS OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart D - Compliance Procedures
##### Complaint Processing Procedures
###### ยง 38.69 Complaint filing.

(a) Any person or the person's representative who believes that any of the following circumstances exist may file a written complaint:

(1) A person, or any specific class of individuals, has been or is being discriminated against on the basis of race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy, childbirth, and related medical conditions, transgender status, and gender identity), national origin (including limited English proficiency), age, disability, political affiliation or belief, citizenship status, or participation in any WIOA Title I-financially assisted program or activity as prohibited by WIOA or this part.

(2) Either the person, or any specific class of individuals, has been or is being retaliated against as described in ยง 38.19.

(b) A person or the person's representative may file a complaint with either the recipient's EO Officer (or the person the recipient has designated for this purpose) or the Director. Complaints filed with the Director should be sent to the address listed in the notice or filed electronically as described in the notice in ยง 38.35.

(c) Generally, a complaint must be filed within 180 days of the alleged discrimination or retaliation. However, for good cause shown, the Director may extend the filing time. The time period for filing is for the administrative convenience of CRC, and does not create a defense for the respondent.
