
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 4 - LABOR STANDARDS FOR FEDERAL SERVICE CONTRACTS
#### Subpart E - Enforcement
##### ยง 4.188 Ineligibility for further contracts when violations occur.

(a) Section 5 of the Act provides that any person or firm found by the Secretary or the Federal agencies to have violated the Act shall be declared ineligible to receive further Federal contracts unless the Secretary recommends otherwise because of unusual circumstances. It also directs the Comptroller General to distribute a list to all agencies of the Government giving the names of persons or firms that have been declared ineligible. No contract of the United States or the District of Columbia (whether or not subject to the Act) shall be awarded to the persons or firms appearing on this list or to any firm, corporation, partnership, or association in which such persons or firms have a substantial interest until 3 years have elapsed from the date of publication of the list containing the names of such persons or firms. This prohibition against the award of a contract to an ineligible contractor applies to the contractor in its capacity as either a prime contractor or a subcontractor. Because the Act contains no provision authorizing removal from the list of the names of such persons or firms prior to the expiration of the three-year statutory period, the Secretary is without authority to accomplish such removal (other than in situations involving mistake or legal error). On the other hand, there may be situations in which persons or firms already on the list are found in a subsequent administrative proceeding to have again violated the Act and their debarment ordered. In such circumstances, a new, three-year debarment term will commence with the republication of such names on the list.
