
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 38 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE NONDISCRIMINATION AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY PROVISIONS OF THE WORKFORCE INNOVATION AND OPPORTUNITY ACT
#### Subpart D - Compliance Procedures
##### Complaint Processing Procedures
###### ยง 38.70 Required contents of complaint.

Each complaint must be filed in writing, either electronically or in hard copy, and must contain the following information:

(a) The complainant's name, mailing address, and, if available, email address (or another means of contacting the complainant).

(b) The identity of the respondent (the individual or entity that the complainant alleges is responsible for the discrimination).

(c) A description of the complainant's allegations. This description must include enough detail to allow the Director or the recipient, as applicable, to decide whether:

(1) CRC or the recipient, as applicable, has jurisdiction over the complaint;

(2) The complaint was filed in time; and

(3) The complaint has apparent merit; in other words, whether the complainant's allegations, if true, would indicate noncompliance with any of the nondiscrimination and equal opportunity provisions of WIOA or this part.

(d) The written or electronic signature of the complainant or the written or electronic signature of the complainant's representative.

(e) A complainant may file a complaint by completing and submitting CRC's Complaint Information and Privacy Act Consent Forms, which may be obtained either from the recipient's EO Officer or from CRC. The forms are available electronically on CRC's Web site, and in hard copy via postal mail upon request. The latter requests may be sent to CRC at the address listed in the notice contained in ยง 38.35.
