
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 4 - LABOR STANDARDS FOR FEDERAL SERVICE CONTRACTS
#### Subpart E - Enforcement
##### ยง 4.188 Ineligibility for further contracts when violations occur.
###### unusual circumstances,Ventilation and Cleaning Engineers, Inc.,,Emerald Maintenance Inc.,

(b)(1) The termis not defined in the Act. Accordingly, the determination must be made on a case-by-case basis in accordance with the particular facts present. It is clear, however, that the effect of the 1972 Amendments is to limit the Secretary's discretion to relieve violators from the debarred list (H. Rept. 92-1251, 92d Cong., 2d Sess. 5; S. Rept. 92-1131, 92d Cong., 2d Sess. 3-4) and that the violator of the Act has the burden of establishing the existence of unusual circumstances to warrant relief from the debarment sanction,SCA-176, Administrative Law Judge, August 23, 1973, Assistant Secretary, May 22, 1974, Secretary, October 2, 1974. It is also clear that unusual circumstances do not include any circumstances which would have been insufficient to relieve a contractor from the ineligible list prior to the 1972 amendments, or those circumstances which commonly exist in cases where violations are found, such as negligent or willful disregard of the contract requirements and of the Act and regulations, including a contractor's plea of ignorance of the Act's requirements where the obligation to comply with the Act is plain from the contract, failure to keep necessary records and the like.Supplemental Decision of the ALJ, SCA-153, April 5, 1973.

(2) The Subcommittee report following the oversight hearings conducted just prior to the 1972 amendments makes it plain that the limitation of the Secretary's discretion through the unusual circumstances language was designed in part to prevent the Secretary from relieving a contractor from the ineligible list provisions merely because the contractor paid what he was required by his contract to pay in the first place and promised to comply with the Act in the future. See, House Committee on Education and Labor, Special Subcommittee on Labor, The Plight of Service Workers under Government Contracts 12-13 (Comm. Print 1971). As Congressman O'Hara stated: "Restoration * * * [of wages and benefits] is not in and of itself a penalty. The penalty for violation is the suspension from the right to bid on Government contracts * * *. The authority [to relieve from blacklisting] was intended to be used in situations where the violation was a minor one, or an inadvertent one, or one in which disbarment * * * would have been wholly disproportionate to the offense." House Committee on Education and Labor, Special Subcommittee on Labor, Hearings on H.R. 6244 and H.R. 6245, 92d Cong., 1st Sess. 3 (1971).
