
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter D - Coverage and Benefits
##### PART 4022 - BENEFITS PAYABLE IN TERMINATED SINGLE-EMPLOYER PLANS
###### Subpart A - General Provisions; Guaranteed Benefits
####### ยง 4022.11 Guarantee of benefits relating to uniformed service.

This section applies to a benefit of a participant who becomes reemployed after service in the uniformed services that is covered by the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994 (USERRA).

(a) A benefit described in paragraph (b) of this section that would satisfy the requirements of ยง 4022.3(a) and (c) (together with any benefit earned for the period preceding military service) except for the fact that the participant was not reemployed on or before the termination date will be deemed to satisfy those requirements if PBGC determines, based upon a demonstration by the participant or otherwise, that he or she became reemployed after the termination date and entitled to the benefit under USERRA.

(b) A benefit described in this paragraph (b) is a benefit attributable to a period of service commencing before the termination date and ending on the termination date during which the participant was serving in the uniformed services as defined in 38 U.S.C. 4303(13) (or was in a subsequent reemployment eligibility period) and to which the participant is entitled under USERRA.

(c) Example: A plan's vesting requirement is 5 years of service with the employer. A participant has completed 4 years of service when he leaves employment for uniformed service. The plan terminates while the participant is in military service. As of the termination date, the participant would have had 5 years of service and 5 years of benefit accruals if he had remained continuously employed. Upon reemployment after the termination date but within the time limits set by USERRA, the participant would have had 6 years of service under the plan for vesting and benefit accrual purposes, if the plan had not terminated. PBGC would treat the participant as having a vested, nonforfeitable plan benefit with 5 years of vesting service and benefit accruals as of the termination date.

(d) In the case of a PPA 2006 bankruptcy termination, "bankruptcy filing date" is substituted for "termination date" each place that "termination date" appears in this section.
