
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter D - Coverage and Benefits
##### PART 4022 - BENEFITS PAYABLE IN TERMINATED SINGLE-EMPLOYER PLANS
###### Subpart B - Limitations on Guaranteed Benefits
####### ยง 4022.23 Computation of maximum guaranteeable benefits.
######## Period certain and continuous annuity.

(1)A period certain and continuous annuity means an annuity which is payable in periodic installments for the participant's life, but for not less than a specified period of time whether or not the participant dies during that period. The monthly amount of a period certain and continuous annuity computed under ยง 4022.22 shall be reduced by the following amounts for each month of the period certain subsequent to the termination date:

For each month up to 60 months deductof 1%;

For each month beyond 60 months deductof 1%.

(i) A cash refund annuity means an annuity under which if the participant dies prior to the time when he has received pension payments equal to a fixed sum specified in the plan, then the balance is paid as a lump-sum death benefit. A cash refund annuity shall be treated as a benefit payable for a period certain and continuous. The period of certainty shall be computed by dividing the amount of the lump-sum refund by the monthly amount to which the participant is entitled under the terms of the plan.

(ii) An installment refund annuity means an annuity under which if the participant dies prior to the time he has received pension payments equal to a fixed sum specified in the plan, then the balance is paid as a death benefit in periodic installments equal in amount to the participant's periodic benefit. An installment refund annuity shall be treated as a benefit payable for a period certain and continuous. The period of certainty shall be computed by dividing the amount of the remaining refund by the monthly amount to which the participant is entitled under the terms of the plan.
