
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter D - Coverage and Benefits
##### PART 4022 - BENEFITS PAYABLE IN TERMINATED SINGLE-EMPLOYER PLANS
###### Subpart B - Limitations on Guaranteed Benefits
####### ยง 4022.23 Computation of maximum guaranteeable benefits.
######## Joint and survivor annuity (joint basis).

(3)A joint and survivor annuity (joint basis) means an annuity which is payable in periodic installments to a participant and upon his death or the death of his beneficiary is payable to the survivor for the survivor's life in the same or in a reduced amount. The monthly amount of a joint and survivor annuity (joint basis) computed under ยง 4022.22 shall be reduced by an amount equal toof 1% for each percentage point in excess of 50% of the participant's original benefit that will continue to be paid to the survivor. If the benefit payable to the survivor is less than 50 percent of the participant's original benefit, PBGC shall provide the adjustment factors to be used.

(e) When a benefit is payable in a form described in paragraph (d)(2) or (3) of this section, and the beneficiary's age is different from the participant's age, by 15 years or less, the monthly amount computed under ยง 4022.22 shall be adjusted by the following amounts: If the beneficiary is younger than the participant, deduct 1% for each year of the age difference; If the beneficiary is older than the participant, addof 1% for each year of the age difference. In computing the difference in ages, years over 65 years of age shall not be counted. If the difference in age between the beneficiary and the participant is greater than 15 years, PBGC shall provide the adjustment factors to be used.
