
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter D - Coverage and Benefits
##### PART 4022 - BENEFITS PAYABLE IN TERMINATED SINGLE-EMPLOYER PLANS
###### Subpart B - Limitations on Guaranteed Benefits
####### ยง 4022.23 Computation of maximum guaranteeable benefits.
######## Step-down life annuity.

(f)A step-down life annuity means an annuity payable in a certain amount for the life of the participant plus a temporary additional amount payable until the participant attains an age specified in the plan.

(1) The temporary additional amount payable under a step-down life annuity shall be converted to a life annuity payable in monthly installments by multiplying the appropriate factor based on the participant's age and the number of remaining years of the temporary additional benefit by the amount of the temporary additional benefit. The factors to be used are set forth in the table below. The amount of the monthly benefit so calculated shall be added to the level amount of the monthly benefit payable for life to determine the level-life annuity that is equivalent to the step-down life annuity.

(2) If a participant is entitled to and chooses to receive a step-down life annuity at an age younger than 65, the monthly amount computed under ยง 4022.22 shall be adjusted by applying the factors set forth in paragraph (c) of this section in the manner described in paragraph (b) of this section.

(3) If the level-life monthly benefit calculated pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) of this section exceeds the monthly amount calculated pursuant to paragraph (f)(2) of this section, then the monthly maximum benefit guaranteeable shall be a step-down life annuity under which the monthly amount of the temporary additional benefit and the amount of the monthly benefit payable for life, respectively, shall bear the same ratio to the monthly amount of the temporary additional benefit and the monthly benefit payable for life provided under the plan, respectively, as the monthly benefit calculated pursuant to paragraph (f)(2) of this section bears to the monthly benefit calculated pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) of this section.
