
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter D - Coverage and Benefits
##### PART 4022 - BENEFITS PAYABLE IN TERMINATED SINGLE-EMPLOYER PLANS
###### Subpart D - Benefit Reductions in Terminating Plans
####### ยง 4022.62 Estimated guaranteed benefit.
######## Estimated guaranteed benefit.

(ii)(A) No reduction is required under ยง 4022.61(b) or (c) because the participant's benefit does not exceed either the participant's accrued benefit at normal retirement age or the maximum guaranteeable benefit. (Post-retirement benefit increases are not considered as increasing accrued benefits payable at normal retirement age.)

(B) The amendment as of January 1, 2009, resulted in a "new benefit" because the reduction in the age at which the participant could receive unreduced benefits increased the participant's benefit entitlement at actual retirement age by/, which is more than the 20-percent increase threshold under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section. The amendment of January 1, 2012, which increased the participant's benefit to $750 per month, is a "benefit improvement" because it is an increase in the amount of benefit for persons in pay status. (No percentage test applies in determining whether an increase in a pay status benefit is a benefit improvement.)

(C) The multiplier for computing the amount of the estimated guaranteed benefit is taken from the third row of Table I of this section (because the last new benefit had been in effect for three full years as of the proposed termination date) and column (c) (because there was a benefit improvement within the one-year period preceding the proposed termination date). This multiplier is 0.55. Therefore, the amount of the participant's estimated guaranteed benefit is $412.50 (0.55 x $750) per month.
