
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter D - Coverage and Benefits
##### PART 4022 - BENEFITS PAYABLE IN TERMINATED SINGLE-EMPLOYER PLANS
###### Subpart D - Benefit Reductions in Terminating Plans
####### § 4022.63 Estimated asset-funded benefit.
######## i.e.,

(C) Under paragraph (d) of this section, the participant's estimated priority category 4 benefit is the estimated guaranteed benefit computed under § 4022.62(c) (as if the participant were not a majority owner) multiplied by the priority category 4 funding ratio. Since the plan has priority category 3 benefits, the ratio is determined under paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section. The numerator of the ratio is plan assets minus the present value of benefits in pay status. The denominator of the ratio is the present value of all vested benefits that are not in pay status. The participant's estimated guaranteed benefit under § 4022.62(c) is $1,000 per month times 0.65 (the factor from column (b) of Table I in § 4022.62(c)(2)), or $650 per month. Multiplying $650 by the category 4 funding ratio of(($2 million-$1.5 million)/$0.75 million) produces an estimated category 4 benefit of $433.33 per month.

(D) Because the estimated category 4 benefit so computed is less than the estimated category 3 benefit so computed, the estimated category 3 benefit is the estimated asset-funded benefit. Because the estimated category 3 benefit so computed is greater than the estimated guaranteed benefit of $455 per month, in accordance with § 4022.61(d), the benefit payable to the participant is the estimated priority category 3 benefit of $500 per month.
