
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 42 - COORDINATED ENFORCEMENT
#### ยง 42.4 Structure of the National Committee.

(a) The National Committee shall consist of the Under Secretary of Labor, the Solicitor of Labor, and the Assistant Secretaries for the Employment Standards Administration (ESA), the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), and the Employment and Training Administration (ETA).

(b) The Committee shall be headed by the Under Secretary, who shall assign to one of his/her Special Assistants the responsibility of directing the necessary staff work required by the Committee.

(c) The National Committee shall meet on a quarterly basis to review the Department's responsibilities affecting migrant farmworkers, and at any other time as determined by the Under Secretary to be necessary to carry out the National Committee's responsibilities.

(d) There shall be a National Committee staff level working group consisting of senior staff representatives from the Branch of Farm Labor Law Enforcement, the Wage and Hour Division, the U.S. Employment Service (the National MSFW Monitor Advocate), the Employment and Training Administration, the Office of Field Coordination and the Directorate of Federal Compliance and State Programs in the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and the Office of the Solicitor.

(e) The Special Assistant to the Under Secretary shall be the director of the staff level working group.

(f) The staff level working group shall meet monthly or more frequently as requested by the director.

(g) The director, or another member of the National Committee, shall attend the annual public meeting of each of the Regional Farm Labor Coordinating Committees.
