
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter E - Plan Terminations
##### PART 4043 - REPORTABLE EVENTS AND CERTAIN OTHER NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS
###### Subpart A - General Provisions
####### § 4043.9 Company low-default-risk safe harbor.
######## Criteria evidencing adequate capacity.

(2)The criteria referred to in paragraph (e)(1) of this section are:

(i) The probability that the company will default on its financial obligations is not more than four percent over the next five years or not more than 0.4 percent over the next year, in either case determined on the basis of widely available third-party financial information on the company's credit quality.

(ii) The company's secured debt (disregarding leases and debt incurred to acquire or improve property and secured only by that property) does not exceed 10 percent of the company's total assets.

(iii) The company has a ratio of retained-earnings-to-total-assets of 0.25 or more.

(iv) The company has a ratio of total-debt-to-EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization) of 3.0 or less.

(v) The company has positive net income for the two most recently completed fiscal years preceding the qualifying date.

(vi) During the two-year period ending on the qualifying date, the company has not experienced an event described in § 4043.34(a)(1) or (2) (dealing with a default on a loan with an outstanding balance of $10 million or more) with respect to any loan with an outstanding balance of $10 million or more to the company regardless of whether reporting was waived under § 4043.34(b).

(vii) During the two-year period ending on the qualifying date, there has not been any failure to make when due any contribution described in § 4043.25(a)(1) or (2) (dealing with failure to make required minimum funding payments), unless reporting was waived under § 4043.25(c).
