
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter E - Plan Terminations
##### PART 4043 - REPORTABLE EVENTS AND CERTAIN OTHER NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS
###### Subpart B - Post-Event Notice of Reportable Events
####### ยง 4043.23 Active participant reduction.
######## Examples,Determining whether a single-cause event occurred (Example 1).,i.e.,

(f)-(1)A calendar-year plan had 1,000 active participants at the beginning of the current plan year. As the result of a business unit being shut down, 160 participants are permanently laid off on July 30. Before July 30, and as part of the course of regular business operations, some active participants terminated employment, some retired and some new hires became covered by the plan. Because reductions due to attrition are disregarded for purposes of determining whether a single-cause event has occurred, it is not necessary for the sponsor to tabulate an exact active participant count as of July 30. Rather, the relevant percentage for determining whether a single-cause event occurred is determined by dividing the number of active participants laid-off as a result of the business unit shut down to the beginning of year active participant count. Because that ratio is less than 20 percent (160/1,000 = .16, or 16 percent), a single-cause event under paragraph (a)(1) of this section did not occur on July 30. However, if, as a result of the business unit shutdown, additional layoffs occur later in the same year, a single-cause event may subsequently be triggered (See Example 3 in paragraph (f)(3) of this section).
