
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 42 - COORDINATED ENFORCEMENT
#### ยง 42.10 Farm labor contact persons and regional coordinators (OSHA).
##### et seq.

(b) OSHA Area Directors shall designate OSHA compliance officers to serve in the capacity of Farm Labor Contact Persons. These Farm Labor Contact Persons shall be trained in enforcement of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (84 Stat. 1590, 29 U.S.C. 651) and all OSHA standards affecting migrant farmworkers. These Farm Labor Contact Persons shall be designated in OSHA area offices with responsibility for conducting a significant number of migrant farmworker camp inspections.

(c) The OSHA Area Directors shall assign the Farm Labor Contact Person to:

(1) Conduct migrant farmworker camp inspections during periods when migrant housing facilities are occupied, or when it is reasonably predictable the facilities will imminently be occupied;

(2) Serve as a technical advisor on migrant farmworker-related matters;

(3) Train other compliance officers to conduct migrant farmworker camp inspections; and

(4) Perform other OSHA duties, including duties not related to migrant farmworker OSHA enforcement.

(d) Regional Administrators for OSHA shall designate a Farm Labor Regional Coordinator to coordinate migrant farmworker activities. The Farm Labor Regional Coordinators shall:

(1) Coordinate all migrant farmworker related activity within the Region's jurisdiction, i.e., enforcement, training, and public information;

(2) Serve as representatives of the OSHA Regional Administrators on the Regional Farm Labor Coordinated Enforcement Committee's staff level work group; and

(3) Perform other OSHA duties.

(e) OSHA shall request State designees of States having approved occupational safety and health plans and responsibility for conducting a significant number of migrant farmworker camp inspections to appoint a State Farm Labor Coordinator. The State Farm Labor Coordinator shall:

(1) Coordinate State OSHA migrant farmworker camp inspections and other migrant farmworker enforcement activities consistent with the objectives of this section; and

(2) Represent the State on the Regional Farm Labor Coordinating Committee's staff level working group.
