
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 4 - LABOR STANDARDS FOR FEDERAL SERVICE CONTRACTS
#### Subpart E - Enforcement
##### ยง 4.188 Ineligibility for further contracts when violations occur.
###### Etowah Garment Co., Inc.,

(1) Where a person or firm has a direct or beneficial ownership or control of more than 5 percent of any firm, corporation, partnership, or association, a "substantial interest" will be deemed to exist. Similarly, where a person is an officer or director in a firm or the debarred firm shares common management with another firm, a "substantial interest" will be deemed to exist. Furthermore, wherever a firm is an affiliate as defined in ยง 4.1a(g) of subpart A, a "substantial interest" will be deemed to exist, or where a debarred person forms or participates in another firm in which he/she has comparable authority, he/she will be deemed to have a "substantial interest" in the new firm and such new firm would also be debarred (Decision of the Hearing Examiner, PC-632, August 9, 1957).

(2) Nor is interest determined by ownership alone. A debarred person will also be deemed to have a "substantial interest" in a firm if such person has participated in contract negotiations, is a signatory to a contract, or has the authority to establish, control, or manage the contract performance and/or the labor policies of a firm. A "substantial interest" may also be deemed to exist, in other circumstances, after consideration of the facts of the individual case. Factors to be examined include, among others, sharing of common premises or facilities, occupying any position such as manager, supervisor, or consultant to, any such entity, whether compensated on a salary, bonus, fee, dividend, profit-sharing, or other basis of remuneration, including indirect compensation by virtue of family relationships or otherwise. A firm will be particularly closely examined where there has been an attempt to sever an association with a debarred firm or where the firm was formed by a person previously affiliated with the debarred firm or a relative of the debarred person.

(3) Firms with such identity of interest with a debarred person or firm will be placed on the debarred bidders list after the determination is made pursuant to procedures in ยง 4.12 and parts 6 and 8 of this title. Where a determination of such "substantial interest" is made after the initiation of the debarment period, contracting agencies are to terminate any contract with such firm entered into after the initiation of the original debarment period since all persons or firms in which the debarred person or firm has a substantial interest were also ineligible to receive Government contracts from the date of publication of the violating person's or firm's name on the debarred bidders list.
