
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 44 - PROCESS FOR ELECTING STATE AGENCY EMPLOYMENT STATISTICS REPRESENTATIVES FOR CONSULTATIONS WITH DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
#### ยง 44.2 Election cycle and tenure of representatives.
##### Election cycle.

(a)The States located within each Federal region, as defined in this paragraph, shall elect one representative in accordance with the procedures specified in this part. The initial election for representatives of the States from all 10 Federal regions will be held not later than February 17, 1999. For purposes of this section, the Federal regions shall be the Standard Federal regions identified in former OMB Circular A-105 (issued April 4, 1974). This former Circular is available through the Office of the Commissioner of Labor Statistics, telephone number (202) 691-7808. For the representatives elected from the Federal regions II, IV, VII, VIII, and X, the initial term shall terminate on January 1, 2000. Subsequent elections for representatives from such regions shall be held in the last quarter of 1999 and thereafter biennially within the last calendar quarter of the year. For the representatives from the Federal regions I, III, V, VI, and IX, the initial term shall terminate on January 1, 2001. Subsequent elections for representatives from such regions shall be held within the last calendar quarter of 2000 and thereafter, biennially within the last calendar quarter of the year. After the initial election, the terms of all representatives shall terminate on January 1 of the third calendar year after the preceding scheduled election.
