
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter E - Plan Terminations
##### PART 4044 - ALLOCATION OF ASSETS IN SINGLE-EMPLOYER PLANS
###### Subpart A - Allocation of Assets
####### Allocation of Assets To Benefit Categories
######## ยง 4044.13 Priority category 3 benefits.
######### PPA 2006 bankruptcy termination.

(c)In a PPA 2006 bankruptcy termination:

(1) For purposes of this paragraph (c), "applicable pre-termination period" means the period-

(i) Beginning on the first day of the 5-year period ending on the bankruptcy filing date; and

(ii) Ending on the termination date. For example, if the bankruptcy filing date is January 15, 2008, and the termination date is March 22, 2009, the applicable pre-termination period is the period beginning on January 16, 2003, and ending on March 22, 2009.

(2) "Applicable pre-termination period" is substituted for "5-year period ending on the termination date" each place that "5-year period ending on the termination date" appears in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.

(3) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, "bankruptcy filing date" is substituted for "termination date" and "date of the plan termination" each place that "termination date" and "date of the plan termination" appear in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. In paragraph (b)(5) of this section, "the bankruptcy filing date" is substituted for "termination" in the phrase "during the fourth and fifth years preceding termination."

(4) Example: A plan provides for normal retirement at age 65 and has only one early retirement benefit: a subsidized early retirement benefit for participants who terminate employment on or after age 60 with 20 years of service. These plan provisions have been unchanged since 1990. The contributing sponsor of the plan files a bankruptcy petition in June 2008, and the plan terminates during the bankruptcy with a termination date in September 2010. A participant retired in July 2007, at which time he was age 60 and had 20 years of service, and began receiving the subsidized early retirement benefit. The participant has no benefit in priority category 3, because he was not eligible to retire three or more years before the June 2008 bankruptcy filing date.
