
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 70 - PRODUCTION OR DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION OR MATERIALS
#### Subpart A - General
##### ยง 70.2 Definitions.

As used in this part:

(a) The terms agency, person, party, rule, order, and adjudication have the meaning attributed to these terms by the definitions in 5 U.S.C. 551.

(b) Confidential commercial information means commercial or financial information received or obtained by the Department from a submitter, directly or indirectly, that arguably may be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4 of the FOIA.

(c) The Department means the Department of Labor.

(d) FOIA Component means an official component of the Department that has authority to disclose or withhold records under the FOIA and to which requests to inspect or copy records in its custody should be addressed. Department of Labor components are listed in Appendix A to this part.

(e) Record means any information that would be an agency record subject to the requirements of this part when maintained by an agency in any format, including an electronic format, and any information described under this part that is maintained for an agency by an entity under Government contract, for the purposes of records management.

(f) Request means any written request for records made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(3) and which meets the requirements of this part.

(g) Requester means any person who makes a request.

(h) Search means to look for, manually or by automated means, Department records for the purpose of locating them in response to a pending request.

(i) The Secretary means the Secretary of Labor.

(j) Submitter means any person or entity from whom the Department receives or obtains confidential commercial or financial information, directly or indirectly. The term submitter includes, but is not limited to, corporations, labor organizations, non-profit organizations, and local, state, and tribal and foreign governments.

(k) Unusual circumstances means, to the extent reasonably necessary for the proper processing of a FOIA request:

(1) The need to search for and collect the requested records from physically separate facilities;

(2) The need to search for, collect, and appropriately examine a voluminous amount of separate and distinct records that are demanded in a single request; or

(3) The need for consultation, which will be conducted with all practicable speed, with another agency or among two or more components of the Department having a substantial interest in the determination of the request.
