
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 70 - PRODUCTION OR DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION OR MATERIALS
#### Subpart B - Procedures for Disclosure of Records Under the Freedom of Information Act
##### ยง 70.19 Requirements for making a request.
###### Deficient descriptions and revised requests.

(d)If the description is insufficient, so that a knowledgeable employee who is familiar with the subject area of the request cannot identify the record with a reasonable amount of effort, the component processing the request will notify the requester and describe what additional information is needed to process the request.

(1) Requesters who are attempting to modify or reformulate their requests may discuss their requests with the component's designated FOIA contact, the FOIA Public Liaison, or a representative of OIS, each of whom is available to assist the requester in reasonably describing the records sought. Every reasonable effort will be made to assist a requester in the identification and location of the records sought. If the requester fails to reasonably describe the records sought, the agency's response to the request may be delayed.

(2) Any amended request must be confirmed in writing and meet the requirements for a request under this part.

(3) While an agency component awaits a requester's modified FOIA request, the processing time limits described in ยง 70.25(a)(1) will be tolled (that is, the processing time clock will be stopped on one occasion only) until clarification is received from the requester.
