
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 70 - PRODUCTION OR DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION OR MATERIALS
#### Subpart B - Procedures for Disclosure of Records Under the Freedom of Information Act
##### ยง 70.24 Form and content of action on appeals.

The disposition of an appeal will be issued by the Solicitor of Labor or designee in writing. A decision affirming, in whole or in part, the decision below will include a brief statement of the reason or reasons for the affirmance, including the FOIA exemption or exemptions relied upon, and its relation to each record withheld. The appeal determination will advise the requester of the availability of the mediation services of the Office of Government Information Services (OGIS) as a non-exclusive alternative to litigation. The appeal will also notify the requester of the statutory right to judicial review of the denial by the United States District Court for the judicial district in which the requester resides or maintains his or her principal place of business, the judicial district in which the requested records are located, or the District of Columbia. If it is determined on appeal that a record should be disclosed, the record will be provided in accordance with the decision on appeal. If it is determined that records should be denied in whole or in part, the appeal determination will include an estimate of the volume of records or information withheld, in number of pages or in some other reasonable form of estimation. This estimate does not need to be provided if the volume is otherwise indicated through deletions on records disclosed in part, or if providing an estimate would harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption.
