
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter F - Liability
##### PART 4062 - LIABILITY FOR TERMINATION OF SINGLE-EMPLOYER PLANS
###### ยง 4062.4 Determinations of net worth and collective net worth.
####### Factors for determining net worth.

(c)A person's net worth is equal to its fair market value and fair market value shall be determined on the basis of the factors set forth below, to the extent relevant; different factors may be considered with respect to different portions of the person's operations.

(1) A bona fide sale of, agreement to sell, or offer to purchase or sell the business of the person made on or about the net worth record date.

(2) A bona fide sale of, agreement to sell, or offer to purchase or sell stock or a partnership interest in the person, made on or about the net worth record date.

(3) If stock in the person is publicly traded, the price of such stock on or about the net worth record date.

(4) The price/earnings ratios and prices of stocks of similar trades or businesses on or about the net worth record date.

(5) The person's economic outlook, as reflected by its earnings and dividend projections, current financial condition, and business history.

(6) The economic outlook for the person's industry and the market it serves.

(7) The appraised value, including the liquidating value, of the person's tangible and intangible assets.

(8) The value of the equity assumed in a plan of reorganization of a person in a case under title 11, United States Code, or any similar law of a state or political subdivision thereof.

(9) Any other factor relevant in determining the person's net worth.
