
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter F - Liability
##### PART 4062 - LIABILITY FOR TERMINATION OF SINGLE-EMPLOYER PLANS
###### ยง 4062.6 Net worth notification and information.
####### Net worth information.

(b)The following information specifications apply, individually, with respect to each person subject to liability:

(1) An estimate, made in accordance with ยง 4062.4, of the person's net worth on the net worth record date and a statement, with supporting evidence, of the basis for the estimate.

(2) A copy of the person's audited (or if not available, unaudited) financial statements for the 5 full fiscal years plus any partial fiscal year preceding the net worth record date. The statements must include balance sheets, income statements, and statements of changes in financial position and must be accompanied by the annual reports, if available.

(3) A statement of all sales and copies of all offers or agreements to buy or sell at least 25 percent of the person's assets or at least 5 percent of the person's stock or partnership interest, made on or about the net worth record date.

(4) A statement of the person's current financial condition and business history.

(5) A statement of the person's business plans, including projected earnings and, if available, dividend projections.

(6) Any appraisal of the person's fixed and intangible assets made on or about the net worth record date.

(7) A copy of any plan of reorganization, whether or not confirmed, with respect to a case under title 11, United States Code, or any similar law of a state or political subdivision thereof, involving the person and occurring within 5 calendar years prior to or any time after the net worth record date.
