
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter F - Liability
##### PART 4062 - LIABILITY FOR TERMINATION OF SINGLE-EMPLOYER PLANS
###### ยง 4062.9 Arrangements for satisfying liability.
####### Upon request.

(b)If the PBGC determines that such action is necessary to avoid the imposition of a severe hardship on persons that are or may become liable under section 4062, 4063, or 4064 of ERISA and that there is a reasonable possibility that persons so liable will be able to meet the terms prescribed and pay the entire liability, the PBGC, in its discretion and when so requested in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section, may grant deferred payment or other terms for the satisfaction of such liability.

(1) In determining what, if any, terms to grant, the PBGC shall examine the following factors:

(i) The ratio of the liability to the net worth of the person making the request and (if different) to the collective net worth of persons subject to liability in connection with a plan termination.

(ii) The overall financial condition of persons that are or may become liable, including, with respect to each such person-

(A) The amounts and terms of existing debts;

(B) The amount and availability of liquid assets;

(C) Current and past cash flow; and

(D) Projected cash flow, including a projection of the impact on operations that would be caused by the immediate full payment of the liability.

(iii) The availability of credit from private sector sources to the person making the request and to other liable persons.

(2) A contributing sponsor or member of a contributing sponsor's controlled group may request deferred payment or other terms for the satisfaction of any portion of the liability under section 4062, 4063, or 4064 of ERISA at any time by filing a written request. The request must include the information specified in ยง 4062.6(b), except that-

(i) If the request is filed one year or more after the net worth record date, references to "the net worth record date" in ยง 4062.6(b) shall be replaced by "the most recent annual anniversary of the net worth record date"; and

(ii) Information that already has been submitted to the PBGC need not be submitted again.
