
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter I - Withdrawal Liability for Multiemployer Plans
##### PART 4207 - REDUCTION OR WAIVER OF COMPLETE WITHDRAWAL LIABILITY
###### § 4207.9 Special rules.
####### Employer that has withdrawn and reentered the plan before the effective date of this part.

(a)This part shall apply, in accordance with the rules in this paragraph, with respect to an eligible employer that completely withdraws from a multiemployer plan after September 25, 1980, and is performing covered work under the plan on the effective date of this part. Upon the application of an employer described in the preceding sentence, the plan sponsor of a multiemployer plan shall determine whether the employer satisfies the requirements for abatement of its complete withdrawal liability under this part. Pending the plan sponsor's determination, the employer may provide the plan with a bond or escrow that satisfies the requirements of § 4207.4, in lieu of making its withdrawal liability payments due after its application for an abatement determination. The plan sponsor shall notify the employer in writing of its determination and the consequences of its determination as described in § 4207.3 (c) or (d) and (e), as applicable. If the plan sponsor determines that the employer qualifies for abatement, only withdrawal liability payments made prior to the employer's reentry shall be retained by the plan; payments made by the employer after its reentry shall be refunded to the employer, with interest on those made prior to the application for abatement, in accordance with § 4207.3(e)(2). If a bond or escrow has been provided to the plan in accordance with § 4207.4, the plan sponsor shall send a copy of the notice to the bonding or escrow agent. Sections 4207.6 through 4207.8 shall apply with respect to the employer's subsequent complete withdrawal occurring on or after the effective date of this part, or partial withdrawal occurring either before or after that date. This paragraph shall not negate reasonable actions taken by plans prior to the effective date of this part under plan rules implementing section 4207(a) of ERISA that were validly adopted pursuant to section 405 of the Multiemployer Act.
