
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter I - Withdrawal Liability for Multiemployer Plans
##### PART 4208 - REDUCTION OR WAIVER OF PARTIAL WITHDRAWAL LIABILITY
###### ยง 4208.3 Abatement.
####### Effects of non-abatement.

(d)If the plan sponsor determines that the employer does not satisfy the requirements for abatement of its partial withdrawal liability under ยง 4208.4, then the employer shall take or cause to be taken the actions set forth in paragraphs (d)(1)-(d)(3) of this section. The rules in part 4219, subpart C, shall apply with respect to all payments required to be made under paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3). For this purpose, a payment required under paragraph (d)(2) shall be treated as a withdrawal liability payment due on the 30th day after the date of the plan sponsor's notice under paragraph (b) of this section.

(1) Any bond or escrow furnished under ยง 4208.5 shall be paid to the plan within 30 days after the date of the plan sponsor's notice under paragraph (b) of this section.

(2) The employer shall pay to the plan within 30 days after the date of the plan sponsor's notice under paragraph (b) of this section, the amount of its withdrawal liability payment or payments, with respect to which the bond or escrow was furnished, in excess of the bond or escrow.

(3) The employer shall resume or continue making its partial withdrawal liability payments as they are due to the plan.
