
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter I - Withdrawal Liability for Multiemployer Plans
##### PART 4208 - REDUCTION OR WAIVER OF PARTIAL WITHDRAWAL LIABILITY
###### ยง 4208.9 Plan adoption of additional abatement conditions.
####### Information.

(d)Each request shall contain the following information:

(1) The name and address of the plan for which the plan amendment is being submitted and the telephone number of the plan sponsor or its duly authorized representative.

(2) The nine-digit Employer Identification Number (EIN) assigned to the plan sponsor by the IRS and the three-digit Plan Identification Number (PIN) assigned to the plan by the plan sponsor, and, if different, also the EIN-PIN last filed with the PBGC. If an EIN-PIN has not been assigned, that should be indicated.

(3) A copy of the executed amendment, including-

(i) The date on which the amendment was adopted;

(ii) The proposed effective date;

(iii) The full text of the rules on the reduction or waiver of partial withdrawal liability; and

(iv) The full text of the rules adjusting the reduction in the employer's liability for a subsequent partial or complete withdrawal, as required by section 4206(b)(1) of ERISA.

(4) A copy of the most recent actuarial valuation report of the plan.

(5) A statement certifying that notice of the adoption of the amendment and of the request for approval filed under this section has been given to all employers that have an obligation to contribute under the plan and to all employee organizations representing employees covered under the plan.
