
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter I - Withdrawal Liability for Multiemployer Plans
##### PART 4211 - ALLOCATING UNFUNDED VESTED BENEFITS TO WITHDRAWING EMPLOYERS
###### Subpart A - General
####### ยง 4211.1 Purpose and scope.
######## Purpose.

(a)Section 4211 of ERISA provides four methods for allocating unfunded vested benefits to employers that withdraw from a multiemployer plan: the presumptive method (section 4211(b)); the modified presumptive method (section 4211(c)(2)); the rolling-5 method (section 4211(c)(3)); and the direct attribution method (section 4211(c)(4)). With the minor exceptions covered in ยง 4211.3, a plan determines the amount of unfunded vested benefits allocable to a withdrawing employer in accordance with the presumptive method, unless the plan is amended to adopt an alternative allocative method. Generally, the PBGC must approve the adoption of an alternative allocation method. On September 25, 1984, 49 FR 37686, the PBGC granted a class approval of all plan amendments adopting one of the statutory alternative allocation methods. Subpart C sets forth the criteria and procedures for PBGC approval of nonstatutory alternative allocation methods. Section 4211(c)(5) of ERISA also permits certain modifications to the statutory allocation methods that PBGC may prescribe in a regulation. Subpart B of this part contains the permissible modifications to the statutory methods that plan sponsors may adopt without PBGC approval. Plans may adopt other modifications subject to PBGC approval under subpart C. Finally, under section 4211(f) of ERISA, the PBGC is required to prescribe rules governing the application of the statutory allocation methods or modified methods by plans following merger of multiemployer plans. Subpart D sets forth alternative allocative methods to be used by merged plans. In addition, such plans may adopt any of the allocation methods or modifications described under subparts B and C in accordance with the rules under subparts B and C.
