
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter I - Withdrawal Liability for Multiemployer Plans
##### PART 4211 - ALLOCATING UNFUNDED VESTED BENEFITS TO WITHDRAWING EMPLOYERS
###### Subpart B - Changes Not Subject to PBGC Approval
####### ยง 4211.12 Modifications to the presumptive, modified presumptive, and rolling-5 methods.
######## Changing the period for counting contributions.

(b)A plan sponsor may amend a plan to modify the denominators in the presumptive, modified presumptive and rolling-5 methods in accordance with one of the alternatives described in this paragraph (b). Any amendment adopted under this paragraph (b) must be applied consistently to all plan years. Contributions counted for 1 plan year may not be counted for any other plan year. If a contribution is counted as part of the "total amount contributed" for any plan year used to determine a denominator, that contribution may not also be counted as a contribution owed with respect to an earlier year used to determine the same denominator, regardless of when the plan collected that contribution.

(1) A plan sponsor may amend a plan to provide that "the sum of all contributions made" or "total amount contributed" for a plan year means the amount of contributions that the plan actually received during the plan year, without regard to whether the contributions are treated as made for that plan year under section 304(b)(3)(A) of ERISA and section 431(b)(3)(A) of the Code.

(2) A plan sponsor may amend a plan to provide that "the sum of all contributions made" or "total amount contributed" for a plan year means the amount of contributions actually received during the plan year, increased by the amount of contributions received during a specified period of time after the close of the plan year not to exceed the period described in section 304(c)(8) of ERISA and section 431(c)(8) of the Code and regulations thereunder.

(3) A plan sponsor may amend a plan to provide that "the sum of all contributions made" or "total amount contributed" for a plan year means the amount of contributions actually received during the plan year, increased by the amount of contributions accrued during the plan year and received during a specified period of time after the close of the plan year not to exceed the period described in section 304(c)(8) of ERISA and section 431(c)(8) of the Code and regulations thereunder.
