
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter I - Withdrawal Liability for Multiemployer Plans
##### PART 4211 - ALLOCATING UNFUNDED VESTED BENEFITS TO WITHDRAWING EMPLOYERS
###### Subpart B - Changes Not Subject to PBGC Approval
####### ยง 4211.14 Simplified methods for disregarding certain contributions.
######## Adjusted

(vii)as applied to contributions for an employer, a rate history group, or a plan is defined in paragraphs (d)(5), (6), and (7) of this section.

(3) A rate history group of a plan for a plan year is a group of included employers satisfying all of the following requirements:

(i) Each included employer of the plan is in one and only one rate history group.

(ii) The employers in the rate history group have substantially the same contribution history (or the same percentage increases in contributions from year to year), but there need not be more than ten rate history groups.

(iii) There is consistency in the composition of rate history groups from year to year.

(4) The proxy group of a plan for a plan year is a group of included employers satisfying all of the following requirements:

(i) On at least 1 day of the plan year, the employers in the proxy group represent at least 10 percent of active plan participants.

(ii) There is at least one employer in the proxy group from each rate history group of the plan for the plan year that represents, on at least 1 day of the plan year, at least 5 percent of active plan participants.

(iii) There is consistency in the composition of the proxy group from year to year.

(5) The adjusted contributions of an employer under a plan for a plan year are -

(i) The employer's contribution base units for the plan year; multiplied by

(ii) The employer's contribution rate per contribution base unit at the end of the plan year, reduced by the sum of the employer's contribution rate increases since the plan freeze date that are required to be disregarded in determining withdrawal liability.

(6) The adjusted contributions of a rate history group that is represented in the proxy group of a plan for a plan year are the total contributions for the plan year attributable to employers in the rate history group, multiplied by the adjustment factor for the rate history group. The adjustment factor for the rate history group is the quotient, for all employers in the rate history group that are also in the proxy group, of -

(i) Total adjusted contributions for the plan year; divided by

(ii) Total contributions for the plan year.

(7) The adjusted contributions of a plan for a plan year are the plan's total contributions for the plan year by all employers, multiplied by the adjustment factor for the plan. For this purpose, "the plan's total contributions for the plan year" means the total unadjusted plan contributions for the plan year that would otherwise be included in the denominator of the allocation fraction in the absence of section 305(g)(1) of ERISA, including any employer contributions owed with respect to earlier periods that were collected in that plan year, and excluding any amounts contributed in that plan year by an employer that withdrew from the plan during that plan year. The adjustment factor for the plan is the quotient, for all rate history groups that are represented in the proxy group, of -

(i) Total adjusted contributions for the plan year; divided by

(ii) Total contributions for the plan year.

(8) Under this method, in determining the denominator of a plan's unfunded vested benefits allocation fraction, the contributions taken into account with respect to any plan year (beginning with the base year) are the plan's adjusted contributions for the plan year.

(9) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this paragraph (d), if total contributions for a year for a rate history group or for a plan are not timely and reasonably available for calculating adjusted contributions for that year, each relevant contribution rate for the year may be multiplied by the projected contribution base units for the year corresponding to that rate and the sum, for all rates, may be used in place of total contributions for that year.
