
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter I - Withdrawal Liability for Multiemployer Plans
##### PART 4211 - ALLOCATING UNFUNDED VESTED BENEFITS TO WITHDRAWING EMPLOYERS
###### Subpart B - Changes Not Subject to PBGC Approval
####### ยง 4211.16 Simplified methods for disregarding benefit reductions and benefit suspensions.
######## Facts.

(1)Assume that a calendar year multiemployer plan receives final authorization by the Secretary of the Treasury for a benefit suspension, effective January 1, 2018. The present value, as of that date, of the benefit suspension is $30 million. Employer A, a contributing employer, withdraws during the 2022 plan year. Employer A's proportional share of contributions for the 5 plan years ending in 2017 (the year before the benefit suspension takes effect) is 10 percent. Employer A's proportional share of contributions for the 5 plan years ending before Employer A's withdrawal in 2022 is 11 percent. The plan uses the rolling-5 method for allocating unfunded vested benefits to withdrawn employers under section 4211 of ERISA. The plan sponsor has adopted by amendment the static value simplified method for disregarding benefit suspensions in determining unfunded vested benefits. Accordingly, there is a one-time valuation of the initial value of the suspended benefits with respect to employer withdrawals occurring during the 2019 through 2028 plan years, the first 10 years of the benefit suspension.
