
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter I - Withdrawal Liability for Multiemployer Plans
##### PART 4219 - NOTICE, COLLECTION, AND REDETERMINATION OF WITHDRAWAL LIABILITY
###### Subpart B - Redetermination of Withdrawal Liability Upon Mass Withdrawal
####### ยง 4219.17 Filings with PBGC.
######## Contents of notice of mass withdrawal.

(f)If a plan terminates by the withdrawal of every employer, a notice of termination filed in accordance with part 4041A, subparts A and B, of this chapter shall satisfy the requirements for a notice of mass withdrawal under this subpart. If substantially all employers withdraw from a plan pursuant to an agreement or arrangement to withdraw, the notice of mass withdrawal shall contain the following information:

(1) The name of the plan.

(2) The name, address and telephone number of the plan sponsor and of the duly authorized representative, if any, of the plan sponsor.

(3) The nine-digit Employer Identification Number (EIN) assigned by the IRS to the plan sponsor and the three-digit Plan Identification Number (PIN) assigned by the plan sponsor to the plan, and, if different, the EIN or PIN last filed with the PBGC. If no EIN or PIN has been assigned, the notice shall so indicate.

(4) The mass withdrawal valuation date.

(5) A description of the facts on which the plan sponsor has based its determination that a mass withdrawal has occurred, including the number of contributing employers withdrawn and the number remaining in the plan, and a description of the effect of the mass withdrawal on the plan's contribution base.
