
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter I - Withdrawal Liability for Multiemployer Plans
##### PART 4219 - NOTICE, COLLECTION, AND REDETERMINATION OF WITHDRAWAL LIABILITY
###### Subpart B - Redetermination of Withdrawal Liability Upon Mass Withdrawal
####### ยง 4219.17 Filings with PBGC.
######## Contents of certifications.

(g)Each certification shall contain the following information:

(1) The name of the plan.

(2) The name, address and telephone number of the plan sponsor and of the duly authorized representative, if any, of the plan sponsor.

(3) The nine-digit Employer Identification Number (EIN) assigned by the IRS to the plan sponsor and the three-digit Plan Identification Number (PIN) last assigned by the plan sponsor to the plan, and, if different, the EIN or PIN filed with the PBGC. If no EIN or PIN has been assigned, the notice shall so indicate.

(4) Identification of the liability determination to which the certification relates.

(5) A certification, signed by the plan sponsor or a duly authorized representative, that the determinations have been made and the notices given in accordance with this subpart.

(6) For reallocation liability certifications-

(i) A certification, signed by the plan's actuary, that the determination of unfunded vested benefits has been done in accordance with part 4281, subpart B; and

(ii) A copy of plan rules, if any, adopted pursuant to ยง 4219.15(d).
