
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 70 - PRODUCTION OR DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION OR MATERIALS
#### Appendix A to Part 70 - FOIA Components
##### http://www.dol.gov/dol/foia.

The following list identifies the individual agency components of the Department of Labor for the purposes of the FOIA. Each component is responsible for making records in its custody available for inspection and copying, in accordance with the provisions of the FOIA and this part. Unless otherwise specified, the mailing addresses for the following national office components are listed below. Updated contact information for national and regional offices can be found on the DOL Web site at

1. Office of the Secretary (OSEC).

2. Office of the Solicitor (SOL).

3. Office of Administrative Law Judges (ALJ), 800 K Street NW., Suite N-400, Washington, DC 20001-8002.

4. Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration and Management (OASAM).

5. Office of the Assistant Secretary for Policy (OASP).

6. Office of the Chief Financial Officer (OCFO).

7. Office of Congressional and Intergovernmental Affairs (OCIA).

8. Office of Disability Employment Policy (ODEP).

9. Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP).

10. Office of the Inspector General (OIG).

11. Office of Labor Management Standards (OLMS).

12. Office of Public Affairs (OPA).

13. Office of Workers' Compensation Programs (OWCP).

14. Bureau of International Labor Affairs (ILAB).

15. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), Postal Square Building, Room 4040, 2 Massachusetts Avenue NE., Washington, DC 20212-0001.

16. Employment and Training Administration (ETA). Job Corps (part of ETA).

17. Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA), 201 12th Street, South, Arlington, Virginia 22202.

18. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA).

19. Employee Benefits Security Administration (EBSA).

20. Veterans' Employment and Training Service (VETS).

21. Employees' Compensation Appeals Board (ECAB).

22. Administrative Review Board (ARB).

23. Benefits Review Board (BRB).

24. Wage and Hour Division (WHD).

25. Women's Bureau (WB).
