
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter J - Insolvency, Termination, and Other Rules Applicable to Multiemployer Plans
##### PART 4262 - SPECIAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE BY PBGC
###### ยง 4262.7 Plan information.
####### Plan documentation.

(e)An application must include all of the following plan documentation:

(1) Most recent plan document or restatement of the plan document and all subsequent amendments adopted (if any), including a copy of the executed plan amendment required under ยง 4262.6(e)(1).

(2) If the plan suspended benefits under section 305(e)(9) or 4245(a) of ERISA, a copy of the proposed plan amendment(s) required under ยง 4262.6(e)(2) and a certification by the plan sponsor that the plan amendment(s) will be timely adopted. Such certification must be signed either by all members of the plan's board of trustees or by one or more trustees duly authorized to sign the certification on behalf of the entire board and to commit the board to timely adopting the amendment after the plan's application for special financial assistance is approved, with each signature accompanied by the printed name and title of the signer.

(3) Most recent trust agreement or restatement of the trust agreement and all subsequent adopted amendments (if any).

(4) Most recent IRS determination letter.

(5) Actuarial valuation reports completed for the 2018 plan year and each subsequent actuarial valuation report completed before the date the plan's initial application for special financial assistance is filed.

(6) Most recent rehabilitation plan (or funding improvement plan, if applicable), including all subsequent amendments and updates, and the percentage of total contributions received under each schedule of the rehabilitation plan for the most recent plan year available. If the most recent rehabilitation plan does not include historical documentation of rehabilitation plan changes (if any) that occurred in calendar year 2020 and later, these details must be provided in a clearly identified supplemental document.

(7) Most recent Form 5500 and all schedules and attachments (including the audited financial statement).
