
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter J - Insolvency, Termination, and Other Rules Applicable to Multiemployer Plans
##### PART 4262 - SPECIAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE BY PBGC
###### ยง 4262.16 Conditions for special financial assistance.
####### Request for exception.

(3)No earlier than 10 years after the end of the plan year in which the plan receives payment of special financial assistance under ยง 4262.12, the plan sponsor may request approval from PBGC for an exception from the conditions under paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section by demonstrating to the satisfaction of PBGC that, taking into account the value of the proposed benefit or benefit increase, the plan will avoid insolvency. A request for PBGC approval of a proposed benefit or benefit increase must be submitted by the plan sponsor or its duly authorized representative and must contain all of the following identifying, actuarial, and financial information:

(i) Name, address, email, and telephone number of the plan sponsor and the plan sponsor's authorized representatives, if any.

(ii) The nine-digit employer identification number (EIN) assigned to the plan sponsor by the IRS and the three-digit plan identification number (PN) assigned to the plan by the plan sponsor, and, if different, the EIN and PN last filed with PBGC. If an EIN or PN has not been assigned, that should be indicated.

(iii) A certification by the enrolled actuary that the plan or any of its component parts received special financial assistance and the most recent value of special financial assistance assets.

(iv) The EIN assigned to the plan sponsor by the IRS and the PN assigned to the plan by the plan sponsor of the plan that applied for special financial assistance, if not the same as the EIN and PN in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section.

(v) A copy of the proposed benefit or benefit increase amendment.

(vi) Most recent plan document or restatement of the plan document and all subsequent amendments adopted (if any).

(vii) A copy of the most recent actuarial valuation performed for the plan before the date of the plan's submission of a request for approval under this paragraph (b)(3), and the actuarial valuation performed for each of the 2 plan years immediately preceding the most recent actuarial valuation.

(viii) A copy of the plan actuary's most recent certification under section 305(b)(3) of ERISA, including a detailed description of the assumptions used in the certification, and the basis under which they were determined. The description must include information about the assumptions used for the projection of future contributions, withdrawal liability payments, and investment returns, and any other assumption that may have a material effect on projections.

(ix) A statement certified by an enrolled actuary of the effect of the proposed benefit or benefit increase on the plan's existing benefit formula and benefit amount, and a demonstration that the expected contributions equal or exceed the estimated amount necessary, taking into account the proposed benefit or benefit increase, to satisfy the minimum funding requirement of section 431 of the Code.

(x) A detailed statement certified by an enrolled actuary that the plan is projected to avoid insolvency, taking into account the value of the proposed benefit or benefit increase. The statement must include the basis for the conclusion, supporting data, calculations, assumptions, a description of the methodology, the basis for assumptions used, and the present value of the proposed benefit or benefit increase. The statement must also specify the amount of the change in the minimum required contribution under section 431 of the Code attributable to the proposed benefit or benefit increase for the first full plan year in which it is in effect, including the change in normal cost, the change in actuarial accrued liability and the annual amortization amount associated with the change in actuarial accrued liability.

(xi) The statement in paragraph (b)(3)(x) of this section must include an exhibit showing the annual cash flow projection for the plan for 30 years beginning on or after the proposed adoption date of the amendment. The cash flow projection should use an open group valuation. Annual cash flow projections must reflect the following information:

(A) Fair market value of assets as of the beginning of the year, splitting the assets by special financial assistance and non-special financial assistance amounts.

(B) Contributions and withdrawal liability payments made and expected to be made to the plan taking into account a reasonable allowance for amounts considered uncollectible.
