
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter J - Insolvency, Termination, and Other Rules Applicable to Multiemployer Plans
##### PART 4262 - SPECIAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE BY PBGC
###### ยง 4262.16 Conditions for special financial assistance.
####### Request for exception.

(2)No earlier than 5 years after the end of the plan year in which the plan receives payment of special financial assistance under ยง 4262.12, the plan sponsor may request approval from PBGC for an exception from the conditions under paragraph (e) of this section by demonstrating to the satisfaction of PBGC that, taking into account the value of any proposed reallocation of contributions, the plan will avoid insolvency, that the reallocation is needed due to a significant increase in health benefit costs due to a change in Federal law which goes into effect after March 11, 2021, that the reallocation is no more than a 10 percent reduction in the amount of the contribution rate negotiated on or before March 11, 2021, that is allocable to the pension plan, and that the reallocation relating to any change in Federal law is for no more than 5 years. A continuation of the reallocation of contributions relating to any change in Federal law after the initial reallocation beyond 5 years must satisfy the requirement for a contribution decrease under paragraph (d) of this section. A subsequent change in Federal law causing a significant increase in health benefit costs is a separate event for purposes of applying this exception, except that a plan may reallocate contributions under this exception from the conditions under paragraph (e) of this section for no more than 10 years cumulatively for all reallocation requests during the SFA coverage period. A request for PBGC approval of a proposed reallocation of contributions must be submitted by the plan sponsor or its duly authorized representative and must contain all of the following identifying, actuarial, and financial information:

(i) Name, address, email, and telephone number of the plan sponsor and the plan sponsor's authorized representatives, if any.

(ii) The nine-digit employer identification number (EIN) assigned to the plan sponsor by the IRS and the three-digit plan identification number (PN) assigned to the plan by the plan sponsor, and, if different, the EIN and PN last filed with PBGC. If an EIN or PN has not been assigned, that should be indicated.

(iii) A certification by the enrolled actuary that the plan or any of its component parts received special financial assistance and the most recent value of special financial assistance assets.

(iv) The EIN assigned to the plan sponsor by the IRS and the PN assigned to the plan by the plan sponsor of the plan that applied for special financial assistance, if not the same as the EIN and PN in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section.

(v) A copy of the proposed reallocation of contributions amendment.

(vi) Most recent plan document or restatement of the plan document and all subsequent amendments adopted (if any).

(vii) A copy of the most recent actuarial valuation performed for the plan before the date of the plan's submission of a request for approval under this paragraph (e)(2), and the actuarial valuation performed for each of the 2 plan years immediately preceding the most recent actuarial valuation.

(viii) A copy of the plan actuary's most recent certification under section 305(b)(3) of ERISA, including a detailed description of the assumptions used in the certification, and the basis under which they were determined. The description must include information about the assumptions used for the projection of future contributions, withdrawal liability payments, and investment returns, and any other assumption that may have a material effect on projections.

(ix) A statement certified by an enrolled actuary of the effect of the proposed reallocation of contributions on the plan's existing contributions, and a demonstration that the expected contributions equal or exceed the estimated amount necessary, taking into account the proposed reallocation of contributions, to satisfy the minimum funding requirement of section 431 of the Code.

(x) A detailed statement certified by an enrolled actuary that the plan is projected to avoid insolvency, taking into account the value of the proposed reallocation of contributions. The statement must include the basis for the conclusion, supporting data, calculations, assumptions, a description of the methodology, the basis for assumptions used, and the present value of the proposed reallocation of contributions.

(xi) The statement in paragraph (e)(2)(x) of this section must include an exhibit showing the annual cash flow projection for the plan for 30 years beginning on or after the proposed adoption date of the amendment. The cash flow projection should use an open group valuation. Annual cash flow projections must reflect the following information:

(A) Fair market value of assets as of the beginning of the year, splitting the assets by special financial assistance and non-special financial assistance amounts.

(B) Contributions and withdrawal liability payments expected to be made to the plan taking into account a reasonable allowance for amounts considered uncollectible.
