
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter J - Insolvency, Termination, and Other Rules Applicable to Multiemployer Plans
##### PART 4262 - SPECIAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE BY PBGC
###### ยง 4262.16 Conditions for special financial assistance.
####### e.g.,

(D) Guaranteed benefits payable post insolvency by participant type (active, retiree, terminated vested).

(E) Administrative expenses for the projection period.

(F) Assumed investment return separately for special financial assistance and non-special financial assistance amounts.

(G) Fair market value of assets as of the end of the year.

(vi) If the plan requests that PBGC approve that a waiver of the conditions in paragraph (b)(1) of this section (retrospective benefits), paragraph (d) of this section (contribution decreases), and the condition in paragraph (e) of this section relating to allocating contributions and other income applies to the merged plan, a demonstration that the requirements for a waiver in paragraph (f)(4) of this section are met.

(vii) A detailed narrative description with supporting documentation demonstrating that the transaction is not reasonably expected to be adverse to the overall interests of the participants and beneficiaries of any of the plans involved in the transaction. The narrative description and supporting documentation must consider the projected month and year of plan insolvency for each of the plans before and after the transaction.

(viii) Any additional information PBGC determines it needs to review a request for approval of a proposed transfer of assets or liabilities (including a spinoff) or merger.
