
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter J - Insolvency, Termination, and Other Rules Applicable to Multiemployer Plans
##### PART 4262 - SPECIAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE BY PBGC
###### ยง 4262.16 Conditions for special financial assistance.
####### e.g.,

(C) Plan level benefit payments organized by participant type (active, retiree, terminated vested) for the projection period.

(D) Administrative expenses for the projection period.

(E) Assumed investment return separately for special financial assistance and non-special financial assistance amounts.

(F) Fair market value of assets as of the end of the year.

(xii) The present value of accrued benefits.

(xiii) A demonstration that the reallocation is needed due to a significant increase in health benefit costs due to a change in Federal law, that the reallocation is no more than a 10 percent reduction in the amount of the contribution rate negotiated on or before March 11, 2021, going to the pension plan, and that the reallocation is for no more than 5 years for a reallocation request relating to any single change in Federal law and no more than 10 years cumulatively for all reallocation requests during the plan's SFA coverage period.

(xiv) Any additional information PBGC determines it needs to review a request for approval of a proposed amendment, including any adjustments to assumptions required by PBGC in its review of whether the plan is projected to avoid insolvency.
