
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter J - Insolvency, Termination, and Other Rules Applicable to Multiemployer Plans
##### PART 4262 - SPECIAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE BY PBGC
###### ยง 4262.16 Conditions for special financial assistance.
####### Request for approval.

(2)A request for approval of a proposed transfer of assets or liabilities (including a spinoff) or merger must be submitted by the plan sponsor or its duly authorized representative and must contain the information that must be submitted with a notice of merger or transfer and a request for a compliance determination under subpart A of part 4231 of this chapter and all of the following information for each of the plans involved in the transaction:

(i) A certification by the enrolled actuary that the plan or any of its component parts received special financial assistance and the most recent value of special financial assistance assets.

(ii) A copy of the actuarial valuation performed for each of the 2 plan years before the most recent actuarial valuation filed in accordance with ยง 4231.9(f) of this chapter.

(iii) A copy of the plan actuary's most recent certification under section 305(b)(3) of ERISA, including a detailed description of the assumptions used in the certification, and the basis under which they were determined. The description must include information about the assumptions used for the projection of future contributions, withdrawal liability payments, and investment returns, and any other assumption that may have a material effect on projections.

(iv) A detailed narrative description demonstrating that the transaction does not unreasonably increase PBGC's risk of loss with respect to any plan involved in the transaction. The narrative must be supported by a detailed determination certified by the enrolled actuary of the present value of financial assistance under section 4261 of ERISA which is calculated using the guaranteed benefits and administrative expenses presented in the cash flow projections under paragraph (f)(2)(v) of this section, discounted using interest rates published under section 4044 of ERISA. The certification must include supporting data, calculations, assumptions, a description of the methodology, the basis for assumptions used, and the projected date of insolvency.

(v) The statement in paragraph (f)(2)(iv) of this section must include an exhibit showing the annual cash flow projections for each plan before and after the transaction, through the year that each plan pays its last dollar of benefit (but not to exceed 100 years). The cash flow projection should use an open group valuation until the plan reaches insolvency. Annual cash flow projections must reflect the following information:

(A) Fair market value of assets as of the beginning of the year, splitting the assets by special financial assistance and non-special financial assistance amounts.

(B) Contributions and withdrawal liability payments taking into account a reasonable allowance for amounts considered uncollectible.
