
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter J - Insolvency, Termination, and Other Rules Applicable to Multiemployer Plans
##### PART 4262 - SPECIAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE BY PBGC
###### ยง 4262.16 Conditions for special financial assistance.
####### Request for exception.

(3)The plan sponsor of a plan eligible for special financial assistance may request approval from PBGC for an exception from the conditions under paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section by demonstrating to the satisfaction of PBGC that the exception lessens the risk of loss to plan participants and beneficiaries and does not increase expected employer withdrawals. The plan sponsor must also demonstrate to the satisfaction of PBGC that the exception does not increase the amount of the plan's special financial assistance or unreasonably increase PBGC's risk of loss. A request for PBGC approval of an exception must be submitted by the plan sponsor, or its duly authorized representative, either before an initial application or before a revised application for special financial assistance is filed by the plan, and must contain all of the following identifying, actuarial, and financial information:

(i) Name, address, email, and telephone number of the plan sponsor and the plan sponsor's authorized representatives, if any.

(ii) The nine-digit employer identification number (EIN) assigned to the plan sponsor by the IRS and the three-digit plan identification number (PN) assigned to the plan by the plan sponsor, and, if different, the EIN and PN last filed with PBGC. If an EIN or PN has not been assigned, that should be indicated.

(iii) Most recent plan document or restatement of the plan document and all subsequent amendments adopted (if any) and most recent Declaration of Trust.

(iv) Administrative manuals and other documents governing the plan's assessment or administration of withdrawal liability.

(v) A copy of the most recent actuarial valuation performed for the plan before the date of the plan's submission of a request for approval under this paragraph (g)(3), and the actuarial valuation performed for each of the 2 plan years immediately preceding the most recent actuarial valuation.

(vi) A copy of the plan actuary's most recent certification under section 305(b)(3) of ERISA, including a detailed description of the assumptions used in the certification, and the basis under which they were determined. The description must include information about the assumptions used for the projection of future contributions, withdrawal liability payments, and investment returns, and any other assumption that may have a material effect on projections.

(vii) A statement of whether the plan sponsor is requesting an exception from the condition under paragraph (g)(1) or (2) of this section or both and a demonstration of how the proposed exception lessens the risk of loss to plan participants and beneficiaries and does not increase expected employer withdrawals. The statement must also include a demonstration that the exception does not increase the amount of the plan's special financial assistance or unreasonably increase PBGC's risk of loss.

(viii) A list of employers contributing greater than 5 percent of plan contributions in a plan year.

(ix) A certification by the plan's actuary that the amount of special financial assistance that will be requested in the plan's application for special financial assistance will be determined assuming the exception will be approved.

(x) A detailed statement certified by an enrolled actuary of the effect of the proposed exception, and a demonstration for 30 years that the estimated withdrawal liability payments and contributions with the proposed exception exceed the estimated withdrawal liability payments and contributions without the proposed exception. The demonstration must show an aggregate of all withdrawal liability payments and an aggregate of all contributions for each year in the 30-year period and include representative examples of employer withdrawal liability payments and contributions. An individual employer's withdrawal liability assessment reflecting the proposed exception must be no less than what would be assessed without the proposed exception.

(xi) Any additional information PBGC determines it needs to review a request for approval of a proposed exception.
