
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter J - Insolvency, Termination, and Other Rules Applicable to Multiemployer Plans
##### PART 4262 - SPECIAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE BY PBGC
###### ยง 4262.16 Conditions for special financial assistance.
####### Withdrawal liability settlement.

(h)(1) During the SFA coverage period, a plan must obtain PBGC approval for a proposed settlement of withdrawal liability if the amount of the liability settled is greater than $50 million calculated as the lesser of-

(i) The allocation of unfunded vested benefits to the employer under section 4211 of ERISA; or

(ii) The present value of withdrawal liability payments assessed for the employer discounted using the interest assumptions in appendix B to part 4044 of this chapter.

(2) PBGC will approve a proposed settlement of withdrawal liability if it determines-

(i) Implementation of the settlement is in the best interests of participants and beneficiaries; and

(ii) The settlement does not create an unreasonable risk of loss to PBGC.

(3) A request for approval of a proposed settlement of withdrawal liability must be submitted by the plan sponsor or its duly authorized representative and must contain all of the following information:

(i) Name, address, email, and telephone number of the plan sponsor and the plan sponsor's authorized representatives, if any.

(ii) The nine-digit employer identification number (EIN) assigned to the plan sponsor by the IRS and the three-digit plan number (PN) assigned to the plan by the plan sponsor, and, if different, the EIN and PN last filed with PBGC. If an EIN or PN has not been assigned, that should be indicated.

(iii) A copy of the proposed settlement agreement.

(iv) A description of the facts leading up to the proposed settlement, including-

(A) The date the employer withdrew from the plan;

(B) The calculation of the withdrawal liability amount, including payment dates and amounts listed in the schedule for liability payments provided to the withdrawn employer in accordance with section 4291(b)(1)(A) of ERISA;

(C) The amount(s) and date(s) of withdrawal liability payments made; and

(D) How the proposed settlement amount was determined (discount rate used, financial condition of the employer, and other factors, as applicable).

(v) Most recent 3 years of audited financial statements and a 5-year cash flow projection for the employer with which the plan proposes to settle.

(vi) A copy of the most recent actuarial valuation report of the plan.

(vii) A statement certifying the trustees have determined that the proposed settlement is in the best interest of the plan and the plan's participants and beneficiaries.

(viii) Any additional information PBGC determines it needs to review a request for approval of a proposed withdrawal liability settlement.
