
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter J - Insolvency, Termination, and Other Rules Applicable to Multiemployer Plans
##### PART 4262 - SPECIAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE BY PBGC
###### ยง 4262.17 Other provisions.

(a) Special financial assistance is not capped by the guarantee under section 4022A of ERISA.

(b) A plan that receives special financial assistance must continue to pay premiums due under section 4007 of ERISA for participants and beneficiaries in the plan.

(c) A plan that receives special financial assistance is deemed to be in critical status within the meaning of section 305(b)(2) of ERISA until the last day of the last plan year ending in 2051.

(d) A plan that receives special financial assistance and subsequently becomes insolvent under section 4245 of ERISA will be subject to the rules and guarantee for insolvent plans in effect when the plan becomes insolvent.

(e) A plan that receives special financial assistance is not eligible to apply for a suspension of benefits under section 305(e)(9) of ERISA.

(f) A plan that receives special financial assistance and meets the eligibility requirements for partition of the plan under section 4233(b) of ERISA may apply for partition.

(g) If any provision in this part is held to be invalid or unenforceable by its terms, or as applied to any person or circumstance, or stayed pending further agency action, the provision will be construed so as to continue to give the maximum effect to the provision permitted by law, unless such holding will be one of utter invalidity or unenforceability, in which event the provision will be severable from this part.
