
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter L - Internal and Administrative Rules and Procedures
##### PART 4901 - DISCLOSURE AND PUBLIC INSPECTION OF PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORPORATION RECORDS
###### Subpart D - Fees
####### ยง 4901.31 Charges for services.
######## Non-commercial scientific or educational institutions, or news media requesters.

(2)(i) When records are requested by a non-commercial scientific or educational institution or a news media requester, PBGC will assess charges, as provided in this subpart, for the full direct cost of duplication only, excluding charges for the first 100 pages.

(ii) A non-commercial scientific institution is an institution that is not operated for a "commercial use" as that term is defined in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, and which is operated solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry.

(iii) An educational institution is any school that operates a program of scholarly research. A requester in this fee category must show that the request is made in connection with his or her role at the educational institution. PBGC may seek verification from the requester that the request is in furtherance of scholarly research and PBGC will advise requesters of their placement in this category.

(iv)(A) A representative of the news media is any person or entity that gathers information of potential interest to a segment of the public, uses editorial skills to turn the raw materials into a distinct work, and distributes that work to an audience. The term news means information that is about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. Examples of news media entities include television or radio stations broadcasting to the public at large, and publishers of periodicals that disseminate "news" and make their products available through a variety of means to the general public, including news organizations that disseminate solely on the internet. These examples are not intended to be all-inclusive. A "freelance" journalist who demonstrates a solid basis for expecting publication through a news media entity will be considered as a representative of the news media.

(B) To be eligible for inclusion in this category, the request must not be made for a commercial use. A request for records supporting the news dissemination function of the requester who is a representative of the news media will not be considered to be a request that is for a commercial use.
