
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter L - Internal and Administrative Rules and Procedures
##### PART 4902 - DISCLOSURE AND AMENDMENT OF RECORDS PERTAINING TO INDIVIDUALS UNDER THE PRIVACY ACT
###### ยง 4902.3 Procedures for determining existence of and requesting access to records.
####### http://www.pbgc.gov.

(a) Any individual may submit a request to the Disclosure Officer, Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, for the purpose of learning whether a system of records maintained by the PBGC contains any record pertaining to the requestor or obtaining access to such a record. Such a request may be sent to the Disclosure Officer or made in person between the hours of 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. on any working day. Current information on how to make a request, including the Disclosure Officer's mailing address and location, can be obtained on PBGC's Web site,

(b) Each request submitted pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall include the name of the system of records to which the request pertains and the requester's full name, home address and date of birth, and shall prominently state the words, "Privacy Act Request." If this information is insufficient to enable the PBGC to identify the record in question, or to determine the identity of the requester (to ensure the privacy of the subject of the record), the disclosure officer shall request such further identifying data as the disclosure officer deems necessary to locate the record or to determine the identity of the requester.

(c) Unless the request is only for notification of the existence of a record and such notification is required under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), the requester shall be required to provide verification of his or her identity to the PBGC as set forth in paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section, as appropriate.

(1) If the request is made by mail, the requester shall submit a notarized statement establishing his or her identity.

(2) If the request is made in person, the requester shall show identification satisfactory to the disclosure officer, such as a driver's license, employee identification, annuitant identification or Medicare card.

(d) The disclosure officer shall respond to the request in writing within 10 working days after receipt of the request or of such additional information as may be required under paragraph (b) of this section. If a request for access to a record is granted, the response shall state when the record will be made available.
