
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter L - Internal and Administrative Rules and Procedures
##### PART 4902 - DISCLOSURE AND AMENDMENT OF RECORDS PERTAINING TO INDIVIDUALS UNDER THE PRIVACY ACT
###### ยง 4902.7 Appeal of a denial of a request for amendment of a record.

(a) An appeal from a denial of a request for amendment of a record under ยง 4902.6 shall be submitted, within 45 days of receipt of the denial, to the General Counsel, Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, unless the record subject to such request is one maintained by the Office of the General Counsel, in which event the appeal shall be submitted to the Director or Director's designee, Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. The appeal shall state in detail the basis on which it is made and shall clearly state "Privacy Act Request" on the first page. In addition, the submission shall clearly state "Privacy Act Request" on the envelope (for mail, hand delivery, or commercial delivery), in the subject line (for e-mail), or on the cover sheet (for fax).

(b) Within 30 working days after the receipt of the appeal, unless for good cause shown the Director of the PBGC extends such 30-day period, the General Counsel or, where appropriate, the Director or Director's designee, shall issue a decision in writing granting or denying the appeal in whole or in part. To the extent that the appeal is granted, the General Counsel or, where appropriate, the Director or Director's designee, shall cause the requested amendment to be made promptly. To the extent that the appeal is denied, the decision shall include the reasons for the denial and a notice of the requester's right to submit a brief statement setting forth reasons for disputing the denial of appeal, to seek judicial review of the denial pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(g)(1)(A), and to obtain further information concerning the provisions for judicial review under that section.

(c) An individual whose appeal has been denied in whole or in part may submit a brief summary statement setting forth reasons for disputing such denial. Such statement shall be submitted within 30 days of receipt of the denial of the appeal to the Disclosure Officer. Any such statement shall be made available by the PBGC to anyone to whom the record is subsequently furnished and may also be accompanied, at the discretion of the PBGC, by a brief statement summarizing the PBGC's reasons for refusing to amend the record. The PBGC shall also provide copies of the individual's statement of dispute to all prior recipients of the record with respect to whom an accounting of the disclosure of the record was maintained pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(1).

(d) To request further information concerning the provisions for judicial review, an individual shall submit such request in writing to the Deputy General Counsel, who shall respond to such request as promptly as possible.
