
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter L - Internal and Administrative Rules and Procedures
##### PART 4902 - DISCLOSURE AND AMENDMENT OF RECORDS PERTAINING TO INDIVIDUALS UNDER THE PRIVACY ACT
###### ยง 4902.9 Privacy Act provisions for which PBGC claims an exemption.

Subsections 552a(j) and (k) of title 5, U.S.C., authorize PBGC to exempt systems of records meeting certain criteria from various other subsections of section 552a. This section contains a summary of the Privacy Act provisions for which PBGC claims an exemption for the systems of records discussed in this part pursuant to, and to the extent permitted by, subsections 552a(j) and (k):

(a) Subsection (c)(3) of 5 U.S.C. 552a requires an agency to make available to the individual named in the records an accounting of each disclosure of records.

(b) Subsection (c)(4) of 5 U.S.C. 552a requires an agency to inform any person or other agency to which a record has been disclosed of any correction or notation of dispute the agency has made to the record in accordance with subsection (d) of the Privacy Act.

(c) Subsections (d)(1) through (4) of 5 U.S.C. 552a require an agency to permit an individual to gain access to records about the individual, to request amendment of such records, to request a review of an agency decision not to amend such records, and to provide a statement of disagreement about a disputed record to be filed and disclosed with the disputed record.

(d) Subsection (e)(1) of 5 U.S.C. 552a requires an agency to maintain in its records only such information about an individual that is relevant and necessary to accomplish a purpose required by statute or executive order of the President.

(e) Subsection (e)(2) of 5 U.S.C. 552a requires an agency to collect information to the greatest extent practicable directly from the subject individual when the information may result in adverse determinations about an individual's rights, benefits, and privileges under federal programs.

(f) Subsection (e)(3) of 5 U.S.C. 552a requires an agency to inform each person whom it asks to supply information of the authority under which the information is sought, whether disclosure is mandatory or voluntary, the principal purpose(s) for which the information will be used, the routine uses that may be made of the information, and the effects of not providing the information.

(g) Subsection (e)(4)(G) and (H) of 5 U.S.C. 552a requires an agency to publish anotice of its procedures whereby an individual can be notified upon request whether the system of records contains information about the individual, how to gain access to any record about the individual contained in the system, and how to contest its content.

(h) Subsection (e)(5) of 5 U.S.C. 552a requires an agency to maintain its records with such accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness as is reasonably necessary to ensure fairness to the individual in making any determination about the individual.

(i) Subsection (e)(8) of 5 U.S.C. 552a requires an agency to make reasonable efforts to serve notice on an individual when any record on such individual is made available to any person under compulsory legal process when such process becomes a matter of public record.

(j) Subsection (f) of 5 U.S.C. 552a requires an agency to establish procedures whereby an individual can be notified upon request if any system of records named by the individual contains a record pertaining to the individual, obtain access to the record, and request amendment.

(k) Subsection (g) of 5 U.S.C. 552a provides for civil remedies if an agency fails to comply with the access and amendment provisions of subsections (d)(1) and (d)(3), and with other provisions of the Privacy Act, or any rule promulgated thereunder, in such a way as to have an adverse effect on an individual.
