
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter L - Internal and Administrative Rules and Procedures
##### PART 4903 - DEBT COLLECTION
###### Subpart B - Procedures To Collect Debts Owed to PBGC
####### ยง 4903.11 How will PBGC use administrative offset (offset of non-tax Federal payments) to collect a debt owed to PBGC?
######## Administrative review.

(c)The notice described in ยง 4903.5 of this part will explain to the debtor how to request an administrative review of PBGC's determination that the debtor owes a debt to PBGC and how to present evidence that the debt is not delinquent or legally enforceable. In addition to challenging the existence and amount of the debt owed to PBGC, the debtor may seek a review of the terms of repayment. In most cases, PBGC will provide administrative review based upon the written record, including documentation provided by the debtor. PBGC may provide the debtor with a reasonable opportunity for an oral hearing when the debtor requests reconsideration of the debt owed to PBGC, and PBGC determines that the question of the indebtedness cannot be resolved by review of the documentary evidence. Unless otherwise required by law, an oral hearing under this section is not required to be a formal evidentiary hearing. PBGC will carefully document all significant matters discussed at the hearing. PBGC may suspend collection through administrative offset and/or other collection actions pending the resolution of a debtor's dispute.
