
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter L - Internal and Administrative Rules and Procedures
##### PART 4903 - DEBT COLLECTION
###### Subpart B - Procedures To Collect Debts Owed to PBGC
####### ยง 4903.10 When will PBGC transfer a debt owed to PBGC to the Treasury Department's Financial Management Service for collection?
######## See

(a) PBGC will transfer a debt owed to PBGC that is more than 180 days delinquent to the Financial Management Service for debt collection services, a process known as "cross-servicing."31 U.S.C. 3711(g) and 31 CFR 285.12. PBGC may transfer debts owed to PBGC that are delinquent 180 days or less to the Financial Management Service in accordance with the procedures described in 31 CFR 285.12. The Financial Management Service takes appropriate action to collect or compromise the transferred PBGC debt, or to suspend or terminate collection action thereon, in accordance with the statutory and regulatory requirements and authorities applicable to the debt owed to PBGC and the collection action to be taken. See 31 CFR 285.12(b) and 285.12(c)(2). Appropriate action can include, but is not limited to, contact with the debtor, referral of the debt owed to PBGC to the Treasury Offset Program, private collection agencies, or the Department of Justice; reporting of the debt to credit bureaus, and/or administrative wage garnishment.

(b) At least 60 days prior to transferring a debt owed to PBGC to the Financial Management Service, PBGC will send notice to the debtor as required by ยง 4903.5 of this part. PBGC will certify to the Financial Management Service that the debt is valid, delinquent, legally enforceable, and that there are no legal bars to collection. In addition, PBGC will certify its compliance with all applicable due process and other requirements as described in this part and other Federal laws. See 31 CFR 285.12(i) regarding the certification requirement.
