
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 71 - PROTECTION OF INDIVIDUAL PRIVACY AND ACCESS TO RECORDS UNDER THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
#### Subpart B - Exemption of Records Systems Under the Privacy Act
##### ยง 71.50 General exemptions pursuant to subsection (j) of the Privacy Act.

(a) The following systems of records are eligible for exemption under 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) because they are maintained by a component of the agency or subcomponent which performs as its principal function the enforcement of criminal laws, and they contain investigatory material compiled for criminal law enforcement purposes. Accordingly, these systems of records are exempt from the following subsections of 552a of title 5 U.S. Code: (c)(3) and (4), (d), (e)(1), (2), and (3), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), (e)(5) and (8), (f) and (g).

(1) DOL/ESA-45 (Investigative Files of the Office of Labor-Management Standards), a system of records maintained by the Office of Labor-Management Standards.

(2) DOL/OIG-1 (General Investigative Files, and Subject Title Index, USDOL/OIG), a system of records maintained by the Office of the Inspector General (OIG).

(3) DOL/OIG-2 (Freedom of Information/Privacy Acts Records), a system of records maintained by the OIG.

(4) DOL/OIG-3 (Case Development Records), a system of records maintained by the OIG.

(5) DOL/OIG-5 (Investigative Case Tracking Systems/Audit Information Reporting Systems, USDOL/OIG), a system of records maintained by the OIG.

(6) DOL/MSHA-20 (Civil/Criminal Investigations), a system of records maintained by the Mine Safety and Health Administration.

(7) DOL/EBSA-2 (Office of Enforcement Index Cards and Investigation Files), a system of records maintained by the Employee Benefits Security Administration.

(b) This exemption applies to the extent that information in these systems of records is subject to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2).

(c) These systems are exempted for the reasons set forth in paragraphs (c)(1) through (12) of this section, from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a:
