
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter L - Internal and Administrative Rules and Procedures
##### PART 4903 - DEBT COLLECTION
###### Subpart B - Procedures To Collect Debts Owed to PBGC
####### § 4903.14 How will PBGC use administrative wage garnishment to collect a debt owed to PBGC from a debtor's wages?
######## see,See

(a) PBGC is authorized to collect debts owed to PBGC from an individual debtor's wages by means of administrative wage garnishment in accordance with the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 3720D and 31 CFR 285.11. This part adopts and incorporates all of the provisions of 31 CFR 285.11 concerning administrative wage garnishment, including the hearing procedures described in 31 CFR 285.11(f). PBGC may use administrative wage garnishment to collect a delinquent debt unless the debtor is making timely payments under an agreement to pay the debt in installments (§ 4903.7 of this part). Thirty (30) days prior to initiating an administrative wage garnishment, PBGC will send notice to the debtor in accordance with the requirements of § 4903.5 of this part, including the requirements of § 4903.5(a)(10) of this part. For debts referred to the Financial Management Service under § 4903.10 of this part, PBGC may authorize the Financial Management Service to send a notice informing the debtor that administrative wage garnishment will be initiated and how the debtor may request a hearing as described in § 4903.5(a)(10) of this part. If a debtor makes a timely request for a hearing, administrative wage garnishment will not begin until a hearing is held and a decision is sent to the debtor. PBGC will determine whether the matter requires an oral hearing or if a determination based upon review of the written record is sufficient. PBGC will provide the debtor with a reasonable opportunity for an oral hearing when it determines that the issues in dispute cannot be resolved by a review of the documentary evidence.31 CFR 285.11(f)(1)-(4). Even if a debtor's hearing request is not timely, PBGC may suspend collection by administrative wage garnishment in accordance with the provisions of 31 CFR 285.11(f)(5). All travel expenses incurred by the debtor in connection with an in-person hearing will be borne by the debtor.
