
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XL - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
#### Subchapter L - Internal and Administrative Rules and Procedures
##### PART 4903 - DEBT COLLECTION
###### Subpart B - Procedures To Collect Debts Owed to PBGC
####### ยง 4903.13 How will PBGC offset a Federal employee's salary to collect a debt owed to PBGC?
######## Payment agency's responsibilities.

(h)(1) As required by 5 CFR 550.1109, if the employee separates from the payment agency from which PBGC has requested salary offset, the payment agency must certify the total amount of its collection and notify PBGC and the employee of the amounts collected. If the payment agency knows that the employee is entitled to payments from the Civil Service Retirement Fund and Disability Fund, the Federal Employee Retirement System, or other similar payments, it must provide written notification to the agency responsible for making such payments that the debtor owes a debt to PBGC, the amount of the debt, and that PBGC has complied with the provisions of this section. PBGC must submit a properly certified claim to the agency responsible for making such payments before the collection can be made.

(2) If the employee is already separated from employment and all payments due from his or her former payment agency have been made, PBGC may request that money due and payable to the employee from the Civil Service Retirement Fund and Disability Fund, the Federal Employee Retirement System, or other similar funds, be administratively offset to collect the debt. Generally, PBGC will collect such monies through the Treasury Offset Program as described in ยง 4903.10(c) of this part.

(3) When an employee transfers to another agency, PBGC should resume collection with the employee's new payment agency in order to continue salary offset.
