
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 71 - PROTECTION OF INDIVIDUAL PRIVACY AND ACCESS TO RECORDS UNDER THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
#### Subpart B - Exemption of Records Systems Under the Privacy Act
##### ยง 71.51 Specific exemptions pursuant to subsection (k)(2) of the Privacy Act.

(a) The following systems of records are eligible for exemption under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) because they contain investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes other than material within the scope of subsection (j)(2) of 5 U.S.C. 552a. Provided however, that if any individual is denied any right, privilege or benefit to which he would otherwise be entitled by Federal law, or for which he would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such material, such material shall be provided to such individual, except to the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, or prior to January 1, 1975, under an implied promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence. Accordingly the following systems of records are exempt from (c)(3), (d)(1), (d)(2), (d)(3), (d)(4), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(I) and (f) of 5 U.S.C. 552a.

(1) DOL/GOVT-1 (Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Federal Employees' Compensation Act File), a system of records maintained by the Employment Standards Administration (ESA).

(2) DOL/OASAM-17 (Equal Employment Opportunity Complaint Files), a system of records maintained by the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration and Management (OASAM).

(3) DOL/OASAM-19 (Negotiated Grievance Procedure and Unfair Labor Practice Files), a system of records maintained by OASAM.

(4) DOL/OASAM-20 (Personnel Investigation Records), a system of records maintained by OASAM.

(5) DOL/OASAM-22 (Civil Rights Center Discrimination Complaint Case Files), a system of records maintained by OASAM.

(6) DOL/OASAM-29 (OASAM Employee Administrative Investigation File), a system of records maintained by OASAM.

(7) DOL/BLS-7 (BLS Employee Conduct Investigation), a system of records maintained by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS).

(8) DOL/ESA-2 (Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Complaint Files), a system of records maintained by ESA.

(9) DOL/ESA-25 (Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Management Information Systems (OFCCP/MIS), a system of records maintained by ESA.

(10) DOL/ESA-26 (Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act Investigation Files), a system of records maintained by ESA.

(11) DOL/ESA-27 (Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Longshore Act Claimant Representatives), a system of records maintained by ESA.

(12) DOL/ESA-28 (Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Physicians and Health Care Providers Excluded under the Longshore Act), a system of records maintained by ESA.

(13) DOL/ESA-29 (Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Physicians and Health Care Providers Excluded under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act), a system of records maintained by ESA.

(14) DOL/ESA-32 (ESA, Complaint and Employee Conduct Investigations), a system of records maintained by ESA.

(15) DOL/ESA-36 (ESA, Wage and Hour Division, MSPA/FLCRA Civil Money Penalty Record Files), a system of records maintained by ESA.

(16) DOL/ESA-40 (ESA, Wage and Hour Division, MSPA/FLCRA Tracer List), a system of records maintained by ESA.

(17) DOL/ESA-41 (ESA, Wage and Hour Division, MSPA/FLCRA Certificate Action Record Files), a system of records maintained by ESA.

(18) DOL/ESA-45 (Investigative Files of the Office of Labor-Management Standards), a system maintained by the Office of Labor-Management Standards.

(19) DOL/ETA-16 (Employment and Training Administration Investigatory File), a system of records maintained by the Employment and Training Administration (ETA).

(20) DOL/ETA-22 (ETA Employee Conduct Investigations), a system of records maintained by ETA.

(21) DOL/OIG-1 (General Investigative Files, and Subject Title Index, USDOL/OIG), a system of records maintained by the Office of the Inspector General (OIG).

(22) DOL/OIG-2 (Freedom of Information/Privacy Acts Records), a system of records maintained by the OIG.

(23) DOL/OIG-3 (Case Development Records), a system of records maintained by OIG.

(24) DOL/OIG-5 (Investigative Case Tracking Systems/Audit Information Reporting Systems, USDOL/OIG), a system of records maintained by OIG.

(25) DOL/MSHA-10 (Discrimination Investigations), a system of records maintained by the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA).

(26) DOL/MSHA-19 (Employee Conduct Investigations), a system of records maintained by MSHA.

(27) DOL/MSHA-20 (Civil/Criminal Investigations), a system of records maintained by MSHA.

(28) DOL/OSHA-1 (Discrimination Complaint File), a system of records maintained by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA).

(29) DOL/OSHA-12 (Employee Conduct Investigations), a system of records maintained by OSHA.

(30) DOL/EBSA-2 (Office of Enforcement Index Cards and Investigation Files), a system of records maintained by the Employee Benefits Security Administration (EBSA).

(31) DOL/EBSA-7 (EBSA Employee Conduct Investigations), a system of records maintained by EBSA.

(32) DOL/SOL-8 (Special Litigation Files), a system of records maintained by the Office of the Solicitor (SOL).

(33) DOL/SOL-9 (Freedom of Information Act and Privacy Act Appeals Files), a system of records maintained by SOL.

(34) DOL/SOL-11 (Division of Civil Rights and Labor Management Defensive Litigation Files), a system of records maintained by SOL.

(35) DOL/SOL-12 (Third-party Recovery Files), a system of records maintained by SOL.

(36) DOL/SOL-13 (SOL Employee Conduct Investigations), a system of records maintained by SOL.

(37) DOL/SOL-15 (Solicitor's Office Litigation Files), a system of records maintained by SOL.

(38) DOL/VETS-1 (Veterans' Reemployment Complaint File-VETS-1), a system of records maintained by the Veterans' Employment and Training Service (VETS).

(39) DOL/VETS-2 (Veterans' Preference Complaint File), a system of records maintained by VETS.

(b) This exemption applies to the extent that information in these systems is subject to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2).

(c) The systems of records listed under paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(39) of this section are exempted for the reasons set forth in paragraphs (c) (1) through (6) of this section, from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a:
