
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 71 - PROTECTION OF INDIVIDUAL PRIVACY AND ACCESS TO RECORDS UNDER THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
#### Subpart B - Exemption of Records Systems Under the Privacy Act
##### ยง 71.52 Specific exemptions pursuant to subsection (k)(5) of the Privacy Act.

(a) The following systems of records are eligible for exemption under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) because they contain investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for Federal civilian employment, military service, Federal contracts, or access to classified information, but only to the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, or, prior to January 1, 1975 , under an implied promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence. Accordingly, these systems of records are exempt from (c)(3), (d)(1), (d)(2), (d)(3), (d)(4), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(I) and (f) of 5 U.S.C. 552a.

(1) DOL/OASAM-20 (Personnel Investigation Records), a system of records maintained by the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration and Management (OASAM).

(2) DOL/OIG-1 (General Investigative Files, and Subject Title Index, USDOL/OIG), a system of records maintained by the Office of the Inspector General (OIG).

(3) DOL/OIG-2 (Freedom of Information/Privacy Acts Records), a system of records maintained by the OIG.

(4) DOL/OIG-3 (Case Development Records), a system of records maintained by the OIG.

(5) DOL/OIG-5 (Investigative Case Tracking Systems/Audit Information Reporting Systems, USDOL/OIG), a system of records maintained by the OIG.

(b) This exemption applies to the extent that information in these systems is subject to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5).

(c) The systems of records listed under paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section are exempted for the reasons set forth in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section, from the following subsections of 5 U.S.C. 552a:
