
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 75 - DEPARTMENT OF LABOR REVIEW AND CERTIFICATION PROCEDURES FOR RURAL INDUSTRIALIZATION LOAN AND GRANT PROGRAMS UNDER THE CONSOLIDATED FARM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 1972
#### ยง 75.11 Standards for the review of applications.
##### Applications which will require field or other review.

(b)(1) All loan and grant applications other than those specified in paragraph (a) of this section will be subject to a full review by the ETA prior to the issuance of a certification. For each loan application, the RDA shall submit to ETA:

(i) A letter of transmittal stating the name and location of the applicant and the amount of the loan;

(ii) Six copies of the Certificate of Non-Relocation (Form RD 449-22);

(iii) Six copies of the Data Information Sheet (Form RD 449-23); and

(iv) Any supplemental information, including A-95 Clearinghouse Reports, which RDA believes may be of value to ETA in evaluating the application.

(2) Upon receipt of applications, ETA will review the materials for completeness and will inform RDA in writing of any missing items within 2 working days after the date of receipt. It is agreed that in such instances the statutory 30-day period will not begin until the file is complete. State workforce agencies will be requested, through the ETA regional offices, to provide labor market information needed to determine whether the loan would result in adverse competitive effect upon existing competitive enterprises in the area. Comments will be due in the ETA national office 3 weeks after receipt of the request in the ETA regional offices.

(3) To assist in the review process, DOL will publish in thea weekly listing of applications received (other than those to be routinely certified). The listing will include the name and location (City and State) of the applicant and the principal product or type of business activity. In the case of grant applications, the listing will also include the name and principal product or business activity of the occupant(s) of the facility for which the grant is being made. All interested parties will be afforded a 2-week period from the date of publication to comment in writing to ETA. In the event that adverse comments are received, the applicant will be sent copies of such comments by certified mail, and afforded an opportunity to provide such additional information as the applicant deems appropriate within 2 weeks from the date of transmittal. The Rural Development Administration will also be provided with copies of such adverse comments.

(4) In some instances, involving particularly complex situations, ETA may request the Economic Development Administration (EDA) in the Department of Commerce, or other agencies to provide supplemental data. The number of such requests will depend upon the extent to which the DOL is capable of making resources available to EDA or other agencies to perform this function.

(5) When all the data have been assembled, a determination will be made by ETA of whether the requested certifications may be certified or denied. RDA will be notified in writing of the determination. If DOL's investigation indicates the need for additional information, all material will be returned to RDA with instructions indicating the additional information needed to make a certification. Continuation of the 30-day time limit will begin again when the additional material is returned to Labor.

(6) All denials will be given additional consideration if the applicant or the USDA provides additional evidence which they believe merits further consideration. If the DOL reaffirms its denial after a review of all available facts and such additional investigation as it may make, such denial shall be considered as final.
