
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 95 - GRANTS AND AGREEMENTS WITH INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION, HOSPITALS, AND OTHER NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS, AND WITH COMMERCIAL ORGANIZATIONS, FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS, ORGANIZATIONS UNDER THE JURISDICTION OF FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS, AND INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS
#### Subpart C - Post-Award Requirements
##### Reports and Records
###### ยง 95.52 Financial reporting.
####### SF-269 or SF-269A, Financial Status Report.

(1)(i) Recipients shall use the SF-269, SF-269A, or other OMB-approved forms to report the status of funds for all nonconstruction projects or programs. DOL may, however, have the option of not requiring the SF-269 or SF-269A when the SF-270, Request for Advance or Reimbursement, or SF-272, Report of Federal Cash Transactions, is determined to provide adequate information to meet its needs, except that a final SF-269 or SF-269A shall be required at the completion of the project when the SF-270 is used only for advances.

(ii) DOL shall prescribe whether the report shall be on a cash or an accrual basis. If DOL requires accrual information and the recipient's accounting records are not normally kept on the accrual basis, the recipient shall not convert its accounting system, but shall develop such accrual information through best estimates based on an analysis of the documentation on hand.

(iii) DOL shall determine the frequency of the Financial Status Report for each project or program, considering the size and complexity of the particular project or program. However, the report shall not be required more frequently than quarterly or less frequently than annually. A final report shall be required at the completion of the agreement.

(iv) Recipients shall submit to DOL the SF-269, SF-269A, or other OMB-approved forms (an original and no more than two copies) no later than 30 days after the end of each specified reporting period for quarterly and semi-annual reports, and 90 calendar days for annual and final reports. Extensions of reporting due dates may be approved by DOL upon request of the recipient.
