
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 95 - GRANTS AND AGREEMENTS WITH INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION, HOSPITALS, AND OTHER NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS, AND WITH COMMERCIAL ORGANIZATIONS, FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS, ORGANIZATIONS UNDER THE JURISDICTION OF FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS, AND INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS
#### Subpart C - Post-Award Requirements
##### Reports and Records
###### ยง 95.52 Financial reporting.
####### SF-272, Report of Federal Cash Transactions.

(2)(i) When funds are advanced to recipients, the recipient shall submit the SF-272 and, when necessary, its continuation sheet, SF-272a. DOL shall use this report to monitor cash advanced to recipients and to obtain disbursement information for each agreement with the recipients.

(ii) DOL may require forecasts of Federal cash requirements in the "Remarks" section of the report.

(iii) When practical and deemed necessary, DOL may require recipients to report in the "Remarks" section the amount of cash advances received in excess of three days. Recipients shall provide short narrative explanations of actions taken to reduce the excess balances.

(iv) Recipients shall submit not more than the original and two copies of the SF-272 15 calendar days following the end of each quarter. The DOL agency may require a monthly report from those recipients receiving advances totaling $1 million or more per year.

(v) DOL may waive the requirement for submission of the SF-272 for any one of the following reasons:

(A) When monthly advances do not exceed $25,000 per recipient, provided that such advances are monitored through other forms contained in this section;

(B) If, in DOL's opinion, the recipient's accounting controls are adequate to minimize excessive Federal advances; or,

(C) When the electronic payment mechanisms provide adequate data.

(b) When DOL needs additional information or more frequent reports, the following shall be observed.

(1) When additional information is needed to comply with legislative requirements, DOL shall issue instructions to require recipients to submit such information under the "Remarks" section of the reports.

(2) When DOL determines that a recipient's accounting system does not meet the standards in ยง 95.21, additional pertinent information to further monitor awards may be obtained upon written notice to the recipient until such time as the system is brought up to standard. DOL, in obtaining this information, shall comply with report clearance requirements of 5 CFR part 1320.

(3) DOL may shade out any line item on any report if not necessary.

(4) DOL may accept the identical information from the recipients in machine readable format or computer printouts or electronic outputs in lieu of prescribed formats.

(5) DOL may provide computer or electronic outputs to recipients when such expedites or contributes to the accuracy of reporting.
