
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 5 - LABOR STANDARDS PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO CONTRACTS COVERING FEDERALLY FINANCED AND ASSISTED CONSTRUCTION (ALSO LABOR STANDARDS PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO NONCONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS SUBJECT TO THE CONTRACT WORK HOURS AND SAFETY STANDARDS ACT)
#### Subpart A - Davis-Bacon and Related Acts Provisions and Procedures
##### § 5.6 Enforcement.

(a)(1) It shall be the responsibility of the Federal agency to ascertain whether the clauses required by § 5.5 have been inserted in the contracts subject to the labor standards provisions of the Acts contained in § 5.1. Agencies which do not directly enter into such contracts shall promulgate the necessary regulations or procedures to require the recipient of the Federal assistance to insert in its contracts the provisions of § 5.5. No payment, advance, grant, loan, or guarantee of funds shall be approved by the Federal agency unless the agency insures that the clauses required by § 5.5 and the appropriate wage determination of the Secretary of Labor are contained in such contracts. Furthermore, no payment, advance, grant, loan, or guarantee of funds shall be approved by the Federal agency after the beginning of construction unless there is on file with the agency a certification by the contractor that the contractor and its subcontractors have complied with the provisions of § 5.5 or unless there is on file with the agency a certification by the contractor that there is a substantial dispute with respect to the required provisions.

(2) Payrolls and Statements of Compliance submitted pursuant to § 5.5(a)(3)(ii) shall be preserved by the Federal agency for a period of 3 years from the date of completion of the contract and shall be produced at the request of the Department of Labor at any time during the 3-year period.

(3) The Federal agency shall cause such investigations to be made as may be necessary to assure compliance with the labor standards clauses required by § 5.5 and the applicable statutes listed in § 5.1. Investigations shall be made of all contracts with such frequency as may be necessary to assure compliance. Such investigations shall include interviews with employees, which shall be taken in confidence, and examinations of payroll data and evidence of registration and certification with respect to apprenticeship and training plans. In making such examinations, particular care shall be taken to determine the correctness of classifications and to determine whether there is a disproportionate employment of laborers and of apprentices or trainees registered in approved programs. Such investigations shall also include evidence of fringe benefit plans and payments thereunder. Complaints of alleged violations shall be given priority.

(4) In accordance with normal operating procedures, the contracting agency may be furnished various investigatory material from the investigation files of the Department of Labor. None of the material, other than computations of back wages and liquidated damages and the summary of back wages due, may be disclosed in any manner to anyone other than Federal officials charged with administering the contract or program providing Federal assistance to the contract, without requesting the permission and views of the Department of Labor.

(5) It is the policy of the Department of Labor to protect the identity of its confidential sources and to prevent an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy. Accordingly, the identity of an employee who makes a written or oral statement as a complaint or in the course of an investigation, as well as portions of the statement which would reveal the employee's identity, shall not be disclosed in any manner to anyone other than Federal officials without the prior consent of the employee. Disclosure of employee statements shall be governed by the provisions of the "Freedom of Information Act" (5 U.S.C. 552, see 29 CFR part 70) and the "Privacy Act of 1974" (5 U.S.C. 552a).

(b) The Administrator shall cause to be made such investigations as deemed necessary, in order to obtain compliance with the labor standards provisions of the applicable statutes listed in § 5.1, or to affirm or reject the recommendations by the Agency Head with respect to labor standards matters arising under the statutes listed in § 5.1. Federal agencies, contractors, subcontractors, sponsors, applicants, or owners shall cooperate with any authorized representative of the Department of Labor in the inspection of records, in interviews with workers, and in all other aspects of the investigations. The findings of such an investigation, including amounts found due, may not be altered or reduced without the approval of the Department of Labor. Where the underpayments disclosed by such an investigation total $1,000 or more, where there is reason to believe that the violations are aggravated or willful (or, in the case of the Davis-Bacon Act, that the contractor has disregarded its obligations to employees and subcontractors), or where liquidated damages may be assessed under the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act, the Department of Labor will furnish the Federal agency an enforcement report detailing the labor standards violations disclosed by the investigation and any action taken by the contractor to correct the violative practices, including any payment of back wages. In other circumstances, the Federal agency will be furnished a letter of notification summarizing the findings of the investigation.
