
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 5 - LABOR STANDARDS PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO CONTRACTS COVERING FEDERALLY FINANCED AND ASSISTED CONSTRUCTION (ALSO LABOR STANDARDS PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO NONCONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS SUBJECT TO THE CONTRACT WORK HOURS AND SAFETY STANDARDS ACT)
#### Subpart A - Davis-Bacon and Related Acts Provisions and Procedures
##### § 5.11 Disputes concerning payment of wages.

(a) This section sets forth the procedure for resolution of disputes of fact or law concerning payment of prevailing wage rates, overtime pay, or proper classification. The procedures in this section may be initiated upon the Administrator's own motion, upon referral of the dispute by a Federal agency pursuant to § 5.5(a)(9), or upon request of the contractor or subcontractor(s).

(b)(1) In the event of a dispute described in paragraph (a) of this section in which it appears that relevant facts are at issue, the Administrator will notify the affected contractor and subcontractor(s) (if any), by registered or certified mail to the last known address, of the investigation findings. If the Administrator determines that there is reasonable cause to believe that the contractor and/or subcontractor(s) should also be subject to debarment under the Davis-Bacon Act or § 5.12(a)(1), the letter will so indicate.

(2) A contractor and/or subcontractor desiring a hearing concerning the Administrator's investigative findings shall request such a hearing by letter postmarked within 30 days of the date of the Administrator's letter. The request shall set forth those findings which are in dispute and the reasons therefor, including any affirmative defenses, with respect to the violations and/or debarment, as appropriate.

(3) Upon receipt of a timely request for a hearing, the Administrator shall refer the case to the Chief Administrative Law Judge by Order of Reference, to which shall be attached a copy of the letter from the Administrator and response thereto, for designation of an Administrative Law Judge to conduct such hearings as may be necessary to resolve the disputed matters. The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures set forth in 29 CFR part 6.

(c)(1) In the event of a dispute described in paragraph (a) of this section in which it appears that there are no relevant facts at issue, and where there is not at that time reasonable cause to institute debarment proceedings under § 5.12, the Administrator shall notify the contractor and subcontractor(s) (if any), by registered or certified mail to the last known address, of the investigation findings, and shall issue a ruling on any issues of law known to be in dispute.

(2)(i) If the contractor and/or subcontractor(s) disagree with the factual findings of the Administrator or believe that there are relevant facts in dispute, the contractor or subcontractor(s) shall so advise the Administrator by letter postmarked within 30 days of the date of the Administrator's letter. In the response, the contractor and/or subcontractor(s) shall explain in detail the facts alleged to be in dispute and attach any supporting documentation.

(ii) Upon receipt of a response under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section alleging the existence of a factual dispute, the Administrator shall examine the information submitted. If the Administrator determines that there is a relevant issue of fact, the Administrator shall refer the case to the Chief Administrative Law Judge in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section. If the Administrator determines that there is no relevant issue of fact, the Administrator shall so rule and advise the contractor and subcontractor(s) (if any) accordingly.

(3) If the contractor and/or subcontractor(s) desire review of the ruling issued by the Administrator under paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section, the contractor and/or subcontractor(s) shall file a petition for review thereof with the Administrative Review Board within 30 days of the date of the ruling, with a copy thereof the Administrator. The petition for review shall be filed in accordance with part 7 of this title.

(d) If a timely response to the Administrator's findings or ruling is not made or a timely petition for review is not filed, the Administrator's findings and/or ruling shall be final, except that with respect to debarment under the Davis-Bacon Act, the Administrator shall advise the Comptroller General of the Administrator's recommendation in accordance with § 5.12(a)(1). If a timely response or petition for review is filed, the findings and/or ruling of the Administrator shall be inoperative unless and until the decision is upheld by the Administrative Law Judge or the Administrative Review Board.
