
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 99 - AUDITS OF STATES, LOCAL GOVERNMENTS, AND NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS
#### Subpart E - Auditors
##### § 99.520 Major program determination.
###### Step 2.

(c)(1) The auditor shall identify Type A programs which are low-risk. For a Type A program to be considered low-risk, it shall have been audited as a major program in at least one of the two most recent audit periods (in the most recent audit period in the case of a biennial audit), and, in the most recent audit period, it shall have had no audit findings under § 99.510(a). However, the auditor may use judgment and consider that audit findings from questioned costs under § 99.510(a)(3) and § 99.510(a)(4), fraud under § 99.510(a)(6), and audit follow-up for the summary schedule of prior audit findings under § 99.510(a)(7) do not preclude the Type A program from being low-risk. The auditor shall consider: the criteria in § 99.525(c), § 99.525(d)(1), § 99.525(d)(2), and § 99.525(d)(3); the results of audit follow-up; whether any changes in personnel or systems affecting a Type A program have significantly increased risk; and apply professional judgment in determining whether a Type A program is low-risk.

(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of this section, OMB may approve a Federal awarding agency's request that a Type A program at certain recipients may not be considered low-risk. For example, it may be necessary for a large Type A program to be audited as major each year at particular recipients to allow the Federal agency to comply with the Government Management Reform Act of 1994 (31 U.S.C. 3515). The Federal agency shall notify the recipient and, if known, the auditor at least 180 days prior to the end of the fiscal year to be audited of OMB's approval.
