
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 5 - LABOR STANDARDS PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO CONTRACTS COVERING FEDERALLY FINANCED AND ASSISTED CONSTRUCTION (ALSO LABOR STANDARDS PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO NONCONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS SUBJECT TO THE CONTRACT WORK HOURS AND SAFETY STANDARDS ACT)
#### Subpart A - Davis-Bacon and Related Acts Provisions and Procedures
##### ยง 5.15 Limitations, variations, tolerances, and exemptions under the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act.
###### Tolerances.

(c)(1) The "basic rate of pay" under section 102 of the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act may be computed as an hourly equivalent to the rate on which time-and-one-half overtime compensation may be computed and paid under section 7 of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended (29 U.S.C. 207), as interpreted in part 778 of this title. This tolerance is found to be necessary and proper in the public interest in order to prevent undue hardship.

(2) Concerning the tolerance provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the provisions of section 7(d)(2) of the Fair Labor Standards Act and ยง 778.7 of this title should be noted. Under these provisions, payments for occasional periods when no work is performed, due to vacations, and similar causes are excludable from the "regular rate" under the Fair Labor Standards Act. Such payments, therefore, are also excludable from the "basic rate" under the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act.

(3) See ยง 5.8(c) providing a tolerance subdelegating authority to the heads of agencies to make appropriate adjustments in the assessment of liquidated damages totaling $500 or less under specified circumstances.

(4)(i) Time spent in an organized program of related, supplemental instruction by laborers or mechanics employed under bona fide apprenticeship or training programs may be excluded from working time if the criteria prescribed in paragraphs (c)(4)(ii) and (iii) of this section are met.

(ii) The apprentice or trainee comes within the definition contained in ยง 5.2(n).

(iii) The time in question does not involve productive work or performance of the apprentice's or trainee's regular duties.
