
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter I - National Labor Relations Board
#### PART 100 - ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart F - Debt Collection Procedures
###### ยง 100.617 Interest, penalties, and administrative costs.

(a) Pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717, the NLRB shall assess interest, penalties, and administrative costs on debts owed to the United States Government. Interest, penalties, and administrative costs will be assessed in accordance with the provisions contained in 31 CFR 901.9.

(b) The NLRB shall waive collection of interest on a debt or any portion of the debt which is paid in full within 30 days after the date on which the interest began to accrue.

(c) The NLRB may waive interest during a period a disputed debt is under investigation or review by the NLRB. However, this additional waiver is not automatic and must be requested before the expiration of the initial 30-day waiver period. The NLRB may grant the additional waiver only if it finds merit in the explanation the debtor has submitted.

(d) The NLRB may waive collection of interest, penalties, and administrative costs if it finds that one or more of the following conditions exist:

(1) The debtor is unable to pay any significant sum toward the debt within a reasonable period of time;

(2) Collection of interest, penalties, and administrative costs will jeopardize collection of the principal of the debt;

(3) The NLRB is unable to enforce collection in full within a reasonable period of time by enforced collection proceedings; or

(4) Collection is not in the best interest of the United States, including when an administrative offset or installment agreement is in effect.

(e) The NLRB is authorized to impose interest and related charges on debts not subject to 31 U.S.C. 3717, in accordance with common law.
