
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter I - National Labor Relations Board
#### PART 101 - STATEMENTS OF PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - Unfair Labor Practice Cases Under Section 10 (a) to (i) of the Act and Telegraph Merger Act Cases
###### ยง 101.11 Administrative law judge's decision.

(a) At the conclusion of the hearing the administrative law judge prepares a decision stating findings of fact and conclusions, as well as the reasons for the determinations on all material issues, and making recommendations as to action which should be taken in the case. The administrative law judge may recommend dismissal or sustain the complaint, in whole or in part, and recommend that the respondent cease and desist from the unlawful acts found and take action to remedy their effects.

(b) The administrative law judge's decision is filed with the Board in Washington, DC, and copies are simultaneously served on each of the parties. At the same time the Board, through its Executive Secretary, issues and serves on each of the parties an order transferring the case to the Board. The parties may accept and comply with the administrative law judge's recommended order, which, in the absence of exceptions, shall become the order of the Board. Or, the parties or counsel for the Board may file exceptions to the administrative law judge's decision with the Board. Whenever any party files exceptions, any other party may file an answering brief limited to questions raised in the exceptions and/or may file cross-exceptions relating to any portion of the administrative law judge's decision. Cross-exceptions may be filed only by a party who has not previously filed exceptions. Whenever any party files cross-exceptions, any other party may file an answering brief to the cross-exceptions. The parties may request permission to appear and argue orally before the Board in Washington, DC. They may also submit proposed findings and conclusions to the Board.
