
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter I - National Labor Relations Board
#### PART 101 - STATEMENTS OF PROCEDURES
##### Subpart H - Advisory Opinions and Declaratory Orders Regarding Board Jurisdiction
###### ยง 101.42 Procedures for obtaining declaratory orders of the Board.

(a) When both an unfair labor practice charge and a representation petition are pending concurrently in a Regional Office, appeals from a Regional Director's dismissals thereof do not follow the same course. Appeal from the dismissal of a charge must be made to the General Counsel, while appeal from dismissal of a representation petition may be made to the Board. To obtain uniformity in disposing of such cases on jurisdictional grounds at the same stage of each proceeding, the General Counsel may file a petition for a declaratory order of the Board. Such order is intended only to remove uncertainty with respect to the question of whether the Board would assert jurisdiction over the labor dispute.

(b) A petition to obtain a declaratory Board order may be filed only by the General Counsel. It must be in writing and signed. It is filed with the Executive Secretary of the Board in Washington, DC. No particular form is required, but the petition must be properly captioned and must contain the allegations required by ยง 102.106 of the Board's Rules and Regulations. None of the information sought relates to the merits of the dispute. The petition may be withdrawn any time before the Board issues its declaratory order deciding whether it would or would not assert jurisdiction over the cases.
