
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter I - National Labor Relations Board
#### PART 102 - RULES AND REGULATIONS, SERIES 8
##### Subpart B - Service and Filings
###### ยง 102.2 Time requirements for filings with the Agency.
####### Timeliness of filings.,www.nlrb.gov

(b)If there is a time limit for the filing of a motion, brief, exception, request for extension of time, or other paper in any proceeding, such document must be received by the Board or the officer or agent designated to receive such matter on or before the last day of the time limit for such filing or the last day of any extension of time that may have been granted. Non E-Filed documents must be received before the official closing time of the receiving office (seesetting forth the official business hours of the Agency's several offices). E-Filed documents must be received by 11:59 p.m. of the time zone of the receiving office. In construing this section of the Rules, the Board will accept as timely filed any document which is postmarked on the day before (or earlier than) the due date; documents which are postmarked on or after the due date are untimely. "Postmarking" must include timely depositing the document with a delivery service that will provide a record showing that the document was given to the delivery service in sufficient time for delivery by the due date, but in no event later than the day before the due date. However, the following documents must be received on or before the last day for filing:

(1) Charges filed pursuant to Section 10(b) of the Act (see also ยง 102.14).

(2) Applications for awards and fees and other expenses under the Equal Access to Justice Act.

(3) Petitions to revoke subpoenas.

(4) Requests for extensions of time to file any document for which such an extension may be granted.
