
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter I - National Labor Relations Board
#### PART 102 - RULES AND REGULATIONS, SERIES 8
##### Subpart B - Service and Filings
###### ยง 102.5 Filing and service of papers by parties: Form of papers; manner and proof of filing or service.
####### E-Filing with the Agency.,www.nlrb.gov

(c)Unless otherwise permitted under this section, all documents filed in cases before the Agency must be filed electronically ("E-Filed") on the Agency's Web site () by following the instructions on the Web site. The Agency's Web site also contains certain forms that parties or other persons may use to prepare their documents for E-Filing. If the document being E-Filed is required to be served on another party to a proceeding, the other party must be served by email, if possible, or in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section. Unfair labor practice charges, petitions in representation proceedings, and showings of interest may be filed in paper format or E-Filed. A party who files other documents in paper format must accompany the filing with a statement explaining why the party does not have access to the means for filing electronically or why filing electronically would impose an undue burden. Notwithstanding any other provision in these Rules, if a document is filed electronically the filer need not also file a hard copy of the document, and only one copy of a document filed in hard copy should be filed. Documents may not be filed with the Agency via email without the prior approval of the receiving office.
