
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter I - National Labor Relations Board
#### PART 102 - RULES AND REGULATIONS, SERIES 8
##### Subpart B - Service and Filings
###### ยง 102.5 Filing and service of papers by parties: Form of papers; manner and proof of filing or service.
####### Service.

(f)Unless otherwise specified, documents filed with the Agency must be simultaneously served on the other parties to the case including, as appropriate, the Regional Office in charge of the case. Service of documents by a party on other parties may be made personally, or by registered mail, certified mail, regular mail, email (unless otherwise provided for by these Rules), private delivery service, or by fax for documents of or under 25 pages in length. Service of documents by a party on other parties by any other means, including by fax for documents over 25 pages in length, is permitted only with the consent of the party being served. When a party does not have the ability to receive service by email or fax, or chooses not to accept service of a document longer than 25 pages by fax, the other party must be notified personally or by telephone of the substance of the filed document and a copy of the document must be served by personal service no later than the next day, by overnight delivery service, or by fax or email as appropriate. Unless otherwise specified elsewhere in these Rules, service on all parties must be made in the same manner as that used in filing the document with the Board, or in a more expeditious manner. When filing with the Board is done by hand, however, the other parties must be immediately notified of such action, followed by service of a copy in a manner designed to insure receipt by them by the close of the next business day. The provisions of this section apply to the General Counsel after a complaint has issued, just as they do to any other party, except to the extent that the provisions of ยง 102.4(a) provide otherwise.
