
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter I - National Labor Relations Board
#### PART 102 - RULES AND REGULATIONS, SERIES 8
##### Subpart C - Procedure Under Section 10(A) to (I) of the Act for the Prevention of Unfair Labor Practices
###### § 102.24 Motions; where to file; contents; service on other parties; promptness in filing and response; default judgment procedures; summary judgment procedures.

(a) All motions under §§ 102.22 and 102.29 made prior to the hearing must be filed in writing with the Regional Director issuing the complaint. All motions for default judgment, summary judgment, or dismissal made prior to the hearing must be filed in writing with the Board pursuant to the provisions of § 102.50. All other motions made prior to the hearing, including motions to reschedule the hearing under circumstances other than those set forth in § 102.16(a), must be filed in writing with the Chief Administrative Law Judge in Washington, DC, with the Associate Chief Judge in San Francisco, California, or with the Associate Chief Judge in New York, New York, as the case may be. All motions made at the hearing must be made in writing to the Administrative Law Judge or stated orally on the record. All motions filed subsequent to the hearing, but before the transfer of the case to the Board pursuant to § 102.45, must be filed with the Administrative Law Judge, care of the Chief Administrative Law Judge in Washington, DC, the Associate Chief Judge in San Francisco, or the Associate Chief Judge in New York, as the case may be. Motions must briefly state the order or relief applied for and the grounds therefor. All motions filed with a Regional Director or an Administrative Law Judge as set forth in this paragraph (a) must be filed together with an affidavit of service on the parties. All motions filed with the Board, including motions for default judgment, summary judgment, or dismissal, must be filed with the Executive Secretary of the Board in Washington, DC, together with an affidavit of service on the parties. Unless otherwise provided in these Rules, motions, oppositions, and replies must be filed promptly and within such time as not to delay the proceeding.

(b) All motions for summary judgment or dismissal must be filed with the Board no later than 28 days prior to the scheduled hearing. Where no hearing is scheduled, or where the hearing is scheduled less than 28 days after the date for filing an answer to the complaint or compliance specification, whichever is applicable, the motion must be filed promptly. Upon receipt of the motion, the Board may deny the motion or issue a Notice to Show Cause why the motion may not be granted. If a Notice to Show Cause is issued, the hearing, if scheduled, will normally be postponed indefinitely. If a party desires to file an opposition to the motion prior to issuance of the Notice to Show Cause to prevent postponement of the hearing, it may do so. However, any such opposition must be filed no later than 21 days prior to the hearing. If a Notice to Show Cause is issued, an opposing party may file a response notwithstanding any opposition it may have filed prior to issuance of the notice. The time for filing the response must be fixed in the Notice to Show Cause. Neither the opposition nor the response must be supported by affidavits or other documentary evidence showing that there is a genuine issue for hearing. The Board in its discretion may deny the motion where the motion itself fails to establish the absence of a genuine issue, or where the opposing party's pleadings, opposition and/or response indicate on their face that a genuine issue may exist. If the opposing party files no opposition or response, the Board may treat the motion as conceded, and default judgment, summary judgment, or dismissal, if appropriate, will be entered.

(c) A party that has filed a motion may file a reply to an opposition to its motion within 7 days of receipt of the opposition, but in the interest of administrative finality, further responses are not permitted except where there are special circumstances warranting leave to file such a response.
