
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter I - National Labor Relations Board
#### PART 102 - RULES AND REGULATIONS, SERIES 8
##### Subpart C - Procedure Under Section 10(A) to (I) of the Act for the Prevention of Unfair Labor Practices
###### ยง 102.42 Filings of briefs and proposed findings with the Administrative Law Judge and oral argument at the hearing.

Any party is entitled, upon request, to oral argument, for a reasonable period at the close of the hearing. Oral argument and any presentation of proposed findings and conclusions will be included in the transcript of the hearing. In the discretion of the Administrative Law Judge, any party may, upon request made before the close of the hearing, file a brief or proposed findings and conclusions, or both, with the Administrative Law Judge, who may fix a reasonable time for such filing, but not in excess of 35 days from the close of the hearing. Requests for further extensions of time must be made to the Chief Administrative Law Judge, Deputy Chief Administrative Law Judge, or an Associate Chief Administrative Law Judge, as the case may be. Notice of the request for any extension must be immediately served on all other parties, and proof of service must be furnished. The brief or proposed findings and conclusions must be served on the other parties, and a statement of such service must be furnished. In any case in which the Administrative Law Judge believes that written briefs or proposed findings of fact and conclusions may not be necessary, the Judge must notify the parties at the opening of the hearing or as soon thereafter as practicable that the Judge may wish to hear oral argument in lieu of briefs.
