
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter I - National Labor Relations Board
#### PART 102 - RULES AND REGULATIONS, SERIES 8
##### Subpart C - Procedure Under Section 10(A) to (I) of the Act for the Prevention of Unfair Labor Practices
###### ยง 102.56 Answer to compliance specification.
####### Form and contents of answer.

(b)The answer to the specification must be in writing, signed and sworn to by the Respondent or by a duly authorized agent with appropriate power of attorney affixed, and contain the address of the Respondent. The answer must specifically admit, deny, or explain each allegation of the specification, unless the Respondent is without knowledge, in which case the Respondent must so state, such statement operating as a denial. Denials must fairly meet the substance of the allegations of the specification at issue. When a Respondent intends to deny only a part of an allegation, the Respondent must specify so much of it as is true and deny only the remainder. As to all matters within the knowledge of the Respondent, including but not limited to the various factors entering into the computation of gross backpay, a general denial will not suffice. As to such matters, if the Respondent disputes either the accuracy of the figures in the specification or the premises on which they are based, the answer must specifically state the basis for such disagreement, setting forth in detail the Respondent's position and furnishing the appropriate supporting figures.
