
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter I - National Labor Relations Board
#### PART 102 - RULES AND REGULATIONS, SERIES 8
##### Subpart C - Procedure Under Section 10(A) to (I) of the Act for the Prevention of Unfair Labor Practices
###### ยง 102.59 Hearing and posthearing procedures.
####### ยง 102.63 Investigation of petition by Regional Director; Notice of Hearing; service of notice; Notice of Petition for Election; Statement of Position; withdrawal of Notice of Hearing.
######## Employer's Statement of Position.

(iii)The employer shall file with the Regional Director and serve on the parties named in the petition its Statement of Position such that it is received no later than noon 3 business days before the hearing. The Employer's Statement of Position shall include a list of the full names, work locations, shifts, and job classifications of all individuals in the proposed unit as of the payroll period preceding the filing of the petition who remain employed at the time of filing. The list(s) of names shall be alphabetized (overall or by department) and be in an electronic format approved by the General Counsel unless the employer certifies that it does not possess the capacity to produce the list in the required form. The employer's Statement of Position shall also state whether the employer agrees that the Board has jurisdiction over it and provide the requested information concerning the employer's relation to interstate commerce; identify any individuals whose eligibility to vote the employer intends to contest at the pre-election hearing and the basis of each such contention; state the length of the payroll period for employees in the proposed unit and the most recent payroll period ending date; and respond to the issues raised in any Statement of Position timely filed and served pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section. The Regional Director may permit the employer to amend its Statement of Position in a timely manner for good cause.
