
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter I - National Labor Relations Board
#### PART 102 - RULES AND REGULATIONS, SERIES 8
##### Subpart C - Procedure Under Section 10(A) to (I) of the Act for the Prevention of Unfair Labor Practices
###### ยง 102.59 Hearing and posthearing procedures.
####### ยง 102.67 Proceedings before the Regional Director; further hearing; action by the Regional Director; appeals from actions of the Regional Director; statement in opposition; requests for extraordinary relief; Notice of Election; voter list.
######## Directions of elections.

(b)If the Regional Director directs an election, the direction may specify the type, date(s), time(s), and location(s) of the election and the eligibility period, but the Regional Director retains discretion to continue investigating these details after directing an election and to specify them in a subsequently-issued Notice of Election. The Regional Director shall schedule the election for the earliest date practicable, but unless a waiver is filed, the Regional Director will normally not schedule an election before the 20th business day after the date of the direction of election, to permit the Board to rule on any request for review which may be filed pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section. The Regional Director shall transmit the direction of election to the parties and their designated representatives by email, facsimile, or by overnight mail (if neither an email address nor facsimile number was provided). The Regional Director shall also transmit the Board's Notice of Election to the parties and their designated representatives by email, facsimile, or by overnight mail (if neither an email address nor facsimile number was provided), whether transmitted simultaneously with the direction of election or separately thereafter. If the direction of election provides for individuals to vote subject to challenge, the Notice of Election shall so state, and shall advise employees that the individuals are neither included in, nor excluded from, the bargaining unit, inasmuch as they have been permitted to vote subject to challenge. The election notice shall further advise employees that the eligibility or inclusion of the individuals will be resolved, if necessary, following the election.
