
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter I - National Labor Relations Board
#### PART 102 - RULES AND REGULATIONS, SERIES 8
##### Subpart F - Procedure for Referendum Under Section 9(e) of the Act
###### ยง 102.84 Contents of petition to rescind authority.

(a) The name of the employer.

(b) The address of the establishments involved.

(c) The general nature of the employer's business.

(d) A description of the bargaining unit involved.

(e) The name and address of the labor organization whose authority it is desired to rescind.

(f) The number of employees in the unit.

(g) Whether there is a strike or picketing in progress at the establishment involved and, if so, the approximate number of employees participating, and the date such strike or picketing commenced.

(h) The date of execution and of expiration of any contract in effect covering the unit involved.

(i) The name and address of the petitioner, and the name, title, address, telephone number, facsimile number, and email address of the individual who will serve as the representative of the petitioner and accept service of all papers for purposes of the proceeding.

(j) A statement that 30 percent or more of the bargaining unit employees covered by an agreement between their employer and a labor organization made pursuant to Section 8(a)(3) of the Act, desire that the authority to make such an agreement be rescinded.

(k) Any other relevant facts.

(l) Evidence supporting the statement that 30 percent or more of the bargaining unit employees desire to rescind the authority of their employer and labor organization to enter into an agreement made pursuant to Section 8(a)(3) of the Act. Such evidence must be filed together with the petition, but must not be served on any other party.

(m) Evidence filed pursuant to paragraph (l) of this section together with a petition that is filed by facsimile or electronically, which includes original signatures that cannot be transmitted in their original form by the method of filing of the petition, may be filed by facsimile or in electronic form provided that the original documents are received by the regional director no later than 2 days after the facsimile or electronic filing.

(n) The type, date(s), time(s) and location(s) of the election sought.
