
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter I - National Labor Relations Board
#### PART 102 - RULES AND REGULATIONS, SERIES 8
##### Subpart G - Procedure to Hear and Determine Disputes Under Section 10(k) of the Act
###### § 102.90 Notice of hearing; hearing; proceedings before the Board; briefs; determination of dispute.

If it appears to the Regional Director that the charge has merit and the parties to the dispute have not submitted satisfactory evidence to the Regional Director that they have adjusted, or have agreed-upon methods for the voluntary adjustment of, the dispute out of which such unfair labor practice has arisen, the Regional Director will serve on all parties to such dispute a Notice of Hearing under Section 10(k) of the Act before a Hearing Officer at a time and place stated in the Notice. The hearing date will not be less than 10 days after service of the notice of the filing of the charge. The Notice of Hearing must contain a simple statement of the issues involved in such dispute. Such Notice will be issued promptly, and, in cases in which it is deemed appropriate to seek injunctive relief pursuant to Section 10(l) of the Act, will normally be issued within 5 days of the date upon which injunctive relief is first sought. Hearings will be conducted by a Hearing Officer, and the procedure will conform, insofar as applicable, to the procedure set forth in §§ 102.64 through 102.68. Upon the close of the hearing, the proceeding will be transferred to the Board, and the Board will proceed either promptly upon the record, or after oral argument, or the submission of briefs, or further hearing, to determine the dispute or otherwise dispose of the matter. Parties who desire to file a brief with the Board must do so within 7 days after the close of the hearing. However, no briefs will be filed in cases designated in the Notice of Hearing as involving the national defense, and the parties, after the close of the evidence, may argue orally upon the record their respective contentions and positions; except that, upon application for leave to file briefs expeditiously made to the Board in Washington, DC, after the close of the hearing, the Board may for good cause shown, grant leave to file briefs and set a time for filing. Simultaneously upon such filing, a copy must be served on the other parties. No reply brief may be filed except upon special leave of the Board.
