
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 6 - RULES OF PRACTICE FOR ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS ENFORCING LABOR STANDARDS IN FEDERAL AND FEDERALLY ASSISTED CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS AND FEDERAL SERVICE CONTRACTS
#### Subpart B - Enforcement Proceedings Under the Service Contract Act (and Under the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act for Contracts Subject to the Service Contract Act)
##### ยง 6.16 Answers.

(a) Within 30 days after the service of the complaint the respondent shall file an answer with the Chief Administrative Law Judge. The answer shall be signed by the respondent or his/her attorney.

(b) The answer shall (1) contain a statement of the facts which constitute the grounds of defense, and shall specifically admit, explain, or deny each of the allegations of the complaint unless the respondent is without knowledge, in which case the answer shall so state; or (2) state that the respondent admits all of the allegations of the complaint. The answer may contain a waiver of hearing. Failure to file an answer to or plead specifically to any allegation of the complaint shall constitute an admission of such allegation.

(c) Failure to file an answer shall constitute grounds for waiver of hearing and entry of a default judgment unless respondent shows good cause for such failure to file. In preparing the decision of default judgment the Administrative Law Judge shall adopt as findings of fact the material facts alleged in the complaint and shall order the appropriate relief and/or sanctions.
