
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter I - National Labor Relations Board
#### PART 102 - RULES AND REGULATIONS, SERIES 8
##### Subpart K - Records and Information
###### ยง 102.117 Freedom of Information Act Regulations: Agency materials including formal documents available pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act; requests for described records; time limit for response; appeal from denial of request; fees for document search, duplication, and review; files and records not subject to inspection.
####### https://www.nlrb.gov

(A) Requesters may file FOIA requests electronically through the Agency's Web site (), which is the preferred method of submission to allow for prompt receipt, including for requests for records maintained by the Agency's Office of the Inspector General. FOIA requests may also be made by mail to the Agency's Washington, DC headquarters address, by email to the Agency's designated mailbox, or by facsimile. The mailing address, email address, and facsimile number are available on the Agency's Web site.

(B) Requests not made through the Agency's Web site should be clearly marked to indicate that they contain a request for records under the Freedom of Information Act.

(C) Requests made to an Agency division, branch, or any office other than the FOIA Branch will be forwarded to the FOIA Branch by the receiving office, but in that event, the applicable time limit for response set forth in paragraph (i) of this section will be calculated from the date of receipt by the FOIA Branch. The receiving office will normally forward the request to the FOIA Branch within 10 days of the initial receipt.

(D) Requests made to the Agency for records that originated with another governmental agency may be referred to that agency.
