
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter I - National Labor Relations Board
#### PART 102 - RULES AND REGULATIONS, SERIES 8
##### Subpart K - Records and Information
###### ยง 102.117 Freedom of Information Act Regulations: Agency materials including formal documents available pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act; requests for described records; time limit for response; appeal from denial of request; fees for document search, duplication, and review; files and records not subject to inspection.
####### Denials of requests.

(B)If the determination is to deny the request in any respect, the requester will be notified in writing of that determination. The determination will set forth: The reason(s) for the denial; the name and title or position of each person responsible for the denial; and an estimate of the volume of records or information withheld, in number of pages or in some other reasonable form of estimation: However, this estimate does not need to be provided if the volume is otherwise indicated through deletions on records disclosed in part, or if providing an estimate would harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption. The determination will also inform the requester of the right to seek dispute resolution services from the Agency's FOIA Public Liaison or the Office of Government Information Services, as well as the right to appeal the adverse determination under the administrative appeal provisions of paragraph (c)(2)(v) of this section.

(C) Adverse determinations may consist of: A determination to withhold any requested record in whole or in part; a determination that a requested record does not exist or cannot be located; a determination that what has been requested is not a record subject to the FOIA; a determination on any disputed fee matter, including a denial of a request for a fee waiver or reduction or placement in a particular fee category; and a denial of a request for expedited treatment. An adverse determination to an administrative appeal by the Chief FOIA Officer will be the final action of the Agency. An adverse determination will inform the requester of the right to seek dispute resolution services from the Agency's FOIA Public Liaison or the Office of Government Information Services, as well as the right to appeal the adverse determination under the administrative appeal provisions of paragraph (c)(2)(v) of this section.
