
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter I - National Labor Relations Board
#### PART 102 - RULES AND REGULATIONS, SERIES 8
##### Subpart K - Records and Information
###### ยง 102.117 Freedom of Information Act Regulations: Agency materials including formal documents available pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act; requests for described records; time limit for response; appeal from denial of request; fees for document search, duplication, and review; files and records not subject to inspection.
####### Administrative appeals.

(v)(A) An appeal from an adverse determination made pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section must be filed within 90 calendar days of the service of the notification of the adverse determination, in whole or in part. Appeals of adverse determinations made by the FOIA Officer or the Office of the Inspector General may be filed with the Division of Legal Counsel in Washington, DC.

(B) As provided in paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section, an adverse determination will notify the requester of the right to appeal the adverse determination and will specify where such appeal may be filed. Within 20 working days after receipt of an appeal, the Chief FOIA Officer will make a determination with respect to such appeal and will notify the requester in writing. If the determination is to grant the appeal, the responsive records will be made promptly available to the requester upon receipt of payment of any charges due in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(2) of this section. If the appeal is denied, in whole or in part, the requester will be notified of the reasons for the decision, the name and title or position of any person responsible for the denial, and the provisions for judicial review of that determination under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. Section 552(4)(B).

(C) Before seeking judicial review of an adverse determination, a requester must first submit a timely administrative appeal.

(D) Even if no FOIA appeal is filed, the Chief FOIA Officer may, without regard to the time limit for filing of an appeal, initiate reconsideration of an adverse determination by issuing written notice to the requester. In such event, the time limit for making the determination will commence with the issuance of such notification.
