
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter I - National Labor Relations Board
#### PART 102 - RULES AND REGULATIONS, SERIES 8
##### Subpart K - Records and Information
###### ยง 102.117 Freedom of Information Act Regulations: Agency materials including formal documents available pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act; requests for described records; time limit for response; appeal from denial of request; fees for document search, duplication, and review; files and records not subject to inspection.
####### Representative of the news media,news,news

(vii)refers to any person actively gathering news for an entity that is organized and operated to publish or broadcast news to the public. The termmeans information that is about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. Examples of news media entities include television or radio stations broadcasting to the public at large and publishers of periodicals (but only in instances where they can qualify as disseminators of) who make their products available for purchase or subscription by the general public. For "freelance" journalists to be regarded as working for a news organization, they must demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication through that organization. A publication contract is the clearest proof, but the Agency will also look to the past publication record of a requester in making this determination. To be in this category, a requester must not be seeking the requested records for commercial use. However, a request for records supporting the news dissemination function of the requester will not be considered to be for a commercial use.
