
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter I - National Labor Relations Board
#### PART 102 - RULES AND REGULATIONS, SERIES 8
##### Subpart K - Records and Information
###### ยง 102.117 Freedom of Information Act Regulations: Agency materials including formal documents available pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act; requests for described records; time limit for response; appeal from denial of request; fees for document search, duplication, and review; files and records not subject to inspection.
####### Schedule of charges:

(i)

(A) For each one-quarter hour or portion thereof of clerical time $3.10.

(B) For each one-quarter hour or portion thereof of professional time $9.25.

(C) For each sheet of duplication (not to exceed 8by 14 inches) of requested records $0.12.

(D) All other direct costs of preparing a response to a request will be charged to the requester in the same amount as incurred by the Agency. Such costs will include, but not be limited to: Certifying that records are true copies; sending records to requesters or receiving records from the Federal records storage centers by special methods such as express mail; and, where applicable, conducting computer searches for information and for providing information in electronic format.

(ii) Fees incurred in responding to information requests are to be charged in accordance with the following categories of requesters:

(A) Commercial use requesters will be assessed charges to recover the full direct costs for searching for, reviewing for release, and duplicating the records sought. Requesters must reasonably describe the records sought.

(B) Educational institution requesters will be assessed charges for the cost of reproduction alone, excluding charges for the first 100 pages. To be eligible for inclusion in this category, requesters must show that the request is being made under the auspices of a qualifying institution and that the records are not sought for commercial use, but are sought in furtherance of scholarly research. Requesters must reasonably describe the records sought.

(C) Requesters who are representatives of the news media will be assessed charges for the cost of reproduction alone, excluding charges for the first 100 pages. To be eligible for inclusion in this category, a requester must meet the criteria in paragraph (d)(1)(vii) of this section, and the request must not be made for commercial use. In reference to this class of requester, a request for records supporting the news dissemination function of the requester will not be considered to be a request for commercial use. Requesters must reasonably describe the records sought.

(D) All other requesters, not elsewhere described, will be assessed charges to recover the full reasonable direct cost of searching for and reproducing records that are responsive to the request, except that the first 100 pages of reproduction and the first 2 hours of search time will be furnished without charge. Requesters must reasonably describe the records sought.

(E) Absent a reasonably based factual showing that a requester may be placed in a particular user category, fees will be imposed as provided for in the commercial use requester category.
