
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter I - National Labor Relations Board
#### PART 102 - RULES AND REGULATIONS, SERIES 8
##### Subpart K - Records and Information
###### ยง 102.117 Freedom of Information Act Regulations: Agency materials including formal documents available pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act; requests for described records; time limit for response; appeal from denial of request; fees for document search, duplication, and review; files and records not subject to inspection.
####### Assumption of financial responsibility for processing requests.

(vi)Each request for records must contain a specific statement assuming financial liability, in full or to a specified maximum amount, for charges, in accordance with paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, which may be incurred by the Agency in responding to the request. If the anticipated charges exceed the maximum limit stated by the person making the request, or if the request contains no assumption of financial liability or charges, the requester will be notified and afforded an opportunity to assume financial liability. In either case, the request for records will not be deemed received for purposes of the applicable time limit for response until a written assumption of financial liability is received. The Agency may require a requester to make an advance payment of anticipated fees under the following circumstances:

(A) If the anticipated charges are likely to exceed $250, the Agency will notify the requester of the likely cost and obtain satisfactory assurance of full payment when the requester has a history of prompt payment of FOIA fees, or require an advance payment of an amount up to the full estimated charges in the case of requesters with no history of payment.

(B) If a requester has previously failed to pay fees that have been charged in processing a request within 30 days of the date the notification of fees was sent, the requester will be required to pay the entire amount of fees that are owed, plus interest as provided for in paragraph (d)(2)(v) of this section, before the Agency will process a further information request. In addition, the Agency may require advance payment of fees that the Agency estimates will be incurred in processing the further request before the Agency commences processing that request. When the Agency acts under paragraph (d)(2)(vi)(A) or (B) of this section, the administrative time limits for responding to a request or an appeal from initial determinations will begin to run only after the Agency has received the fee payments required in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
