
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 6 - RULES OF PRACTICE FOR ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS ENFORCING LABOR STANDARDS IN FEDERAL AND FEDERALLY ASSISTED CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS AND FEDERAL SERVICE CONTRACTS
#### Subpart B - Enforcement Proceedings Under the Service Contract Act (and Under the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act for Contracts Subject to the Service Contract Act)
##### § 6.19 Decision of the Administrative Law Judge.
###### Decision of the Administrative Law Judge.

(b)(1) Within a reasonable time after the time allowed for the filing of proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, and order, or within 30 days after receipt of an agreement containing consent findings and order disposing of the disputed matter in whole, the Administrative Law Judge shall make his/her decision. If any aggrieved party desires review of the decision, a petition for review thereof shall be filed as provided in § 6.20 of this title, and such decision and order shall be inoperative unless and until the Administrative Review Board issues an order affirming the decision. The decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall include findings of fact and conclusions of law, with reasons and bases therefor, upon each material issue of fact, law, or discretion presented on the record. The decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall be based upon a consideration of the whole record, including any admissions made under §§ 6.16, 6.17 and 6.18 of this title. It shall be supported by reliable and probative evidence. Such decision shall be in accordance with the regulations and rulings contained in parts 4 and 5 and other pertinent parts of this title.

(2) If the respondent is found to have violated the Service Contract Act, the Administrative Law Judge shall include in his/her decision an order as to whether the respondent is to be relieved from the ineligible list as provided in section 5(a) of the Act, and, if relief is ordered, findings of the unusual circumstance, within the meaning of section 5(a) of the Act, which are the basis therefor. If respondent is found to have violated the provisions of the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act, the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an order as to whether the respondent is to be subject to the ineligible list as provided in § 5.12(a)(1) of part 4 of this title, including findings regarding the existence of aggravated or willful violations. If wages and/or fringe benefits are found due under the Service Contract Act and/or the Contract Work Safety Standards Act and are unpaid, no relief from the ineligible list shall be ordered except on condition that such wages and/or fringe benefits are paid.

(3) The Administrative Law Judge shall make no findings regarding liquidated damages under the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act.
