
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter I - National Labor Relations Board
#### PART 102 - RULES AND REGULATIONS, SERIES 8
##### Subpart K - Records and Information
###### ยง 102.119 Privacy Act Regulations: Notification as to whether a system of records contains records pertaining to requesting individuals; requests for access to records, amendment of such records, or accounting of disclosures; time limits for response; appeal from denial of requests; fees for document duplication; files and records exempted from certain Privacy Act requirements.
####### maintain

(9) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(5) requires an agency to maintain its records with such accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness as is reasonably necessary to assure fairness to the individual in making any determination about the individual. Since the Act definesto include the collection of information, complying with this provision could prevent the collection of any data not shown to be accurate, relevant, timely, and complete at the moment it is collected. In collecting information for criminal law enforcement purposes, it is not possible to determine in advance what information is accurate, relevant, timely, and complete. Facts are first gathered and then placed into a logical order to prove or disprove objectively the criminal behavior of an individual. Material which seems unrelated, irrelevant, or incomplete when collected can take on added meaning or significance as the investigation progresses. The restrictions of this provision could interfere with the preparation of a complete investigative report, thereby impeding effective law enforcement.

(10) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(8) requires an agency to make reasonable efforts to serve notice on an individual when any record on such individual is made available to any person under compulsory legal process when such process becomes a matter of public record. Complying with this provision could prematurely reveal an ongoing criminal investigation to the subject of the investigation.

(11) 5 U.S.C. 552a(f)(1) requires an agency to promulgate rules that establish procedures whereby an individual can be notified in response to the individual's request if any system of records named by the individual contains a record pertaining to the individual. The application of this provision could impede or compromise an investigation or prosecution if the subject of an investigation were able to use such rules to learn of the existence of an investigation before it could be completed. In addition, mere notice of the fact of an investigation could inform the subject and others that their activities are under or may become the subject of an investigation and could enable the subjects to avoid detection or apprehension, to influence witnesses improperly, to destroy evidence, or to fabricate testimony. Since this system would be exempt from subsection (d) of the Act, concerning access to records, the requirements of subsection (f)(2) through (5) of the Act, concerning agency rules for obtaining access to such records, are inapplicable to the extent that this system of records will be exempted from subsection (d) of the Act. Although this system would be exempt from the requirements of subsection (f) of the Act, OIG has promulgated rules which establish agency procedures because, under certain circumstances, it could be appropriate for an individual to have access to all or a portion of the individual's records in this system of records.

(12) 5 U.S.C. 552a(g) provides for civil remedies if an agency fails to comply with the requirements concerning access to records under subsections (d)(1) and (3) of the Act; maintenance of records under subsection (e)(5) of the Act; and any other provision of the Act, or any rule promulgated thereunder, in such a way as to have an adverse effect on an individual. Since this system of records would be exempt from subsections (c) (3) and (4), (d), (e)(1), (2), and (3) and (4)(G) through (I), (e)(5), and (8), and (f) of the Act, the provisions of subsection (g) of the Act would be inapplicable to the extent that this system of records will be exempted from those subsections of the Act.

(k) Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), the system of records maintained by the NLRB containing Agency Disciplinary Case Files (Nonemployees) are exempt from the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4) (G), (H), and (I), and (f) insofar as the system contains investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes other than material within the scope of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2).

(l) The Privacy Act exemption set forth in paragraph (k) of this section is claimed on the ground that the requirements of subsections (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4) (G), (H), and (I), and (f) of the Privacy Act, if applied to Agency Disciplinary Case Files, would seriously impair the ability of the NLRB to conduct investigations of alleged or suspected violations of the NLRB's misconduct rules, as set forth in paragraphs (j)(1), (3), (4), (7), (8), and (11) of this section.

(m) Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes that is contained in the Next Generation Case Management System (NxGen) (NLRB-33), are exempt from the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I), and (f). This information was formerly contained within the following legacy systems, which remain accessible and which also are exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), as follows:

(1) The following three legacy systems of records are exempt in their entirety from provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I), and (f), because the systems contain investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2): Case Activity Tracking System (CATS) and Associated Regional Office Files (NLRB-25), Regional Advice and Injunction Litigation System (RAILS) and Associated Headquarters Files (NLRB-28), and Appeals Case Tracking System (ACTS) and Associated Headquarters Files (NLRB-30).

(2) Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), limited categories of information from the following four systems of records are exempt from the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (e)(4)(H), (e)(4)(I), and (f), insofar as the systems contain investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2):

(i) The legacy Judicial Case Management Systems-Pending Case List (JCMS-PCL) and Associated Headquarters Files (NLRB-21)-information relating to requests to file injunctions under 29 U.S.C. 160(j), requests to initiate federal court contempt proceedings, certain requests that the Board initiate litigation or intervene in non-Agency litigation, and any other investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes;

(ii) The legacy Solicitor's System (SOL) and Associated Headquarters Files (NLRB-23)-information relating to requests to file injunctions under 29 U.S.C. 160(j), requests to initiate federal court contempt proceedings, certain requests that the Board initiate litigation or intervene in non-Agency litigation, and any other investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes;

(iii) The legacy Special Litigation Case Tracking System (SPLIT) and Associated Headquarters Files (NLRB-27)-information relating to investigative subpoena enforcement cases, injunction and mandamus actions regarding Agency cases under investigation, bankruptcy case information in matters under investigation, Freedom of Information Act cases involving investigatory records, certain requests that the Board initiate litigation or intervene in non-Agency litigation, and any other investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes; and

(iv) The Freedom of Information Act Tracking System (FTS) and Associated Agency Files (NLRB-32)-information requested under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, that relates to the Agency's investigation of unfair labor practice and representation cases or other proceedings described in paragraphs (m)(1) and (2) of this section.

(n) The reasons for exemption under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) are as follows:

(1) 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) requires an agency to make the accounting of each disclosure of records available to the individual named in the record at such individual's request. These accountings must state the date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure of a record, and the name and address of the recipient. Providing such an accounting of investigatory information to a party in an unfair labor practice or representation matter under investigation could inform that individual of the precise scope of an Agency investigation, or the existence or scope of another law enforcement investigation. Accordingly, this Privacy Act requirement could seriously impede or compromise either the Agency's investigation, or another law enforcement investigation, by causing the improper influencing of witnesses, retaliation against witnesses, destruction of evidence, or fabrication of testimony.

(2) 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) requires an agency to permit an individual to gain access to records pertaining to such individual, to request amendment to such records, to request review of an agency decision not to amend such records, and, where the Agency refuses to amend records, to submit a statement of disagreement to be included with the records. Such disclosure of investigatory information could seriously impede or compromise the Agency's investigation by revealing the identity of confidential sources or confidential business information, or causing the improper influencing of witnesses, retaliation against witnesses, destruction of evidence, fabrication of testimony, or unwarranted invasion of the privacy of others. Amendment of the records could interfere with ongoing law enforcement proceedings and impose an undue administrative burden by requiring investigations to be continuously reinvestigated.

(3) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(1) requires an agency to maintain in its records only such information about an individual as is relevant and necessary to accomplish a purpose of the agency required by statute or by executive order of the President. This requirement could foreclose investigators from acquiring or receiving information the relevance and necessity of which is not readily apparent and could only be ascertained after a complete review and evaluation of all the evidence.

(4) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(G) and (H) require an agency to publish anotice concerning its procedures for notifying an individual, at the individual's request, if the system of records contains a record pertaining to the individual, for gaining access to such a record, and for contesting its content. Because certain information from these systems of records is exempt from subsection (d) of the Act concerning access to records, and consequently, from subsection (f) of the Act concerning Agency rules governing access, these requirements are inapplicable to that information.

(5) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(I) requires an agency to publish anotice concerning the categories of sources of records in the system of records. Exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources of information, to protect against the disclosure of investigative techniques and procedures, to avoid threats or reprisals against informers by subjects of investigations, and to protect against informers refusing to give full information to investigators for fear of having their identities as sources revealed.

(6) 5 U.S.C. 552a(f) requires an agency to promulgate rules for notifying individuals of Privacy Act rights granted by subsection (d) of the Act concerning access and amendment of records. Because certain information from these systems is exempt from subsection (d) of the Act, the requirements of subsection (f) of the Act are inapplicable to that information.

(o) Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1), (2), (3), (5), (6), and (7) of the Privacy Act, the system of records maintained by the NLRB containing Personnel Security Records shall be exempted from the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and (f) insofar as the system may contain:

(1) Records properly classified pursuant to an Executive Order, within the meaning of section 552(b)(1);

(2) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes other than material within the scope of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2);

(3) Information maintained in connection with providing protective services to the President of the United States or other individuals pursuant to section 3056 of title 18 of the U.S. Code;

(4) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility or qualifications for Federal civilian employment and Federal contact or access to classified information;

(5) Testing and examination materials used for a personnel investigation for employment or promotion in the Federal service;

(6) Evaluation materials, compiled during the course of a personnel investigation, that are used solely to determine potential for promotion in the armed services.

(p) The Privacy Act exemptions contained in paragraph (o) of this section are justified for the following reasons:

(1)(i) 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) requires an agency to make the accounting of each disclosure of records available to the individual named in the record at his/her request. These accountings must state the date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure of a record and the name and address of the recipient. 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) requires an agency to permit an individual to gain access to records pertaining to him/her, to request amendment to such records, to request a review of an agency decision not to amend such records, and to contest the information contained in such records.

(ii) Personnel investigations may contain properly classified information which pertains to national defense and foreign policy obtained from another Federal agency. Application of exemption 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1) is necessary to preclude an individual's access to and amendment of such classified information under 5 U.S.C. 552a(d).

(iii) Personnel investigations may contain investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes other than material within the scope of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). Application of exemption 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) is necessary to preclude an individual's access to or amendment of such records under 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (d).

(iv) Personnel investigations may also contain information obtained from another Federal agency that relates to providing protective services to the President of the United States or other individuals pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3056. Application of exemption 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(3) is necessary to preclude an individual's access to and amendment of such records under 5 U.S.C. 552a(d).

(v) Exemption 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) is claimed with respect to the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (d) because this system contains investigatory material compiled solely for determining suitability, eligibility, and qualifications for Federal employment. To the extent that the disclosure of material would reveal the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, or prior to September 27, 1975, under an implied promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, the applicability of exemption 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5) will be required to honor promises of confidentiality should an individual request access to or amendment of the record, or access to the accounting of disclosures of the record. Similarly, personnel investigations may contain evaluation material used to determine potential for promotion in the armed services. Application of exemption 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(7) is necessary to the extent that the disclosure of data would compromise the anonymity of a source under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, or, prior to September 27, 1975, under an implied promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence. Both of these exemptions are necessary to safeguard the integrity of background investigations by minimizing the threat of harm to confidential sources, witnesses, and law enforcement personnel. Additionally, these exemptions reduce the risks of improper influencing of sources, the destruction of evidence, and the fabrication of testimony.

(vi) All information in this system that meets the criteria articulated in exemption 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(6) is exempt from the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(d), relating to access to and amendment of records by an individual. This exemption is claimed because portions of this system relate to testing or examining materials used solely to determine individual qualifications for appointment or promotion to the Federal service. Access to or amendment to this information by an individual would compromise the objectivity and fairness of the testing or examining process.

(2) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(1) requires an agency to maintain in its records only such information about an individual as is relevant and necessary to accomplish a purpose of the agency required by statute or by executive order of the President. This requirement could foreclose investigators from acquiring or receiving information the relevance and necessity of which is not readily apparent and could only be ascertained after a complete review and evaluation of all the evidence. This system of records is exempt from this requirement because in the course of personnel background investigations, the accuracy of information obtained or introduced occasionally may be unclear, or the information may not be strictly relevant or necessary to favorably or unfavorably adjudicate a specific investigation at a specific point in time. However, in the interests of protecting the public trust and national security, it is appropriate to retain all information that may aid in establishing patterns in such areas as criminal conduct, alcohol and drug use, financial dishonesty, allegiance, foreign preference or influence, and psychological conditions, that are relevant to future personnel security or suitability determinations.

(3) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(G) and (H) require an agency to publish anotice concerning its procedures for notifying an individual, at his/her request, if the system of records contains a record pertaining to him/her, how to gain access to such a record and how to contest its content. Since this system of records is being exempted from subsection (f) of the Privacy Act, concerning agency rules, and subsection (d) of the Privacy Act, concerning access to records, these requirements are inapplicable to the extent that this system of records will be exempt from subsections (f) and (d) of the Privacy Act. Although the system would be exempt from these requirements, the NLRB has published information concerning its notification, access, and contest procedures because, under certain circumstances, it may be appropriate for a subject to have access to a portion of that individual's records in this system of records.

(4) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(I) requires an agency to publish anotice concerning the categories of sources of records in the system of records. Exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of the sources of information, to protect the privacy and physical safety of confidential sources and witnesses, and to avoid the disclosure of investigative techniques and procedures. Although the system will be exempt from this requirement, the agency has published source information in the accompanying notice in broad generic terms.

(5) 5 U.S.C. 552a(f) requires an agency to promulgate rules which shall establish procedures whereby an individual can be notified in response to a request if any system of records named by the individual contains a record pertaining to that individual. The application of this provision could compromise the progress of an investigation concerning the suitability, eligibility, and fitness for service of applicants for Federal employment and impede a prompt assessment of the appropriate access to the Agency's facilities. Although this system would be exempt from the requirements of subsection (f) of the Privacy Act, the Agency has promulgated rules which establish agency procedures because, under certain circumstances, it could be appropriate for an individual to have access to all or a portion of that individual's records in this system of records.

(q) Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1), (2), and (5), the system of records maintained by the NLRB containing NLRB iTrak and Banned Entry List records shall be exempted from the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and (f) insofar as the system may contain:

(1) Records properly classified pursuant to an Executive order, within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(1);

(2) Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes other than material within the scope of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2); and

(3) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for Federal civilian employment, military service, Federal contracts or access to classified information.

(r) The Privacy Act exemptions contained in paragraph (q) of this section are justified for the following reasons:

(1)(i) 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) requires an agency to make the accounting of each disclosure of records available to the individual named in the record at his/her request. These accountings must state the date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure of a record and the name and address of the recipient. 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) requires an agency to permit an individual to gain access to records pertaining to him/her, to request amendment to such records, to request a review of an agency decision not to amend such records, and to contest the information contained in such records.

(ii) iTrak and Banned Entry List records may contain properly classified information which pertains to national defense and foreign policy obtained from another Federal agency. Application of exemption (k)(1) is necessary to preclude an individual's access to and amendment of such classified information under 5 U.S.C. 552a(d), which would pose a risk of harm to national defense and foreign policy interests.

(iii) iTrak and Banned Entry List records may contain investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes other than material within the scope of 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2). Application of exemption (k)(2) is necessary to preclude an individual's access to or amendment of such records under 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (d), which would pose a risk of harm to law enforcement interests. Specifically, this exemption is necessary to safeguard the integrity of law enforcement investigations by minimizing the threat of harm to confidential sources, witnesses, and law enforcement personnel. Additionally, this exemption reduces the risks of improper influencing of sources, the destruction of evidence, and the fabrication of testimony.

(iv) Exemption (k)(5) is claimed with respect to the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (d) because this system contains investigatory material compiled solely for determining suitability, eligibility, and qualifications for Federal employment. To the extent that the disclosure of material would reveal the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, or, prior to September 27, 1975, under an implied promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, the applicability of exemption (k)(5) will be required to honor promises of confidentiality should an individual request access to or amendment of the record, or access to the accounting of disclosures of the record. This exemption is necessary to safeguard the integrity of security investigations by minimizing the threat of harm to confidential sources, witnesses, and law enforcement personnel. Additionally, this exemption reduces the risks of improper influencing of sources, the destruction of evidence, and the fabrication of testimony.

(2) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(1) requires an agency to maintain in its records only such information about an individual as is relevant and necessary to accomplish a purpose of the agency required by statute or by Executive order of the President. This requirement could foreclose investigators from acquiring or receiving information the relevance and necessity of which is not readily apparent and could only be ascertained after a complete review and evaluation of all the evidence. This system of records is exempt from this requirement because in the course of security investigations, the accuracy of information obtained or introduced occasionally may be unclear, or the information may not be strictly relevant or necessary to favorably or unfavorably adjudicate a specific investigation at a specific point in time. However, in the interests of protecting the public trust and national security, it is appropriate to retain all information that may aid in establishing patterns in such areas as criminal conduct, alcohol and drug use, financial dishonesty, allegiance, foreign preference or influence, and psychological conditions, that are relevant to future security determinations.

(3) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(G) and (H) require an agency to publish anotice concerning its procedures for notifying an individual, at his/her request, if the system of records contains a record pertaining to him/her, how to gain access to such a record, and how to contest its content. Since this system of records is being exempted from subsection (f) of the Privacy Act concerning agency rules, and subsection (d) of the Privacy Act concerning access to records, these requirements are inapplicable to the extent that this system of records will be exempt from subsections (d) and (f) of the Act. Although the system would be exempt from these requirements, the NLRB has published information concerning its notification, access, and contest procedures because, under certain circumstances, it may be appropriate for a subject to have access to a portion of that individual's records in this system of records.

(4) 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)(I) requires an agency to publish anotice concerning the categories of sources of records in the system of records. Exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of the sources of information, to protect the privacy and physical safety of confidential sources and witnesses, and to avoid the disclosure of investigative techniques and procedures. Although the system will be exempt from this requirement, the agency has published source information in the accompanying notice in broad generic terms.

(5) 5 U.S.C. 552a(f) requires an agency to promulgate rules which shall establish procedures whereby an individual can be notified in response to a request if any system of records named by the individual contains a record pertaining to that individual. The application of this provision could compromise the progress of a law enforcement investigation regarding security and impede a prompt assessment of the appropriate access to the Agency's facilities. Although this system would be exempt from the requirements of subsection (f) of the Act, the Agency has promulgated rules which establish agency procedures because, under certain circumstances, it could be appropriate for an individual to have access to all or a portion of that individual's records in this system of records.
