
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter I - National Labor Relations Board
#### PART 102 - RULES AND REGULATIONS, SERIES 8
##### Subpart S - Open Meetings
###### § 102.140 Action necessary to close meeting; record of votes.

A meeting will be closed to public observation under § 102.139, only when a majority of the Board Members who will participate in the meeting vote to take such action.

(a) When the meeting deliberations concern matters specified in § 102.139(a), the Board Members will vote at the beginning of the meeting, or portion of the meeting, on whether to close such meeting, or portion of the meeting, to public observation, and on whether the public interest requires that a meeting which may properly be closed may nevertheless be open to public observation. A record of such vote, reflecting the vote of each Board Member, will be kept and made available to the public at the earliest practicable time.

(b) When the meeting deliberations concern matters specified in § 102.139(b), the Board will vote on whether to close such meeting, or portion of the meeting, to public observation, and on whether there is a public interest which requires that a meeting which may properly be closed may nevertheless be open to public observation. The vote will be taken at a time sufficient to permit inclusion of information concerning the open or closed status of the meeting in the public announcement of the vote. A single vote may be taken with respect to a series of meetings at which the deliberations will concern the same particular matters where such subsequent meetings are scheduled to be held within 30 days after the initial meeting. A record of such vote, reflecting the vote of each Board Member, will be kept and made available to the public within one day after the vote is taken.

(c) Whenever any person whose interests may be directly affected by deliberations during a meeting, or a portion of a meeting, requests that the Board close the meeting, or a portion of the meeting, to public observation for any of the reasons specified in 5 U.S.C. 552b(c)(5) (matters of alleged criminal conduct or formal censure), (c)(6) (personal information where disclosure would cause a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy), or (c)(7) (certain materials or information from investigatory files compiled for law enforcement purposes), the Board Members participating in the meeting, upon request of any one of its Members, will vote on whether to close such meeting, or a portion of the meeting, for that reason. A record of such vote, reflecting the vote of each Board Member participating in the meeting will be kept and made available to the public within 1 day after the vote is taken.

(d) After public announcement of a meeting as provided in § 102.141, a meeting, or portion of a meeting, announced as closed may be opened, or a meeting, or portion of a meeting, announced as open may be closed, only if a majority of the Board Members who will participate in the meeting determine by a recorded vote that Board business so requires and that an earlier announcement of the change was not possible. The change made and the vote of each Board Member on the change will be announced publicly at the earliest practicable time.

(e) Before a meeting may be closed pursuant to § 102.139, the Solicitor of the Board will certify that in the Solicitor's opinion the meeting may properly be closed to public observation. The certification will set forth each applicable exemptive provision for such closing. Such certification will be retained by the Agency and made publicly available as soon as practicable.
