
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter I - National Labor Relations Board
#### PART 102 - RULES AND REGULATIONS, SERIES 8
##### Subpart S - Open Meetings
###### § 102.141 Notice of meetings; public announcement and publication.

(a) A public announcement setting forth the time, place, and subject matter of meetings or portions of meetings closed to public observation pursuant to the provisions of § 102.139(a) will be made at the earliest practicable time.

(b) Except for meetings closed to public observation pursuant to the provisions of § 102.139(a), the Agency will publicly announce each meeting to be held at least 7 days before the scheduled date of the meeting. The announcement will specify the time, place, and subject matter of the meeting, whether it is to be open to public observation or closed, and the name, address, and phone number of an Agency official designated to respond to requests for information about the meeting. The 7-day period for advance notice may be shortened only upon a determination by a majority of the Board Members who will participate in the meeting that Agency business requires that such meeting be called at an earlier date, in which event the public announcements will be made at the earliest practicable time. A record of the vote to schedule a meeting at an earlier date will be kept and made available to the public.

(c) Within 1 day after the vote to close a meeting, or any portion of a meeting, pursuant to the provisions of § 102.139(b), the Agency will make publicly available a full written explanation of its action closing the meeting, or portion of a meeting, together with a list of all persons expected to attend the meeting and their affiliation.

(d) If after public announcement required by paragraph (b) of this section has been made, the time and place of the meeting are changed, a public announcement will be made at the earliest practicable time. The subject matter of the meeting may be changed after the public announcement only if a majority of the Members of the Board who will participate in the meeting determine that Agency business so requires and that no earlier announcement of the change was possible. When such a change in subject matter is approved a public announcement of the change will be made at the earliest practicable time. A record of the vote to change the subject matter of the meeting will be kept and made available to the public.

(e) All announcements or changes issued pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section, or pursuant to provisions of § 102.140(d), will be submitted for publication in theimmediately following their release to the public.

(f) Announcements of meetings made pursuant to the provisions of this section shall be made publicly available by the executive secretary.
