
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter I - National Labor Relations Board
#### PART 102 - RULES AND REGULATIONS, SERIES 8
##### Subpart T - Awards of Fees and Other Expenses
###### ยง 102.147 Contents of application; net worth exhibit; documentation of fees and expenses.
####### Confidential Financial Information,

(g)(1) Unless otherwise directed by the Administrative Law Judge, the net worth exhibit will be included in the public record of the fee application proceeding. An applicant that objects to public disclosure of information in any portion of the exhibit may submit that portion of the exhibit in a sealed envelope labeledaccompanied by a motion to withhold the information from public disclosure. The motion must describe the information sought to be withheld and explain, in detail, why public disclosure of the information would adversely affect the applicant and why disclosure is not required in the public interest. The exhibit must be served on the General Counsel but need not be served on any other party to the proceeding. If the Administrative Law Judge finds that the information may not be withheld from disclosure, it will be placed in the public record of the proceeding.

(2) If the Administrative Law Judge grants the motion to withhold from public disclosure, the exhibit will remain sealed, except to the extent that its contents are required to be disclosed at a hearing. The granting of the motion to withhold from public disclosure will not determine the availability of the document under the Freedom of Information Act in response to a request made under the provisions of ยง 102.117. Notwithstanding that the exhibit may be withheld from public disclosure, the General Counsel may disclose information from the exhibit to others if required in the course of an investigation to verify the claim of eligibility.

(h) The application must be accompanied by full documentation of the fees and expenses for which an award is sought. A separate itemized statement must be submitted for each professional firm or individual whose services are covered by the application, showing the dates and the hours spent in connection with the proceeding by each individual, a description of the specific services performed, the rate at which each fee has been computed, any expenses for which reimbursement is sought, the total amount claimed, and the total amount paid or payable by the applicant or by any other person or entity for the services provided. The Administrative Law Judge may require the applicant to provide vouchers, receipts, or other substantiation for any expenses claimed.
