
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter I - National Labor Relations Board
#### PART 102 - RULES AND REGULATIONS, SERIES 8
##### Subpart T - Awards of Fees and Other Expenses
###### ยง 102.150 Answer to application; reply to answer; comments by other parties.

(a) Within 35 days after service of an application, the General Counsel may file an answer to the application. Unless the General Counsel requests an extension of time for filing or files a statement of intent to negotiate under paragraph (b) of this section, failure to file a timely answer may be treated as a consent to the award requested. The filing of a motion to dismiss the application will stay the time for filing an answer to a date 35 days after issuance of any order denying the motion. Within 21 days after service of any motion to dismiss, the applicant may file a response. Review of an order granting a motion to dismiss an application in its entirety may be obtained by filing a request with the Board in Washington, DC, pursuant to ยง 102.27.

(b) If the General Counsel and the applicant believe that the issues in the fee application can be settled, they may jointly file a statement of their intent to negotiate toward a settlement. The filing of such a statement will extend the time for filing an answer for an additional 35 days.

(c) The answer must explain in detail any objections to the award requested and identify the facts relied on in support of the General Counsel's position. If the answer is based on alleged facts not already in the record of the adversary adjudication, supporting affidavits must be provided or a request made for further proceedings under ยง 102.152.

(d) Within 21 days after service of an answer, the applicant may file a reply. If the reply is based on alleged facts not already in the record of the adversary adjudication, supporting affidavits must be provided or a request made for further proceedings under ยง 102.152.

(e) Any party to an adversary adjudication other than the applicant and the General Counsel may file comments on a fee application within 35 days after it is served and on an answer within 21 days after it is served. A commenting party may not participate further in the fee application proceeding unless the Administrative Law Judge determines that such participation is required in order to permit full exploration of matters raised in the comments.
