
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter I - National Labor Relations Board
#### PART 102 - RULES AND REGULATIONS, SERIES 8
##### Subpart U - Debt-Collection Procedures by Administrative Offset
###### ยง 102.160 Agency responsibilities.

(a) The Agency will provide appropriate written or other guidance to Agency officials in carrying out this subpart, including the issuance of guidelines and instructions. The Agency will also take such administrative steps as may be appropriate to carry out the purposes and ensure the effective implementation of this subpart.

(b) Before collecting a claim by means of administrative offset, the Agency must ensure that administrative offset is feasible, allowable and appropriate, and must notify the debtor of the Agency's policies for collecting a claim by means of administrative offset.

(c) Whether collection by administrative offset is feasible is a determination to be made by the Agency on a case-by-case basis, in the exercise of sound discretion. The Agency shall consider not only whether administrative offset can be accomplished, both practically and legally, but also whether administrative offset will further and protect the best interests of the United States Government. In appropriate circumstances, the Agency may give due consideration to the debtor's financial condition, and it is not expected that administrative offset will be used in every available instance, particularly where there is another readily available source of funds. The Agency may also consider whether administrative offset would substantially interfere with or defeat the purposes of the program authorizing the payments against which offset is contemplated.

(d) Administrative offset must be considered by the Agency only after attempting to collect a claim under 31 U.S.C. 3711(a).
