
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 6 - RULES OF PRACTICE FOR ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS ENFORCING LABOR STANDARDS IN FEDERAL AND FEDERALLY ASSISTED CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS AND FEDERAL SERVICE CONTRACTS
#### Subpart C - Enforcement Proceedings Under the Davis-Bacon Act and Related Prevailing Wage Statutes, the Copeland Act, and the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act (Except Under Contracts Subject to the Service Contract Act)
##### § 6.33 Decision of the Administrative Law Judge.
###### Decision of the Administrative Law Judge.

(b)(1) Within a reasonable time after the time allowed for filing of proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, and order, or within 30 days of receipt of an agreement containing consent findings and order disposing of the disputed matter in whole, the Administrative Law Judge shall make his/her decision. If any aggrieved party desires review of the decision, a petition for review thereof shall be filed as provided in § 6.34 of this title, and such decision and order shall be inoperative unless and until the Administrative Review Board either declines to review the decision or issues an order affirming the decision. The decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall include findings of fact and conclusions of law, with reasons and bases therefor, upon each material issue of fact, law, or discretion presented on the record. Such decision shall be in accordance with the regulations and rulings contained in part 5 and other pertinent parts of this title. The decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall be based upon a consideration of the whole record, including any admissions made in the respondent's answer (response) and § 6.32 of this title. It shall be supported by reliable and probative evidence.

(2) If the respondent is found to have violated the labor standards provisions of any of the statutes listed in § 5.1 of part 5 of this title other than the Davis-Bacon Act, and if debarment action was requested pursuant to the complaint (notification letter) or any amendment thereto, the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an order as to whether the respondent is to be subject to the ineligible list as provided in § 5.12(a)(1) of this title, including any findings of aggravated or willful violations. If the respondent is found to have violated the Davis-Bacon Act, and if debarment action was requested, the Administrative Law Judge shall issue as a part of the order a recommendation as to whether respondent should be subject to the ineligible list pursuant to section 3(a) of the Act, including any findings regarding respondent's disregard of obligations to employees and subcontractors. If wages are found due and are unpaid, no relief from the ineligible list shall be ordered or recommended except on condition that such wages are paid.

(3) The Administrative Law Judge shall make no findings regarding liquidated damages under the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act.
