
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 6 - RULES OF PRACTICE FOR ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS ENFORCING LABOR STANDARDS IN FEDERAL AND FEDERALLY ASSISTED CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS AND FEDERAL SERVICE CONTRACTS
#### Subpart E - Substantial Variance and Arm's Length Proceedings
##### ยง 6.54 Hearing.

(a) Except as provided in ยง 6.53(c) of this title, the hearing shall commence immediately upon the close of the prehearing conference. All matters remaining in controversy, including the presentation of additional evidence, shall be considered at the hearing. There shall be a minimum of formality in the proceeding consistent with orderly procedure.

(b) To expedite the proceeding the Administrative Law Judge shall, after consultation with the parties, set reasonable guidelines and limitations for the presentations to be made at the hearing. The Administrative Law Judge may limit cross-examination and may question witnesses.

(c) Under no circumstances shall source data obtained by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor, or the names of establishments contacted by the Bureau be submitted into evidence or otherwise disclosed. Where the Bureau has conducted a survey, the published summary of the data may be submitted into evidence.

(d) Affidavits or depositions may be admitted at the discretion of the Administrative Law Judge. The Administrative Law Judge may also require that unduly repetitious testimony be submitted as affidavits. Such affidavits shall be submitted within three days of the conclusions of the hearing.

(e) Counsel for the Administrator shall participate in the proceeding to the degree he/she deems appropriate.

(f) An expedited transcript shall be made of the hearing and of the prehearing conference.
