
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 7 - PRACTICE BEFORE THE ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW BOARD WITH REGARD TO FEDERAL AND FEDERALLY ASSISTED CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS
#### Subpart C - Review of Other Proceedings and Related Matters
##### ยง 7.9 Review of decisions in other proceedings.

(a) Any party or aggrieved person shall have a right to file a petition for review with the Board within a reasonable time from any final decision in any agency action under part 1, 3, or 5 of this subtitle.

(b) The petition shall state concisely the points relied upon, and shall be accompanied by a statement setting forth supporting reasons. Further, the petition shall indicate whether or not the petitioner consents to the disposition of the questions involved by a single member.

(c) A copy of the presentation shall be served upon the officer who issued the decision, and upon any other party or known interested person, as the case may be. In representing the officer who issued the final decision in any agency action under parts 1, 3, or 5 of the subtitle, the Solicitor shall, among other things, file promptly with the Board a record supporting the officer's decision, including any findings upon which the decision is based, after receipt of service of the petition.

(d) In representing the officer issuing a final decision in any agency action under parts 1, 3, and 5 of this subtitle, the Solicitor shall file with the Board a statement of the position of the officer who issued the final decision at issue, concerning the decision challenged; and shall make service on the petitioner and any other interested persons.

(e) The Board shall afford any other parties or known interested persons a reasonable opportunity to respond to the petition. Copies of any such response shall be served upon the officer issuing the decision below and upon the petitioner.

(f) The Board shall pass upon the points raised in the petition upon the basis of the entire record before it, and shall notify the parties to the proceeding of its decision. In any remand of a case as provided in ยง 7.1(e), the Board shall include any appropriate instructions.
