
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter IV - Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - Labor-Management Standards
##### PART 453 - GENERAL STATEMENT CONCERNING THE BONDING REQUIREMENTS OF THE LABOR-MANAGEMENT REPORTING AND DISCLOSURE ACT OF 1959
###### Criteria for Determining Who Must Be Bonded
####### ยง 453.8 Personnel who "handle" funds or other property.
######## General considerations.

(a)Section 502(a) requires "every" person specified in its bonding requirement "who handles" funds or other property of the labor organization or trust to be bonded. It does not contain any exemption based on the amount of the funds or other property handled by particular personnel. Therefore, if the bonding requirement is otherwise applicable to such persons, the amount of the funds or the value of the property handled by them does not affect such applicability. In determining whether a person "handles" funds or other property within the meaning of section 502(a), however, it is important to consider the term "handles" in the light of the basic purpose which Congress sought to achieve by the bonding requirement and the language chosen to make that purpose effective. Thus, while it is clear that section 502(a) should be considered as representing the minimum requirements which Congress deemed necessary in order to insure the reasonable protection of the funds and other property of labor organizations and trusts within the coverage of the section, it is equally clear from the legislative historyand the language used that Congress was aware of cost considerations and did not intend to require unreasonable, unnecessary or duplicative bonding. In terms of these general considerations, more specific content may be assigned to the term "handles" by reference to the prohibition in section 502(a) against permitting any person not covered by an appropriate bond "to receive, handle, disburse, or otherwise exercise custody or control" of the funds or other property of a labor organization or of a trust in which a labor organization is interested. The phrase "receive, handle, disburse, or otherwise exercise custody or control" is not to be considered as expanding the scope of the term "handles" but rather as indicating facets of "handles" which in a specific prohibition, Congress believed should be clearly set forth.
