
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 8 - PRACTICE BEFORE THE ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW BOARD WITH REGARD TO FEDERAL SERVICE CONTRACTS
#### Subpart A - Purpose and Scope
##### ยง 8.1 Purpose and scope.

(a) This part contains the rules of practice of the Administrative Review Board when it is exercising its jurisdiction described in paragraph (b) of this section.

(b) The Board has jurisdiction to hear and decide in its discretion appeals concerning questions of law and fact from final decisions of the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division or authorized representative, and from decisions of Administrative Law Judges under subparts B, D, and E of part 6 of this title, arising under the Service Contract Act and the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act where the contract is also subject to the Service Contract Act. The Board shall not have jurisdiction to pass on the validity of any portion of the Code of Federal Regulations which has been duly promulgated through notice and comment by the Department of Labor and shall observe the provisions thereof, where pertinent, in its decisions. The jurisdiction of the Board includes:

(1) Wage determinations issued under the Service Contract Act;

(2) Substantial variance proceedings or arm's-length negotiations proceedings pursuant to section 4(c) of the Service Contract Act;

(3) Debarment or other enforcement proceedings;

(4) Proceedings to determine substantial interest of debarred persons or firms;

(5) Decisions of the Wage-Hour Administrator or authorized representative regarding recommendations of a Federal agency for adjustment or waiver of liquidated damages assessed under the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act;

(6) Other final actions of the Wage-Hour Administrator or authorized representative (e.g., additional classification actions and rulings with respect to application of the Act(s), or the regulations, or of wage determinations issued thereunder).

(7) Other matters specifically referred to the Board by the Secretary of Labor.

(c) In considering the matters within the scope of its jurisdiction the Board shall act as the authorized representative of the Secretary of Labor and shall act as fully and finally as might the Secretary of Labor concerning such matters, except as provided in Secretary's Order 01-2020 (or any successor to that order).

(d) The Board is an appellate body and shall decide cases properly brought before it on the basis of all relevant matter contained in the entire record before it. Decisions by the Board shall be based upon the preponderance of the evidence before it. It may remand with appropriate instructions any case for the taking of additional evidence and the making of new or modified findings by reason of the additional evidence. However, unless the petition for review cities alleged procedural irregularities in the proceeding below and not the merits of a case, the Board shall not consider a petition for review filed by any party against whom default judgment has been entered pursuant to the provisions of part 6 of this title.
