
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter IV - Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Standards of Conduct
##### PART 458 - STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
###### Subpart C - Hearing and Related Matters
####### ยง 458.72 Motions and requests.

(a) Motions and requests made prior to the hearing shall be filed with the Chief Administrative Law Judge. The moving party shall serve a copy of all motions and requests on all other parties. Motions during the course of the hearing may be stated orally or filed in writing and shall be made part of the record. Each motion shall state the particular order, ruling, or action desired, and the grounds therefor. The Administrative Law Judge is authorized to rule upon all motions made prior to the filing of his report.

(b) A party may request the attendance of witnesses and/or the production of documents at a hearing held pursuant to this part, by written application before the hearing or orally during the hearing. Copies of an application filed before the opening of the hearing shall be served on the other parties, who may file written objections to the request within seven (7) days after such service. The Administrative Law Judge after consideration of any objections, shall grant the request provided the specified testimony and/or documents appear to be necessary to the matters under investigation. If the Administrative Law Judge denies the request he shall set forth the basis for his ruling. Upon the failure of any party or officer or employee of any party to comply with such a request which has been granted by the Administrative Law Judge, the Administrative Law Judge and the Administrative Review Board may disregard all related evidence offered by the party failing to comply with the request or take such other action as may be appropriate.

(c) Employees who have been determined to be necessary as witnesses at a hearing shall be granted official time only for such participation as occurs during their regular work hours and when they would otherwise be in a work or paid leave status. Participation as witnesses includes the time necessary to travel to and from the site of a hearing, and the time spent giving testimony and waiting to give testimony, when such time falls during regular work hours.
