
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter IV - Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Standards of Conduct
##### PART 458 - STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
###### Subpart C - Hearing and Related Matters
####### ยง 458.88 Submission of the Administrative Law Judge's recommended decision and order to the Administrative Review Board; exceptions.

(a) After the close of the hearing, and the receipt of briefs, or findings and conclusions, if any, the Administrative Law Judge shall prepare his recommended decision and order expeditiously. The recommended decision and order shall contain findings of fact, conclusions, and the reasons or basis therefor including credibility determinations, and recommendations as to the disposition of the case including the remedial action to be taken.

(b) The Administrative Law Judge shall cause his recommended decision and order to be served promptly on all parties to the proceeding. Thereafter, the Administrative Law Judge shall transfer the case to the Administrative Review Board including his recommended decision and order and the record. The record shall include the complaint, the notice of hearing, motions, rulings, orders, official transcript of the hearing, stipulations, objections, depositions, exhibits, documentary evidence and any briefs or other documents submitted by the parties.

(c) Exceptions to the Administrative Law Judge's recommended decision and order may be filed by any party with the Administrative Review Board within fifteen (15) days after service of the recommended decision and order, in accordance with 29 CFR part 26. The Administrative Review Board may for good cause shown extend the time for filing such exceptions. Requests for additional time in which to file exceptions shall be in writing, and copies thereof shall be served on the other parties. Requests for extension of time must be received no later than three (3) days before the date the exceptions are due. Copies of such exceptions and any supporting briefs shall be served on all other parties, and a statement of such service shall be furnished to the Administrative Review Board.
