
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter IV - Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter D - Notification of Employee Rights Under Federal Labor Laws
##### PART 471 - OBLIGATIONS OF FEDERAL CONTRACTORS AND SUBCONTRACTORS; NOTIFICATION OF EMPLOYEE RIGHTS UNDER FEDERAL LABOR LAWS
###### Subpart A - Definitions, Requirements for Employee Notice, and Exceptions and Exemptions
####### ยง 471.3 What exceptions apply and what exemptions are available?
######## Exceptions for specific types of contracts.

(a)The requirements of this part do not apply to any of the following:

(1) Collective bargaining agreements as defined in the Federal Service Labor-Management Relations Statute, entered into by an agency and the exclusive representative of employees in an appropriate unit to set terms and conditions of employment of those employees.

(2) Government contracts that involve purchases below the simplified acquisition threshold set by Congress under the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act. Therefore, the employee notice clause need not be included in government contracts for purchases below that threshold, provided that

(i) No agency or contractor is permitted to procure supplies or services in a manner designed to avoid the applicability of the Order and this part; and

(ii) The employee notice clause must be included in government contracts for indefinite quantities, unless the contracting agency or contractor has reason to believe that the amount to be ordered in any year under such a contract will be less than the simplified acquisition threshold set in the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act.

(3) Government contracts resulting from solicitations issued before the effective date of this rule.

(4) Subcontracts of $10,000 or less in value, except that contractors and subcontractors are not permitted to procure supplies or services in a manner designed to avoid the applicability of the Order and this part.

(5) Contracts and subcontracts for work performed exclusively outside the territorial United States.
