
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter IV - Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter D - Notification of Employee Rights Under Federal Labor Laws
##### PART 471 - OBLIGATIONS OF FEDERAL CONTRACTORS AND SUBCONTRACTORS; NOTIFICATION OF EMPLOYEE RIGHTS UNDER FEDERAL LABOR LAWS
###### Subpart A - Definitions, Requirements for Employee Notice, and Exceptions and Exemptions
####### Appendix A to Subpart A of Part 471 - Text of Employee Notice Clause

"1. During the term of this contract, the contractor agrees to post a notice, of such size and in such form, and containing such content as the Secretary of Labor shall prescribe, in conspicuous places in and about its plants and offices where employees covered by the National Labor Relations Act engage in activities relating to the performance of the contract, including all places where notices to employees are customarily posted both physically and electronically. The "Secretary's notice" shall consist of the following:

"The NLRA guarantees the right of employees to organize and bargain collectively with their employers, and to engage in other protected concerted activity. Employees covered by the NLRA* are protected from certain types of employer and union misconduct. This Notice gives you general information about your rights, and about the obligations of employers and unions under the NLRA. Contact the National Labor Relations Board, the Federal agency that investigates and resolves complaints under the NLRA, using the contact information supplied below, if you have any questions about specific rights that may apply in your particular workplace.

"Under the NLRA, you have the right to:

- Organize a union to negotiate with your employer concerning your wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment.

- Form, join or assist a union.

- Bargain collectively through representatives of employees' own choosing for a contract with your employer setting your wages, benefits, hours, and other working conditions.

- Discuss your terms and conditions of employment or union organizing with your co-workers or a union.
