
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter IV - Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter D - Notification of Employee Rights Under Federal Labor Laws
##### PART 471 - OBLIGATIONS OF FEDERAL CONTRACTORS AND SUBCONTRACTORS; NOTIFICATION OF EMPLOYEE RIGHTS UNDER FEDERAL LABOR LAWS
###### Subpart A - Definitions, Requirements for Employee Notice, and Exceptions and Exemptions
####### Appendix A to Subpart A of Part 471 - Text of Employee Notice Clause
######## seeking

- Take action with one or more co-workers to improve your working conditions by, among other means, raising work-related complaints directly with your employer or with a government agency, andhelp from a union.

- Strike and picket, depending on the purpose or means of the strike or the picketing.

- Choose not to do any of these activities, including joining or remaining a member of a union.

"Under the NLRA, it is illegal for your employer to:

- Prohibit you from soliciting for a union during non-work time, such as before or after work or during break times; or from distributing union literature during non-work time, in non-work areas, such as parking lots or break rooms.

- Question you about your union support or activities in a manner that discourages you from engaging in that activity.

- Fire, demote, or transfer you, or reduce your hours or change your shift, or otherwise take adverse action against you, or threaten to take any of these actions, because you join or support a union, or because you engage in concerted activity for mutual aid and protection, or because you choose not to engage in any such activity.

- Threaten to close your workplace if workers choose a union to represent them.

- Promise or grant promotions, pay raises, or other benefits to discourage or encourage union support.

- Prohibit you from wearing union hats, buttons, t-shirts, and pins in the workplace except under special circumstances.

- Spy on or videotape peaceful union activities and gatherings or pretend to do so.

"Under the NLRA, it is illegal for a union or for the union that represents you in bargaining with your employer to:

- Threaten you that you will lose your job unless you support the union.

- Refuse to process a grievance because you have criticized union officials or because you are not a member of the union.

- Use or maintain discriminatory standards or procedures in making job referrals from a hiring hall.

- Cause or attempt to cause an employer to discriminate against you because of your union-related activity.

- Take other adverse action against you based on whether you have joined or support the union.

"If you and your coworkers select a union to act as your collective bargaining representative, your employer and the union are required to bargain in good faith in a genuine effort to reach a written, binding agreement setting your terms and conditions of employment. The union is required to fairly represent you in bargaining and enforcing the agreement.
