
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - Regulations
##### PART 500 - MIGRANT AND SEASONAL AGRICULTURAL WORKER PROTECTION
###### Subpart A - General Provisions
####### ยง 500.20 Definitions.
######## employ,independent contractor,employment,Rutherford Food Corp.,McComb,,Real,Driscoll Strawberry Associates, Inc.,,Sec'y of Labor, U.S. Dept. of Labor,Lauritzen,,cert.,Beliz,McLeod,,Castillo,Givens,,cert. denied,,employee,Lauritzen,Beliz,Castillo,Real

(4) The definition of the termmay include consideration of whether or not anorrelationship exists under the Fair Labor Standards Act. Under MSPA, questions will arise whether or not a farm labor contractor engaged by an agricultural employer/association is a bona fide independent contractor or an employee. Questions also arise whether or not the worker is a bona fide independent contractor or an employee of the farm labor contractor and/or the agricultural employer/association. These questions should be resolved in accordance with the factors set out below and the principles articulated by the federal courts inv.331 U.S. 722 (1947),v.603 F.2d 748 (9th Cir. 1979),v.835 F.2d 1529 (7th Cir. 1987),denied, 488 U.S. 898 (1988);v.765 F.2d 1317 (5th Cir. 1985), andv.704 F.2d 181 (5th Cir.),464 U.S. 850 (1983). If it is determined that the farm labor contractor is anof the agricultural employer/association, the agricultural workers in the farm labor contractor's crew who perform work for the agricultural employer/association are deemed to be employees of the agricultural employer/association and an inquiry into joint employment is not necessary or appropriate. In determining if the farm labor contractor or worker is an employee or an independent contractor, the ultimate question is the economic reality of the relationship-whether there is economic dependence upon the agricultural employer/association or farm labor contractor, as appropriate.at 1538;at 1329;at 192;at 756. This determination is based upon an evaluation of all of the circumstances, including the following:

(i) The nature and degree of the putative employer's control as to the manner in which the work is performed;

(ii) The putative employee's opportunity for profit or loss depending upon his/her managerial skill;

(iii) The putative employee's investment in equipment or materials required for the task, or the putative employee's employment of other workers;

(iv) Whether the services rendered by the putative employee require special skill;

(v) The degree of permanency and duration of the working relationship;

(vi) The extent to which the services rendered by the putative employee are an integral part of the putative employer's business.
