
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - Regulations
##### PART 500 - MIGRANT AND SEASONAL AGRICULTURAL WORKER PROTECTION
###### Subpart A - General Provisions
####### ยง 500.20 Definitions.
######## employ,joint employer,joint employer,Hodgson,Griffin & Brand of McAllen, Inc.,cert. denied,,Griffin & Brand,,sole,joint employer,Griffin & Brand

(ii) The legislative history of the Act (H. Rep. No. 97-885, 97th Cong., 2d Sess., 1982) states that the legislative purpose in enacting MSPA was "to reverse the historical pattern of abuse and exploitation of migrant and seasonal farm workers * * *," which would only be accomplished by "advanc[ing] * * * a completely new approach" (Rept. at 3). Congress's incorporation of the FLSA termwas undertaken with the deliberate intent of adopting the FLSAdoctrine as the "central foundation" of MSPA and "the best means by which to insure that the purposes of this MSPA would be fulfilled" (Rept. at 6). Further, Congress intended that thetest under MSPA be the formulation as set forth inv.471 F.2d 235 (5th Cir.),414 U.S. 819 (1973) (Rept. at 7). In endorsingCongress stated that this formulation should be controlling in situations "where an agricultural employer * * * asserts that the agricultural workers in question are theemployees of an independent contractor/crewleader," and that the "decision makes clear that even if a farm labor contractor is found to be a bona fide independent contractor, * * * this status does not as a matter of law negate the possibility that an agricultural employer may be a joint employer * * * of the harvest workers" together with the farm labor contractor. Further, regarding thedoctrine and theformulation, Congress stated that "the absence of evidence on any of the criteria listed does not preclude a finding that an agricultural association or agricultural employer was a joint employer along with the crewleader", and that "it is expected that the special aspects of agricultural employment be kept in mind" when applying the tests and criteria set forth in the case law and legislative history (Rept. at 8).

(iii) In determining whether or not an employment relationship exists between the agricultural employer/association and the agricultural worker, the ultimate question to be determined is the economic reality-whether the worker is so economically dependent upon the agricultural employer/association as to be considered its employee.
