
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - Regulations
##### PART 500 - MIGRANT AND SEASONAL AGRICULTURAL WORKER PROTECTION
###### Subpart D - Motor Vehicle Safety and Insurance for Transportation of Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural Workers, Housing Safety and Health for Migrant Workers
####### Motor Vehicle Safety
######## § 500.102 Applicability of vehicle safety standards.

(a) Any passenger automobile or station wagon used or caused to be used by any farm labor contractor, agricultural employer or agricultural association to transport any migrant or seasonal agricultural worker shall meet the vehicle safety standards prescribed in § 500.104.

(b) Any vehicle, other than a passenger automobile or station wagon, used or caused to be used by any farm labor contractor, agricultural employer or agricultural association to transport any migrant or seasonal agricultural worker pursuant to a day-haul operation shall be subject to the safety standards prescribed under § 500.105.

(c) Any vehicle, other than a passenger automobile or station wagon, which has been or is being used or caused to be used for any trip of a distance greater than 75 miles by a farm labor contractor, agricultural employer or agricultural association to transport any migrant or seasonal agricultural worker, shall be subject to the safety standards prescribed under § 500.105. One trip may have numerous intermediate stops.

(d) Any vehicle, other than a passenger automobile or station wagon, used or caused to be used by any farm labor contractor, agricultural employer or agricultural association to transport any migrant or seasonal agricultural worker in any manner not addressed by paragraphs (a), (b), or (c) of this section shall meet the vehicle safety standards prescribed in § 500.104.

(e) The use or intended use of a vehicle, other than a passenger automobile or station wagon, for transportation of the type identified in § 500.102(b) or § 500.102(c) will make the vehicle subject to the standards prescribed under § 500.105, so long as the vehicle is used for transportation subject to the Act and these regulations.

(f) Any pickup truck used only for transportation subject to § 500.104 when transporting passengers only within the cab shall be treated as a station wagon.

(g) Pursuant to section 401(b)(2)(C) of the Act, standards prescribed by the Secretary shall be in addition to, and shall not supersede nor modify, any standards prescribed under part II of the Interstate Commerce Act and any successor provision of subtitle IV of title 49, U.S. Code or the regulations issued thereunder which is independently applicable to transportation to which this section applies. A violation of any such standard shall also constitute a violation of the Act and these regulations.
