
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - Regulations
##### PART 500 - MIGRANT AND SEASONAL AGRICULTURAL WORKER PROTECTION
###### Subpart F - Administrative Proceedings
####### Procedures Relating to Hearing
######## ยง 500.212 Request for hearing.

(a) Any person desiring to request an administrative hearing on a determination referred to in ยง 500.210 shall make such request in writing to the official who issued the determination, at the Wage and Hour Division address appearing on the determination notice. Such request must be made no later than thirty (30) days after the date of issuance of the notice referred to in ยง 500.210.

(b) The request for such hearing shall be delivered in person or by mail to the Wage and Hour Division office at the address appearing on the determination notice upon which the request for a hearing is based, within the time set forth in paragraph (a) of this section. For the affected person's protection, if the request is by mail, it should be by certified mail.

(c) No particular form is prescribed for any request for hearing permitted by this part. However, any such request shall:

(1) Be typewritten or legibly written on size 8&#x2033; x 11&#x2033; paper;

(2) Specify the issue or issues stated in the notice of determination giving rise to such request;

(3) State the specific reason or reasons why the person requesting the hearing believes such determination is in error;

(4) Be signed by the person making the request or by an authorized representative of such person; and

(5) Include the address at which such person or authorized representative desires to receive further communications relating thereto.

(d) Civil money penalties under FLCRA shall be treated as follows:

(1) Determinations to assess civil money penalties for violations of FLCRA made prior to April 14, 1983 shall continue until a final administrative determination shall have been made in accordance with 29 CFR part 40.

(2) Determinations to assess civil money penalties for violations of FLCRA arising prior to April 14, 1983, made on or after April 14, 1983, shall continue until a final administrative determination shall have been made in accordance with these regulations.
