
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - Regulations
##### PART 500 - MIGRANT AND SEASONAL AGRICULTURAL WORKER PROTECTION
###### Subpart F - Administrative Proceedings
####### Post-Hearing Procedures
######## § 500.262 Decision and order of Administrative Law Judge.

(a) The Administrative Law Judge shall prepare, as promptly as practicable after the expiration of the time set for filing proposed findings and related papers a decision on the issues referred by the Secretary.

(b) In cases involving certificate actions as described in § 500.224(b), the Administrative Law Judge shall issue a decision within ninety (90) calendar days after the close of the hearing.

(c) The decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall be limited to a determination whether the respondent has violated the Act or these regulations, and the appropriateness of the remedy or remedies imposed by the Secretary. The Administrative Law Judge shall not render determinations on the legality of a regulatory provision or the constitutionality of a statutory provision.

(d) The decision of the Administrative Law Judge, for purposes of the Equal Access to Justice Act (5 U.S.C. 504), shall be limited to determinations of attorney fees and/or other litigation expenses in adversary proceedings requested pursuant to § 500.212 which involve the modification, suspension or revocation of a Certificate of Registration issued under the Act and these Regulations, and/or the imposition of a civil money penalty assessed for a violation of the Act or these Regulations. The Administrative Law Judge shall have no power or authority to award attorney fees and/or other litigation expenses pursuant to the provisions of the Equal Access to Justice Act or Regulations issued thereunder in any proceeding under MSPA or these Regulations involving the refusal to issue or renew a Certificate of Registration.

(e) The decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall include a statement of findings and conclusions, with reasons and basis therefor, upon each material issue presented on the record. The decision shall also include an appropriate order which may be to affirm, deny, reverse, or modify, in whole or in part, the determination of the Secretary. The reason or reasons for such order shall be stated in the decision.

(f) The Administrative Law Judge shall transmit to the Chief Administrative Law Judge the entire record including the decision. The Chief Administrative Law Judge shall serve copies of the decision on each of the parties.

(g) The decision when served shall constitute the final order of the Secretary unless the Secretary, pursuant to section 103(b)(2) or section 503(b)(2) of the Act, modifies or vacates the decision and order of the Administrative Law Judge.

(h) Except as provided in §§ 500.263 through 500.268, the administrative remedies available to the parties under the Act will be exhausted upon service of the decision of the Administrative Law Judge.
