
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - Regulations
##### PART 502 - ENFORCEMENT OF CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS FOR TEMPORARY ALIEN AGRICULTURAL WORKERS ADMITTED UNDER SECTION 218 OF THE IMMIGRATION AND NATIONALITY ACT (SUSPENDED 6-29-2009)
###### Subpart A - General Provisions
####### ยง 502.1 Purpose and scope.
######## Role of the Employment Standards Administration (ESA), Wage and Hour Division (WHD).,See

(c)(1) The Secretary is authorized to take actions that assure compliance with the terms and conditions of employment under sec. 218 of the INA, the regulations at 20 CFR part 655, subpart B, or these regulations, including the assessment of civil money penalties and seeking injunctive relief and specific performance of contractual obligations.8 U.S.C. 1188(g)(2).

(2) Certain investigatory, inspection, and law enforcement functions to carry out the provisions of sec. 218 of the INA have been delegated by the Secretary to the ESA, WHD. In general, matters concerning the obligations under a work contract between an employer of H-2A workers and the H-2A workers and U.S. workers hired in corresponding employment by H-2A employers are enforced by ESA, including whether employment was offered to U.S. workers as required under sec. 218 of the INA or 20 CFR part 655, subpart B, or whether U.S. workers were laid off or displaced in violation of program requirements. Included within the enforcement responsibility of WHD are such matters as the payment of required wages, transportation, meals, and housing provided during the employment. The WHD has the responsibility to carry out investigations, inspections, and law enforcement functions and in appropriate instances impose penalties, recommend revocation of existing certification(s) or debarment from future certifications, and seek injunctive relief and specific performance of contractual obligations, including recovery of unpaid wages (either directly from the employer or in the case of an H-2A Labor Contractors (H-2ALC), from the H-2ALC directly and/or from the insurer who issued the surety bond to the H-2ALC as required by 20 CFR part 655, subpart B and 29 CFR 501.8).
