
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - Regulations
##### PART 502 - ENFORCEMENT OF CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS FOR TEMPORARY ALIEN AGRICULTURAL WORKERS ADMITTED UNDER SECTION 218 OF THE IMMIGRATION AND NATIONALITY ACT (SUSPENDED 6-29-2009)
###### Subpart A - General Provisions
####### ยง 502.3 Discrimination prohibited.

(a) No person shall intimidate, threaten, restrain, coerce, blacklist, discharge, or in any manner discriminate against any person who has:

(1) Filed a complaint under or related to sec. 218 of the INA or these regulations;

(2) Instituted or caused to be instituted any proceedings related to sec. 218 of the INA or these regulations;

(3) Testified or is about to testify in any proceeding under or related to sec. 218 of the INA or these regulations;

(4) Exercised or asserted on behalf of himself or others any right or protection afforded by sec. 218 of the INA or these regulations; or

(5) Consulted with an employee of a legal assistance program or an attorney on matters related to sec. 218 of the INA, or to this subpart or any other Department regulation promulgated pursuant to sec. 218 of the INA.

(b) Allegations of discrimination against any person under paragraph (a) of this section will be investigated by the WHD. Where the WHD has determined through investigation that such allegations have been substantiated, appropriate remedies may be sought. The WHD may assess civil money penalties, seek injunctive relief, and/or seek additional remedies necessary to make the employee whole as a result of the discrimination, as appropriate, and may recommend to ETA debarment of any such violator from future labor certification. Complaints alleging discrimination against U.S. workers and immigrants based on citizenship or immigration status may also be forwarded by the WHD to the Department of Justice, Civil Rights Division, Office of Special Counsel for Immigration-Related Unfair Employment Practices.
