
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - Regulations
##### PART 502 - ENFORCEMENT OF CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS FOR TEMPORARY ALIEN AGRICULTURAL WORKERS ADMITTED UNDER SECTION 218 OF THE IMMIGRATION AND NATIONALITY ACT (SUSPENDED 6-29-2009)
###### Subpart B - Enforcement of Work Contracts
####### ยง 502.20 Debarment and revocation.
######## Notice of Recommended Debarment.,Notice of Recommended Debarment,Notice of Recommended Debarment

(c) Procedures for Debarment Recommendation. The WHD will send to the employer aThemust be in writing, must state the reason for the debarment recommendation, including a detailed explanation of the grounds for and the duration of the recommended debarment. The debarment recommendation will be forwarded to the Administrator, OFLC. Theshall be issued no later than 2 years after the occurrence of the violation.

(d) The WHD may recommend to the Administrator, OFLC the revocation of a temporary agricultural labor certification if the WHD finds that the employer:

(1) Willfully violated a material term or condition of the approved temporary agricultural labor certification, work contract, or this part, unless otherwise provided under paragraphs (d)(2) through (4) of this section.

(2) Failed, after notification, to cure a substantial violation of the applicable housing standards set out in 20 CFR 655.104(d);

(3) Failed to cooperate with a DOL investigation or with a DOL official performing an investigation, inspection, or law enforcement function under sec. 218 of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1188, this subpart, or 29 CFR part 501 (ESA enforcement of contractual obligations); or

(4) Failed to comply with one or more sanctions or remedies imposed by the ESA for violation(s) of obligations found by that agency (if applicable), or with one or more decisions or orders of the Secretary or a court order Secured by the Secretary under sec. 218 of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1188, this subpart, or 29 CFR part 501 (ESA enforcement of contractual obligations).

(e) In considering a recommendation made by the WHD to debar an employer or to revoke a temporary agricultural labor certification, the Administrator, OFLC shall treat final agency determinations that the employer has committed a violation as res judicata and shall not reconsider those determinations.
