
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - Regulations
##### PART 510 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE MINIMUM WAGE PROVISIONS OF THE 1989 AMENDMENTS TO THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT IN PUERTO RICO
###### Subpart A - General
####### ยง 510.2 Purpose and scope of regulations.

(a) The purpose of these regulations is to implement the 1989 Amendments to the FLSA with respect to minimum wage increases in Puerto Rico. These regulations establish the applicable wage rates and effective dates in the four statutory tiers and categorize industries and governmental entities in Puerto Rico in those tiers according to average hourly wage rates. In addition, these regulations explain the methodology used to determine appropriate tiers, including the use of standard industrial classification (SIC) codes to categorize industries.

(b) Subpart A of this part summarizes the provisions of the Amendments as applicable to Puerto Rico and defines the terms used herein. Subpart B of this part states the specific minimum wage rates for each tier and the effective dates of those rates. Subpart C of this part explains how industry and governmental categories were determined, the general methodology used to conduct the surveys which provided the data used to determine average hourly wage rates, and special issues in the classification of governmental entities. Appendix A of this part contains a listing of manufacturing industries by Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) code and indicates the tier to which each industry is subject. Appendix B of this part contains a listing of nonmanufacturing industries by SIC code and indicates the tier to which each industry is subject. Appendix C of this part contains a listing of government corporations and indicates the tier to which each such corporation is subject. Appendix D of this part contains a listing of municipalities and indicates the tier to which each municipality is subject.

(c) Nothing contained in this part should be construed as precluding the Puerto Rico Minimum Wage Board, which has been granted authority to promulgate minimum wage rates above the Federal statutory minimum, from providing for increases in any industry which would exceed the rates provided for in these regulations or in section 6(a)(1) of the Act.
