
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - Regulations
##### PART 510 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE MINIMUM WAGE PROVISIONS OF THE 1989 AMENDMENTS TO THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT IN PUERTO RICO
###### Subpart B - Schedule of Minimum Wage Rates Applicable in Puerto Rico
####### ยง 510.10 Table of wage rates and effective dates.

(a) The following table provides effective dates of minimum wage increases for the four statutory tiers. Appendices A and B to these regulations contain listings of manufacturing and non-manufacturing industries in Puerto Rico by SIC code, and indicate which tier is applicable. Appendices C and D contain listings of government corporations and municipalities and indicate which tier is applicable.

(b) Tier 1 applies to employees of the United States, employees of hotels, motels, or restaurants, retail or service establishments that employ such employees primarily in connection with the preparation or offering of food or beverages for human consumption, and industries in which the average hourly wage is greater than $4.64.

(c) Tier 2 applies to industries in which the average hourly wage is not less than $4.00 but not more than $4.64.

(d) Tier 3 applies to industries in which the average hourly wage is less than $4.00.

(e) Tier 4 applies to certain employees of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, municipalities, and other governmental entities of the Commonwealth in which the average hourly wage is less than $4.00.
