
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - Regulations
##### PART 510 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE MINIMUM WAGE PROVISIONS OF THE 1989 AMENDMENTS TO THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT IN PUERTO RICO
###### Subpart C - Classification of Industries
####### ยง 510.25 Traditional functions of government.
######## National League of Cities,Usery,,Garcia,San Antonio Metropolitan Transit Authority,

(a) Section 6(c)(4) of the Act, as amended, limits the six-year phase-in of the statutory minimum wage ("Tier 4") to those employees with an average wage of less than $4.00 per hour who were brought under minimum wage coverage "pursuant to an amendment made by the Fair Labor Standards Amendments of 1985." The Department has interpreted this language as referring to section 2(c) of the 1985 FLSA Amendments, which provided for deferred liability for minimum wage violations (until April 15, 1986) "with respect to any employee who would not have been covered under the Secretary's special enforcement policy" published in 29 CFR 775.2 and 775.4. The latter subsection listed those functions of State or local government which were determined by the Supreme Court's ruling inv.426 U.S. 833 (1976) (subsequently overruled byv.469 U.S. 528 (1985)) to be integral operations of the governments in areas of traditional governmental functions. The listed "traditional" functions included the following:

(1) Schools.

(2) Hospitals.

(3) Fire prevention.

(4) Police protection.

(5) Sanitation.

(6) Public health.

(7) Parks and recreation.

(8) Libraries.

(9) Museums.
