
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - Regulations
##### PART 510 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE MINIMUM WAGE PROVISIONS OF THE 1989 AMENDMENTS TO THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT IN PUERTO RICO
###### Subpart C - Classification of Industries
####### ยง 510.25 Traditional functions of government.
######## National League of Cities

(b) The Supreme Court inclearly did not limit "traditional" functions of government to those set out in paragraph (a) of this section. The Court included within this concept all those governmental services which the States and their political subdivisions have traditionally afforded their citizens, which the States have regarded as integral parts of their governmental activities, and which State and local governments are created to provide. The Department interprets the Court's analysis of "traditional" functions as turning in large part upon whether the States or local governments had, prior to initial enactment of federal regulatory legislation applicable to a particular field of service or activity (such as FLSA), generally established themselves as providers of the services. The Department therefore views the following government functions as falling within the "traditional" category:

(1) Finance (including Auditor, Budget and Comptroller).

(2) Elections.

(3) Personnel.

(4) Public works.

(5) Office of the Mayor.

(6) Legal Affairs.

(7) Planning.

(8) Waterworks.

(9) Social services.

(10) Street and highway construction and maintenance.

(11) Automobile licensing.

(12) Sewage treatment.

(c) Employees whose primary function falls within one or more of the activities listed in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, are therefore considered to be engaged in "traditional" functions of government. This would include employees who provide support functions for such activities, such as clerical, secretarial, supply and janitorial.

(d) No employees of a municipality or government corporation may be paid in accordance with the Tier 4 phase-in schedule unless the employee:

(1) Is engaged in one of the specific activities listed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, and

(2) Is employed by a municipality or government corporation in which the average wage is less than $4.00 per hour.
