
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - Regulations
##### PART 510 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE MINIMUM WAGE PROVISIONS OF THE 1989 AMENDMENTS TO THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT IN PUERTO RICO
###### Appendix A to Part 510 - Manufacturing Industries Eligible for Minimum Wage Phase-In
####### SIC Manual, 1987,

This appendix contains a listing of all manufacturing industries for which data were collected and compiled by the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico for purposes of implementing the 1989 Amendments to FLSA. This listing follows the order and classifications used in thewhich is incorporated by reference in these regulations (ยง 510.21).

The data in this appendix are presented by major industry group (two-digit classification), industry group number (three-digit classification), and industry number (four-digit classification). Tiers will not be listed for industry categories in which there were fewer than three employers, in conformance with standard procedures used by the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico in collecting and publishing these data until such time as Puerto Rico receives appropriate waivers of confidentiality from all employers in such categories. These categories are noted with an "a" on the following table. In addition, no tier will be listed where an industry was not included in the original survey, because it was not in existence, because the industry was too small to be included, or for other reasons.

Employers who do not find the four-digit classification for their industry shall refer to the appropriate three-digit classification under which their establishment falls. If the appropriate three-digit classification is not listed, employers shall refer to the appropriate two-digit classification. For example, no tier is listed for industry number 2034, dried and dehydrated fruits, vegetables, and soup mixes. Thus, an employer in industry 2034 must use the tier listed for industry group 203, i.e. Tier 2.
