
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - Regulations
##### PART 510 - IMPLEMENTATION OF THE MINIMUM WAGE PROVISIONS OF THE 1989 AMENDMENTS TO THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT IN PUERTO RICO
###### Appendix B to Part 510 - Nonmanufacturing Industries Eligible for Minimum Wage Phase-In
####### SIC Manual, 1987,

This appendix contains a listing of all non-manufacturing industries (except those in major groups 01, 02, 08, and 09, pertaining to agriculture) for which data were collected and compiled by the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico for purposes of implementing the 1989 Amendments to FLSA. This listing follows the order and classifications used in thewhich is incorporated by reference in these regulations (ยง 510.21).

The data in this appendix are presented by major industry group (two-digit classification), industry group number (three-digit classification), and industry number (four-digit classification).

Tiers will not be listed for industry categories in which there were fewer than three responding employers, or one responding employer had more than 80 percent of the employment in the category, in conformance with practices of the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics in collecting and publishing similar data, until such time as Puerto Rico receives appropriate waivers of confidentiality from all employers in such categories. These categories are noted with an "a" on the following table. In situations where one or more employers declined to furnish a waiver, categories are noted with a "b" on the following table.

In addition, no tier will be listed where an industry was not included in the original survey because it was not in existence, because the industry was too small to be included, or for other reasons.

Employers who do not find the four-digit classification for their industry shall refer to the appropriate three-digit classification under which their establishment falls. If the appropriate three-digit classification is not listed, employers shall refer to the appropriate two-digit classification.
