
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - Regulations
##### PART 511 - WAGE ORDER PROCEDURE FOR AMERICAN SAMOA
###### ยง 511.14 Procedure for receiving evidence.

(a) All testimony shall be given under oath or affirmation. Any party shall have the right to appear in person, by counsel, or by other specified representative. Misconduct at any hearing shall be grounds for summary exclusion from the hearing. The committee shall limit the testimony of any witness where appropriate to prevent the hearing from becoming unduly prolonged. The refusal of a witness to answer any question which has been ruled to be proper shall, in the discretion of the committee, be ground for striking all testimony given by the witness on related matters.

(b) Unless otherwise directed by the committee, witnesses shall be called in the following order: The committee economist qualified to testify concerning the content and preparation of the economic report, other witnesses called by the Department of Labor, witnesses called by the parties, other witnesses. Unless otherwise directed by the committee, all witnesses other than those called by the parties shall be examined in the following order: By committee counsel, by committee economist, by committee members, by the parties or their representatives. Witnesses called by the parties shall be examined first by the party calling them or by the party's specified representative, and then in the order herein indicated for all other witnesses. Redirect examination may be permitted at the discretion of the committee. Rebuttal evidence may be offered in the order and manner in this section provided for other evidence. To the extent not specified in this section, the order for calling and examining witnesses shall be specified by the chairperson of the committee or subcommittee.
