
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - Regulations
##### PART 511 - WAGE ORDER PROCEDURE FOR AMERICAN SAMOA
###### ยง 511.16 Reports.

Promptly after receipt of submissions under ยง 511.15, the committee or subcommittee will resolve the issues before it and prepare a report containing its findings of fact and recommendations. The report shall contain the committee's or the subcommittee's findings and conclusions as well as the reasons or basis therefor upon all the material issues of fact, law, or discretion presented on the record. When a committee, acting through a quorum, has presided at the reception of evidence, this report shall be its final report on the matters referred to it. Where, however, a subcommittee has presided at the reception of evidence, this report shall be an initial report, and the committee shall meet thereafter to review the report and rule on exceptions in its final report. Where the committee presides at the reception of evidence and proceeds to final decision, every party shall be regarded as having objected to any wage rate or classification at variance with any the party proposed in the party's prehearing statements unless the party accepted such a rate or classification in any submittal made pursuant to ยง 511.15. A copy of the report shall be signed by each member of the committee who approves it, either at a meeting of the committee or by circulation of one or more copies among the members of the committee. At any time within 3 days after the committee report is signed by those who approve it, members dissenting therefrom may collectively or individually submit signed reports stating the reasons for their dissent.
