
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - Regulations
##### PART 516 - RECORDS TO BE KEPT BY EMPLOYERS
###### Subpart B - Records Pertaining to Employees Subject to Miscellaneous Exemptions Under the Act; Other Special Requirements
####### ยง 516.27 "Board, lodging, or other facilities" under section 3(m) of the Act.

(a) In addition to keeping other records required by this part, an employer who makes deductions from the wages of employees for "board, lodging, or other facilities" (as these terms are used in sec. 3(m) of the Act) furnished to them by the employer or by an affiliated person, or who furnishes such "board, lodging, or other facilities" to employees as an addition to wages, shall maintain and preserve records substantiating the cost of furnishing each class of facility except as noted in paragraph (c) of this section. Separate records of the cost of each item furnished to an employee need not be kept. The requirements may be met by keeping combined records of the costs incurred in furnishing each class of facility, such as housing, fuel, or merchandise furnished through a company store or commissary. Thus, in the case of an employer who furnishes housing, separate cost records need not be kept for each house. The cost of maintenance, utilities, and repairs for all the houses may be shown together. Original cost and depreciation records may be kept for groups of houses acquired at the same time. Costs incurred in furnishing similar or closely related facilities, moreover, may be shown in combined records. Where cost records are kept for a "class" of facility rather than for each individual article furnished to employees, the records must also show the gross income derived from each such class of facility; e.g., gross rentals in the case of houses, total sales through the store or commissary, total receipts from sales of fuel, etc.

(1) Such records shall include itemized accounts showing the nature and amount of any expenditures entering into the computation of the reasonable cost, as defined in part 531 of this chapter, and shall contain the data required to compute the amount of the depreciated investment in any assets allocable to the furnishing of the facilities, including the date of acquisition or construction, the original cost, the rate of depreciation and the total amount of accumulated depreciation on such assets. If the assets include merchandise held for sale to employees, the records should contain data from which the average net investment in inventory can be determined.

(2) No particular degree of itemization is prescribed. However, the amount of detail shown in these accounts should be consistent with good accounting practices, and should be sufficient to enable the Administrator or authorized representative to verify the nature of the expenditure and the amount by reference to the basic records which must be preserved pursuant to ยง 516.6(c)(2).

(b) If additions to or deductions from wages paid (1) so affect the total cash wages due in any workweek (even though the employee actually is paid on other than a workweek basis) as to result in the employee receiving less in cash than the applicable minimum hourly wage, or (2) if the employee works in excess of the applicable maximum hours standard and (i) any additions to the wages paid are a part of wages, or (ii) any deductions made are claimed as allowable deductions under sec. 3(m) of the Act, the employer shall maintain records showing on a workweek basis those additions to or deductions from wages. (For legal deductions not claimed under sec. 3(m) and which need not be maintained on a workweek basis, see part 531 of this chapter.)

(c) The records specified in this section are not required with respect to an employee in any workweek in which the employee is not subject to the overtime provisions of the Act and receives not less than the applicable statutory minimum wage in cash for all hours worked in that workweek. (The application of section 3(m) of the Act in nonovertime weeks is discussed in part 531 of this chapter.)
