
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - Regulations
##### PART 516 - RECORDS TO BE KEPT BY EMPLOYERS
###### Subpart B - Records Pertaining to Employees Subject to Miscellaneous Exemptions Under the Act; Other Special Requirements
####### ยง 516.28 Tipped employees and employer-administered tip pools.

(a) With respect to each tipped employee whose wages are determined pursuant to section 3(m) of the Act, the employer shall maintain and preserve payroll or other records containing all the information and data required in ยง 516.2(a) and, in addition, the following:

(1) A symbol, letter or other notation placed on the pay records identifying each employee whose wage is determined in part by tips.

(2) Weekly or monthly amount reported by the employee, to the employer, of tips received (this may consist of reports made by the employees to the employer on IRS Form 4070).

(3) Amount by which the wages of each tipped employee have been deemed to be increased by tips as determined by the employer (not in excess of the difference between $2.13 and the applicable minimum wage specified in section 6(a)(1) of the Act). The amount per hour which the employer takes as a tip credit shall be reported to the employee in writing each time it is changed from the amount per hour taken in the preceding week.

(4) Hours worked each workday in any occupation in which the employee does not receive tips, and total daily or weekly straight-time payment made by the employer for such hours.

(5) Hours worked each workday in occupations in which the employee receives tips, and total daily or weekly straight-time earnings for such hours.

(b) With respect to employees who receive tips but for whom a tip credit is not taken under section 3(m)(2)(A), any employer that collects tips received by employees to operate a mandatory tip-pooling or tip-sharing arrangement shall maintain and preserve payroll or other records containing the information and data required in ยง 516.2(a) and, in addition, the following:

(1) A symbol, letter, or other notation placed on the pay records identifying each employee who receive tips.

(2) Weekly or monthly amount reported by the employee, to the employer, of tips received (this may consist of reports made by the employees to the employer on IRS Form 4070).
