
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - Regulations
##### PART 516 - RECORDS TO BE KEPT BY EMPLOYERS
###### Subpart B - Records Pertaining to Employees Subject to Miscellaneous Exemptions Under the Act; Other Special Requirements
####### ยง 516.31 Industrial homeworkers.
######## Homeworker handbook.

(c)In addition to the information and data required in paragraph (b) of this section, a separate handbook (to be obtained by the employer from the Wage and Hour Division and supplied by such employer to each worker) shall be kept for each homeworker. The employer is required to insure that the hours worked and other information required therein is entered by the homeworker when work is performed and/or business-related expenses are incurred. This handbook must remain in the possession of the homeworker except at the end of each pay period when it is to be submitted to the employer for transcription of the hours worked and other required information and for computation of wages to be paid. The handbooks shall include a provision for written verification by the employer attesting that the homeworker was instructed to accurately record all of the required information regarding such homeworker's employment, and that, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, the information was recorded accurately. Once no space remains in the handbook for additional entries, or upon termination of the homeworker's employment, the handbook shall be returned to the employer. The employer shall then preserve this handbook for at least two years and make it available for inspection by the Wage and Hour Division on request.
