
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - Regulations
##### PART 519 - EMPLOYMENT OF FULL-TIME STUDENTS AT SUBMINIMUM WAGES
###### Subpart A - Retail or Service Establishments, and Agriculture
####### ยง 519.3 Application for a full-time student certificate.

(a) Whenever the employment of full-time students working outside of school hours in agriculture or in a retail or service establishment at wages lower than the minimum applicable under section 6 of the Fair Labor Standards Act is believed to be necessary to prevent curtailment of opportunities for employment and employment of them will not create a substantial probability of reducing the full-time employment opportunities of the other workers, an application for a certificate may be filed by their employer with the appropriate Regional Office of the Wage and Hour Division (or the Denver, Colorado Area Office for Colorado, North Dakota, and South Dakota; the Salt Lake City, Utah area Office for Montana, Utah, and Wyoming; and the Caribbean Office for the area it covers). Such application shall be signed by an authorized representative of the employer.

(b) The application must be filed in duplicate on official forms or exact copies thereof. The forms are available at the offices mentioned in paragraph (a) of this section. The application must contain the information as to the type of products sold or services rendered by the establishment, hours of employment during the preceding twelve-month period or data from previous certificates (or applications) as pertinent to the application, and other information for which request is made on the form.

(c) Separate application must be made for each farm or establishment in which authority to employ full-time students at subminimum wage rates is sought.

(d) Application for renewal of a certificate shall be made either on the same type of form as is used for a new application or on an alternate official form. No certificate in effect shall expire until action on such an application shall have been finally determined, provided that such application has been properly executed, and is received by the office specified in paragraph (a) of this section not less than 15 nor more than 30 days prior to the expiration date. A properly executed application is one which fully and accurately contains the information required on the form, and the required certification by an authorized representative of the employer.
