
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - Regulations
##### PART 519 - EMPLOYMENT OF FULL-TIME STUDENTS AT SUBMINIMUM WAGES
###### Subpart A - Retail or Service Establishments, and Agriculture
####### § 519.4 Procedure for action upon an application.

(a) Under certain conditions, an agricultural or retail or service establishment employer may obtain temporary authorization to employ full-time students at subminimum wages. These conditions are: (1) Attestation by the employer that he/she will employ no more than six full-time students at subminimum wages on any workday and that the employment of such students will not reduce the full-time employment opportunities of other persons, and (2) forwarding a properly completed application to the Wage and Hour Division not later than the start of such employment, and (3) posting a notice of such filing at the place(s) specified in paragraph (a) of § 519.6 of this subpart, and (4) compliance during the temporary authorization period with the requirements set forth in paragraphs (b) and (j) through (o) of § 519.6 of this subpart.

(b) Temporary authorization under the conditions set forth in paragraph (a) of this section is effective from the date the application is forwarded to the Wage and Hour Division in conformance with § 519.3 of this subpart. This authorization shall continue in effect for one year from the date of forwarding of the application unless, within 30 days the Administrator or his/her authorized representative denies the application, issues a certificate with modified terms and conditions, or expressly extends the 30-day period of review.

(c) Upon receipt of an application for a certificate, the officer authorized to act upon such application shall issue a certificate if the terms and conditions specified in this subpart are satisfied. To the extent he/she deems appropriate, the authorized officer may provide an opportunity to other interested persons to present data, views, or argument on the application prior to granting or denying a certificate.

(d) Until April 30, 1976, if a certificate is issued, there shall be published in thea general statement of the terms of such certificate together with a notice that, pursuant to § 519.9, for 45 days following such publication any interested person may file a written request for reconsideration or review. Thereafter, applications and certificates will be available for examination in accordance with applicable regulations in Washington, DC, and in the appropriate Regional Office of the Wage and Hour Division (or the Denver, Colorado Area Office for Colorado, North Dakota, and South Dakota; the Salt Lake City, Utah Area Office for Montana, Utah, and Wyoming; and the Caribbean Office for the area it covers) for establishments in its area. A period of 60 days will be provided after certificate issuance during which any interested person may file a written request for reconsideration or review.

(e) If a certificate is denied, notice of such denial shall be sent to the employer, stating the reason or reasons for the denial. Such denial shall be without prejudice to the filing of any subsequent application.
