
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - Regulations
##### PART 519 - EMPLOYMENT OF FULL-TIME STUDENTS AT SUBMINIMUM WAGES
###### Subpart B - Institutions of Higher Education
####### ยง 519.16 Terms and conditions of employment under full-time student certificates and under temporary authorization.

(a) A full-time student certificate will not be issued for a period longer than 1 year, nor will it be issued retroactively. It shall specify its effective and expiration dates. A copy of the certificate shall be posted during its effective period in a conspicuous place or places in the institution of higher education readily visible to all employees, for example, adjacent to the time clock or on the bulletin board used for notices to the employees. If temporary authorization is in effect under paragraph (a) of ยง 519.14, a notice thereof shall be similarly posted during the effective period of such authorization.

(b) Full-time students may not be employed under a certificate at less than 85 percent of the minimum wage applicable under section 6 of the Act.

(c) An institution of higher education shall not employ full-time students at subminimum wages under this subpart in unrelated trades or businesses as defined and applied under sections 511 through 515 of the Internal Revenue Code, such as apartment houses, stores, or other businesses not primarily catering to the students of the institution.

(d) An institution of higher education subject to a finding by the Secretary that it is in violation of the requirements of section 14(b)(3) of the Act or of this subpart must be issued a full-time student certificate before it can employ full-time students at wages below those required by section 6 of the Act. The Administrator or his/her authorized representative will not issue a full-time student certificate to such an institution without adequate assurances and safeguards to insure that the violations found by the Secretary will not continue.

(e) Full-time students shall not be permitted to work at subminimum wages for more than 8 hours a day, nor for more than 40 hours a week when school is not in session, nor more than 20 hours a week when school is in session (apart from a full-time student's summer vacation), except that when a full-day school holiday occurs the weekly limitation on the maximum hours which may be worked shall be increased by 8 hours for each such holiday but in no event shall the 40-hour limitation be exceeded. (Note: School is considered to be in session for a student taking one or more courses during a summer or other vacation.) Whenever a full-time student is employed for more than 20 hours in any workweek in conformance with this paragraph, the employer shall note in his/her payroll that school was not in session during all or part of that workweek or the student was in his/her summer vacation.

(f) Neither oppressive child labor as defined in section 3(1) of the Act and regulations issued under the Act nor any other employment in violation of a Federal, State or local child labor law or ordinance shall come within the terms of any certificate issued under this subpart.
