
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - Regulations
##### PART 520 - EMPLOYMENT UNDER SPECIAL CERTIFICATE OF MESSENGERS, LEARNERS (INCLUDING STUDENT-LEARNERS), AND APPRENTICES
###### Subpart B - What are the General Provisions Governing the Employment of Messengers, Learners (Including Student-Learners), and Apprentices at Subminimum Wages?
####### § 520.204 If someone does not agree with the Department of Labor's decision on a certificate, can the decision be appealed?

(a) Any person, applicant, trade union, association, etc. who does not agree with action granting or denying a certificate (pursuant to §§ 520.406 and 520.505) may, within 60 days of that action or such additional time as the Administrator may allow, file with the Administrator a petition for review. The decision of the Administrator becomes final unless such a written request is timely filed.

(b) Such requests should contain a statement of the additional evidence which the person believes may materially affect the decision and establish that there were reasonable grounds for failure to present such evidence during the original certification process.

(c) If a request for reconsideration or review is granted, the Administrator, to the extent it is deemed appropriate, may afford other interested persons an opportunity to present data and views.

(d) The Administrator may conduct an investigation, which may include a hearing, prior to taking any action pursuant to this part.
