
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - Regulations
##### PART 530 - EMPLOYMENT OF HOMEWORKERS IN CERTAIN INDUSTRIES
###### Subpart E - Administrative Procedures
####### ยง 530.411 Emergency certificate revocation procedures.

(a) When the Administrator determines that immediate revocation of a homework certificate is necessary to safeguard the payment of minimum wages to homeworkers, a notice of proposed emergency revocation of a certificate shall be sent to the certificate holder pursuant to ยง 530.402 of this subpart setting forth reasons requiring emergency revocation of the certificate.

(b) If no request for a hearing pursuant to ยง 530.403 of this subpart is received within 20 days of the date of receipt of the notice by the certificate holder, the proposed revocation of the certificate shall become final.

(c) The Office of Administrative Law Judges shall notify the parties, electronically or at their last known address, of the date, time, and place for the hearing, which shall be no more than 60 days from the date of receipt of the request for the hearing. All parties shall be given at least 5 days' notice of such hearing. No requests for postponement shall be granted except for compelling reasons.

(d) The Administrative Law Judge shall issue a decision pursuant to ยง 530.406 of this subpart within 30 days after the termination of a proceeding at which evidence was submitted. The decision shall be served on all parties and the Administrative Review Board ("Board") and shall constitute the final order of the Department of Labor unless the Board determines to review the decision.

(e) Any party desiring review of the decision of the Administrative Law Judge may petition the Secretary to review the decision of the Administrative Law Judge. To be effective, such petition must be received by the Secretary within 30 days of the date of the decision of the Administrative Law Judge. If the Secretary does not issue a notice accepting a petition for review within 15 days after receipt of a timely filing of the petition, or within 30 days of the date of the decision if no petition is filed, the decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall be deemed the final agency action.

(f) The Board's decision shall be issued within 60 days of the notice by the Board accepting the submission, and shall be served upon all parties and the Administrative Law Judge. The Board's decision is subject to discretionary review by the Secretary as provided in Secretary's Order 01-2020 (or any successor to that order).
