
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - Regulations
##### PART 552 - APPLICATION OF THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT TO DOMESTIC SERVICE
###### Subpart B - Interpretations
####### ยง 552.101 Domestic service employment.
######## domestic service employment

(a) The definition ofcontained in ยง 552.3 is derived from the regulations issued under the Social Security Act (20 CFR 404.1057) and from "the generally accepted meaning" of the term. Accordingly, the term includes persons who are frequently referred to as "private household workers." See. S. Rep. 93-690, p. 20. The domestic service must be performed in or about a private home whether that home is a fixed place of abode or a temporary dwelling as in the case of an individual or family traveling on vacation. A separate and distinct dwelling maintained by an individual or a family in an apartment house, condominium or hotel may constitute a private home.

(b) Employees employed in dwelling places which are primarily rooming or boarding houses are not considered domestic service employees. The places where they work are not private homes but commercial or business establishments. Likewise, employees employed in connection with a business or professional service which is conducted in a home (such as a real estate, doctor's, dentist's or lawyer's office) are not domestic service employees.

(c) In determining the total hours worked, the employer must include all time the employee is required to be on the premises or on duty and all time the employee is suffered or permitted to work. Special rules for live-in domestic service employees are set forth in ยง 552.102.
