
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - Regulations
##### PART 570 - CHILD LABOR REGULATIONS, ORDERS AND STATEMENTS OF INTERPRETATION
###### Subpart B - Certificates of Age
####### § 570.6 Contents and disposition of certificates of age.

(a) Except as provided in §§ 570.9 and 570.10, a certificate of age which shall have the effect specified in § 570.5 shall contain the following information:

(1) Name and address of minor.

(2) Place and date of birth of minor, together with a statement indicating the evidence on which this is based. The place of birth need not appear on the certificate if it is obtained and kept on file by the person issuing the certificate.

(3) Sex of minor.

(4) Signature of minor.

(5) Name and address of minor's parent or person standing in place of parent. This information need not appear on the certificate if it is obtained and kept on file by the person issuing the certificate.

(6) Name and address of employer, if minor is under 18.

(7) Industry of employer, if minor is under 18.

(8) Occupation of minor, if minor is under 18.

(9) Signature of issuing officer.

(10) Date and place of issuance.

(b)(1) We will send a certificate of age for a minor under 18 years of age to the prospective employer of the minor. That employer must keep the certificate on file at the minor's workplace. When the minor terminates employment, the employer must give the certificate to the minor. The minor may then present the previously issued certificate to future employers as proof of age as described in § 570.5.

(2) Whenever a certificate of age is issued for a minor 18 or 19 years of age it may be given to the minor by the person issuing the certificate. Every minor 18 or 19 years of age shall, upon entering employment, deliver his certificate of age to his employer for filing and upon the termination of the employment, the employer shall return the certificate to the minor.
