
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - Regulations
##### PART 570 - CHILD LABOR REGULATIONS, ORDERS AND STATEMENTS OF INTERPRETATION
###### Subpart C - Employment of Minors Between 14 and 16 Years of Age (Child Labor Reg. 3)
####### ยง 570.34 Occupations that may be performed by minors 14 and 15 years of age.
######## Permitted lifeguard duties

include the rescuing of swimmers in danger of drowning, the monitoring of activities at poolside to prevent accidents, the teaching of water safety, and providing assistance to patrons. Lifeguards may also help to maintain order and cleanliness in the pool and pool areas, give swimming instructions (if, in addition to being certified as a lifeguard, the 15-year-old is also properly certified as a swimming instructor by the American Red Cross or some other recognized certifying organization), conduct or officiate at swimming meets, and administer first aid. Additional lifeguard duties may include checking in and out items such as towels and personal items such as rings, watches and apparel. Permitted duties for 15-year-olds include the use of a ladder to access and descend from the lifeguard chair; the use of hand tools to clean the pool and pool area; and the testing and recording of water quality for temperature and/or pH levels, using all of the tools of the testing process including adding chemicals to the test water sample. Fifteen-year-olds employed as lifeguards are, however, prohibited from entering or working in any mechanical room or chemical storage areas, including any areas where the filtration and chlorinating systems are housed. The term permitted lifeguard duties does not include the operation or tending of power-driven equipment including power-driven elevated water slides often found at water amusement parks and some swimming pools. Minors under 16 years of age may not be employed as dispatchers or attendants at the top of elevated water slides performing such tasks as maintaining order, directing patrons as to when to depart the top of the slide, and ensuring that patrons have begun their "ride" safely. Properly certified 15-year-old lifeguards may, however, be stationed at the "splashdown pools" located at the bottom of the elevated water slides to perform those permitted duties listed in this subsection.
