
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - Regulations
##### PART 570 - CHILD LABOR REGULATIONS, ORDERS AND STATEMENTS OF INTERPRETATION
###### Subpart C - Employment of Minors Between 14 and 16 Years of Age (Child Labor Reg. 3)
####### ยง 570.34 Occupations that may be performed by minors 14 and 15 years of age.
######## Supervised by an adult relative or is supervised by an adult member of the same religious sect or division as the youth,Supervised,adult,relative,A member of the same religious sect or division as the youth

has several components.means that the youth's on-the-job activities must be directed, monitored, overseen, and controlled by certain named adults. Such supervision must be close, direct, constant, and uninterrupted. Anshall mean an individual who is at least eighteen years of age. Ashall mean the parent (or someone standing in the place of a parent), grandparent, sibling, uncle, or aunt of the young worker.refers to an individual who professes membership in the same religious sect or division to which the youth professes membership.

(n) Work in connection with cars and trucks if confined to the following: dispensing gasoline and oil; courtesy service; car cleaning, washing and polishing by hand; and other occupations permitted by this section, but not including work involving the use of pits, racks, or lifting apparatus, or involving the inflation of any tire mounted on a rim equipped with a removable retaining ring.

(o) Work in connection with riding inside passenger compartments of motor vehicles except as prohibited by ยง 570.33(f) or ยง 570.33(j), or when a significant reason for the minor being a passenger in the vehicle is for the purpose of performing work in connection with the transporting-or assisting in the transporting of-other persons or property. The transportation of the persons or property does not have to be the primary reason for the trip for this exception to apply. Each minor riding as a passenger in a motor vehicle must have his or her own seat in the passenger compartment; each seat must be equipped with a seat belt or similar restraining device; and the employer must instruct the minors that such belts or other devices must be used. In addition, each driver transporting the young workers must hold a State driver's license valid for the type of driving involved and, if the driver is under the age of 18, his or her employment must comply with the provisions of ยง 570.52.
