
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 10 - ESTABLISHING A MINIMUM WAGE FOR CONTRACTORS
#### Appendix A to 29 CFR Part 10 - Contract Clause
##### Payroll Records.

(g)(1) The contractor shall make and maintain for three years records containing the information specified in paragraphs (g)(1) (i) through (vi) of this section for each worker and shall make the records available for inspection and transcription by authorized representatives of the Wage and Hour Division of the U.S. Department of Labor:

(i) Name, address, and social security number.

(ii) The worker's occupation(s) or classification(s)

(iii) The rate or rates of wages paid.

(iv) The number of daily and weekly hours worked by each worker.

(v) Any deductions made; and

(vi) Total wages paid.

(2) The contractor shall also make available a copy of the contract, as applicable, for inspection or transcription by authorized representatives of the Wage and Hour Division.

(3) Failure to make and maintain or to make available such records for inspection and transcription shall be a violation of 29 CFR part 10 and this contract, and in the case of failure to produce such records, the contracting officer, upon direction of an authorized representative of the Department of Labor, or under its own action, shall take such action as may be necessary to cause suspension of any further payment or advance of funds until such time as the violations are discontinued.

(4) The contractor shall permit authorized representatives of the Wage and Hour Division to conduct investigations, including interviewing workers at the worksite during normal working hours.

(5) Nothing in this clause limits or otherwise modifies the contractor's payroll and recordkeeping obligations, if any, under the Davis-Bacon Act, as amended, and its implementing regulations; the Service Contract Act, as amended, and its implementing regulations; the Fair Labor Standards Act, as amended, and its implementing regulations; or any other applicable law.

(h) The contractor (as defined in 29 CFR 10.2) shall insert this clause in all of its covered subcontracts and shall require its subcontractors to include this clause in any covered lower-tier subcontracts. The prime contractor and any upper-tier subcontractor shall be responsible for the compliance by any subcontractor or lower-tier subcontractor with this contract clause.
