
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - Regulations
##### PART 570 - CHILD LABOR REGULATIONS, ORDERS AND STATEMENTS OF INTERPRETATION
###### Subpart C - Employment of Minors Between 14 and 16 Years of Age (Child Labor Reg. 3)
####### ยง 570.36 Work experience and career exploration program.

(a) This section varies some provisions of this subpart for the employment of minors between 14 and 16 years of age who are enrolled in and employed pursuant to a school-supervised and school-administered work-experience and career exploration program which meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, in the occupations permitted under paragraph (c) of this section, and for the periods and under the conditions specified in paragraph (d) of this section. With these safeguards, such employment is found not to interfere with the schooling of the minors or with their health and well-being and therefore is not deemed to be oppressive child labor.

(b)(1) A school-supervised and school-administered work-experience and career exploration program shall meet the educational standards established and approved by the State Educational Agency in the respective State.

(2) The State Educational Agency shall file with the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division a letter of application for approval of a State program as one not interfering with schooling or with the health and well-being of the minors involved and therefore not constituting oppressive child labor. The application must include information concerning the criteria listed in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. The Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division shall approve the application, or give prompt notice of any denial and the reasons therefor.

(3) The criteria to be used in consideration of applications are the following:
