
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - Regulations
##### PART 570 - CHILD LABOR REGULATIONS, ORDERS AND STATEMENTS OF INTERPRETATION
###### Subpart C - Employment of Minors Between 14 and 16 Years of Age (Child Labor Reg. 3)
####### ยง 570.36 Work experience and career exploration program.
######## Records and reports.

(ii)The names and addresses of each school enrolling work experience and career exploration program students and the number of enrollees in each unit shall be kept at the State Educational Agency office. A copy of the written training agreement for each student participating in the program shall be kept in the State Educational Agency office or in the local educational office. The records required for this paragraph shall be kept for a period of 3 years from the date of enrollment in the program and shall be made available for inspection or transcription to the representatives of the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division.

(c) Employment of minors enrolled in a program approved pursuant to the requirements of this section shall be permitted in all occupations except the following:

(1) Manufacturing and mining.

(2) Occupations declared to be hazardous for the employment of minors between 16 and 18 years of age in subpart E of this part, and occupations in agriculture declared to be hazardous for employment of minors below the age of 16 in subpart E-1 of this part.

(3) Occupations other than those permitted under ยง 570.34, except upon approval of a variation by the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division in acting on the program application of the State Educational Agency. The Administrator shall have discretion to grant requests for special variations if the applicant demonstrates that the activity will be performed under adequate supervision and training (including safety precautions) and that the terms and conditions of the proposed employment will not interfere with the health or well-being or schooling of the minor enrolled in an approved program. The granting of a special variation is determined on a case-by-case basis.

(i) The Administrator's decision on whether to grant a special variation will be based on information provided in the application filed by the State Educational Agency, and/or any supplemental information that may be requested by the Administrator.

(ii) The Administrator's decision shall be in writing, and may designate specific equipment safeguards or other terms and conditions governing the work-activity approved by variation. If the request is denied, in whole or part, the reason(s) for the decision will be provided to the applicant, who may request reconsideration.

(iii) A special variation will be valid only during the period covered by an approved program, and must be renewed with the filing of a new program application.

(iv) The Administrator shall revoke or deny a special variation, in whole or in part, where there is reason to believe that program participants have been or will be employed contrary to terms and conditions specified for the variation, or these regulations, other provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act, or otherwise in conditions detrimental to their health or well-being or schooling.

(v) Requests for special variations and related documentation will be available for examination in the Branch of Child Labor and Polygraph Standards, Wage and Hour Division, Room S3510, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20210. Any interested person may oppose the granting of a special variation or may request reconsideration or revocation of a special variation. Such requests shall set forth reasons why the special variation should be denied or revoked.

(d) Employment of minors enrolled in a program approved pursuant to the requirements of this section shall be confined to not more than 23 hours in any 1 week when school is in session and not more than 3 hours in any day when school is in session, any portion of which may be during school hours. Insofar as these provisions are inconsistent with the provisions of ยง 570.35, this section shall be controlling.

(e) The employment of a minor enrolled in a program pursuant to the requirements of this section must not have the effect of displacing a worker employed in the establishment of the employer.

(f) Programs shall be in force and effect for a period of two (2) school years from the date of their approval by the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division. A new application for approval must be filed at the end of that period. Failure to meet the requirements of this section may result in withdrawal of approval.
