
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 11 - DEPARTMENT OF LABOR NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT (NEPA) COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 11.1 Purpose and scope.
###### et seq.

(a) The National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA) (42 U.S.C. 4321) directs that, "to the fullest extent possible, * * * the policies, regulations and public laws of the United States shall be interpreted and administered in accordance with the policies set forth" in the Act for the preservation of the environment. As a means for achieving this objective, Executive Order 11991 of May 24, 1977 (amending E.O. 11514 of March 5, 1970) directed the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) to issue uniform regulations for implementation of NEPA by all Federal agencies. These regulations were published in final form on November 29, 1978 (43 FR 55978) as 40 CFR parts 1500-1508. The CEQ's NEPA regulations require that each Federal agency adopt implementing procedures to supplement their regulations (40 CFR 1507.3). Accordingly, the purpose of this part is to prescribe procedures to be followed by Department of Labor agencies when such agencies are contemplating actions which may be subject to the requirements of NEPA. These regulations do not replace 40 CFR parts 1500-1508; rather they are to be read together with, and as a supplement to, the CEQ's regulations.

(b) It is the responsibility of each agency to comply with the policies set forth in NEPA to the fullest extent possible and consistent with its statutory authority. Each agency shall comply with all applicable requirements of this part except where compliance would be inconsistent with other statutory requirements. However, no trivial violation of, or noncompliance with, these procedures shall give rise to an independent cause of action (cf. 40 CFR 1500.3 and 1507.3(b)).
