
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - Regulations
##### PART 570 - CHILD LABOR REGULATIONS, ORDERS AND STATEMENTS OF INTERPRETATION
###### Subpart E-1 - Occupations in Agriculture Particularly Hazardous for the Employment of Children Below the Age of 16
####### ยง 570.71 Occupations involved in agriculture.
######## Findings and declarations of fact as to specific occupations.

(a)The following occupations in agriculture are particularly hazardous for the employment of children below the age of 16:

(1) Operating a tractor of over 20 PTO horsepower, or connecting or disconnecting an implement or any of its parts to or from such a tractor.

(2) Operating or assisting to operate (including starting, stopping, adjusting, feeding, or any other activity involving physical contact associated with the operation) any of the following machines:

(i) Corn picker, cotton picker, grain combine, hay mower, forage harvester, hay baler, potato digger, or mobile pea viner;

(ii) Feed grinder, crop dryer, forage blower, auger conveyor, or the unloading mechanism of a nongravity-type self-unloading wagon or trailer; or

(iii) Power post-hole digger, power post driver, or nonwalking type rotary tiller.

(3) Operating or assisting to operate (including starting, stopping, adjusting, feeding, or any other activity involving physical contact associated with the operation) any of the following machines:

(i) Trencher or earthmoving equipment;

(ii) Fork lift;

(iii) Potato combine; or

(iv) Power-driven circular, band, or chain saw.

(4) Working on a farm in a yard, pen, or stall occupied by a:

(i) Bull, boar, or stud horse maintained for breeding purposes; or

(ii) Sow with suckling pigs, or cow with newborn calf (with umbilical cord present)

(5) Felling, bucking, skidding, loading, or unloading timber with butt diameter of more than 6 inches.

(6) Working from a ladder or scaffold (painting, repairing, or building structures, pruning trees, picking fruit, etc.) at a height of over 20 feet.

(7) Driving a bus, truck, or automobile when transporting passengers, or riding on a tractor as a passenger or helper.

(8) Working inside:

(i) A fruit, forage, or grain storage designed to retain an oxygen deficient or toxic atmosphere;

(ii) An upright silo within 2 weeks after silage has been added or when a top unloading device is in operating position;

(iii) A manure pit; or

(iv) A horizontal silo while operating a tractor for packing purposes.
