
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - Regulations
##### PART 570 - CHILD LABOR REGULATIONS, ORDERS AND STATEMENTS OF INTERPRETATION
###### Subpart G - General Statements of Interpretation of the Child Labor Provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as Amended
####### General
######## ยง 570.103 Comparison with wage and hour provisions.
######### ยง 570.106 "Ship or deliver for shipment in commerce".

(a) Section 12(a) forbids producers, manufacturers, and dealers to "ship or deliver for shipment in commerce" the goods referred to therein. A producer, manufacturer, or dealer may "ship" goods in commerce either by moving them himself in interstate or foreign commerce or by causing them to so move, as by delivery to a carrier.Thus, a baker "ships" his bread in commerce whether he carries it in his own truck across State lines or sends it by contract or common carrier to his customers in other States. The word "ship" must be applied in its ordinary meaning. For example, it does not apply to the transmission of telegraphic messages.

(b) To "deliver for shipment in commerce" means to surrender the custody of goods to another under such circumstances that the person surrendering the goods knows or has reason to believe that the goods will later be shipped in commerce.Typical is the case of a Detroit manufacturer who delivers his goods in Detroit to a distributor who, as the manufacturer is well aware, will ship the goods into another State. A delivery for shipment in commerce may also be made where raw materials are delivered by their producer to a manufacturer in the same State who converts them into new products which are later shipped across State lines. If the producer in such case is aware or has reason to believe that the finished products will ultimately be sent into another State, his delivery of the raw materials to the manufacturer is a delivery for shipment in commerce. Another example is a paper box manufacturer who ships a carton of boxes to a fresh fruit or vegetable packing shed within the same State, with knowledge or reason to believe that the boxes will there be filled with fruits or vegetables and shipped outside the State. In such case the box manufacturer has delivered the boxes for shipment in commerce.
