
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - Regulations
##### PART 575 - WAIVER OF CHILD LABOR PROVISIONS FOR AGRICULTURAL EMPLOYMENT OF 10 AND 11 YEAR OLD MINORS IN HAND HARVESTING OF SHORT SEASON CROPS
###### § 575.6 Procedure for action on an application.

(a) Upon receipt of an application for a waiver, the Administrator shall review all of the information and supporting data. If sufficient, the Administrator shall grant a waiver; if insufficient, the Administrator may seek further information. If such information is not made available to the Administrator, the Administrator shall deny the waiver.

(b) The Administrator shall deny the application for a waiver from any employer against whom a final civil money penalty is outstanding under section 16(e) of the Act for violation of the child labor provisions of the Act.

(c) The waiver, in the form of a letter signed by the Administrator, shall set forth the terms and conditions for employment under the waiver as provided in §§ 575.7 and 575.8. The waiver shall be issued to the employer or group of employers applying for it.

(d) If a waiver is granted there will be published in thea general notice to that effect setting forth for each waiver granted: the name of the employer or the name of each employer of a group of employers; the address of each such employer, including city, state, and zip code; and the dates of the period the waiver will be in effect.

(e) If a waiver is denied, the Administrator shall give written notice of such denial to the employer or group of employers applying for a waiver. Such denial will be without prejudice to the filing of any subsequent application.
