
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - Regulations
##### PART 580 - CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES - PROCEDURES FOR ASSESSING AND CONTESTING PENALTIES
###### Referral for Hearing
####### ยง 580.12 Decision and Order of Administrative Law Judge.

(a) The Administrative Law Judge shall render a decision on the issues referred by the Administrator.

(b) The decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall be limited to a determination of whether the respondent has committed a violation of section 12, a violation of section 3(m)(2)(B), or a repeated or willful violation of section 6 or section 7 of the Act, and the appropriateness of the penalty assessed by the Administrator. The Administrative Law Judge shall not render determinations on the legality of a regulatory provision or the constitutionality of a statutory provision.

(c) The decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall include a statement of findings and conclusions, with reasons and basis therefor, upon each material issue presented on the record. The decision shall also include an appropriate order which may affirm, deny, reverse, or modify, in whole or in part, the determination of the Administrator.

(d) The Administrative Law Judge shall serve copies of the decision on each of the parties.

(e) The decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall constitute the final order of the Secretary unless, pursuant to ยง 580.13 of this part, there is an appeal to the Secretary.
