
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter A - Regulations
##### PART 580 - CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES - PROCEDURES FOR ASSESSING AND CONTESTING PENALTIES
###### Referral for Hearing
####### ยง 580.13 Procedures for appeals to the Administrative Review Board.

(a) Any party desiring review of a decision of the Administrative Law Judge, including judicial review, must file a petition for review with the Department's Administrative Review Board (Board). To be effective, such petition must be received by the Board within 30 days of the date of the decision of the Administrative Law Judge. Copies of the appeal shall be served on all parties and on the Chief Administrative Law Judge. If such a petition for review is timely filed, the decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall be inoperative unless and until the Board dismisses the appeal or issues a decision affirming the decision of the Administrative Law Judge.

(b) All documents submitted to the Board shall be filed with the Administrative Review Board in accordance with 29 CFR part 26.

(c) Documents are not deemed filed with the Board until actually received by the Board, either on or before the due date. No additional time shall be added where service of a document requiring action within a prescribed time was made by mail.

(d) A copy of each document filed with the Board shall be served upon all other parties involved in the proceeding in accordance with 29 CFR part 26. Service by mail is deemed effected at the time of mailing to the last known address of the party.
