
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 778 - OVERTIME COMPENSATION
###### Subpart C - Payments That May Be Excluded From the "Regular Rate"
####### Extra Compensation Paid for Overtime
######## ยง 778.201 Overtime premiums - general.

(a) Certain premium payments made by employers for work in excess of or outside of specified daily or weekly standard work periods or on certain special days are regarded as overtime premiums. In such case, the extra compensation provided by the premium rates need not be included in the employee's regular rate of pay for the purpose of computing overtime compensation due under section 7(a) of the Act. Moreover, under section 7(h) this extra compensation may be credited toward the overtime payments required by the Act.

(b) The three types of extra premium payments which may thus be treated as overtime premiums for purposes of the Act are outlined in section 7(e) (5), (6), and (7) of the Act as set forth in ยง 778.200(a). These are discussed in detail in the sections following.

(c) Section 7(h) of the Act specifically states that the extra compensation provided by these three types of payments may be credited toward overtime compensation due under section 7(a) for work in excess of the applicable maximum hours standard. No other types of remuneration for employment may be so credited.
