
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 778 - OVERTIME COMPENSATION
###### Subpart C - Payments That May Be Excluded From the "Regular Rate"
####### Payments not for Hours Worked
######## ยง 778.224 "Other similar payments".
######### Examples of other excludable payments.

(b)A few examples may serve to illustrate some of the types of payments intended to be excluded as "other similar payments".

(1) Sums paid to an employee for the rental of his truck or car.

(2) Loans or advances made by the employer to the employee.

(3) The cost to the employer of conveniences furnished to the employee such as:

(i) Parking spaces and parking benefits;

(ii) Restrooms and lockers;

(iii) On-the-job medical care;

(iv) Treatment provided on-site from specialists such as chiropractors, massage therapists, physical therapists, personal trainers, counselors, or Employee Assistance Programs; or

(v) Gym access, gym memberships, fitness classes, and recreational facilities.

(4) The cost to the employer of providing wellness programs, such as health risk assessments, biometric screenings, vaccination clinics (including annual flu vaccinations), nutrition classes, weight loss programs, smoking cessation programs, stress reduction programs, exercise programs, coaching to help employees meet health goals, financial wellness programs or financial counseling, and mental health wellness programs.

(5) Discounts on employer-provided retail goods and services, and tuition benefits (whether paid to an employee, an education provider, or a student loan program).

(6) Adoption assistance (including financial assistance, legal services, or information and referral services).
