
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 779 - THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT AS APPLIED TO RETAILERS OF GOODS OR SERVICES
###### Subpart C - Employment to Which the Act May Apply; Enterprise Coverage
####### Common Business Purpose
######## ยง 779.212 Enterprise must consist of related activities performed for a "common business purpose."

The related activities described in section 3(r) as included in the statutory enterprise are those performed for a "common business purpose." (See the comprehensive discussion in 29 CFR part 776.) The term "common business purpose" as used in the definition does not have a narrow concept and is not intended to be limited to a single business establishment or a single type of business. As pointed out above, retailing, wholesaling and manufacturing may, under certain circumstances be engaged in for a "common business purpose." (See ยง 779.209.) An example was also cited where retailing and construction were performed for a common business purpose. (See ยง 779.206.) On the other hand, it is clear that even a single individual or corporation may perform activities for different business purposes. (See ยง 779.211.) Thus the reports of the House of Representatives cite, as an example of this, the case of a single company which owns several retail apparel stores and is also engaged in the lumbering business. It concludes that these activities are not part of a single enterprise. (H. Rept. 75, 87th Cong.,1st Sess., p. 7 and H. Rept. 1366, 89th Cong. 2d Sess., p. 9.)
