
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 779 - THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT AS APPLIED TO RETAILERS OF GOODS OR SERVICES
###### Subpart C - Employment to Which the Act May Apply; Enterprise Coverage
####### Annual Gross Volume of Sales Made or Business Done
######## § 779.259 What is included in annual gross volume.

(a) The annual gross volume of sales made or business done of an enterprise consists of its gross receipts from all types of sales made and business done during a 12-month period. The gross volume of sales made or business done means the gross dollar volume (not limited to income) derived from all sales and business transactions including, for example, gross receipts from service, credit, or other similar charges. Credits for goods returned or exchanged and rebates and discounts, and the like, are not ordinarly included in the annual gross volume of sales or business. The gross volume of sales or business includes the receipts from sales made or business done by the retail or service establishments of the enterprise as well as the sales made or business done by any other establishments of the enterprise, exclusive of the internal transactions between them. Gross volume is measured by the price paid by the purchaser for the property or service sold to him, as stated in the Senate Committee Report (§ 779.258). It is not measured by profit on goods sold or commissions on sales made for others. The dollar value of sales or business of the entire enterprise in all establishments is added together to determine whether the applicable dollar test is met. The fact that one or more of the retail or service establishments of the enterprise may have less than $250,000 in annual dollar volume and may meet the other requirements for exemption from the pay provisions of the Act under section 13(a)(2), does not exclude the dollar volume of sales or business of that establishment from the annual gross volume of the enterprise. However, the dollar volume of an establishment derived from transactions with other establishments in the same enterprise does not ordinarily constitute part of the annual gross volume of the enterprise as a whole. The computation of the annual gross volume of sales or business of the enterprise is made "exclusive of excise taxes at the retail level which are separately stated". The taxes which may be excluded are discussed in §§ 779.261 through 779.264. The methods of calculating the annual gross volume of sales of an enterprise are set forth in §§ 779.265 through 779.269.

(b) In the ordinary case the functions of a leased department are controlled or unified in such a way that it is included in the establishment and therefore in the enterprise in which it is located, as discussed in § 779.225. The applicability of enterprise coverage and certain exemptions to such a leased department depends upon the enterprise coverage and the exemption status of the establishment in which the leased department is located. The annual gross volume of such a leased department is included in the annual gross volume of the establishment in which it is located as well as in the annual gross volume of the enterprise of which such establishment is a part.

(c) Likewise, where franchise or other arrangements result in the creation of a larger enterprise by means of operational restrictions so that the establishment, dealer, or concessionaire is an integral part of the related activities of the enterprise which grants the franchise, right, or concession, as discussed in §§ 779.229 and 779.232, it will follow that the annual gross volume of sales made or business done of such an enterprise includes the dollar volume of sales or business of each related establishment dealer, or concessionaire.
