
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 779 - THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT AS APPLIED TO RETAILERS OF GOODS OR SERVICES
###### Subpart C - Employment to Which the Act May Apply; Enterprise Coverage
####### Excise Taxes
######## ยง 779.262 Excise taxes at the retail level.

(a) Federal excise taxes are imposed at the retail level on highway vehicle fuels other than gasoline under the provisions of 26 U.S.C. 4041. Such excise taxes are levied at the retail level on any liquid fuel sold for use, or used in a diesel-powered highway vehicle. A similar tax is imposed on the sale of such special motor fuels as benzene and liquefied petroleum gas when used as a motor fuel. To the extent that these taxes are separately stated to the customer, they may be excluded from gross volume of sales. The extent to which State taxes are levied at the retail level, and thus excludable when separately stated, depends, of course, upon the law of the State concerned. However, as a general rule, State, county, and municipal sales taxes are levied at the retail level, and to the extent that they are separately stated, may be excluded. All State excise taxes on gasoline are, for purposes of section 3(s), taxes levied at the retail level, which, if separately stated, may be excluded.

(b) The circumstances surrounding the levying and collection of the Federal excise taxes on gasoline, tires, and inner tubes reflect that, although they are listed under the title of "Manufacturers Excise Taxes," they are, in practical operation, taxes "at the retail level." Federal excise taxes on gasoline, tires, and inner tubes, when "separately stated," may therefore be excluded in computing the annual gross volume of an enterprise for the purpose of determining coverage under section 3(s)(1) of the Act and section 13(a)(2) for purposes of applying the $250,000 test for determining the retail and service establishment exemption of an establishment in a covered enterprise.
