
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 779 - THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT AS APPLIED TO RETAILERS OF GOODS OR SERVICES
###### Subpart D - Exemptions for Certain Retail or Service Establishments
####### "Establishment" Basis of Exemptions
######## ยง 779.311 Employees working in more than one establishment of same employer.

(a) An employee who is employed by an establishment which qualifies as an exempt establishment under section 13(a)(2) or (4) is exempt from the minimum wage and overtime requirements of the Act even though his employer also operates one or more establishments which are not exempt. On the other hand, it may be stated as a general rule that if such an employer employs an employee in the work of both exempt and nonexempt establishments during the same workweek, the employee is not "employed by" an exempt establishment during such workweek. It is recognized, however, that employees performing an insignificant amount of such incidental work or performing work sporadically for the benefit of another establishment of their employer nevertheless, are "employed by" their employer's retail establishment. For example, there are situations where an employee of an employer in order to discharge adequately the requirements of his job for the exempt establishment by which he is employed incidentally or sporadically may be called upon to perform some work for the benefit of another establishment. For example, an elevator operator employed by a retail store, in performance of his regular duties for the store incidentally may carry personnel who have a central office or warehouse function. Similarly, a maintenance man employed by such store incidentally may perform work which is for the benefit of the central office or warehouse activities. Also, a sales clerk employed in a retail store in one of its sales departments sporadically may be called upon to release some of the stock on hand in the department for the use of another store.

(b) The application of the principles discussed in ยง 779.310 and in paragraph (a) of this section would not preclude the applicability of the exemption to the employee whose duties require him to spend part of his week in one exempt retail establishment and the balance of the week in another of his employer's exempt retail establishments; provided that his work in each of the establishments will qualify him as "employed" by such a retail establishment at all times within the individual week. As an example, a shoe clerk may sell shoes for part of a week in one exempt retail establishment of his employer and in another of his employer's exempt retail establishments for the remainder of the workweek. In that entire workweek he would be considered to be employed by an exempt retail establishment. In such a situation there is no central office or warehouse concept, nor is the employee considered as performing services for the employer's business organization as a whole since there is no period during the week in which the employee is not "employed by" a single exempt retail establishment.
