
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 779 - THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT AS APPLIED TO RETAILERS OF GOODS OR SERVICES
###### Subpart D - Exemptions for Certain Retail or Service Establishments
####### Sales Not Made for Resale
######## ยง 779.332 Resale of goods in an altered form or as parts or ingredients of other goods or services.
######### Arnold,Ben Kanowsky, Inc.,,Mitchell,Douglas Auto Parts Co.,,Mitchell,Furman Beauty Supply,,Mayol,Mitchell,,Goldberg,Kleban Eng. Corp.,

Sale for resale includes the sale of goods which will be resold in their original form, in an altered form, or as a part or ingredient of another article. A sale of goods which the seller knows, or has reasonable cause to believe, will be resold after processing or manufacture is a sale for resale. Thus, sales of parts with the expectation that they will be incorporated in aircraft and that the aircraft will be sold clearly are sales for resale. (v.361 U.S. 388.) Similarly, the sale of lumber to furniture or box factories, or the sale of textiles to clothing manufacturers, is a sale for resale even though the goods are resold in the form of furniture or clothing. The principle is also illustrated in cases where the article sold becomes a part or an ingredient of another, such as scrap metal in steel, dyes in fabrics, flour in bread and pastries, and salt in food or ice in beverages. (v.11 WH Cases 807, 25 L.C. Par. 68, 119 (N.D. Ill., 1954).) The fact that goods sold will be resold as a part of a service in which they are used or as a part of a building into which they are incorporated does not negate the character of the sale as one "for resale." (v.300 F. 2d 16 (CA-3);v.280 F. 2d 477 (CA-1), cert. denied 364 U.S. 902;v.303 F. 2d 855 (CA-5).)
