
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 779 - THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT AS APPLIED TO RETAILERS OF GOODS OR SERVICES
###### Subpart D - Exemptions for Certain Retail or Service Establishments
####### Sales Not Made for Resale
######## ยง 779.336 Sales of building materials for commercial property construction.
######### ยง 779.338 Effect of 1961 and 1966 amendments.

(a) The 1961 amendments to the Fair Labor Standards Act narrowed the exemption for retail or service establishments by permitting section 13(a)(2) to be applied only to an establishment which was not in a covered enterprise, or (if it was in such an enterprise) which had an annual gross volume of sales of less than $250,000 (exclusive of specified taxes). There were certain exemptions to this general principle. These exceptions were set out in section 13(a)(2)(ii) and (iii). The establishments enumerated therein were exempt whether or not they were in a covered enterprise and regardless of the annual dollar volume of sales. They were: Hotels, motels, restaurants, motion picture theaters, seasonally operated amusement or recreational establishments, hospitals, institutions primarily engaged in the care of the sick, the aged, the mentally ill or defective residing on the premises of the institution, and schools for physically or mentally handicapped or gifted children. These establishments were exempt if they met the basic 50 percent in State sales test and the 75 percent retail sales test of section 13(a)(2). The 1966 amendments to the Act repealed sections 13(a)(2)(ii) and (iii). Now to be exempt under section 13(a)(2) hotels, motels, and restaurants must meet the same tests as other retail or service establishments (see ยง 779.337). Seasonal amusement or recreational establishments and motion picture theaters now have special exemptions from both the minimum wage and overtime pay provisions of the Act as provided by the 1966 amendments in sections 13(a)(3) and 13(a)(9) respectively.

(b) Certain establishments which were previously exempt under section 13(a)(2) prior to the 1966 amendments have been specifically excluded from this exemption as a result of the amendments, even though they may still qualify as retail or service establishments under the definition of such an establishment in that section. These are hospitals, institutions primarily engaged in the care of the sick, the aged, the mentally ill or defective residing on the premises of the institution, and schools for physically or mentally handicapped or gifted children. However, such institutions have been recognized as having a retail concept and where the nature of their operations has not changed and where they otherwise satisfy the Act's definition of a "retail or service establishment", certain food service employees employed by such institutions will be considered to be exempt from the Act's overtime pay provisions under section 13(b)(18), exemptions for their administrative or executive employees will not be defeated by nonexempt work occupying less than 40 percent of the employee's time, and full-time students may be employed in accordance with the special minimum wage provisions of section 14 of the Act and part 519 of this chapter.
