
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 779 - THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT AS APPLIED TO RETAILERS OF GOODS OR SERVICES
###### Subpart D - Exemptions for Certain Retail or Service Establishments
####### Computing Annual Dollar Volume and Combination of Exemptions
######## § 779.342 Methods of computing annual volume of sales.

The tests as to whether an establishment qualifies for exemption under section 13(a)(2) of the Act are specified in terms of the "annual dollar volume of sales" of goods or of services (or both) and percentages thereof. The "annual dollar volume of sales" of an establishment consists of the gross receipts from all sales of the establishment during a 12-month period. The methods of computing it for purposes of determining whether the establishment qualifies under the tests of the exemption are the same as the methods of calculating whether the annual gross volume of sales or business of an enterprise or an establishment meets the statutory dollar tests for coverage. These are discussed in §§ 779.265 to 779.269. However, for purposes of the exemption tests the specified percentages are based on annual dollar volume before deduction of those taxes which are excluded in determining whether the $250,000 test is met. The exemption tests are in terms of the annual dollar volume of the establishment. This will include dollar volume from transactions with other establishments in the same enterprise, even though such transactions within an enterprise may not be part of the annual gross volume of the enterprise's sales made or business done (see § 779.259).
