
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 779 - THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT AS APPLIED TO RETAILERS OF GOODS OR SERVICES
###### Subpart D - Exemptions for Certain Retail or Service Establishments
####### Computing Annual Dollar Volume and Combination of Exemptions
######## ยง 779.343 Combinations of exemptions.
######### ยง 779.347 Exemption limited to "recognized retail establishment"; factories not exempt.

The section 13(a)(4) exemption requires the establishment to be recognized as a retail establishment in the particular industry. This test limits the exemption to retail establishments only, and excludes factories as such and establishments to which the retail concept does not apply. In other words this test requires that the establishment as a whole be recognized as a retail establishment although it makes or processes at the establishment the goods it sells. Typical of the establishment which may be recognized as retail establishments under the exemption are custom tailor shops, candy shops, ice cream parlors, bakeries, drug stores, optometrist establishments, retail ice plants and other local retail establishments which make or process the goods they sell and meet the other tests for exemption. Clearly factories as such are not "recognized retail establishments" and would not be eligible for this exemption. (See 95 Cong. Rec. pp. 11001, 11200, 11216, and 14942.)
