
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 779 - THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT AS APPLIED TO RETAILERS OF GOODS OR SERVICES
###### Subpart D - Exemptions for Certain Retail or Service Establishments
####### Computing Annual Dollar Volume and Combination of Exemptions
######## ยง 779.343 Combinations of exemptions.
######### ยง 779.348 Goods must be made at the establishment which sells them.
########## Fred Wolferman, Inc.,Gustafson,

(b) Where the making or processing of the goods takes place away from the selling establishment, the section 13(a)(4) requirement that both the making or processing and selling take place at the same establishment cannot be met. This will be true even though the place at which the goods are made or processed services the retail selling establishment exclusively. In such a situation, while the selling establishment may qualify for exemption under section 13(a)(2), the separate establishment at which the goods are made or processed will not be exempt. The latter is a manufacturing establishment. For example, a candy kitchen manufacturing candy for sale at separate retail outlets is a manufacturing establishment and not a retail establishment. (v.169 F. 2d 759 (CA-8.))

(c) The fact that goods made or processed on the premises of a bona fide retail establishment are sold by the establishment through outside salesmen (as, for example, department store salesmen taking orders from housewives for draperies) will not defeat the exemption if otherwise applicable. On the other hand, in the case of a factory or similar establishment devoted to making or processing goods, the fact that its goods are sold at retail by outside salesmen provides no ground for recognizing the establishment as a retail establishment or qualifying it for exemption.
