
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 779 - THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT AS APPLIED TO RETAILERS OF GOODS OR SERVICES
###### Subpart D - Exemptions for Certain Retail or Service Establishments
####### Computing Annual Dollar Volume and Combination of Exemptions
######## ยง 779.343 Combinations of exemptions.
######### ยง 779.349 The 85-percent requirement.
########## Arnold,Ben Kanowsky, Inc.,

The final requirement for the section 13(a)(4) exemption is that more than 85 percent of the establishment's sales of the goods it makes or processes, measured by annual dollar volume, must consist of sales made within the State in which the establishment is located. A retail establishment of the type intended to be exempt under this exemption may also sell goods which it does not make or process; the 85-percent requirement applies only to the sales of goods which are made or processed at the establishment. This must not be confused with the additional test which requires that the establishment, to be exempt, must derive more than 50 percent of its entire annual dollar volume of sales of goods from sales made within the State. (See ยง 779.339.) In other words, more than 85 percent of the establishment's annual dollar volume of sales of goods made or processed at the establishment, and more than 50 percent of the establishment's total annual dollar volume of sales of all the goods sold by the establishment, must be derived from sales made within the State. An establishment will not lose an otherwise applicable exemption under section 13(a)(4) merely because some of its sales of goods made or processed at the establishment are sales for resale or are not recognized as retail sales in the particular industry. Sales for resale, such as wholesale sales, and other sales not recognized as retail sales in the industry, will be counted in the 25-percent tolerance permitted by the exemption. (Cf.v.361 U.S. 388.) Thus, for example, a bakery otherwise meeting the tests of 13(a)(4) making and selling baked goods on the premises nevertheless will qualify as an exempt retail establishment even though it engages in the sale of baked goods to grocery stores for resale if such sales, together with other sales not recognized as retail in the industry, do not exceed 25 percent of the total annual dollar volume of the establishment.
