
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 779 - THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT AS APPLIED TO RETAILERS OF GOODS OR SERVICES
###### Subpart D - Exemptions for Certain Retail or Service Establishments
####### Lumber and Building Materials Dealers
######## ยง 779.356 Application of exemptions to employees.
######### Processing and manufacturing activities.

(b)The performance, in an establishment which sells lumber and building materials at retail, of activities such as cutting lumber to a smaller size or dressing lumber in accordance with a customer's request or assembling window and door frames received in "knocked-down" condition, constitutes processing incidental to the sales of such materials. Such activities are not considered manufacturing and will not affect the applicability of the section 13(a)(2) exemption to the establishment or to the employees who perform them. However, whenever lumber is cut or dressed for sale, or fabricated products are manufactured for sale (for example, windows, door frames, benches, pig troughs, pallets, molding, sashes, cabinets, boxes), there is no exemption under section 13(a)(2). Employees performing such manufacturing activities at the establishment are exempt only if all the tests set forth in section 13(a)(4) are met (see pars. (b), (c), and (d) of ยง 779.354). Employees engaged in such activities at a manufacturing plant, central yard, or other place not qualifying as an exempt establishment under section 13(a) (2) and (4) are not exempt.
