
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 779 - THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT AS APPLIED TO RETAILERS OF GOODS OR SERVICES
###### Subpart D - Exemptions for Certain Retail or Service Establishments
####### Ice Manufacturers and Ice Dealers
######## ยง 779.358 May qualify as exempt 13(a)(2) or 13(a)(4) establishments.

(a) An establishment engaged in selling ice may qualify as an exempt retail or service establishment under section 13(a)(2) of the Act if it meets all the requirements of that exemption. Similarly, an establishment making the ice it sells may qualify as an exempt establishment under section 13(a)(4) of the Act if it meets all the requirements of that exemption.

(b) In determining whether the requirements of the 13(a)(2) exemption that 75 percent of the establishment's sales must not be made for resale and must be recognized as retail sales in the industry are met, sales of ice which meet all the requirements for such classification as previously explained in this subpart will be regarded as retail. The following sales have been determined not to qualify under the applicable tests for recognition as retail:

(1) Sales for resale.

(2) Sales of ice for icing railroad cars and for icing cargo trucks. However, sales of ice for the re-icing of cargo trucks are recognized as retail if such sales do not fall into the nonretail categories described in paragraphs (b) (4) and (5) of this section.

(3) Sales of ice in railroad car lots.

(4) Sales of ice of a ton or more.

(5) Sales of ice at a price comparable to that charged by the establishment to dealers or, if no sales are made to dealers by the establishment, at a price comparable to or lower than the prevailing price to dealers in the area.

(c) The legislative history indicates that iceplants making the ice they sell are among the establishments which may qualify as retail establishments under the section 13(a)(4) exemption. It appears that all iceplants which sell at retail are establishments of the same general type, permitting no separate classifications with respect to recognition as retail establishments. Any iceplant which meets the tests of section 13(a)(2) will, therefore, be considered to be recognized as a retail establishment in the industry. Of course, the establishment must also meet all the other tests of section 13(a)(4) to qualify for the exemption.

(d) There are some iceplants which meet the section 13(a)(2) exemption requirements, but do not meet all of the section 13(a)(4) requirements. In such establishments, there may be some employees whose duties relate to both the sales portion of the business and the making or processing of ice. These employees will not qualify for exemption. However, in such establishment, there may be some employees who work primarily for the retail sales portion of the business and also perform incidental clerical, custodial, or messenger service for the manufacturing operation. For example, office workers may keep records of both the manufacturing activities and of the retail sales departments, maintenance workers may clean up in both parts of the establishment, and messengers may perform services for both activities. If these employees spend relatively little time in the work related to the ice manufacturing portion of the business, they will not, as an enforcement policy, be regarded as engaged in the making or processing of ice. Such an auxiliary employee will thus be exempt under section 13(a)(2) in any workweek in which an insubstantial amount of his time (20 percent or less) is allocable to the clerical, messenger, or custodial work of the ice manufacturing operations.
