
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 779 - THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT AS APPLIED TO RETAILERS OF GOODS OR SERVICES
###### Subpart D - Exemptions for Certain Retail or Service Establishments
####### Liquefied-Petroleum-Gas and Fuel Oil Dealers
######## § 779.361 Classification of other fuel oil sales.

(a) Sales of fuel oil (as differentiated from sales of butane and propane gases) are classified as retail and nonretail sales as follows:

(1) Retail sales-all sales of grades No. 1, No. 2, and No. 3 of fuel oil direct to housholders for their own domestic uses;

(2) Nonretail sales:

(i) All sales of grades No. 4, No. 5, and No. 6 fuel oil as these heavy oils are "special purpose" goods to which the retail sales concept has no application (See § 779.321);

(ii) All sales for resale including such sales to peddlers and other dealers (See §§ 779.331-779.334);

(iii) All sales made pursuant to a formal invitation to bid (See § 779.328(d)).

(b) In some cases the retail or nonretail status of an establishment may turn on sales other than those listed above. In such cases all the facts relative to such sales shall be considered in arriving at a determination. The classification of such sales depends upon whether they are recognized as retail sales. In such cases particular attention shall be given to the quantities involved and the prices charged.
