
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 779 - THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT AS APPLIED TO RETAILERS OF GOODS OR SERVICES
###### Subpart D - Exemptions for Certain Retail or Service Establishments
####### Feed Dealers
######## § 779.362 May qualify as exempt 13(a)(2) or 13(a)(4) establishments.

(a) An establishment engaged in selling feed may qualify as an exempt retail or service establishment under section 13(a)(2) of the Act if it meets all the requirements of that exemption. Similarly an establishment making and processing the feed it sells may qualify as an exempt establishment under section 13(a)(4) of the Act if it meets all the requirements of that exemption.

(b) In determining whether, under the 13(a)(2) exemption, 75 percent of the establishment's sales are not for resale and are recognized as retail sales in the industry, sales of feed to feeders will generally meet the requirements for such classification as previously explained in this subpart and will ordinarily be considered to be retail sales except for the following which do not meet the requirements and are not recognized as retail: Any sale of feed for shipment by railcar direct to the feeder; and sales made at a quantity discount which results in a price comparable to or lower than the establishment's price to dealers for resale or, if the establishment makes no sales to other dealers, at a price comparable to or lower than the price prevailing in the immediate area in sales by similar establishments to dealers for resale.

(c) The custom grinding and mixing of feed (including the addition of supplements) for feeders from the grain they themselves bring in will be regarded as the performance of a service, and not the making or processing of goods for sale under section 13(a)(4). Such services are recognized as retail services in the industry and the revenue derived therefrom will be included with the retail receipts of the establishment.

(d) Employees employed in the grinding and mixing of feed for sale (as distinguished from the grinding and mixing services discussed in paragraph (c) of this section) are engaged in the making or processing of goods and are therefore not exempt under section 13(a)(2). In order for these employees to be exempt, the establishment by which they are employed must meet all the requirements of section 13(a)(4), including the requirement that the establishment must be recognized as a retail establishment in the particular industry. The typical small feed mill engaged in selling goods to farmers appears to be recognized as retail in the industry. There are, of course, large mills which are essentially factories which are not so recognized. As an enforcement policy an establishment which qualifies for exemption under section 13(a)(2) will be considered to have met this requirement: (1) If less than 50 percent of its retail sales are composed of feed manufactured at the establishment; or (2) if its sales of feeds manufactured at the establishment do not exceed 2,000 tons a year. In determining these tests for the applicability of the exemption, the computation of the sales of feed manufactured will be made on an annual basis in the same manner as set forth in §§ 779.265 through 779.269 for the computation of sales.
