
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 779 - THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT AS APPLIED TO RETAILERS OF GOODS OR SERVICES
###### Subpart D - Exemptions for Certain Retail or Service Establishments
####### Monument Dealers
######## ยง 779.363 May qualify as exempt 13(a)(2) or 13(a)(4) establishments.

(a) An establishment engaged in the sale of monuments and memorials may qualify as an exempt retail or service establishment under section 13(a)(2) of the Act if it meets all the requirements of that exemption. Similarly, an establishment making or processing the monuments it sells may qualify as an exempt establishment under section 13(a)(4) of the Act if it meets all the requirements of that exemption.

(b) Monument dealers' establishments may be roughly divided into four types;

(1) Establishments which are engaged exclusively in selling monuments and memorials from designs. They receive their monuments from a manufacturer completely finished and lettered and they then erect the monuments.

(2) Establishments which purchase finished monuments from manufacturers, display them, carve or sand-blast lettering or incidental decoration to order, and set them in cemeteries or elsewhere.

(3) Establishments which purchase finished and semi-finished work. The semifinished work consists of sawed, steeled, or polished granite slabs or sand-rubbed marble. In such a case the establishments will cut ends, tops, or joints on dies and may shape a base.

(4) Establishments which purchase stone in rough form and perform all the fabricating operations in their own plants. In such a case the establishments may saw or line-up the rough stones, machine surface and polish the stone and then perform the other operations necessary to complete the monument. They may finish the monuments for display or on special order and then erect them.

(c) In determining whether, under the 13(a)(2) exemption, 75 percent of the establishment's sales are not for resale and are recognized as retail sales in the industry, the ordinary sale of a single tombstone or monument to the ultimate purchaser will be considered as a retail sale within the meaning of the exemption. If the monument dealer establishment meets all the tests of the 13(a)(2) exemption all employees employed by it will be exempt under that exemption except those employees who are engaged in the making or processing of the goods. However, carving or sandblasting of lettering or incidental decoration or erecting the monuments, is considered processing incidental to the making of retail sales and would not defeat the 13(a)(2) exemption for employees performing such work. Employees who engage in processing semifinished or rough granite or marble or other stone into finished monuments such as the work performed in establishments described in paragraphs (b) (3) and (4) of this section are engaged in the making or processing of goods and are, for that reason, not exempt under section 13(a)(2). In order for those employees to be exempt the establishment by which they are employed must meet all the requirements of the 13(a)(4) exemption.

(d) One of the requirements of the section 13(a)(4) exemption is that an establishment which makes or processes goods must be recognized as a retail establishment in the industry. Generally an establishment described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section which receives finished stock and in addition receives some semifinished work, including sawed, steeled, or polished granite slabs or sand-rubbed marble, etc., and performs such operations as cutting ends, tops, or joints on the dies, is a type of establishment which is recognized as a retail establishment in the industry. On the other hand, those establishments which characteristically engage in the sawing or lining up of rough stone, or in the machine surfacing and polishing of stone, such as the activities performed in an establishment described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, are not recognized as retail establishments in the particular industry within the meaning of section 13(a)(4). Therefore, their employees who engage in such processing of monuments are not exempt under this section of the Act.
