
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 779 - THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT AS APPLIED TO RETAILERS OF GOODS OR SERVICES
###### Subpart D - Exemptions for Certain Retail or Service Establishments
####### Automotive Tire Establishments
######## ยง 779.365 May qualify as exempt 13(a)(2) or 13(a)(4) establishments.
######### Wirtz,Steepleton General Tire,

(4) Sales to fleet accounts at wholesale prices: As used in this section, a "fleet account" is a customer operating five or more automobiles or trucks for business purposes. Wholesale prices for tires, tubes, and accessories are prices equivalent to, or less than, those typically charged on sales for resale. If the establishment makes no sales of passenger car tires for resale, the wholesale price of such tires will be taken to be the price typically charged in the area on sales of passenger car tires for resale. If the establishment makes no sales of truck tires for resale, the wholesale price of such tires will be taken to be the price charged by the establishment on sales of truck tires to fleet accounts operating 10 or more commercial vehicles, or if the establishment makes no such sales, the wholesale price will be taken to be the price typically charged in the area on sales of truck tires to fleet accounts operating 10 or more commercial vehicles. (Seev.383 U.S. 190, 202, rehearing denied 383 U.S. 963.)

(5) Sales of a tire rental service on a mileage basis known in the trade as "mileage contracts": This is a leasing arrangement under which a tire dealer agrees to provide and maintain tires or tubes for motor vehicles of a fleet account.

(6) Sales of servicing and repair work performed under a fleet maintenance arrangement on tires for trucks and other automotive vehicles whereby the establishment undertakes to maintain the tires or tubes for a fleet account at a price below the prevailing retail price.

(7) Sales, repair, recapping, or rental of truck or machinery tires suitable for use only on trucks or equipment of a specialized kind that cannot themselves be the subject of a retail sale because their lack of a concept of "retailability" as previously explained precludes the recognition of their sale as "retail;" to any industry.
