
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 779 - THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT AS APPLIED TO RETAILERS OF GOODS OR SERVICES
###### Subpart D - Exemptions for Certain Retail or Service Establishments
####### Funeral Homes
######## ยง 779.369 Funeral home establishments may qualify as exempt 13(a)(2) establishments.
######### Ambulance service.

(e)The typical ambulance service establishment, engaged exclusively or nearly so in providing a specialized form of transportation for sick, injured, aged, or handicapped persons, is a part or branch of the transportation industry. Since there is no traditional retail concept in the transportation industry, such ambulance service establishments cannot qualify for the section 13(a)(2) exemption (see ยง 779.317). Income from the same typical ambulance services would be considered nonretail in applying the 25 percent tolerance for nonretail income in a funeral home. If an establishment engaged in a combination of funeral home and ambulance services meets all the tests for exemption under section 13(a)(2), as applied to the combined sales of both types of services, those of its employees who are engaged in the funeral home's activities and functions will be exempt as employees of a retail or service establishment. This exemption, however, does not apply to any employee regularly engaged in nonexempt ambulance transportation activities in any workweek when he devotes a substantial amount of his working time to such nonexempt work. More than 20 percent of the employee's working time in the workweek will, for enforcement purposes, be considered substantial.
