
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 779 - THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT AS APPLIED TO RETAILERS OF GOODS OR SERVICES
###### Subpart D - Exemptions for Certain Retail or Service Establishments
####### Automobile, Truck and Farm Implement Sales and Services, and Trailer, Boat and Aircraft Sales
######## ยง 779.371 Some automobile, truck, and farm implement establishments may qualify for exemption under section 13(a)(2).
######### Automotive parts and accessories.

(ii)Sales of parts and accessories to fleet accounts at wholesale prices are not recognized as retail. Wholesale prices are prices equivalent to, or less than, those typically charged on sales for resale.

(4) Sales and term leases of specialized heavy motor vehicles or bodies (16,000 pounds and over gross vehicle weight) and of tires, parts, and accessories designed for use on such specialized equipment. The following is a partial list illustrating the types of items of equipment not considered to qualify as subjects of retail sale:

(i) Single unit trucks, including:

(ii) Full trailers and semitrailers (tractors and semitrailer and truck and trailer combinations), including:

(5) Sales of servicing and repair work peculiar to the servicing and repair of specialized vehicles referred to in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, or performed under a fleet maintenance arrangement on trucks and other automotive vehicles whereby the establishment undertakes to maintain a customer's fleet at a price below the prevailing retail prices.

(6) Sales to motor carriers of services, fuel, equipment, or other goods or facilities by establishments commonly referred to as truck stops. Such establishments, which are physically laid out and specially equipped to meet the highway needs of the motor transportation industry, offer a variety of services to truckers on a "one-stop" basis, and provide services principally to motor carriers and their crews. They are an integral part of the interstate transportation industry and are not within the traditional retail establishments (see paragraphs (c) (4) and (5) of this section).
