
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 779 - THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT AS APPLIED TO RETAILERS OF GOODS OR SERVICES
###### Subpart D - Exemptions for Certain Retail or Service Establishments
####### Restaurants and Establishments Providing Food And Beverage Service
######## ยง 779.386 Restaurants may qualify as exempt 13(a)(2) establishments.
######### McComb,Factory Stores,

(a) A restaurant may qualify as an exempt retail or service establishment under section 13(a)(2) of the Act. However, the establishment must meet all of the requirements of section 13(a)(2) (see ยง 779.337). It should be noted that a separate exemption from the overtime pay provisions of the Act only is provided in section 13(b)(18) for certain food service employees employed by establishments other than restaurants if the establishment meets the definition of a retail or service establishment as defined in the last sentence of section 13(a)(2). Privately owned and operated restaurants conducted as separate and independent business establishments in industrial plants, office buildings, government installations, hospitals, or colleges, such as were involved inv.81 F. Supp. 403 (N.D. Ohio) continue to be exempt under section 13(a)(2) where the tests of the exemption are met (S. Rept. 145, 87th Cong., first session, p. 28; H. Rept. 75, 87th Cong., first session, p. 10). However, they would not be met if the food service is carried on as an activity of the larger, nonretail establishment in which the facility is located and there is no independent, separate and distinct place of business offering the restaurant service to individual customers from the general public, who purchase the meals selected by them directly from the establishment which serves them. An establishment serving meals to individuals, pursuant to a contract with an organization or person paying for such meals because the latter has assumed a contractual obligation to furnish them to the individuals concerned, is selling to such organization or firm, and the sales are for resale within the meaning of section 13(a)(2). See also ยง 779.387.
