
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 779 - THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT AS APPLIED TO RETAILERS OF GOODS OR SERVICES
###### Subpart D - Exemptions for Certain Retail or Service Establishments
####### Restaurants and Establishments Providing Food And Beverage Service
######## ยง 779.388 Exemption provided for food or beverage service employees.

(a) A special exemption is provided in section 13(b)(18) of the Act for certain food or beverage service employees of retail or service establishments. This section excludes from the overtime pay provisions in section 7 of the Act, "any employee of a retail or service establishment who is employed primarily in connection with the preparation or offering of food or beverages for human consumption, either on the premises, or by such services as catering, banquet, box lunch, or curb or counter service, to the public, to employees, or to members or guests of members of clubs." This is an employee exemption, intended to apply to employees engaged in the named activities for such establishments as "drug stores, department stores, bowling alleys, and the like." (S. Rept. No. 1487, 89th Cong., second session, p. 32.)

(b) The 13(b)(18) exemption will apply only if the following two tests are met:

(1) The employee must be an employee of a retail or service establishment (as defined in section 13(a)(2) of the Act); and

(2) The employee must be employed primarily in connection with the specified food or beverage service activities. If both of the above criteria are met, the employee is exempt from the overtime pay provisions of the Act.

(c) The establishment by which the employee is employed must be a "retail or service establishment." This term is defined in section 13(a)(2) of the Act and the definition is quoted in ยง 779.24; the application of the definition is considered at length earlier in this subpart. In accordance with this definition, the establishment will be a "retail or service establishment" for purposes of section 13(b) (18) if 75 percent or more of the establishment's annual dollar volume of sales of goods or services (or of both) is not for resale and is recognized as retail sales or services in the particular industry.

(d) If the establishment comes within the above definition it is immaterial that the establishment is in an enterprise or part of an enterprise described in section 3(s). Thus section 13(b)(18) will be applicable regardless of the annual dollar volume of sales of the establishment or of the enterprise of which it is a part. It should also be noted that it is not required that the establishment make more than 50 percent of its annual dollar volume of sales within the State in which it is located. The establishment by which the employee is employed, provided it qualifies as a "retail or service establishment," may be a drug store, department store, cocktail lounge, night club, and the like.

(e) This exemption does not apply to employees of the ordinary bakery or grocery store who handle, prepare or sell food or beverages for human consumption since such food or beverages are not prepared or offered for consumption "on the premises, or by such services as catering, banquet, box lunch, or curb or counter service * * *."

(f) If the establishment by which the employee is employed is a "retail or service establishment," as explained above, he will be exempt under section 13(b)(18) provided he is employed primarily in connection with the preparation or offering of food or beverages for human consumption either on the premises, or by such services as catering, banquet, box lunch, or curb or counter service, to the public, to employees, or to members or guests of members of clubs. An employee employed in the actual preparation or serving of the food or beverages or in activities closely related and directly essential to the preparation and serving will be regarded as engaged in the described activities. The exemption, therefore, extends not only to employees actually cooking, packaging or serving food or beverages, but also to employees such as cashiers, hostesses, dishwashers, busboys, and cleanup men. Also, where the food or beverages are served away from the establishment, the exemption extends to employees of the retail or service establishment who make ready the serving place, serve the food, clean up, and transport the equipment, food and beverages to and from the serving place.

(g) For the exemption to apply, the employee must be engaged "primarily" in performing the described activities. A sales clerk in a drug store, department store or other establishment, who as an incident to his other duties, occasionally prepares or otherwise handles food or beverages for human consumption on the premises will not come within the scope of this exemption. The exemption is intended for employees who devote all or most of their time to the described food or beverage service activities. For administrative purposes this exemption will not be considered defeated for an employee in any workweek in which he devotes more than one-half of his time worked to such activities.
