
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 779 - THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT AS APPLIED TO RETAILERS OF GOODS OR SERVICES
###### Subpart E - Provisions Relating to Certain Employees of Retail or Service Establishments
####### Employees Compensated Principally by Commissions
######## ยง 779.413 Methods of compensation of retail store employees.

(a) Retail or service establishment employees are generally compensated (apart from any extra payments for overtime or other additional payments) by one of the following methods:

(1) Straight salary or hourly rate: Under this method of compensation the employee receives a stipulated sum paid weekly, biweekly, semimonthly, or monthly or a fixed amount for each hour of work.

(2) Salary plus commission: Under this method of compensation the employee receives a commission on all sales in addition to a base salary (see paragraph (a)(1) of this section).

(3) Quota bonus: This method of compensation is similar to paragraph (a)(2) of this section except that the commission payment is paid on sales over and above a predetermined sales quota.

(4) Straight commission without advances: Under this method of compensation the employee is paid a flat percentage on each dollar of sales he makes.

(5) Straight commission with "advances," "guarantees," or "draws." This method of compensation is similar to paragraph (a)(4) of this section except that the employee is paid a fixed weekly, biweekly, semimonthly, or monthly "advance," "guarantee," or "draw." At periodic intervals a settlement is made at which time the payments already made are supplemented by any additional amount by which his commission earnings exceed the amounts previously paid.

(b) The above listing in paragraph (a) of this section which reflects the typical methods of compensation is not, of course, exhaustive of the pay practices which may exist in retail or service establishments. Although typically in retail or service establishments commission payments are keyed to sales, the requirement of the exemption is that more than half the employee's compensation represent commissions "on goods or services," which would include all types of commissions customarily based on the goods or services which the establishment sells, and not exclusively those measured by "sales" of these goods or services.
