
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 779 - THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT AS APPLIED TO RETAILERS OF GOODS OR SERVICES
###### Subpart E - Provisions Relating to Certain Employees of Retail or Service Establishments
####### Employees Compensated Principally by Commissions
######## ยง 779.415 Computing employee's compensation for the representative period.

(a) In determining for purposes of section 7(i) whether more than half of an employee's compensation "represents commissions on goods or services" it is necessary first to total all compensation paid to or on behalf of the employee as remuneration for his employment during the period. All such compensation in whatever form or by whatever method paid should be included, whether calculated on a time, piece, incentive or other basis, and amounts representing any board, lodging or other facilities furnished should be included in addition to cash payments, to the extent required by section 3(m) of the Act and part 531 of this chapter. Payments excludable from the employee's "regular rate" under section 7(e) may be excluded from this computation if, but only if, they are payments of a kind not made as compensation for his employment during the period. (See part 778 of this chapter.)

(b) In computing the employee's total compensation for the representative period it will in many instances become clear whether more than half of it represents commissions. Where this is not clear, it will be necessary to identify and total all portions of the compensation which represent commissions on the goods or services that the retail or service establishment sells. In determining what compensation "represents commissions on goods or services" it is clear that any portion of the compensation paid, as a weekly, biweekly, semimonthly, monthly, or other periodic salary, or as an hourly or daily rate of pay, does not "represent commissions" paid to the employee. On the other hand, it is equally clear that an employee paid entirely by commissions on the goods or services which the retail or service establishment sells will, in any representative period which may be chosen, satisfy the requirement that more than half of his compensation represents commissions. The same will be true of an employee receiving both salary and commission payments whose commissions always exceed the salary. If, on the other hand, the commissions paid to an employee receiving a salary are always a minor part of his total compensation it is clear that he will not qualify for the exemption provided by section 7(i).
