
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 779 - THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT AS APPLIED TO RETAILERS OF GOODS OR SERVICES
###### Subpart F - Other Provisions Which May Affect Retail Enterprises
####### Child Labor Provisions
######## ยง 779.503 The retailer and section 12(a).

Section 12(a) prohibits certain shipments or deliveries for shipment by "producers," "manufacturers" "or dealers." These terms having appeared in this section prior to the 1961 amendments are defined and described in ยง 570.105 of this chapter, and said definitions remain unchanged. It should be noted that the term "manufacturer" as used in section 12(a) includes retailers who, in addition to retail selling, engage in such manufacturing activities as the making of slipcovers or curtains, the baking of bread, the making of candy, or the making of window frames. Further, the term "dealers" refers to anyone who deals in goods including persons engaged in buying, selling, trading, distributing, delivering, etc. "Dealers," therefore, as used in section 12(a) include retailers. Therefore, where a retailer's business unit is covered under the Act and he is a producer, manufacturer or dealer within the meaning of this section, the retailer must comply with the requirements of section 12(a). If a retailer's business unit which is covered under the Act is exempt as a retail or service establishment under section 13 of the Act from the monetary requirements of the Act, the requirements of the child labor provisions must still be met. Thus, retail or service establishments, in covered enterprises, doing less than $250,000 annually, must comply with the child labor requirements even if they are exempt from minimum wage and overtime provisions under section 13(a)(2) of the Act.
