
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 780 - EXEMPTIONS APPLICABLE TO AGRICULTURE, PROCESSING OF AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES, AND RELATED SUBJECTS UNDER THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT
###### Subpart B - General Scope of Agriculture
####### "Production, Cultivation, Growing, and Harvesting" of Commodities
######## ยง 780.117 "Production, cultivation, growing."
######### Bowie,Gonzalez,,Farmers Reservoir Co.,McComb,

(b) The word "production" was added to the definition of "agriculture" in order to take care of a special situation-the production of turpentine and gum rosins by a process involving the tapping of living trees. (See S. Rep. No. 230, 71st Cong., second sess. (1930); H.R. Rep. No. 2738, 75th Cong., third sess. p. 29 (1938).) To insure the inclusion of this process within the definition, the word "production" was added to section 3(f) in conjunction with the words "including commodities defined as agricultural commodities in section 15(g) of the Agricultural Marketing Act, as amended" (v.117 F. 2d 11). It is clear, therefore, that "production" is not used in section 3(f) in the artificial and special sense in which it is defined in section 3(j). It does not exempt an employee merely because he is engaged in a closely related process or occupation directly essential to the production of agricultural or horticultural commodities. To so construe the term would render unnecessary the remainder of what Congress clearly intended to be a very elaborate and comprehensive definition of "agriculture." The legislative history of this part of the definition was considered by the U.S. Supreme Court in reaching these conclusions inv.337 U.S. 755.
