
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 780 - EXEMPTIONS APPLICABLE TO AGRICULTURE, PROCESSING OF AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES, AND RELATED SUBJECTS UNDER THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT
###### Subpart B - General Scope of Agriculture
####### Performance of the Practice "As an Incident To or In Conjunction With" the Farming Operations
######## § 780.144 "As an incident to or in conjunction with" the farming operations.
######### Holtville Alfalfa Mills,Wyatt,,Maneja,Waialua,,Mitchell,Budd,

In order for practices other than actual farming operations to constitute "agriculture" within the meaning of section 3(f) of the Act, it is not enough that they be performed by a farmer or on a farm in connection with the farming operations conducted by such farmer or on such farm, as explained in §§ 780.129 through 780.143. They must also be performed "as an incident to or in conjunction with" these farming operations. The line between practices that are and those that are not performed "as an incident to or in conjunction with" such farming operations is not susceptible of precise definition. Generally, a practice performed in connection with farming operations is within the statutory language only if it constitutes an established part of agriculture, is subordinate to the farming operations involved, and does not amount to an independent business. Industrial operations (v.230 F. 2d 398) and processes that are more akin to manufacturing than to agriculture (v.349 U.S. 254;v.350 U.S. 473) are not included. This is also true when on-the-farm practices are performed for a farmer. As to when practices may be regarded as performed for a farmer, see § 780.143.
