
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 780 - EXEMPTIONS APPLICABLE TO AGRICULTURE, PROCESSING OF AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES, AND RELATED SUBJECTS UNDER THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT
###### Subpart I - Employment in Ginning of Cotton and Processing of Sugar Beets, Sugar-Beet Molasses, Sugarcane, or Maple Sap into Sugar or Syrup; Exemption From Overtime Pay Requirements Under Section 13(b)(15)
####### Employees "Engaged in" Ginning
######## ยง 780.810 Employees not "engaged in" ginning.
######### Wirtz,Burton Mercantile and Gin Co., Inc.,,Wirtz,Kelso Gin Co., Inc.,Mitchell,Stinson,,Phillips,Meeker Cooperative Light and Power Ass'n,Jenkins,Durkin,,Heaburg,Independent Oil Mill, Inc.,,Abram,San Joaquin Cotton Oil Co.,

Since an employee must actually be "engaged in" ginning of cotton to come within the exemption, an employee engaged in other tasks, not an integral part of "ginning" operations, will not be exempt. (See, for rule that only the employees performing the work described in the exemption are exempt,v.234 F. Supp. 825, aff'd per curiam 338 F. 2d 414, cert. denied 380 U.S. 965;v.(E.D. Ark.) 50 Labor Cases 31, 631, 16 WH Cases 663;v.217 F. 2d 210;v.63 F. Supp. 743, affirmed 158 F. 2d 698;v.208 F. 2d 941;v.46 F. Supp. 751;v.46 F. Supp. 969.) The following activities are among those not within the meaning of the term "engaged in ginning of cotton":

(a) Transporting seed cotton from farms or other points to the gin.

(b) General maintenance work (as opposed to operating repairs).

(c) General office and custodial duties.

(d) "Watching" duties.

(e) Working in the seed house.

(f) Transporting seed, hulls, and ginned bales away from the gin.

(g) Any activity performed during the "off-season."
