
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 780 - EXEMPTIONS APPLICABLE TO AGRICULTURE, PROCESSING OF AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES, AND RELATED SUBJECTS UNDER THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT
###### Subpart J - Employment in Fruit and Vegetable Harvest Transportation; Exemption From Overtime Pay Requirements Under Section 13(b)(16)
####### Exempt Transportation of Fruit or Vegetable Harvest Employees
######## ยง 780.922 "Harvesting" of fruits or vegetables.
######### Vives,Serralles,

Only transportation of employees employed or to be employed in the "harvesting" of fruits or vegetables is exempt under clause (B) of section 13(b)(16). As indicated in ยง 780.920, such harvest workers do not include employees employed or to be employed in planting or cultivating the crop. Nor do they include employees employed or to be employed in operations subsequent to harvesting, even where such operations constitute "agriculture" within the definition in section 3(f) of the Act. "Harvesting" refers to the removal of fruits or vegetables from their growing position in the fields, and as explained in ยง 780.118 of this part, includes the operations customarily performed in connection with this severance of the crops from the soil (seev.145 F. 2d 552), but does not extend to operations subsequent to and unconnected with the actual severance process or to operations performed off the farm. It may include moving the fruits or vegetables to concentration points on the farm, but would not include packingshed or other operations performed in preparation for market rather than as part of harvesting, such as ripening, cleaning, grading, sorting, drying, and storing. If the workers are employed or to be employed in "harvesting", it does not matter for purposes of the exemption whether a farmer or someone else employs them or does the harvesting. It is the character of their employment as "harvesting" and not the identity of their employer or the owner of the crop which determines whether their transportation to and from the farm will provide a basis for exemption of the transportation of employees.
