
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 782 - EXEMPTION FROM MAXIMUM HOURS PROVISIONS FOR CERTAIN EMPLOYEES OF MOTOR CARRIERS
###### ยง 782.2 Requirements for exemption in general.
####### Pyramid Motor Freight Corp.,Ispass,,Levinson,Spector Motor Service,,Morris,McComb,,Pyramid Motor Freight Corp.,Ispass,,Missel,Overnight Motor Transp.,,West,Smoky Mountains Stages,,Magann,Long's Baggage Transfer Co.,,Walling,Burlington Transp. Co.,Hager,Brinks, Inc.,,Pyramid Motor Freight Corp.,Ispass,,Porter,Poindexter,,Keeling,Huber & Huber Motor Express,,Crean,Moran Transp. Lines

(2) The exemption is applicable, under decisions of the U.S. Supreme Court, to those employees and those only whose work involves engagement in activities consisting wholly or in part of a class of work which is defined: (i) As that of a driver, driver's helper, loader, or mechanic, and (ii) as directly affecting the safety of operation of motor vehicles on the public highways in transportation in interstate or foreign commerce within the meaning of the Motor Carrier Act.v.330 U.S. 695;v.330 U.S. 649;v.332 U.S. 442. Although the Supreme Court recognized that the special knowledge and experience required to determine what classifications of work affects safety of operation of interstate motor carriers was applied by the Commission, it has made it clear that the determination whether or not an individual employee is within any such classification is to be determined by judicial process. (v.330 U.S. 695; Cf.v.40 F. Supp. 174 (D. Md.), reversed on other grounds 126 F. (2d) 98 (C.A. 4), affirmed 316 U.S. 572;v.40 F. Supp. 296 (N.D. Ga.);v.39 F. Supp. 742 (W.D. Va.);v.(D. Nebr.), 5 W.H. Cases 172, 9 Labor Cases par. 62,576;v.6 W.H. Cases 262 (N.D. Ill.)) In determining whether an employee falls within such an exempt category, neither the name given to his position nor that given to the work that he does is controlling (v.330 U.S. 695;v.158 F.-(2d) 759 (C.A. 10);v.57 F. Supp. 617 (W.D. Ky.);v.(W.D. N.Y.) 9 Labor Cases, par. 62,416 (see also earlier opinion in 54 F. Supp. 765)); what is controlling is the character of the activities involved in the performance of his job.
