
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 782 - EXEMPTION FROM MAXIMUM HOURS PROVISIONS FOR CERTAIN EMPLOYEES OF MOTOR CARRIERS
###### § 782.2 Requirements for exemption in general.
####### Boutell,Walling,,Walling,Casale,,Pyramid Motor Freight Corp.,Ispass,,Levinson,Spector Motor Service,,United States,American Trucking Assn.,,Gordon's Transports,Walling,,Porter,Poindexter,,Pyramid Motor Freight Corp.,Ispass,,Safety of operation,Walling,,Comet Carriers,,Hansen,Salinas Valley Ice Co.,Reynolds,Rogers Cartage Co.,,Earle,Brinks, Inc.,,Walling,Villaume Box & Lumber Co.,,Hager,Brinks, Inc.,,Walling,DeSoto Creamery & Produce Co.,,Dallum,Farmers Cooperative Trucking Assn.,,McLendon,Bewely Mills,Gibson,Glasgow,Morris,McComb,

(d) The limitations, mentioned in paragraph (a) of this section, on the regulatory power of the Secretary of Transportation (as successor to the Interstate Commerce Commission) under section 204 of the Motor Carrier Act are also limitations on the scope of the exemption. Thus, the exemption does not apply to employees of carriers who are not carriers subject to his jurisdiction, or to employees of noncarriers such as commercial garages, firms engaged in the business of maintaining and repairing motor vehicles owned and operated by carriers, firms engaged in the leasing and renting of motor vehicles to carriers and in keeping such vehicles in condition for service pursuant to the lease or rental agreements. (v.327 U.S. 463;v.51 F. Supp. 520). Similarly, the exemption does not apply to an employee whose job does not involve engagement in any activities which have been defined as those of drivers, drivers' helpers, loaders, or mechanics, and as directly affecting the "safety of operation" of motor vehicles. (v.330 U.S. 695;v.330 U.S. 649;v.310 U.S. 534;v.162 F. (2d) 203 (C.A. 6);v.158 F. (2d) 759 (C.A. 10)) Except insofar as the Commission has found that the activities of drivers, drivers' helpers, loaders, and mechanics, as defined by it, directly affect such "safety of operation," it has disclaimed its power to establish qualifications of maximum hours of service under section 204 of the Motor Carrier Act. (v.330 U.S. 695)as used in section 204 of the Motor Carrier Act means "the safety of operation of motor vehicles in the transportation of passengers or property in interstate or foreign commerce, and that alone." (Ex parte Nos. MC-2 and MC-3 (Conclusions of Law No. 1), 28 M.C.C. 125, 139) Thus the activities of drivers, drivers' helpers, loaders, or mechanics in connection with transportation which is not in interstate of foreign commerce within the meaning of the Motor Carrier Act provide no basis for exemption under section 13(b)(1) of the Fair Labor Standards Act. (v.151 F. (2d) 107 (C.C.A. 2);v.(Cal. App.) 144 P. (2d) 896;v.71 F. Supp. 870 (W.D. Ky.), reversed on other grounds, 166 F. (d) 317 (C.A. 6);v.54 F. Supp. 676 (S.D. N.Y.);v.58 F. Supp. 150 (D. Minn.);v.11 Labor Cases, par. 63,296 (N.D. Ill.), 6 W.H. Cases 262;v.51 F. Supp. 938 (D. Minn.);v.46 F. Supp. 785 (D. Minn.);v.(N.D. Tex.); 3 Labor Cases, par. 60,247, 1 W.H. Cases 934;v.(Tenn. Sup. Ct.), 157 S.W. (2d) 814; cf.v.332 U.S. 422. See also § 782.1 and §§ 782.7 through 782.8.)
