
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 782 - EXEMPTION FROM MAXIMUM HOURS PROVISIONS FOR CERTAIN EMPLOYEES OF MOTOR CARRIERS
###### ยง 782.2 Requirements for exemption in general.
####### United States,American Trucking Assns.,,Gordon's Transport,Walling,,Walling,Comet Carriers,,Gibson,Glasgow,Corp.,Ispass,,Levinson,Spector Motor Serv.,

(e) The jurisdiction of the Secretary of Transportation under section 204 of the Motor Carrier Act relates to safety of operation of motor vehicles only, and "to the safety of operation of such vehicles on the highways of the country, and that alone." (Ex parte Nos. MC-2 and MC-3, 28 M.C.C. 125, 192. See alsov.319 U.S. 534, 548.) Accordingly, the exemption does not extend to employees merely because they engage in activities affecting the safety of operation of motor vehicles operated on private premises. Nor does it extend to employees engaged solely in such activities as operating freight and passenger elevators in the carrier's terminals of moving freight or baggage therein or the docks or streets by hand trucks, which activities have no connection with the actual operation of motor vehicles. (v.162 F. (2d) 203 (C.A. 6), certorari denied 322 U.S. 774;v.57 F. Supp. 1018, affirmed, 151 F. (2d) 107 (C.A. 2), certiorari dismissed, 382 U.S. 819;v.(Tenn. Sup. Ct.), 157 S.W. (2d) 814; Ex parte Nos. MC-2 and MC-3, 28 M.C.C. 125, 128. See also Pyramid Motor Freightv.330 U.S. 695;v.330 U.S. 949.)
