
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 782 - EXEMPTION FROM MAXIMUM HOURS PROVISIONS FOR CERTAIN EMPLOYEES OF MOTOR CARRIERS
###### ยง 782.4 Drivers' helpers.
####### Ispass,Pyramid Motor Freight Corp.,,Walling,McGinley Co.,Levinson,Spector Motor Service,,Pyramid Motor Freight Corp.,Ispass,,Dallum,Farmers, Coop Trucking Assn.,Walling,Gordon's Transports,Pyramid Motor Freight Corp.,Ispass,

(c) In accordance with principles previously stated (see ยง 782.2), the section 13(b)(1) exemption applies to employees who are, under the Secretary of Transporation's definitions, engaged in such activities as full- or partial-duty "helpers" on motor vehicles being operated in transporation in interstate or foreign commerce within the meaning of the Motor Carrier Act. (v.152 F. (2d) 619 (C.A. 2);v.(E.D. Tenn.), 12 Labor Cases, par. 63,731, 6 W.H. Cases 916. See alsov.330 U.S. 649;v.330 U.S. 695;v.46 F. Supp. 785 (D. Minn.).) The exemption has been held inapplicable to so-called helpers who ride on motor vehicles but do not engage in any of the activities of "helpers" which have been found to affect directly the safety of operation of such vehicles in interstate or foreign commerce. (v.(W.D. Tenn.) 10 Labor Cases par. 62,934, 6 W.H. Cases 831, affirmed 162 F. (2d) 203 (C.A. 6), certiorari denied, 332 U.S. 774 (helpers on city "pickup and delivery trucks" where it was not shown that the loading in any manner affected safety of operation and the helper's activities were "in no manner similar" to those of a driver's helper in over-the-road operation).) It should be noted also that an employee, to be exempted as a driver's "helper" under the Secretary's definitions, must be "required" as part of his job to ride on a motor vehicle when it is being operated in interstate or foreign commerce; an employee of a motor carrier is not exempted as a "helper" when he rides on such a vehicle, not as a matter of fixed duty, but merely as a convenient means of getting himself to, from, or between places where he performs his assigned work. (Seev.330 U.S. 695, modifying, on other grounds, 152 F. (2d) 619 (C.A. 2).)
