
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 782 - EXEMPTION FROM MAXIMUM HOURS PROVISIONS FOR CERTAIN EMPLOYEES OF MOTOR CARRIERS
###### ยง 782.5 Loaders.
####### Levinson,Spector Motor Service,,Pyramid Motor Freight Corp.,Ispass,,Walling,Silver Fleet Motor Express,,Walling,Huber & Huber Motor Express,,Walling,Gordon's Transports,Tinerella,Des Moines Transp. Co.,,Levinson,Spector Motor Service,,Walling,Gordon's Transports,Walling,Huber & Huber Motor Express,,Walling,Silver Fleet Motor Express,,Crean,Moran Transporation Lines,,Walling,Commercial Motor Freight,Hogla,Porter

(b) The section 13(b)(1) exemption applies, in accordance with principles previously stated (see ยง 782.2), to an employee whose job involves activities consisting wholly or in part of doing, or immediately directing, a class of work defined: (1) As that of a loader, and (2) as directly affecting the safety of operation of motor vehicles in interstate or foreign commerce within the meaning of the Motor Carrier Act, since such an employee is an employee with respect to whom the Secretary of Transporation has power to establish qualifications and maximum hours of service. (v.330 U.S. 649;v.330 U.S. 695;v.67 F. Supp. 846;v.67 F. Supp. 855;v.(W.D. Tenn.); 10 Labor Cases, par. 62,934, affirmed 162 F. (2d) 203 (C.A. 6) certiorari denied 332 U.S. 774;v.41 F. Supp. 798.) Where a checker, foreman, or other supervisor plans and immediately directs the proper loading of a motor vehicle as described above, he may come within the exemption as a partial-duty loader. (v.330 U.S. 649;v.(W.D. Tenn.), 10 Labor Cases, par. 62,934; affirmed 162 F. (2d) 203 (C.A. 6), certiorari denied 332 U.S. 774;v.67 F. Supp. 885;v.67 F. Supp. 846;v.57 F. Supp. 212 (W.D. N.Y.). See also 9 Labor Cases, par. 62,416;v.(S.D. Ind.), 11 Labor Cases, par. 63,451;v.(E.D. Okla.), 11 Labor Cases, par. 63,389 6 W. H. Cases 608.)
