
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 782 - EXEMPTION FROM MAXIMUM HOURS PROVISIONS FOR CERTAIN EMPLOYEES OF MOTOR CARRIERS
###### ยง 782.5 Loaders.
####### Pyramid Motor Freight Corp.,Ispass,,Levinson,Spector Motor Service,,Pyramid Motor Freight Corp.,Ispass,,Levinson,Spector Motor Service,,Porter,Poindexter,,McKeown,Southern Calif. Freight Forwarders,,Walling,Gordon's Transports,Walling,Huber & Huber Motor Express,,Walling,Silver Fleet Motor Express,,Crean,Moran Transp. Lines,,Gibson,Glasgow,Keeling,Huber & Huber Motor Express,,Wirtz,C&P Shoe Corp.,Barrick,South Chicago Coal & Dock Co.,Pyramid Motor Freight Corp.,Ispass,,Yellow Transit Freight Lines Inc.,Balven,,Foremost Dairies,Ivey,,Ispass,Pyramid Motor Freight Corp.,,Mitchell,Meco Steel Supply Co.,,Garton,Sanders Transfer & Storage Co.,,McKeown,Southern Calif. Freight Forwarders,,Walling,Gordon's Transports,Crean,Moran Transporation Lines,,Walling,Gordon's Transports,,Levinson,Spector Motor Service,

(c) An employee is not exempt as a loader where his activities in connection with the loading of motor vehicles are confined to classes of work other than the kind of loading described above, which directly affects "safety of operation." (v.330 U.S. 695;v.330 U.S. 649) The mere handling of freight at a terminal, before or after loading, or even the placing of certain articles of freight on a motor carrier truck may form so trivial, casual, or occasional a part of an employee's activities, or his activities may relate only to such articles or to such limited handling of them, that his activities will not come within the kind of "loading" which directly affects "safety of operation." Thus the following activities have been held to provide no basis for exemption: Unloading; placing freight in convenient places in the terminal, checking bills of lading; wheeling or calling freight being loaded or unloaded; loading vehicles for trips which will not involve transportation in interstate or foreign commerce within the meaning of the Motor Carrier Act; and activities relating to the preservation of the freight as distinguished from the safety of operation of the motor vehicles carrying such freight on the highways. (v.330 U.S. 695;v.330 U.S. 649;v.158 F. (2d) 759 (C.A. 10);v.49 F. Supp. 543;v.(W.D. Tenn.), 10 Labor Cases, par. 62,934, affirmed 162 F. (2d) 203 (C.A. 6), certiorari denied 332 U.S. 774;v.67 F. Supp. 855;v.67 F. Supp. 846;v.50 F. Supp. 107, 54 F. Supp. 765 (cf. 57 F. Supp. 212);v.(Tenn. Sup. Ct.) 157 S.W. (2d) 814. See alsov.57 F. Supp. 617.) As is apparent from opinion in Ex parte Nos. MC-2 and MC-3, 28 M.C.C. 125, red caps of bus companies engaged in loading baggage on buses are not loaders engaged in work directly affecting safety of operation of the vehicles. In the same opinion, it is expressly recognized that there is a class of freight which, because it is light in weight, probably could not be loaded in a manner which would adversely affect "safety of operations." Support for this conclusion is found inv.335 F. (2d) 21 (C.A. 5), wherein the court held the loading of boxes of shoes, patterned on the last in, first out principle clearly was not of a safety affecting character "in view of the light weight of the cargo involved." In the case of coal trucks which are loaded from stockpiles by the use of an electric bridge crane and a mechanical conveyor, it has been held that employees operating such a crane or conveyor in the loading process are not exempt as "loaders" under section 13(b)(1). (v.(N.D. Ill.), 8 Labor Cases, par. 62,242, affirmed 149 F. (2d) 960 (C.A. 7).) It seems apparent from the foregoing discussion that an employee who has no responsibility for the proper loading of a motor vehicle is not within the exemption as a "loader" merely because he furnishes physical assistance when necessary in loading heavy pieces of freight, or because he deposits pieces of freight in the vehicle for someone else to distribute and secure inplace, or even because he does the physical work of arranging pieces of freight in the vehicle where another employee tells him exactly what to do in each instance and he is given no share in the exercise of discretion as to the manner in which the loading is done. (Seev.330 U.S. 695;v.320 F. (2d) 495 (C.A. 8);v.204 F. (2d) 186 (C.A. 5);v.78 F. Supp. 475 (S.D. N.Y.);v.183 F. Supp. 779 (S.D. Tex.);v.124 F. Supp. 84 (M.D. Tenn.);v.49 F. Supp. 543;v.(W.D. Tenn.) 10 Labor Cases, par. 62,934, affirmed 162 F. (2d) 203 (C.A. 6), certiorari denied 332 U.S. 774;v.50 F. Supp. 107 (see also further opinion in 54 F. Supp. 765, and cf. the court's holding in 57 F. Supp. 212 withv.cited above). See alsov.330 U.S. 649.) Such activities would not seem to constitute the kind of "loading" which directly affects the safety of operation of the loaded vehicle on the public highways, under the official definitions. (See Ex parte Nos. MC-2 and MC-3, 28 M.C.C. 125, 133, 134).
