
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 782 - EXEMPTION FROM MAXIMUM HOURS PROVISIONS FOR CERTAIN EMPLOYEES OF MOTOR CARRIERS
###### ยง 782.6 Mechanics.
####### Morris,McComb,,Pyramid Motor Freight Corp.,Ispass.,Levinson,Spector Motor Service,,Walling,Silver Bros.,,Robbins,Zabarsky,,Mason & Dixon Lines,Ligon,Morris,McComb,,Levinson,Spector Motor Service,

(b) The section 13(b)(1) exemption applies, in accordance with principles previously stated (see ยง 782.2), to an employee whose job involves activities consisting wholly or in part of doing, or immediately directing, a class of work which, under the definitions referred to above, is that of a "mechanic" and directly affects the safety of operation of motor vehicles on the public highways in interstate or foreign commerce, within the meaning of the Motor Carrier Act. The power under the Motor Carrier Act to establish qualifications and maximum hours of service for such an employee has been sustained by the courts. (v.332 U.S. 422. See alsov.330 U.S. 695;v.330 U.S. 649;v.136 F. (2d) 168 (C.C.A. 1)). A supervisory employee who plans and immediately directs and checks the proper performance of this class of work may come within the exemption as a partial-duty mechanic. (v.44 F. Supp. 867;v.(Tenn. Ct. App.), 7 Labor Cases par. 61,962; cf.v.332 U.S. 422 andv.330 U.S. 649)
