
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 782 - EXEMPTION FROM MAXIMUM HOURS PROVISIONS FOR CERTAIN EMPLOYEES OF MOTOR CARRIERS
###### ยง 782.6 Mechanics.
####### Wirtz,Tyler Pipe & Foundry Co.,,Morris,McComb,,Keeling,Huber & Huber Motor Express,,Walling,Huber & Huber Motor Express,,Walling,Silver Fleet Motor Express,,McDuffie,Hayes Freight Lines,,Anuchick,Transamerican Freight Lines,,Walling,Burlington Transp. Co.,Colbeck,Dairyland Creamery Co.,Pyramid Motor Freight Corp.,Ispass,Morris,McComb,,Campbell,Riss & Co.,McDuffie,Hayes Freight Lines,,Walling,Silver Fleet Motor Express,,Hutchinson,Barry,,Walling,Palmer,,Anuchick,Transamerican Freight Lines,,Bumpus,Continental Baking Co.,Green,Riss & Co.,,Walling,Burlington Transp. Co.,Keegan,Ruppert,Walling,East Texas Freight Lines,Collier,Acme Freight Lines,,Potashnik Local Truck System,Archer,Overnight Motor Corp.,Missel,,Anuchick,Transamerican Freight Lines,,Walling,Silver Fleet Motor Express,,McDuffie,Hayes Freight Lines,Walling,Burlington Transp. Co.,Colbeck,Dairyland Creamery Co.

(c)(1) An employee of a carrier by motor vehicle is not exempted as a "mechanic" from the overtime provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act under section 13(b)(1) merely because he works in the carrier's gargage, or because he is called a "mechanic," or because he is a mechanic by trade and does mechanical work. (v.369 F. 2d 927 (C.A. 5).) The exemption applies only if he is doing a class of work defined as that of a "mechanic", including activities which directly affect the safety of operation of motor vehicles in transporation on the public highways in interstate or foreign commerce. (v.332 U.S. 422;v.57 F. Supp. 617;v.67 F. Supp. 855;v.67 F. Supp. 846;v.71 F. Supp. 755;v.46 F. Supp. 861;v.(D. Nebr.), 9 Labor Cases, par. 62,576. Compare Ex parte No. MC-40 (Sub. No. 2), 88 M.C.C. 710 withv.(S.D. Sup. Ct.), 17 N.W. (2d) 262. See alsov.330 U.S. 695.) Activities which do not directly affect such safety of operation include those performed by employees whose jobs are confined to such work as that of dispatchers, carpenters, tarpaulin tailors vehicle painters, or servicemen who do nothing but oil, gas, grease, or wash the motor vehicles. (Ex parte Nos. MC-2 and MC-3, 28 M.C.C. 125, 132, 133, 135) To these may be added activities such as filling radiators, checking batteries, and the usual work of such employees as stockroom personnel, watchmen, porters, and garage employees performing menial nondiscretionary tasks or disassembling work. Employees whose work is confined to such "nonsafety" activities are not within the exemption, even though the proper performance of their work may have an indirect effect on the safety of operation of the motor vehicles on the highways. (v.332 U.S. 422;v.(W.D. Mo.), 5 Labor Cases, par. 61,092 (dispatcher);v.71 F. Supp. 755 (work of janitor and caretaker, carpentry work, body building, removing paint, preparing for repainting, and painting);v.67 F. Supp. 846 (body building, construction work, painting and lettering);v.50 F. Supp. 292 (washing vehicles);v.67 F. Supp. 12 (putting water in radiators and batteries, oil and gas in vehicles, and washing vehicles);v.46 F. Supp. 861 (body builders, tarpaulin worker, stockroom boy, night watchman, porter);v.(W.D. Tenn.), 1 Wage Hour Cases 920 (painter), reversed on other grounds 124 F. (2d) 549;v.45 F. Supp. 648 (night watchman and gas pump attendant);v.(D. Nebr.), 9 Labor Cases, par. 62,576 (body builders);v.(S.D. N.Y.), 7 Labor Cases, par. 61,726 (greasing and washing);v.(N.D. Tex.), 8 Labor Cases, par. 62,083 (Menial tasks);v.unreported (S.D. Fla., Oct. 1943) (same);v.(Ark. Sup. Ct.). 179 S.W. (2d) 696 (checking trucks in and out and acting as night dispatcher, among other duties);v.316 U.S. 572 (rate clerk with part-time duties as dispatcher).) The same has been held true of employees whose activities are confined to construction work, manufacture or rebuilding of truck, bus, or trailer bodies, and other duties which are concerned with the safe carriage of the contents of the vehicle rather than directly with the safety of operation on the public highways of the motor vehicle itself (v.46 F. Supp. 816;v.67 F. Supp. 846;v.71 F. Supp. 755;v.(D. Nebr.), 9 Labor Cases, par. 62,576. Comparev.(S.D. Sup. Ct.) 17 N.W. (2d) 262 with Ex parte No. MC-40 (Sub. No. 2), 88 M.C.C. 710.)

(2) The distinction between direct and indirect effects on safety of operation is exemplified by the comments in rejecting the contention in Ex parte Nos. MC-2 and MC-3, 28 M.C.C. 125, 135, that the activities of dispatchers directly affect safety of operation. It was stated: "It is contended that if a dispatcher by an error in judgment assigns a vehicle of insufficient size and weight-carrying capacity to transport the load, or calls a driver to duty who is sick, fatigued, or otherwise not in condition to operate the vehicle, or requires or permits the vehicle to depart when the roads are icy and the country to be traversed is hilly, an accident may result. While this may be true, it is clear that such errors in judgment are not the proximate causes of such accidents, and the dispatchers engage in no activities which directly affect the safety of operation of motor vehicles in interstate or foreign commerce."
