
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 782 - EXEMPTION FROM MAXIMUM HOURS PROVISIONS FOR CERTAIN EMPLOYEES OF MOTOR CARRIERS
###### ยง 782.6 Mechanics.
####### Keeling,Huber & Huber Motor Express,,Walling,Huber & Huber Motor Express,,Kentucky Transport Co.,Drake,Anuchick,Transamerican Freight Lines,,Yellow Transit Freight Lines Inc.,Balsen,Baker,Sharpless Hendler Ice Cream Co.

(3) Similarly, the exemption has been held inapplicable to mechanics repairing and rebuilding parts, batteries, and tires removed from vehicles where a direct causal connection between their work and the safe operation of motor vehicles on the highways is lacking because they do no actual work on the vehicles themselves and entirely different employees have the exclusive responsibility for determining whether the products of their work are suitable for use, and for the correct installation of such parts, on the vehicles. (v.57 F. Supp. 617;v.67 F. Supp. 855) Mechanical work on motor vehicles of a carrier which is performed in order to make the vehicles conform to technical legal requirements rather than to prevent accidents on the highways has not been regarded by the courts as work directly affecting "safety of operation." (v.(Ky. Ct. App.), 182 S.W. (2d) 960;v.46 F. Supp. 861;v.320 F. (2d) 495 (C.A. 8)) And it is clear that no mechanical work on motor vehicles can be considered to affect safety of operation of such vehicles in interstate or foreign commerce if the vehicles are never in fact used in transportation in such commerce on the public highways. (v.(E.D. Pa.), 10 Labor Cases, par. 62,956)
