
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 782 - EXEMPTION FROM MAXIMUM HOURS PROVISIONS FOR CERTAIN EMPLOYEES OF MOTOR CARRIERS
###### § 782.7 Interstate commerce requirements of exemption.
####### Southland Gasoline Co.,Bayley,,Plunkett,Abraham Bros.,,Vannoy,Swift & Co.,Nelson,Allison & Co.,Reynolds,Rogers Cartage Co.,Walling,McGinley Co.,Walling,A. H. Phillips, Inc.,,Morris,McComb,,Pyramid Motor Freight Corp.,Ispass,,Walling,Silver Bros. Co.,Walling,Mutual Wholesale Food & Supply Co.,,Dallum,Farmers Cooperative Trucking Assn.,,Gavril,Kraft Cheese Co.,,Keegan,Rupport,Baker,Sharpless Hendler Ice Cream Co.,Walling,Jacksonville Paper Co.,,Walling,Mutual Wholesale Food & Supply Co.,,Walling,American Stores Co.,,Baker,Sharpless Hendler Ice Cream Co.,Beggs,Kroger Co.,,Wirtz,Crystal Lake Crushed Stone Co.,,Kline,Wirtz,

(b)(1) Highway transportation by motor vehicle from one State to another, in the course of which the vehicles cross the State line, clearly constitutes interstate commerce under both acts. Employees of a carrier so engaged, whose duties directly affect the safety of operation of such vehicles, are within the exemption in accordance with principles previously stated. (v.319 U.S. 44;v.129 F. (2d) 419 (C.A. 6);v.(Mo. Sup. Ct.), 201 S.W. (2d) 350;v.(E.D. Tenn.), 13 Labor Cases, par. 64,021;v.(W.D. Ky.), 13 Labor Cases, par. 63,978, reversed on other grounds 166 F. (2d) 317 (C.A. 6);v.(E.D. Tenn.), 12 Labor Cases, par. 63,731;v.50 F. Supp. 749, affirmed (C.A. 1) 144 F. (2d) 102,324 U.S. 490. See §§ 782.2 through 782.8.) The result is no different where the vehicles do not actually cross State lines but operate solely within a single State, if what is being transported is actually moving in interstate commerce within the meaning of both acts; the fact that other carriers transport it out of or into the State is not material. (v.68 S. Ct. 131;v.330 U.S. 695;v.136 F. (2d) 168 (C.A. 1);v.141 F. (2d) 331 (C.A. 8);v.46 F. Supp. 785 (D. Minn.);v.42 F. Supp. 702 (N.D. Ill.);v.(S.D. N.Y.), 7 Labor Cases, par. 61,726, 3 W.H. Cases 412;v.(E.D. Pa.), 10 Labor Cases, par. 62,956, 5 W.H. Cases 926). Transportation within a single State is in interstate commerce within the meaning of the Fair Labor Standards Act where it forms a part of a "practical continuity of movement" across State lines from the point of origin to the point of destination. (v.317 U.S. 564;v.141 F. (2d) 331 (C.A. 8);v.133 F. (2d) 840 (C.A. 3);v.(E.D. Pa.), 10 Labor Cases, par. 62,956 5 W.H. Cases 926) Since the interstate commerce regulated under the two acts is not identical (see paragraph (a) of this section), such transportation may or may not be considered also a movement in interstate commerce within the meaning of the Motor Carrier Act. Decisions of the Interstate Commerce Commission prior to 1966 seemingly have limited the scope of the Motor Carrier Act more narrowly than the courts have construed the Fair Labor Standards Act. (see § 782.8.) It is deemed necessary, however, as an enforcement policy only and without prejudice to any rights of employees under section 16 (b) of the Act, to assume that such a movement in interstate commerce under the Fair Labor Standards Act is also a movement in interstate commerce under the Motor Carrier Act, except in those situations where the Commission has held or the Secretary of Transportation or the courts hold otherwise. (See § 782.8(a); and comparev.167 F. (2d) 700, with the Interstate Commerce Commission's holding in Ex parte No. MC-48, 71 M.C.C. 17, discussed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.) Under this enforcement policy it will ordinarily be assumed by the Administrator that the interstate commerce requirements of the section 13(b)(1) exemption are satisfied where it appears that a motor carrier employee is engaged as a driver, driver's helper, loader, or mechanic in transportation by motor vehicle which, although confined to a single State, is a part of an interstate movement of the goods or persons being thus transported so as to constitute interstate commerce within the meaning of the Fair Labor Standards Act. This policy does not extend to drivers, driver's helpers, loaders, or mechanics whose transportation activities are "in commerce" or "in the production of goods for commerce" within the meaning of the act but are not a part of an interstate movement of the goods or persons carried (see, e.g.,v.327 F. 2d 455 (C.A. 7)). Where, however, it has been authoritatively held that transportation of a particular character within a single State is not in interstate commerce as defined in the Motor Carrier Act (as has been done with respect to certain transportation of petroleum products from a terminal within a State to other points within the same State-see paragraph (b)(2) of this section), there is no basis for an exemption under section 13(b)(1), even though the facts may establish a "practical continuity of movement" from out-of-State sources through such in-State trip so as to make the trip one in interstate commerce under the Fair Labor Standards Act. Of course, engagement in local transportation which is entirely in intrastate commerce provides no basis for exempting a motor carrier employee. (v.373 F. 2d 281 (C.A. 5). See also paragraph (b) of this section.)
