
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 782 - EXEMPTION FROM MAXIMUM HOURS PROVISIONS FOR CERTAIN EMPLOYEES OF MOTOR CARRIERS
###### ยง 782.7 Interstate commerce requirements of exemption.
####### Walling,Comet Carriers,,Griffin Cartage Co.,Walling,,Walling,Morris,,Morris,McComb,,West Kentucky Coal Co.,Walling,,Hamlet Ice Co.,Fleming,,Atlantic Co.,Walling,,Chapman,Home Ice Co.,,Walling,Griffin Cartage Co.,,Dallum,Farmers Coop. Trucking Assn.,,Walling,Villaume Box & Lbr. Co.,,Walling,DeSoto Creamery & Produce Co.,,Reynolds,Rogers Cargate Co.,,Hansen,Salinas Valley Ice Co.

(c) The wage and hours provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act are applicable not only to employees engaged in commerce, as defined in the act, but also to employees engaged in the production of goods for commerce. Employees engaged in the "production" of goods are defined by the act as including those engaged in "handling, transporting, or in any other manner working on such goods, or in closely related process or occupation directly essential to the production thereof, in any State." (Fair Labor Standards Act, sec. 3(j), 29 U.S.C., sec. 203(j), as amended by the Fair Labor Standards Amendments of 1949, 63 Stat. 910. See also the Division's Interpretative Bulletin, part 776 of this chapter on general coverage of the wage and hours provisions of the act.) Where transportation of persons or property by motor vehicle between places within a State falls within this definition, and is not transportation in interstate or foreign commerce within the meaning of the Motor Carrier Act because movement from points out of the State has ended or because movement to points out of the State has not yet begun, the employees engaged in connection with such transportation (this applies to employees of common, contract, and private carriers) are covered by the wage and hours provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act and are not subject to the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Transportation. Examples are: (1) Drivers transporting goods in and about a plant producing goods for commerce; (2) chauffeurs or drivers of company cars or buses transporting officers or employees from place to place in the course of their employment in an establishment which produces goods for commerces; (3) drivers who transport goods from a producer's plant to the plant of a processor, who, in turn, sells goods in interstate commerce, the first producer's goods being a part or ingredient of the second producer's goods; (4) drivers transporting goods between a factory and the plant of an independent contractor who performs operations on the goods, after which they are returned to the factory which further processes the goods for commerce; and (5) drivers transporting goods such as machinery or tools and dies, for example, to be used or consumed in the production of other goods for commerce. These and other employees engaged in connection with the transportation within a State of persons or property by motor vehicle who are subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act because engaged in the production of goods for commerce and who are not subject to the Motor Carrier Act because not engaged in interstate or foreign commerce within the meaning of that act, are not within the exemption provided by section 13(b)(1). (v.151 F. (2d) 107 (C.A. 2);v.153 F. (2d) 587 (C.A. 6);v.155 F. (2d) 832 (C.A. 6), reversed on other grounds inv.332 U.S. 422;v.153 F. (2d) 582 (C.A. 6);v.127 F. (2d) 165 (C.A. 4);v.131 F. (2d) 518 (C.A. 5);v.136 F. (2d) 353 (C.A. 6);v.62 F. Supp. 396 (E.D. Mich.), affirmed 153 F. (2d) 587 (C.A. 6);v.46 F. Supp. 785 (D. Minn.);v.58 F. Supp. 150 (D. Minn);v.51 F. Supp. 938 (D. Minn.);v.71 F. Supp. 870 (W.D. Ky.), reversed on other grounds 166 F. (2d) 317 (C.A. 6),v.(Cal. App.), 144 P. (2d) 896).
