
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 783 - APPLICATION OF THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT TO EMPLOYEES EMPLOYED AS SEAMEN
###### Application in General of the Act's Provisions
####### ยง 783.21 Guiding principles for applying coverage and exemption provisions.
######## Helena Glendale Ferry Co.,Walling,,Powell,U.S. Cartridge Co.,,Walling,General Industries Co.,,Mitchell,Kentucky Finance Co.,,Tobin,Blue Channel Corp.,Mitchell,Myrtle Grove Packing Co.,,Fleming,Hawkeye Pearl Button Co.,,Arnold,Kanowsky,,Walling,Haden,,Addison,Holly Hill,,Maneja,Waialua,,Phillips,Walling,,Mitchell,Kentucky Finance Co.,,Arnold,Kanowsky,,Helena Glendale Ferry Co.,Walling,,Mitchell,Stinson,,Flemming,Hawkeye Pearl Button Co.,,Walling,Bay State Dredging & Contracting Co.,,Anderson,Manhattan Lighterage Corp.,,Sternberg Dredging Co.,Walling,

It is clear that Congress intended the Fair Labor Standards Act to be broad in its scope (v.132 F. 2d 616). "Breadth of coverage is vital to its mission" (v.339 U.S. 497). An employer who claims an exemption under the Act has the burden of showing that it applies (v.330 U.S. 545;v.359 U.S. 290;v.198 F. 2d 245, approved inv.350 U.S. 891;v.113 F. 2d 52). Conditions specified in the language of the Act are "explicit prerequisites to exemption" (v.361 U.S. 388; and seev.153 F. 2d 196). In their application, the purpose of the exemption as shown in its legislative history as well as its language should be given effect. However, "the details with which the exemptions in this Act have been made preclude their enlargement by implication" and "no matter how broad the exemption, it is meant to apply only to" the specified activities (v.322 U.S. 607;v.349 U.S. 254). Exemptions provided in the Act "are to be narrowly construed against the employer seeking to assert them" and their application limited to those who come "plainly and unmistakably within their terms and spirits." This construction of the exemptions is necessary to carry out the broad objectives for which the Act was passed (v.324 U.S. 490;v.supra;v.supra;v.supra;v.217 F. 2d 210;v.113 F. 2d 52;v.149 F. 2d 346, certiorari denied 326 U.S. 760;v.148 F. 2d 971, certiorari denied 326 U.S. 722;v.158 F. 2d 678).
