
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 13 - ESTABLISHING PAID SICK LEAVE FOR FEDERAL CONTRACTORS
#### Subpart D - Enforcement
##### ยง 13.44 Remedies and sanctions.
###### Interference.

(a)When the Administrator determines that a contractor has interfered with an employee's accrual or use of paid sick leave in violation of ยง 13.6(a), the Administrator will notify the contractor and the relevant contracting agency of the interference and request that the contractor remedy the violation. If the contractor does not remedy the violation, the Administrator shall direct the contractor to provide any appropriate relief to the affected employee(s) in the investigative findings letter issued pursuant to ยง 13.51. Such relief may include any pay and/or benefits denied or lost by reason of the violation; other actual monetary losses sustained as a direct result of the violation; or appropriate equitable or other relief. Payment of liquidated damages in an amount equaling any monetary relief may also be directed unless such amount is reduced by the Administrator because the violation was in good faith and the contractor had reasonable grounds for believing it had not violated the Order or this part. The Administrator may additionally direct that payments due on the contract or any other contract between the contractor and the Federal Government be withheld as may be necessary to provide any appropriate monetary relief. Upon the final order of the Secretary that monetary relief is due, the Administrator may direct the relevant contracting agency to transfer the withheld funds to the Department of Labor for disbursement.
