
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 13 - ESTABLISHING PAID SICK LEAVE FOR FEDERAL CONTRACTORS
#### Subpart D - Enforcement
##### ยง 13.44 Remedies and sanctions.
###### Discrimination.

(b)When the Administrator determines that a contractor has discriminated against an employee in violation of ยง 13.6(b), the Administrator will notify the contractor and the relevant contracting agency of the discrimination and request that the contractor remedy the violation. If the contractor does not remedy the violation, the Administrator shall direct the contractor to provide appropriate relief to the affected employee(s) in the investigative findings letter issued pursuant to ยง 13.51. Such relief may include, but is not limited to, employment, reinstatement, promotion, restoration of leave, or lost pay and/or benefits. Payment of liquidated damages in an amount equaling any monetary relief may also be directed unless such amount is reduced by the Administrator because the violation was in good faith and the contractor had reasonable grounds for believing the contractor had not violated the Order or this part. The Administrator may additionally direct that payments due on the contract or any other contract between the contractor and the Federal Government be withheld as may be necessary to provide any appropriate monetary relief. Upon the final order of the Secretary that monetary relief is due, the Administrator may direct the relevant contracting agency to transfer the withheld funds to the Department of Labor for disbursement.
