
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 784 - PROVISIONS OF THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT APPLICABLE TO FISHING AND OPERATIONS ON AQUATIC PRODUCTS
###### Subpart B - Exemptions Provisions Relating to Fishing and Aquatic Products
####### Principles Applicable to the Two Exemptions
######## ยง 784.117 Combinations of exempt work.
######### ยง 784.121 Exempt fisheries operations.
########## Mitchell,Trade Winds, Inc.,

Employees engaged in the named operations, such at "catching" or "taking," are clearly exempt. As indicated in ยง 784.106, employees engaged in activities that are "directly and necessarily a part of" an enumerated operation are also exempt (v.289 F. 2d 278). The "catching, taking, propagating, harvesting, cultivating, or farming" of the various forms of aquatic life includes not only the actual performance of the activities, but also the usual duties inherent in the occupations of those who perform the activities. Thus, the fisherman who is engaged in "catching" and "taking" must see to it that his lines, nets, seines, traps, and other equipment are not fouled and are in working order. He may also have to mend or replace his lines or nets or repair or construct his traps. Such activities are an integral part of the operations of "catching" and "taking" of an aquatic product.
