
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 784 - PROVISIONS OF THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT APPLICABLE TO FISHING AND OPERATIONS ON AQUATIC PRODUCTS
###### Subpart B - Exemptions Provisions Relating to Fishing and Aquatic Products
####### Principles Applicable to the Two Exemptions
######## ยง 784.117 Combinations of exempt work.
######### ยง 784.131 "As an incident to, or in conjunction with", fishing operations.
########## Farmers Reservoir Co.,McComb,,Bowie,Gonzales,

The statutory language makes clear that the "first processing, canning, or packing," unlike the other named operations of "catching, taking, propagating, harvesting, cultivating, or farming" are not exempt operations in and of themselves. They are exempt only when performed "as an incident to, or in conjunction with such fishing operations" (seev.337 U.S. 755). It is apparent from the context that the language "such fishing operations" refers to the principal named operations of "catching, taking, propagating, harvesting, cultivating, or farming" as performed by the fishermen or fishing vessel (comparev.117 F. 2d 11). Therefore to be "an incident to, or in conjunction with such fishing operations", the first processing, canning, or packing must take place upon the vessel that is engaged in the physical catching, taking, etc., of the fish. This is made abundantly clear by the legislative history. In Senate Report No. 145, 87th Congress, first session, at page 33, it pointed out:
