
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 793 - EXEMPTION OF CERTAIN RADIO AND TELEVISION STATION EMPLOYEES FROM OVERTIME PAY REQUIREMENTS UNDER SECTION 13(b)(9) OF THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT
###### Requirements for Exemption
####### ยง 793.6 Exemption limited to employees in named occupations.
######## Walling,Haden,

The legislative history of section 13(b)(9) makes it clear that the exemption is specifically limited to employees employed in the specified occupations (S. Rept. 145, 87th Cong. 1st sess., p. 37). To be exempt, therefore, an employee must be employed in the named occupations of announcer, a news editor, or a chief engineer. In applying this test to an employee, his title or job description is not determinative. His aggregate duties, as evidenced by the work which he actually performs in his everyday activities, determines the nature of his occupation. The employee's duties, taken as a whole, must characterize the occupation of the employee as that of announcer, news editor, or chief engineer, if the statutory requirement that he be "employed as" such an employee is to be satisfied (seev.153 F. 2d 196, cert. denied 328 U.S. 866). This exemption does not apply to employees who are employed in occupations other than those of announcer, news editor, or chief engineer.
