
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 793 - EXEMPTION OF CERTAIN RADIO AND TELEVISION STATION EMPLOYEES FROM OVERTIME PAY REQUIREMENTS UNDER SECTION 13(b)(9) OF THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT
###### Workweek Application of Exemption
####### ยง 793.21 Exempt and nonexempt work.
######## McComb,Puerto Rico Tobacco Marketing Co-op Ass'n.,,Mitchell,Hunt,,Abram,San Joaquin Cotton Oil Co.,,McComb,del Valle,,Walling,Peacock Corp.,

Where an employee in the same workweek performs work which is exempt from the overtime requirements of the Act under section 13(b)(9), and also engages in work to which the overtime requirements apply, he is not exempt from overtime provisions of the Act in that week. (Seev.80 F. Supp. 953, affirmed, 181 F. 2d 697;v.263 F. 2d 913;v.46 F. Supp. 969;v.80 F. Supp. 945;v.58 F. Supp. 880.) As explained in ยง 793.13, work which does not come within the occupational duties of an announcer, news editor, or chief engineer, or which is not related and incidental thereto, is not exempt work under section 13(b)(9). The mere isolated or occasional performance of insubstantial amounts of such nonexempt work will not defeat the exemption for the employee. Where, however, an employee, in a particular workweek, performs a substantial amount of nonexempt work to which the overtime provisions of the Act are applicable, the employee is not exempt under section 13(b)(9) in that workweek. For administrative purposes an employee who spends 20 percent or more of the hours he works in a workweek in such nonexempt work, will not be considered exempt under section 13(b)(9) in that workweek.
