
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 794 - PARTIAL OVERTIME EXEMPTION FOR EMPLOYEES OF WHOLESALE OR BULK PETROLEUM DISTRIBUTORS UNDER SECTION 7(b)(3) OF THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT
###### Subpart A - General
####### ยง 794.3 Matters discussed in this part.

This part primarily discusses the meaning and application of the section 7(b)(3) exemption. The meaning and application of other provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act are discussed only to make clear their relevance to the 7(b)(3) exemption and are not considered in detail in this part. Interpretations published elsewhere in this title deal with such subjects as the general coverage of the Act (part 776 of this chapter), methods of payment of wages (part 531, subpart C, of this chapter), computation and payment of overtime compensation (part 778 of this chapter), computation and payment of overtime compensation (part 778 of this chapter), retailing of goods or services (part 779 of this chapter), hours worked (part 785 of this chapter), and child labor provisions (part 570 of this chapter). Regulations on recordkeeping are contained in part 516 of this chapter, and regulations defining exempt bona fide executive, administrative, and professional employees are contained in part 541 of this chapter. The equal pay provisions are discussed in part 800 of this chapter. Regulations and interpretations on other subjects concerned with the application of the Act are listed in the table of contents to this chapter. Copies of any of these documents may be obtained from any office of the Wage and Hour Division.
