
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 794 - PARTIAL OVERTIME EXEMPTION FOR EMPLOYEES OF WHOLESALE OR BULK PETROLEUM DISTRIBUTORS UNDER SECTION 7(b)(3) OF THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT
###### Subpart B - Exemption From Overtime Pay Requirements Under Section 7(b)(3) of the Act
####### Scope and Application in General
######## ยง 794.101 Intended scope of exemption.

Under section 7(b)(3) of the Act, the intent of the exemption must be given effect in determining the scope of its application to an enterprise and to the employees of an enterprise. The statutory language must be applied to the facts in a manner consistent with the purpose of the exemption as evidenced by its legislative history. This purpose is to relieve the described enterprises from the application of the Act's general overtime pay requirements (in the limited manner specified in the exemption) to employment in their activities of distributing petroleum products. Such employment was stated to be affected by climatic, seasonal, and other pertinent factors characteristic of business operations in the distribution of such products. (See, in this connection, the following documents of 87th Cong., first sess.; H. Rept. No. 75, pp. 26, 27, 36; 105 Congressional Record (daily edition) p. 4519; S. Rept. No. 145, pp. 37, 50; H. Rept. No. 327, p. 18; Hearings before Senate Subcommittee on Labor on S. 256, S. 879, and S. 895, at pp. 411-424; Hearings before House Special Subcommittee on Labor on H.R. 2935, at pp. 422-425 and 627-629; and these documents of the 89th Cong., second sess.; H. Rept. No. 1366, pp. 12, 13, and 43; Cong. Record (daily edition) p. 10745; S. Rept. No. 1487, pp. 32 and 51.)
