
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter B - Statements of General Policy or Interpretation Not Directly Related to Regulations
##### PART 794 - PARTIAL OVERTIME EXEMPTION FOR EMPLOYEES OF WHOLESALE OR BULK PETROLEUM DISTRIBUTORS UNDER SECTION 7(b)(3) OF THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT
###### Subpart B - Exemption From Overtime Pay Requirements Under Section 7(b)(3) of the Act
####### Sales Made to Other Bulk Distributors
######## § 794.130 Not more than 25 percent of sales may be to customers engaged in bulk distribution of petroleum products for resale.

As a further requirement for exemption, section 7(b)(3) limits to not more than 25 percent (measured by annual dollar volume) the sales which an enterprise engaged in the wholesale or bulk distribution of petroleum products may make to customers who are engaged in the bulk distribution of such products for resale. It should be noted that this limitation does not depend on whether the goods sold by the enterprise to such customers are sold by it for resale, or on whether the goods sold to such customers are petroleum products. It is whether the customer is engaged in selling petroleum products for resale that is controlling. A sale of any goods must be included in this 25 percent limitation so long as it is made to a customer who, as described in section 7(b)(3), can be characterized as one "engaged in the bulk distribution of such products for resale". It should be also noted that this provision does not in any way limit the sales which the enterprise may make to customers who are not engaged in the bulk distribution of petroleum products for resale. Thus, there is no limitation on the sales the enterprise may make to gasoline service stations which sell such products for resale but do no engage in the "bulk distribution" of the products so sold, or to any other customers except those specified in the exemption in section 7(b)(3). Who is a "customer engaged in the bulk distribution of such products for resale" is discussed in §§ 794.131-794.133.
