
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter C - Other Laws
##### PART 801 - APPLICATION OF THE EMPLOYEE POLYGRAPH PROTECTION ACT OF 1988
###### Subpart F - Administrative Proceedings
####### Procedures Before Administrative Law Judge
######## ยง 801.67 Decision and Order of Administrative Law Judge.

(a) The Administrative Law Judge shall prepare, as promptly as practicable after the expiration of the time set for filing proposed findings and related papers, a decision on the issues referred by the Secretary.

(b) The decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall be limited to a determination whether the respondent has violated the Act or these regulations and the appropriateness of the remedy or remedies imposed by the Secretary. The Administrative Law Judge shall not render determinations on the legality of a regulatory provision or the constitutionality of a statutory provision.

(c) The decision of the Administrative Law Judge, for purposes of the Equal Access to Justice Act (5 U.S.C. 504), shall be limited to determinations of attorney fees and/or other litigation expenses in adversary proceedings requested pursuant to ยง 801.53 of this part which involve the imposition of a civil money penalty assessed for a violation of the Act or this part.

(d) The decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall include a statement of findings and conclusions, with reasons and basis therefor, upon each material issue presented on the record. The decision shall also include an appropriate order which may be to affirm, deny, reverse, or modify, in whole or in part, the determination of the Secretary. The reason or reasons for such order shall be stated in the decision.

(e) The Administrative Law Judge shall serve copies of the decision on each of the parties.

(f) If any party desires review of the decision of the Administrative Law Judge, a petition for issuance of a Notice of Intent shall be filed in accordance with ยง 801.69 of this subpart.

(g) The decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall constitute the final order of the Secretary unless the Secretary, pursuant to ยง 801.70 of this subpart issues a Notice of Intent to Modify or Vacate the Decision and Order.
