
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter C - Other Laws
##### PART 810 - HIGH-WAGE COMPONENTS OF THE LABOR VALUE CONTENT REQUIREMENTS UNDER THE UNITED STATES-MEXICO-CANADA AGREEMENT IMPLEMENTATION ACT
###### Subpart E - Certification Provisions
####### ยง 810.410 Administrator's review for omissions or errors.

(a) The Administrator will review the information submitted under ยง 810.405(a) for omissions or errors. If the Administrator determines that the high-wage components of the certification contain no omissions or errors, WHD will notify CBP that the high-wage components of the certification have been properly filed.

(b) If the Administrator determines that the high-wage components of the certification contain an omission or error, and therefore the certification has not been properly filed, WHD will provide written or electronic notice of the deficiency to CBP. CBP will require the producer of the covered vehicle to respond with a modified certification or otherwise. If, upon review of the response, the Administrator determines that the high-wage components of the certification contain no errors or omissions, WHD will notify CBP that the high-wage components of the certification have been properly filed. If, upon review of the response, the Administrator continues to find an omission or error, or if no response is submitted, WHD will provide written or electronic notification to CBP that the high-wage components of the certification have not been properly filed. The producer may appeal the Administrator's determination pursuant to ยง 810.700.
