
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter V - Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor
#### Subchapter C - Other Laws
##### PART 810 - HIGH-WAGE COMPONENTS OF THE LABOR VALUE CONTENT REQUIREMENTS UNDER THE UNITED STATES-MEXICO-CANADA AGREEMENT IMPLEMENTATION ACT
###### Subpart I - Whistleblower Protections
####### ยง 810.800 Prohibited acts.
######## Administrative review of the Administrator's determination.

(d)(1) Any party desiring review of a determination issued under paragraph (c) of this section, including judicial review, shall make a request for such an administrative hearing in writing to the Chief Administrative Law Judge at the address stated in the notice of determination. If such a request for an administrative hearing is timely filed, the Administrator's determination shall be inoperative unless and until the case is dismissed or the administrative law judge issues an order affirming the decision.

(2) The request for such hearing shall be received by the Chief Administrative Law Judge, at the address stated in the Administrator's notice of determination, no later than 15 calendar days after the date of the determination.

(3) Copies of the request for a hearing shall be sent by the requestor to the WHD official who issued the Administrator's notice of determination, to the representative(s) of the Solicitor of Labor identified in the notice of determination, and to all known interested parties.

(4) The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures set forth in 29 CFR part 18.

(5) Within 60 calendar days after the date of the hearing, the administrative law judge shall issue a decision. If the Administrator or any party desires review of the decision, including judicial review, a petition for review by the Administrative Review Board shall be filed pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section.
