
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter X - National Mediation Board
#### PART 1208 - AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION
##### ยง 1208.2 Requests for records or information under the Freedom of Information Act.
###### Requests for records.,FOIA@nmb.gov,www.nmb.gov.

(a)(1) All requests for NMB records shall be filed in writing by emailingor mailing the request to the Chief FOIA Officer, National Mediation Board, 1301 K Street NW., Suite 250E, Washington, DC 20005. Additional information about submitting requests is available atRequesters must provide contact information, such as their phone number, email address, and/or mailing address, to assist in communications about the request.

(2) The request shall reasonably describe the records being sought in a manner which permits identification and location of the records. To the extent possible, requesters should include specific information that may help the NMB identify the requested records, such as the date, title or name, author, recipient, subject matter, case or file number, or reference number. Before submitting a request, a requester may contact the NMB's FOIA Public Liaison to discuss the records sought or to receive assistance in describing the records.

(3) The request shall include any request for waiver of fees, clearly outlining the reasons for any such request.

(4) Requests may specify the preferred form or format (including electronic formats) for the records sought. The NMB will accommodate such requests if the record is readily reproducible in that form or format.

(5) Upon receipt of a request for the records, the Chief FOIA Officer shall assign the request a FOIA tracking number and record the date and time received, the name and address of the requester, and the nature of the records requested. If the request will take more than 10 working days to process, the Chief FOIA Officer will acknowledge the request in writing, providing the requester with an individualized tracking number and a brief description of records sought.

(6) All time limitations established pursuant to this section with respect to processing initial requests and appeals shall commence at the time a written request for records is received at the Board's offices in Washington, DC, or via email.
