
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 15 - ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS UNDER THE FEDERAL TORT CLAIMS ACT AND RELATED CLAIMS STATUTES
#### Subpart B - Claims Against the Government Under the Federal Tort Claims Act
##### ยง 15.105 What information and evidence should be provided to DOL to substantiate an FTCA administrative claim?
###### Personal injury.

(a)In support of a claim for personal injury, including pain and suffering, the claimant is required to submit the following evidence or information:

(1) A written report by the attending physician or dentist setting forth the nature and extent of the injury, nature and extent of treatment, any degree of temporary or permanent impairment, the prognosis, period of hospitalization, if any, and any diminished earning capacity. In addition, the claimant may be required to submit to a physical or mental examination by a physician employed or designated by the Department or another Federal agency. A copy of the report of the examining physician shall be made available to the claimant upon the claimant's written request.

(2) Itemized bills for medical, dental and hospital, or any other, expenses incurred or itemized receipts of payment for such expenses.

(3) If the prognosis reveals the necessity for future treatment, a statement of expected expenses for such treatment.

(4) Any other evidence or information which may have a bearing on either the responsibility of the United States for the personal injury or the damages claimed.
