
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 15 - ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS UNDER THE FEDERAL TORT CLAIMS ACT AND RELATED CLAIMS STATUTES
#### Subpart B - Claims Against the Government Under the Federal Tort Claims Act
##### ยง 15.105 What information and evidence should be provided to DOL to substantiate an FTCA administrative claim?
###### Death.

(b)In support of a claim based on death, the claimant may be required to submit the following evidence or information:

(1) An authenticated death certificate, an autopsy report and or other competent evidence that includes cause or causes of death, date of death, and age of the decedent.

(2) Decedent's employment or occupation at the time of death, including his or her monthly or yearly salary or earnings (if any), and the duration of his or her last employment or occupation.

(3) Full name, address, birth date, kinship and marital status of the decedent's survivors, including identification of those survivors who were dependent for support upon the decedent at the time of his or her death.

(4) Degree of support afforded by the decedent to each survivor dependent upon him or her for support at the time of his or her death.

(5) Decedent's general physical and mental condition before his or her death.

(6) Itemized bills for medical and burial expenses incurred by reason of the incident causing death, or itemized receipts of payment for such expenses.

(7) If damages for pain and suffering prior to death are claimed, a physician's detailed statement specifying the injuries suffered, duration of pain and suffering, any drugs administered for pain, and the decedent's physical condition in the interval between injury and death.

(8) Any other evidence or information which may have a bearing on either the responsibility of the United States for the death or damages claimed.
