
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XII - Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
#### PART 1401 - PUBLIC INFORMATION
##### Subpart B - Production or Disclosure of Information
###### ยง 1401.21 Proactive disclosures and other disclosure requirements.
####### www.fmcs.gov/foia

(a) The FMCS will make available for public inspection in an electronic format on the Agency's website any record that has been requested 3 or more times. The Agency has a FOIA Public Liaison who can assist individuals in locating records particular to an agency. The FMCS FOIA Public Liaison's contact information is available on the FMCS FOIA web page ().

(b) The FMCS will withhold information under FOIA only if the Agency "reasonably foresees" that disclosure would harm an interest protected by an exemption or as otherwise allowed by law.

(c) Partial disclosures are appropriate for use by the FMCS when full disclosure is inappropriate or impossible. If a record contains both disclosable and exempt information, the exempt information will be redacted and the remaining record will be disclosed unless the two are so inextricably intertwined that it is not possible to separate them. Records disclosed in part shall be marked or annotated to show both the amount and the location of the information redacted and the applicable exemption.

(d) All existing FMCS records are subject to disposition according to Agency record retention schedules and the General Records Schedules promulgated by the National Archives and Records Administration.
