
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XII - Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
#### PART 1401 - PUBLIC INFORMATION
##### Subpart B - Production or Disclosure of Information
###### ยง 1401.29 Fees.
####### Search.

(1)(i) Requests made by educational institutions, noncommercial scientific institutions, or representatives of the news media are not subject to search fees. The FMCS will charge search fees for all other requesters, subject to the restrictions of paragraph (d) of this section. The Agency may properly charge for time spent searching even if it does not locate any responsive records or if the Agency determines that the records are entirely exempt from disclosure.

(ii) For each quarter hour spent by personnel searching for requested records, including electronic searches that do not require new programming, the fees will be charged as follows:

(A) The Agency will charge the direct costs associated with conducting any search that requires the creation of a new computer program to locate the requested records. The Agency will notify the requester of the costs associated with creating such a program, and the requester must agree to pay the associated costs before the costs may be incurred.

(B) For requests that require the retrieval of records stored by the Agency at a Federal records center operated by the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA), the Agency will charge additional costs in accordance with the Transactional Billing Rate Schedule established by NARA.
