
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XII - Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
#### PART 1404 - ARBITRATION SERVICES
##### Subpart B - Roster of Arbitrators; Admission and Retention
###### ยง 1404.5 Listing on the Roster, criteria for listing and removal, procedure for removal.
####### Removal from the Roster.

(d)Removal from the Roster shall be by decision of the Director of FMCS based upon the recommendations of the Board or upon the Director's own initiative. The Board may recommend for removal, and the Director may remove, any arbitrator listed on the Roster for violation of this part or of the Code. FMCS will provide to the affected arbitrator written notice of removal from the Roster. Complaints about arbitrators should be in writing and sent to the Director of OA. The complaint should cite any specific section(s) of the Code or the FMCS rule the arbitrator has allegedly violated. The following criteria shall be a basis for the Board to recommend and/or the Director to initiate an arbitrator's removal from the Roster:

(1) No longer meets the criteria for admission;

(2) Has become an advocate as defined in paragraph (c) of this section;

(3) Has been repeatedly or flagrantly in violation of one or more provisions of this part;

(4) Has refused to make reasonable and periodic reports in a timely manner to FMCS, as required in subpart C of this part, concerning activities pertaining to arbitration;

(5) Has been the subject of a complaint by a party who uses FMCS services, or engages in conduct inappropriate for an arbitrator which otherwise comes to the attention of FMCS, and the Board, after appropriate inquiry, concludes that cause for removal has been shown; or

(6) Has been in an inactive status pursuant to ยง 1404.6 for longer than two years and has not paid the annual listing fee.
