
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 15 - ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS UNDER THE FEDERAL TORT CLAIMS ACT AND RELATED CLAIMS STATUTES
#### Subpart C - Claims Under the Military Personnel and Civilian Employees' Claims Act of 1964
##### ยง 15.202 How is a claim filed under the MPCECA?
###### www.dol.gov,

(a) A claim under this subpart must be presented in writing. A sample claim, located on the Department's Office of the Solicitor, Federal Employees' and Energy Workers' Compensation Division Web site atis provided as an example for convenience of filing. The SF-95 for FTCA claims is not an appropriate form for a MPCECA claim.

(b) The claimant is responsible for substantiating ownership or possession, the facts surrounding the loss or damage, and the value of the property. Any claim filed must be accompanied by the following:

(1) A written statement, signed by the claimant or his or her authorized agent, setting forth the circumstances under which the damage or loss occurred. This statement may also include:

(i) A description of the type, design, model number or other identification of the property.

(ii) The date of purchase or acquisition and the original cost of the property.

(iii) The location of the property when the loss or damage occurred.

(iv) The value of the property when lost or damaged.

(v) The actual or estimated cost of the repair of any damaged item.

(vi) The purpose of and authority for travel, if the loss or damage occurred incident to transportation or to the use of a motor vehicle.

(vii) Any and all available information as to the party responsible for the loss or damage, if such party is someone other than the claimant, and all information as to insurance contracts, whether held by the claimant or by the party responsible.

(2) Copies of all available and appropriate documents such as bills of sale, estimates of repairs, or travel orders. In the case of an automobile, the claimant must file two estimates of repair or a certified paid bill showing the damage incurred and the cost of all parts, labor and other items necessary to the repair of the vehicle or a statement from an authorized dealer or repair garage showing that the cost of such repairs exceeds the value of the vehicle. The Office of the Solicitor may waive the requirement of two estimates of repair.

(3) A copy of the power of attorney or other authorization if someone other than the employee files the claim.

(4) A statement from the employee's immediate supervisor confirming that possession of the property was reasonable, useful or proper under the circumstances and that the damage or loss was incident to service.
