
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XII - Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
#### PART 1410 - PRIVACY
##### ยง 1410.3 Individual access requests.

(a) Individuals who desire to know whether the agency maintains a system of records containing records pertaining to him may submit a written request to the Director of Administration, Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, Washington, DC 20427. The request must include the name and address of the requestor. The Director of Administration, or his designated representative, will advise the requestor in writing within 10 working days whether the records are so maintained and the general category of records maintained within the system.

(b) Any individual who desires to inspect or receive copies of any record maintained within the system concerning him shall submit a written request to the Director of Administration, Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, Washington, DC 20427, reasonably identifying the records sought to be inspected or copied.

(c) The individual seeking access to his record may also have another person accompanying him during his review of the records. If the requestor desires another person to accompany him during the inspection, the requestor must sign a statement, to be furnished to the Service representative at the time of the inspection authorizing such other person to accompany him. Except as required under the Freedom of Information Act, permitted as a routine use as published in the agency's annual notice, or for internal agency use, disclosure of records will only be made to the individual to whom the record pertains, unless written consent is obtained from that individual. The Director of Administration will verify the signature of the individual requesting or consenting to the disclosure of a record prior to the disclosure thereof to any other person by a comparison of signatures, if the request or consent is not executed within the presence of a designated Service representative.

(d) The Director of Administration or his designated representative will advise the requestor in writing within 10 working days of receipt of the request whether, to what extent, and approximately when and where access shall be granted. Within 30 days of receipt of the request, the records will be made available for review at the FMCS National Office in Washington, DC, or one of the Regional Offices. The following is a list of the Regional Office locations:
