
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XII - Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
#### PART 1425 - MEDIATION ASSISTANCE IN THE FEDERAL SERVICE
##### ยง 1425.2 Notice to the Service of agreement negotiations.

(a) In order that the Service may provide assistance to the parties, the party initiating negotiations shall file a notice with the FMCS Notice Processing Unit, 2100 K Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20427, at least 30 days prior to the expiration or modification date of an existing agreement, or 30 days prior to the reopener date of an existing agreement. In the case of an initial agreement the notice shall be filed within 30 days after commencing negotiations.

(b) Parties engaging in mid-term or impact and/or implementation bargaining are encouraged to send a notice to FMCS if assistance is desired. Such notice may be sent by either party or may be submitted jointly. In regard to such notices a brief listing should be general in nature e.g., smoking policies, or Alternative Work Schedules (AWS).

(c) Parties requesting grievance mediation must send a request signed by both the union and the agency involved. Receipt of such request does not commit FMCS to provide its services. FMCS has the discretion to determine whether or not to perform grievance mediation, as such service may not be appropriate in all cases.

(d) The guidelines for FMCS grievance mediation are:

(1) The parties shall submit a joint request, signed by both parties requesting FMCS assistance. The parties agree that grievance mediation is a supplement to, and not a substitute for, the steps of the contractual grievance procedure.

(2) The grievant is entitled to be present at the grievance mediation conference.

(3) Any times limits in the parties labor agreement must be waived to permit the grievance to proceed to arbitration should mediation be unsuccessful.

(4) Proceedings before the mediator will be informal and rules of evidence do not apply. No record, stenographic or tape recordings of the meetings will be made. The mediators notes are confidential and content shall not be revealed.

(5) The mediator shall conduct the mediation conference utilizing all of the customary techniques associated with mediation including the use of separate caucuses.

(6) The mediator had no authority to compel resolution of the grievance.

(7) In the event that no settlement is reached during the mediation conference, the mediator may provide the parties either in separate or joint session with an oral advisory opinion.

(8) If either party does not accept an advisory opinion, the matter may then proceed to arbitration in the manner form provided in their collective bargaining agreement. Such arbitration hearings will be held as if the grievance mediation effort had not taken place. Nothing said or done by the parties or the mediator during the grievance mediation session can be used during arbitration proceedings.

(9) When the parties choose the FMCS grievance mediation procedure, they have agreed to abide by these guidelines established by FMCS, and it is understood that the parties and the grievant shall hold FMCS and the mediator appointed by the Service to conduct the mediation conference harmless of any claim of damages arising from the mediation process.
