
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XII - Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
#### PART 1440 - ARBITRATION OF PESTICIDE DATA DISPUTES
##### Appendix to Part 1440 - FIFRA Arbitration Rules
###### Under a Voluntary Submission.

(b)Parties to any existing dispute may commence an arbitration under these Rules by filing at any AAA Regional Office two (2) copies of a written agreement to arbitrate under these Rules (Submission), signed by the parties. It shall contain a statement of the matter in dispute, the amount of money involved, if any, and the remedy sought, together with the appropriate administrative fee as provided in the Fee Schedule.

The parties may mutually agree on the locale where the arbitration is to be held. If the locale is not designated within seven days from the date of filing the Demand or Submission the AAA shall have power to determine the locale. Its decision shall be final and binding. If any party requests that the hearing be held in a specific locale and the other party files no objection thereto within seven days after notice of the requests, the locale shall be the one requested.

Any Arbitrator appointed pursuant to these rules shall be neutral, subject to disqualification for the reasons specified in section 11. If the agreement of the parties names an Arbitrator or specifies any other method of appointing an Arbitrator, or if the parties specifically agree in writing, such Arbitrator shall not be subject to disqualification for said reasons.

If the parties have not appointed an Arbitrator and have not provided any other method of appointment, the Arbitrator shall be appointed in the following manner. Immediately after the filing of the Request or Submission, the AAA shall submit simultaneously to each party to the dispute an identical list of names of persons chosen from the Panel. Each party to the dispute shall have seven days from the mailing date in which to cross off any names to which he objects, number the remaining names indicating the order of his preference, and return the list to the AAA. If a party does not return the list within the time specified, all persons named therein shall be deemed acceptable. From among the persons who have been approved on both lists, and in accordance with the designated order of mutual preference, the AAA shall invite the acceptance of an Arbitrator to serve, and the Service shall appoint the Arbitrator. If the parties fail to agree upon any of the persons named, or if acceptable Arbitrators are unable to act, or if for any other reason the appointment cannot be made from the submitted lists, the FMCS shall have the power to make the appointment from other members of the Panel without the submission of any additional lists.

If the agreement of the parties to a Submission names an Arbitrator or specifies a method of appointment of an Arbitrator, that designation or method shall be followed. The notice of appointment, with name and address of such Arbitrator, shall be filed with the AAA by the appointing party. Upon the request of any such appointing party, the AAA shall submit a list of members from the Panel from which the party may, if he so desires, make the appointment.

If the agreement specifies a period of time within which an Arbitrator shall be appointed, and any party fails to make such appointment within that period, the AAA shall make the appointment.

If the parties have appointed their Arbitrators or if either or both of them have been appointed as provided in section 7, and have authorized such Arbitrators to appoint a neutral Arbitrator within a specified time and no appointment is made within such time or any agreed extension thereof, the FMCS shall appoint a neutral Arbitrator who shall act as Chairman.

If no period of time is specified for appointment of the neutral Arbitrator and the parties do not make the appointment within seven days from the date of the appointment of the last party-appointed Arbitrator, the FMCS shall appoint such neutral Arbitrator, who shall act as Chairman.

If the parties have agreed that their Arbitrators shall appoint the neutral Arbitrator from the Panel, the AAA shall furnish to the party-appointed Arbitrators, in the manner prescribed in section 6, a list selected from the Panel, and the appointment of the neutral Arbitrator shall be made as prescribed in such section.

If the arbitration agreement does not specify the number of Arbitrators, the dispute shall be heard and determined by one Arbitrator, unless the AAA in its discretion, directs that a greater number of Arbitrators be appointed.

Notice of the appointment of the neutral Arbitrator, whether appointed by the parties, by the AAA or FMCS shall be mailed to the Arbitrator, together with a copy of these Rules, and the signed acceptance of the Arbitrator shall be filed with AAA prior to the opening of the first hearing.

A person appointed as neutral Arbitrator shall disclose to the AAA any circumstances likely to affect his or her impartiality, including any bias or any financial or personal interest in the result of the arbitration or any past or present relationship with the parties or their counsel. Upon receipt of such information from such Arbitrator or other source, the AAA shall communicate such information to the parties, and, if it deems it appropriate to do so, to the Arbitrator. Thereafter, the AAA shall make a determination whether the Arbitrator should be disqualified. The determination, however, may be appealed to FMCS. The decision of FMCS shall be conclusive.

If any Arbitrator should resign, die, withdraw, refuse, be disqualified, or be unable to perform the duties of his office, AAA may, on proof satisfactory to it, declare the office vacant. Either party to a compulsory arbitration may request the FMCS to review a declaration of disqualification. Vacancies shall be filled in accordance with the applicable provision of these Rules and the matter shall be reheard unless the parties shall agree otherwise.

(a) Within 60 days from receipt by the parties of notice of the appointment of an arbitrator, the claimant shall file with AAA:

(1) If appropriate, a detailed statement as to the amount of compensation claimed, the method of computing said amount, and terms of payment, and a list of the test data deemed to be compensable, together with a detailed justification therefore.

(2) A certification as to: (i) Whether any court or tribunal has made determinations for payment by any other persons to claimant for use of the same test data and, if so, identification of the persons against whom the 3(c)(2)(B) determinations were issued and the application for registration for which the test data was used; and (ii) whether any other claims against any persons are pending in arbitration or in any court for use of the same test data and, if so, an identification of the persons against whom the claims are pending and the applications for registration on which the claims are being made.

(3) A detailed statement of the matter in dispute under 3(c)(2)(B).

(b) Within 60 days of service of the documents referred to in subsection (a) the respondent shall file a detailed statement of its position as to the amount of compensation due, method of computation, terms of payment, and list of data deemed to be compensable together with a detailed justification therefore or a detailed statement of the dispute under 3(c)(2)(5). To the extent any portion of the claimant's statement of its claim is not denied or challenged by respondent, it shall be deemed admitted.

(c) After respondent's statement is filed, the arbitrator may, upon request by a party, request the Director to supplement the file with additional information, including copies of relevant test data, information contained in a relevant registration file, a statement as to data requirements for registration, or any other information which the arbitrator deems to be relevant. Upon request by a party or other interested person, the arbitrator shall order protective measures to safeguard and restrict access to confidential business information.

(a) All documents or papers required or authorized to be filed, shall be filed with the AAA for transmittal to the arbitrator, except as otherwise herein provided, and shall bear the caption of the case and the docket number. At the same time that a party files documents or papers with the AAA, the party shall serve upon all other parties copies thereof, with a certificate of service on or attached to each document or paper, including those filed with the arbitrator. If a party is represented by counsel or other representative, service shall be made on such representative. Service may be made personally or by regular mail, and if made by mail shall be deemed complete on mailing. If filing is accomplished by mail addressed to the AAA, filing shall be deemed timely if the papers are postmarked on the due date.

(b) All orders, decisions, or other documents made or signed by the arbitrator shall be served immediately upon all parties.

(a) In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by these rules, except as otherwise provided, the day of the act, event, or default from which the designated period of time begins to run shall not be included. Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be included in computing the time allowed for the filing of any document or paper, except that when such time expires on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, such period shall be extended to include the next following business day.
