
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XII - Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
#### PART 1440 - ARBITRATION OF PESTICIDE DATA DISPUTES
##### Appendix to Part 1440 - FIFRA Arbitration Rules
###### Provided,

(b) Each party to an agreement which provides for arbitration under these Rules shall be deemed to have consented that any papers, notices or process necessary or proper for the initiation or continuation of an arbitration under these Rules and for any court action in connection therewith or for the entry of judgment on any award made thereunder may be served upon such party by mail addressed to such party or his attorney at his last known address or by personal service, within or without the State wherein the arbitration is to be held (whether such party be within or without the United States of America):That reasonable opportunity to be heard with regard thereto has been granted such party.

The award shall be made promptly by the arbitrator and, unless otherwise agreed by the parties, or specified by law, no later than thirty days from the date of closing the hearings, or if oral hearings have been waived, from the date of transmitting the final statements and proofs to the arbitrator.

(a) Parties may appear in person or by counsel or other representative. Persons who appear as counsel or in a representative capacity must conform to the standards of ethical conduct required of practitioners before the courts of the United States.

(b) Any party to the proceeding who, after being duly notified and without good cause being shown fails to appear at a prehearing conference or fails to respond to correspondence, shall be deemed to have waived his rights with respect thereto and shall be subject to such orders or determinations with respect thereto as the arbitrator shall make. The failure of a party to appear at a hearing shall constitute a waiver of the right to present evidence at such hearing. Where either party fails to appear at a hearing, the arbitrator shall require the presentation by the present party of such evidence as he deems necessary to prepare a decision in conformity with the requirements of the act.

(c) Any person having a direct interest in the arbitration is entitled to attend hearings. The arbitrator shall otherwise have the power to require the exclusion of any witness, other than a party or other essential person, during the testimony of any other witness. It shall be discretionary with the arbitrator to determine the propriety of the attendance of any other person.
