
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XII - Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
#### PART 1440 - ARBITRATION OF PESTICIDE DATA DISPUTES
##### Appendix to Part 1440 - FIFRA Arbitration Rules
###### in camera.

(a) The arbitrator shall make such orders as required to protect the secrecy of confidential information or documents such as review

(b) The arbitrator shall impose a sanction against any party who violates an order issued under this section. Such sanction may include an award against the offending party.

(a) After consideration of the convenience of the parties, the AAA shall serve upon the parties a notice of hearing setting a time and place for such hearing.

(b) Except for good cause shown, no request for postponement of a hearing will be granted. Such request must be received in writing at least a day in advance of the time set for the hearing. In case of postponement, the hearing shall be rescheduled for a date as early as circumstances will permit.

(a) In claims involving $25,000 or less, the parties may elect, prior to commencement of hearing, to have the claim processed under an expedited procedure. If no specific amount of claim is stated, a case will be considered to fall within this rule if the amount which the claimant represents in writing that it could recover as a result of any arbitrator's decision favorable to it does not exceed $25,000. Upon such election, a case shall then be processed under this rule unless the respondent objects and shows good cause why the substantive nature of the dispute requires processing under the regular procedures. In cases proceeding under this rule, the parties have waived discovery and briefs.

(b) The arbitrator shall schedule the dispute for hearing within thirty (30) days of service of notice to the parties that the dispute will be governed by this accelerated procedure, unless either party requests that the case be submitted without hearing under section 19.

(c) Written decision by the arbitrators in cases proceeding under this rule normally will be short and contain summary findings of fact and conclusions only. The arbitrator shall render such decisions promptly, but in no event later than thirty days after the dispute is ready for decision.

(a) Either party may move for permission to serve written interrogatories and requests for production of documents upon the opposing party. The arbitrator shall grant such motion to the extent that such interrogatories and requests are designed to produce relevant evidence and only upon such terms as the arbitrator in his or her discretion considers to be consistent with the objective of securing a just and inexpensive determination of the dispute without unnecessary delay.

(b) Upon motion by either party, the arbitrator may order a deposition upon a showing of good cause and a finding that the deposition is designed to secure relevant and probative evidence which (1) cannot be obtained by alternative means, or (2) may otherwise not be preserved for presentation at hearing.

(c) If a party fails to comply with an order issued under this section, the arbitrator shall draw inferences adverse to that party in connection with the facts sought to be discovered.

(d) At least thirty days prior to the hearing, each party shall make available to each other party the names of the expert and other witnesses it intends to call, together with a detailed summary of their expected testimony, and copies of all documents and exhibits which the party intends to introduce into evidence. Thereafter, witnesses, documents, or exhibits may be added and narrative summaries of expected testimony amended only upon motion by a party for good cause shown.

(a) When it appears that such procedure will expedite the proceeding, the arbitrator at any time prior to the commencement of the hearing may request the parties and their counsel or other representative to appear at a conference before him or her to consider:

(i) The possibility of settlement of the case;

(ii) The simplification of issues and stipulation of facts not indispute;

(iii) The necessity or desirability of amending or supplementing documents in the record;

(iv) The possibility of obtaining admissions or stipulations of fact and of documents which will avoid unnecessary proof;

(v) The limitation of the number of expert or other witnesses;

(vi) The setting of a time and place for the hearing, giving consideration to the convenience of all parties and to the public interest; and

(vii) Any other matters as may expedite the disposition of the proceeding.
