
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XII - Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
#### PART 1440 - ARBITRATION OF PESTICIDE DATA DISPUTES
##### Appendix to Part 1440 - FIFRA Arbitration Rules
###### sua sponte,sua sponte.

(b) No transcript of any prehearing conference shall be made unless ordered upon motion of a party orby the arbitrator. In the absence of a transcript, the arbitrator shall prepare and file a report of the action taken at such conference. Such report shall incorporate any written stipulations or agreements made by the parties, all rulings upon matters considered at such conference, and appropriate orders containing directions to the parties. Such report shall, as appropriate, direct the subsequent course of the proceeding, unless modified by the arbitrators on motion or

(a) The arbitrator shall admit all evidence which is relevant, competent, material, not privileged, and not unduly repetitious. The weight to be given evidence shall be determined by its reliability and probative value.

(b) Except as otherwise provided in these Rules of Procedure or by the arbitrator, witnesses shall be examined orally, under oath or affirmation. Parties shall have the right to cross-examine a witness who appears at the hearing provided that such cross-examination is not unduly repetitious.

(c) Except where the arbitrator finds it impracticable, an original and two copies of each exhibit shall be filed at the time the exhibit is offered into evidence and a copy shall be furnished to each party. A true copy of an exhibit may be substituted for the original.

(d) Official notice may be taken of any matter judicially noticed in the Federal courts. The parties shall be given adequate opportunity to show that such facts are erroneously noticed.

(a) Hearing shall be opened by the filing of the oath of the arbitrator, and by the recording of the place, time and date of the hearing, the presence of the arbitrator, parties, and counsel.

(b) The arbitrator may, at the beginning of the hearing, ask for statements clarifying the issues involved. The claimant shall then present his claim and proofs and his witnesses. The respondent shall then present his response and proofs and his witnesses. The arbitrator may in his descretion vary this procedure but he or she shall afford full and equal opportunity to all parties for the presentation of any material or relevant proofs.

The claimant shall have the burden of going forward to establish his entitlement to an amount of compensation that respondent should pay for use of the test data relied upon. Each matter of controversy shall be decided by the arbitrator upon a preponderance of the evidence.

Any party may request a stenographic record by making arrangements for same through the AAA. If such transcript is agreed by the parties to be, or in appropriate cases determined by the arbitrator to be, the official record of the proceeding, it must be made available to the arbitrator, and to the other party for inspection, at a time and place determined by the arbitrator. The total cost of such a record shall be shared equally by those parties that order copies.

Unless otherwise ordered by the arbitrator, each party may within thirty days after delivery of the transcript of a hearing to the arbitrator as provided in section 29, file with AAA and serve upon all other parties a brief together with references to relevant exhibits and the record. Within Fifteen days thereafter each party may file a reply brief concerning matters contained in the opposing brief. Oral argument may be had at the discretion of the arbitrator.

The Arbitrator shall inquire of all parties whether they have any further proofs to offer or witnesses to be heard. Upon receiving negative replies, the arbitrator shall declare the hearings closed and the time and date shall be recorded. If briefs or other documents are to be filed, the hearings shall be declared closed as of the final date set by the arbitrator for filing with the AAA. The time limit within which the Arbitrator is required to make the award shall commence to run, in the absence of other agreement by the parties, upon the closing of the hearings.

(a) The arbitrator shall as soon as practicable after the filing of briefs evaluate the record and prepare and file a decision. The decision shall contain findings of fact and conclusions regarding all issues in dispute as well as reasons therefore.

(b) The decision shall contain a determination as to the compensation, if any respondent must pay to claimant, or other remedy as appropriate, the method of payment, and may fix such other terms and conditions as may be reasonable under the circumstances, including the furnishing of a bond or other guarantee of payment by the respondent to the claimant.

(a) The hearings may be reopened by the arbitrator on his or her own motion, or upon application of a party at any time before the award is made. If the reopening of the hearings would prevent the making of the award within the specific time agreed upon by the parties in the contract out of which the controversy has arisen, the matter may not be reopened, unless the parties agree upon the extension of such time limit. When no specific date is fixed, the arbitrator may reopen the hearings, and the arbitrator shall have thirty days from the closing of the reopened hearings within which to make an award.

(b) A motion to reopen a hearing to take further evidence, to rehear or reargue any matter related to such proceeding, or to reconsider the arbitrator's decision, must be made by motion in writing to the arbitrator in accordance with these Rules of Procedure. Every such motion must state the specific grounds upon which relief is sought.

(c) A motion to reopen a hearing for the purpose of taking further evidence may be filed at any time prior to the issuance of the arbitrator's decision. Such motion shall state briefly the nature and purpose of the evidence to be adduced, shall show that such evidence is not cumulative, and shall set forth a good reason why such evidence was not adduced at a hearing.

(d) Motions to modify the arbitrator's decision shall be filed within 30 days after the date of service of the decision. Such motion must state specifically one of the following grounds for modification:

1. There was a miscalculation of figures or a mistake in the description of any person, thing or property referred to in the award; or

2. The arbitrators have awarded upon a matter not submitted to them and the award may be corrected without affecting the merits of the decision upon the issues submitted; or

3. The award is imperfect in a matter of form, not affecting the merits of the controversy.

If the parties settle their dispute during the course of the arbitration, the arbitrator, upon their request, may set forth the terms of the agreed settlement in an award.

Parties shall accept as legal delivery of the award the placing of the award or a true copy thereof in the mail by the AAA, addressed to such party at his last known address or to his attorney, or personal service of the award, or the filing of the award in any manner which may be prescribed by law.

The AAA shall, upon the written request of a party, furnish to such party, at his or her expense, certified facsimiles of any papers in the AAA's possession that may be required in judicial proceedings relating to the arbitration.

(a) No judicial proceedings by a party relating to the subject matter of the arbitration shall be deemed a waiver of the party's right to arbitrate.

(b) Neither the AAA nor FMCS is a necessary party in judicial proceedings relating to the arbitration.

(c) Parties to these Rules shall be deemed to have consented that judgment upon the arbitration award may be entered in any Federal or State Court having jurisdiction thereof.

As a nonprofit organization, the AAA shall prescribe an administrative fee schedule and a refund schedule to compensate it for the cost of providing administrative services. The schedule in effect at the time of filing or the time of refund shall be applicable.

The administrative fees shall be advanced by the initiating party or parties, subject to final appointment by the arbitrator in his award.

When a matter is withdrawn or settled, the refund shall be made in accordance with the refund schedule.

The AAA, in the event of extreme hardship on the part of any party, may defer or reduce the administrative fee.

Where all oral hearings are waived the Administrative Fee Schedule shall apply.

The expenses of witnesses for either side shall be paid by the party producing such witnesses.

The cost of the stenographic record, if any is made, and all transcripts thereof, shall be prorated equally among all parties ordering copies unless they shall otherwise agree and shall be paid for by the responsible parties directly to the reporting agency.

All other expenses of the arbitration, including required traveling and other expenses of the arbitrator and of AAA representatives, and the expenses of any witness or the cost of any proofs produced at the direct request of the arbitrator, shall be borne equally by the parties.

Any arrangement for the compensation of a neutral arbitrator shall be made through the AAA and not directly by him or her with the parties. Where parties cannot agree, AAA shall fix reasonable compensation.

The AAA may require the parties to deposit in advance such sums of money as it deems necessary to defray the expense of the arbitration, including the arbitrator's fee if any, and shall render an accounting to the parties and return any unexpened balance.

The arbitrator shall interpret and apply these Rules insofar as they relate to his or her powers and duties. When there is more than one arbitrator and a difference arises among them concerning the meaning or application of any such Rules, it shall be decided by a majority vote. If that is unobtainable, either an arbitrator or a party may refer the question to the AAA for decision. All other Rules shall be interpreted and applied by the AAA. Either party may request that FMCS review any decision of AAA on interpretation or application of these rules.

The administrative fee of the AAA is based upon the amount of each claim and counterclaim as disclosed when the claim and counterclaim are filed, and is due and payable at the time of filing.

Where the claim or counter claim exceeds $5 million, an appropriate fee will be determined by the AAA.

When no amount can be stated at the time of filing, the administrative fee is $500, subject to adjustment in accordance with the above schedule as soon as an amount can be disclosed.

If there are more than two parties represented in the arbitration, an additional 10% of the initiating fee will be due for each additional represented party.

Other Service Charges-$50.00 payable by a party causing an adjournment of any scheduled hearing;

$100 payable by a party causing a second or additional adjournment of any scheduled hearing.

$25.00 payable by each party for each hearing after the first hearing which is either clerked by the AAA or held in a hearing room provided by the AAA.

Refund Schedule-If the AAA is notified that a case has been settled or withdrawn before a list of Arbitrators has been sent out, all the fees in excess of $500 will be refunded.

If the AAA is notified that a case has been settled or withdrawn thereafter but before the due date for the return of the first list, two-thirds of the fee in excess of $500.00 will be refunded.

If the AAA is notified that a case is settled or withdrawn thereafter but at least 48 hours before the date and time set for the first hearing, one-half of the fee in excess of $500 will be refunded.
