
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XII - Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
#### PART 1450 - COLLECTIONS OF CLAIMS OWED THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart C - Salary Offset
###### ยง 1450.22 Hearing.
####### Type of hearing.

(b)(1) The form and content of the hearing will be determined by the hearing official who shall be a person outside the control or authority of FMCS. In determining the type of hearing, the hearing officer will consider the nature and complexity of the transaction giving rise to the debt. The hearing may be conducted as an informal conference or interview, in which the agency and employee will be given a full opportunity to present their respective positions, or as a more formal proceeding involving the presentation of evidence, arguments and written submissions.

(2) The employee may represent himself or herself, or may be represented by an attorney.

(3) The hearing official shall maintain a summary record of the hearing.

(4) The decision of the hearing officer will be in writing, and will state:

(i) The facts purported to evidence the nature and origin of the alleged debt;

(ii) The hearing official's analysis, findings, and conclusions, in the light of the hearing, as to-

(A) The employee's and/or agency's grounds,

(B) The amount and validity of the alleged debt and,

(C) The repayment schedule, if applicable.

(5) The decision of the hearing official shall constitute the final administrative decision of the agency.
