
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XII - Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
#### PART 1450 - COLLECTIONS OF CLAIMS OWED THE UNITED STATES
##### Subpart C - Salary Offset
###### ยง 1450.28 Recovery when paying agency is not creditor agency.
####### Responsibilities of creditor agency.

(a)Upon completion of the procedures established under 5 U.S.C. 5514, the creditor agency must do the following:

(1) The creditor agency must certify, in writing, that the employee owes the debt, the amont and basis of the debt, the date on which payment(s) is due, the date the Government's right to collect the debt first accrued, and that the creditor agency's regulations implementing 5 U.S.C. 5514 have been approved by OPM.

(2) If the collection must be made in installments, the creditor agency also must advise the paying agency of the number of installments to be collected, the amount of each installment, and the commencing date of the first installment (if a date other than the next officially established pay period is required).

(3) Unless the employee has consented to the salary offset in writing or signed a statement acknowledging receipt of the required procedures, and the written consent or statement is forwarded to the paying agency, the creditor agency also must advise the paying agency of the action(s) taken under 5 U.S.C. 5514(b) and give the date(s) the action(s) was taken.

(4) Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, the creditor agency must submit a debt claim containing the information specified in paragraphs (a) (1) through (3) of this section and an installment agreement (or other instruction on the payment schedule), if applicable to the employee's paying agency.

(5) If the employee is in the process of separating, the creditor agency must submit its claim to the employee's paying agency for collection pursuant to ยง 1450.24. The paying agency must certify the total amount of its collection and provide copies to the creditor agency and the employee as stated in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. If the paying agency is aware that the employee is entitled to payments from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, or other similar payments, it must provide written notification to the agency responsible for making such payments that the debtor owes a debt (including the amount) and that the provisions of this section have been fully compiled with. However, the creditor agency must submit a properly certified claim to the agency responsible for making such payments before collection can be made.
