
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 16 - EQUAL ACCESS TO JUSTICE ACT
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 16.104 Proceedings covered.

(a) The Act applies in adversary adjudications in which the position of the Department or another agency of the United States is presented by an attorney or other representative who enters an appearance and participates in the proceeding in an adversarial capacity. Any proceeding which prescribes a lawful present or future rate or is primarily rule-making is not covered. Proceedings to grant or renew licenses are also excluded, but proceedings to modify, suspend or revoke licenses are covered if they are otherwise adversary adjudications. The following types of proceedings are deemed to be adversarial adjudications which will be covered by the Act, when all other conditions in the Act and in these rules are met:

(1) Hearings conducted by the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission under the authority of 29 U.S.C. 661 of the Occupational Safety and Health Act; and hearings conducted by the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission under the authority of 30 U.S.C. 823 of the Mine Safety and Health Act. In these proceedings, the rules of the respective Commissions rather than the instant rules will be applicable.

(2) Wage and Hour Division, Employment Standards Administration:

(i) Civil money penalties under the child labor provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act at 29 U.S.C. 216(e) and 29 CFR part 579.

(ii) Violations and debarment in Federal contracts under the Walsh-Healey Act at 41 U.S.C. 39 and 41 CFR 50-203.1.

(iii) Revocation, modification and suspension of licenses under the Farm Labor Contractor Registration Act at 7 U.S.C. 2045(b) and 29 CFR 40.101.

(iv) Civil money penalties under the Farm Labor Contractor Registration Act at 7 U.S.C. 2048(b)(2) and 29 CFR 40.101.

(v) Revocation and suspension of certificates under the Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural Worker Protection Act at 29 U.S.C. 1813(b) and 29 CFR 500.200.

(vi) Civil money penalties under the Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural Worker Protection Act at 29 U.S.C. 1853(b) and 29 CFR 500.200.

(3) Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Employment Standards Administration hearings prior to the denial, withholding, termination or suspension of a government contract or any portion of a contract under title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, at 42 U.S.C. 2000e-17 and 41 CFR part 60-30.

(4) Civil Rights Center:

(i) Fund termination under title VI of the Civil Rights Act at 42 U.S.C. 2000d2 and 29 CFR part 31.

(ii) Fund termination under the Age Discrimination in Federally Assisted Programs Act of 1975 at 42 U.S.C. 6104(a).

(iii) Fund termination or refusal to grant because of discrimination under 20 U.S.C. 1682.

(5) Employment and Training Administration:

(i) Proceedings under the Workforce Investment Act at 29 U.S.C. 2936, where the Department determines that a recipient of WIA funds is failing to comply with the requirements of the Act and the implementing regulations.

(ii) Conformity and compliance under the Federal Unemployment Tax Act at 26 U.S.C. 3303(b) and 3304(c).

(iii) Proceedings under section 303(b) of the Social Security Act of 1935, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 503(b).

(6) Mine Safety and Health Administration:

(i) Petitions for modification of a mandatory safety standard under the Mine Safety and Health Act at 30 U.S.C. 811(c) and 30 CFR 44.20.

(7) Occupational Safety and Health Administration:

(i) Exemptions, tolerances and variances under the Occupational Safety and Health Act at 29 U.S.C. 655 and 29 CFR 1905.3.

(b) If a proceeding includes both matters covered by the Act and matters specifically excluded from coverage, any award made will include only fees and expenses related to the covered issues.
