
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XIV - Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
#### PART 1601 - PROCEDURAL REGULATIONS
##### Subpart A - Definitions
###### ยง 1601.5 District; field; area; local authority.

The term "district" as used herein shall mean that part of the United States or any territory thereof fixed by the Commission as a particular district. The term "district director" shall refer to that person designated as the Commission's chief officer in each district. The term "Washington Field Office Director" shall refer to that person designated as the Commission's chief officer in the Washington Field Office. Any authority of, or delegation of authority to, District Directors shall be deemed to include the Director of the Washington Field Office. The term "field" shall mean that part of the United States within a district fixed by the Commission as a particular subunit of a district, except for the Washington Field Office which is not part of any district fixed by the Commission. The term "field director" shall refer to that person designated as the Commission's chief officer in each field office. The term "area" shall mean that part of the United States within a district fixed by the Commission as a particular subunit of a district. The term "area director" shall refer to that person designated as the Commission's chief officer in each area office. The term "local office" shall mean an EEOC office with responsibility over a part of the United States within a district fixed by the Commission as a particular subunit of a district. The term "local director" shall refer to that person designated as the Commission's chief officer for the local office. Each district office and the Washington Field Office will operate under the supervision of the Director, Office of Field Programs through the Director of Field Management Programs, and the General Counsel. Each field, area and local office, except for the Washington Field Office, will operate under the supervision of the district director. Any or all delegations, or actions taken, as provided by this part may be revoked and /or exercised by the supervisor in keeping with the supervisory structure described in this section.
