
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XIV - Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
#### PART 1610 - AVAILABILITY OF RECORDS
##### Subpart A - Production or Disclosure Under 5 U.S.C. 552
###### ยง 1610.15 Schedule of fees and method of payment for services rendered.
####### Search.

(1)(i) Requests made by educational institutions, noncommercial scientific institutions, or representatives of the news media are not subject to search fees. The Commission will charge search fees for all other requesters, subject to the restrictions of paragraph (d) of this section. The Commission may properly charge for time spent searching even if it does not locate any responsive records or if it determines that the records are entirely exempt from disclosure.

(ii) For each quarter hour spent by personnel searching for requested records, including electronic searches that do not require new programming, the fees will be charged as follows:

(A) By clerical personnel-at the rate of $5.00 per quarter hour.

(B) By paralegals-at the rate of $9.00 per quarter hour.

(C) By professional personnel-at the rate of $10.00 per quarter hour.

(D) By managers-at the rate of $17.50 per quarter hour.

(E) By SES employees-at the rate of $20.00 per quarter hour.

(iii) The Commission will charge the direct costs associated with conducting any search that requires the creation of a new computer program to locate the requested records. The Commission must notify the requester of the costs associated with creating such a program, and the requester must agree to pay the associated costs before the costs may be incurred.
