
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle A - Office of the Secretary of Labor
### PART 18 - RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE FOR ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS BEFORE THE OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES
#### Subpart A - General
##### Service, Format, and Timing of Filings and Other Papers
###### ยง 18.33 Motions and other papers.
####### Written motion before hearing.

(c)(1) A written motion before a hearing must be served with supporting papers, at least 21 days before the time specified for the hearing, with the following exceptions:

(i) When the motion may be heard ex parte;

(ii) When these rules or an appropriate statute, regulation, or executive order set a different time; or

(iii) When an order sets a different time.

(2) A written motion served within 21 days before the hearing must state why the motion was not made earlier.

(3) A written motion before hearing must state that counsel conferred, or attempted to confer, with opposing counsel in a good faith effort to resolve the motion's subject matter, and whether the motion is opposed or unopposed. A statement of consultation is not required with pro se litigants or with the following motions:

(i) To dismiss;

(ii) For summary decision; and

(iii) Any motion filed as "joint," "agreed," or "unopposed."

(4) Unless the motion is unopposed, the supporting papers must include affidavits, declarations or other proof to establish the factual basis for the relief. For a dispositive motion and a motion relating to discovery, a memorandum of points and authority must also be submitted. A judge may direct the parties file additional documents in support of any motion.
