
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1902 - STATE PLANS FOR THE DEVELOPMENT AND ENFORCEMENT OF STATE STANDARDS
##### Subpart D - Procedures for Determinations Under section 18(e) of the Act
###### Completion of Developmental Steps - Certification
####### ยง 1902.35 Effect of certification.
######## ยง 1902.46 Negative 18(e) determination.

(a) This section sets out the procedures which shall be followed whenever the Assistant Secretary determines that a State's plan, or any separate portion thereof, has not met the criteria for an affirmative 18(e) determination.

(b) If the Assistant Secretary determines that a State plan, or a separable portion thereof, has not met the criteria of section 18(c) of the Act and that actual operations under the plan, or portion thereof, have not met the criteria for an affirmative determination set forth in ยง 1902.37, he shall retain his standards authority under section 6 of the Act and his enforcement authority under sections 5(a)(2), 8, 9, 10, 13, and 17 of the Act for those issues covered under the plan or such portions of the plan which were subject to his negative determination.

(c) A decision under this section may result in the commencement of proceedings for withdrawal of approval of the plan or any separable portion thereof pursuant to part 1955 of this chapter.

(d) Where the Assistant Secretary determines that operations under a State plan or any separable portion thereof have not met the criteria for an affirmative 18(e) determination, but are not of such a nature as to warrant the initiation of withdrawal proceedings, the Assistant Secretary may, at his discretion, afford the State a reasonable time to meet the criteria for an affirmative 18(e) determination after which time he may initiate proceedings for withdrawal of plan approval. This discretionary authority will be applied in the following manner:

(1) Upon determining that a State shall be subject to a final 18(e) determination, the Assistant Secretary shall notify the agency designated by the State to administer its program, within the State of his decision that the State's program, or a separable portion thereof, shall be subject to a final 18(e) determination. The Assistant Secretary shall give the State a reasonable time, generally not less than 1 year, in which to meet the criteria for an affirmative 18(e) determination.

(2) The Assistant Secretary shall also publish a notice in theoutlining his reasons for not making an affirmative 18(e) determination at the time. The notice will also set forth the reasonable time the State was granted to meet the criteria for an affirmative 18(e) determination and set forth such conditions as the Assistant Secretary deems proper for the continuation of the State's plan or such portions subject to this action.

(3) The State shall be afforded an opportunity to agree to the conditions of the Assistant Secretary's decision.

(4) Upon the expiration of the time granted to a State to meet the criteria for an affirmative 18(e) determination under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the Assistant Secretary may initiate proceedings to determine whether a State shall be granted an affirmative 18(e) determination. The procedures outlined in this subpart shall be applicable to any proceedings initiated under this paragraph.
