
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1903 - INSPECTIONS, CITATIONS AND PROPOSED PENALTIES
##### ยง 1903.19 Abatement verification.
###### Employee notification.

(g)(1) The employer must inform affected employees and their representative(s) about abatement activities covered by this section by posting a copy of each document submitted to the Agency or a summary of the document near the place where the violation occurred.

(2) Where such posting does not effectively inform employees and their representatives about abatement activities (for example, for employers who have mobile work operations), the employer must:

(i) Post each document or a summary of the document in a location where it will be readily observable by affected employees and their representatives; or

(ii) Take other steps to communicate fully to affected employees and their representatives about abatement activities.

(3) The employer must inform employees and their representatives of their right to examine and copy all abatement documents submitted to the Agency.

(i) An employee or an employee representative must submit a request to examine and copy abatement documents within 3 working days of receiving notice that the documents have been submitted.

(ii) The employer must comply with an employee's or employee representative's request to examine and copy abatement documents within 5 working days of receiving the request.

(4) The employer must ensure that notice to employees and employee representatives is provided at the same time or before the information is provided to the Agency and that abatement documents are:

(i) Not altered, defaced, or covered by other material; and

(ii) Remain posted for three working days after submission to the Agency.
