
# Title 29 - Labor
## Subtitle B - Regulations Relating to Labor
### Chapter XVII - Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor
#### PART 1903 - INSPECTIONS, CITATIONS AND PROPOSED PENALTIES
##### ยง 1903.19 Abatement verification.
###### Movable equipment.

(i)(1) For serious, repeat, and willful violations involving movable equipment, the employer must attach a warning tag or a copy of the citation to the operating controls or to the cited component of equipment that is moved within the worksite or between worksites.

(2) The employer must use a warning tag that properly warns employees about the nature of the violation involving the equipment and identifies the location of the citation issued.

(3) If the violation has not already been abated, a warning tag or copy of the citation must be attached to the equipment:

(i) For hand-held equipment, immediately after the employer receives the citation; or

(ii) For non-hand-held equipment, prior to moving the equipment within or between worksites.

(4) For the construction industry, a tag that is designed and used in accordance with 29 CFR 1926.20(b)(3) and 29 CFR 1926.200(h) is deemed by OSHA to meet the requirements of this section when the information required by paragraph (i)(2) is included on the tag.

(5) The employer must assure that the tag or copy of the citation attached to movable equipment is not altered, defaced, or covered by other material.

(6) The employer must assure that the tag or copy of the citation attached to movable equipment remains attached until:

(i) The violation has been abated and all abatement verification documents required by this regulation have been submitted to the Agency;

(ii) The cited equipment has been permanently removed from service or is no longer within the employer's control; or

(iii) The Commission issues a final order vacating the citation.
