
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 326 - ENFORCEMENT
#### ยง 326.3 Unauthorized activities.
##### After-the-fact permit applications.

(e)(1) Following the completion of any required initial corrective measures, the district engineer will accept an after-the-fact permit application unless he determines that one of the exceptions listed in subparagraphs i-iv below is applicable. Applications for after-the-fact permits will be processed in accordance with the applicable procedures in 33 CFR parts 320 through 325. Situations where no permit application will be processed or where the acceptance of a permit application must be deferred are as follows:

(i) No permit application will be processed when restoration of the waters of the United States has been completed that eliminates current and future detrimental impacts to the satisfaction of the district engineer.

(ii) No permit application will be accepted in connection with a violation where the district engineer determines that legal action is appropriate (ยง 326.5(a)) until such legal action has been completed.

(iii) No permit application will be accepted where a Federal, state, or local authorization or certification, required by Federal law, has already been denied.

(iv) No permit application will be accepted nor will the processing of an application be continued when the district engineer is aware of enforcement litigation that has been initiated by other Federal, state, or local regulatory agencies, unless he determines that concurrent processing of an after-the-fact permit application is clearly appropriate.
