
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 330 - NATIONWIDE PERMIT PROGRAM
#### ยง 330.4 Conditions, limitations, and restrictions.
##### Historic properties.

(g)No activity which may affect properties listed or properties eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places, is authorized until the DE has complied with the provisions of 33 CFR part 325, appendix C.

(1) Federal permittees should follow their own procedures for compliance with the requirements of the National Historic Preservation Act and other Federal historic preservation laws.

(2) Non-federal permittees will notify the DE if the activity may affect historic properties which the National Park Service has listed, determined eligible for listing, or which the prospective permittee has reason to believe may be eligible for listing, on the National Register of Historic Places. In such cases, the prospective permittee will not begin the proposed activity until notified by the DE that the requirements of the National Historic Preservation Act have been satisfied and that the activity is authorized. If a property in the permit area of the activity is determined to be an historic property in accordance with 33 CFR part 325, appendix C, the DE will take into account the effects on such properties in accordance with 33 CFR part 325, appendix C. In such cases, the district engineer may:

(i) After complying with the requirements of 33 CFR part 325, appendix C, authorize the activity under the NWP by adding, if appropriate, activity-specific conditions; or

(ii) Prior to or concurrent with complying with the requirements of 33 CFR part 325, appendix C, he may assert discretionary authority (see 33 CFR 330.4(e)) and instruct the prospective permittee of procedures to seek authorization under a regional general permit or an individual permit. (See 33 CFR 330.5(d).)

(3) The permittee shall immediately notify the DE if, before or during prosecution of the work authorized, he encounters an historic property that has not been listed or determined eligible for listing on the National Register, but which the prospective permittee has reason to believe may be eligible for listing on the National Register.

(4) Prospective permittees are encouraged to obtain information on the location of historic properties from the State Historic Preservation Officer and the National Register of Historic Places.
