
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 330 - NATIONWIDE PERMIT PROGRAM
#### ยง 330.4 Conditions, limitations, and restrictions.
##### Coastal zone management consistency determination.

(d)(1) Section 307(c)(1) of the Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA) requires the Corps to provide a consistency determination and receive state agreement prior to the issuance, reissuance, or expansion of activities authorized by an NWP that authorizes activities within a state with a Federally-approved Coastal Management Program when activities that would occur within, or outside, that state's coastal zone will affect land or water uses or natural resources of the state's coastal zone.

(2) If, prior to the issuance, reissuance, or expansion of activities authorized by an NWP, a state indicates that additional conditions are necessary for the state to agree with the Corps consistency determination, the division engineer will make such conditions regional conditions for the NWP in that state, unless he determines that the conditions do not comply with the provisions of 33 CFR 325.4 or believes for some other specific reason it would be inappropriate to include the conditions. In this case, the state's failure to agree with the Corps consistency determination without the conditions will be considered to be a disagreement with the Corps consistency determination.

(3) When a state has disagreed with the Corps consistency determination, authorization for all such activities occurring within or outside the state's coastal zone that affect land or water uses or natural resources of the state's coastal zone is denied without prejudice until the prospective permittee furnishes the DE an individual consistency certification pursuant to section 307(c)(3) of the CZMA and demonstrates that the state has concurred in it (either on an individual or generic basis), or that concurrence should be presumed (see paragraph (d)(6) of this section).

(4) DEs will take appropriate measures, such as public notices, to inform the public of which activities, waterbodies, or regions require prospective permittees to make an individual consistency determination and seek concurrence from the state.

(5) DEs will not require or process an individual permit application for an activity otherwise qualifying for an NWP solely on the basis that the activity has not received CZMA consistency agreement from the state. However, the district or division engineer may consider that factor, among other appropriate factors, in determining whether to exercise his discretionary authority and require a regional general permit or an individual permit application.

(6) In instances where a state has disagreed with the Corps consistency determination for activities under a particular NWP, permittees must furnish the DE with an individual consistency concurrence or a copy of the consistency certification provided to the state for concurrence. If a state fails to act on a permittee's consistency certification within six months after receipt by the state, concurrence will be presumed. Upon receipt of an individual consistency concurrence or upon presumed consistency, the proposed work is authorized if it complies with all terms and conditions of the NWP. For NWPs requiring a 45-day pre-construction notification the DE will immediately begin, and may complete, his review prior to the state action on the individual consistency certification. If a state indicates that individual conditions are necessary for consistency with the state's Federally-approved coastal management program for that individual activity, the DE will include those conditions as activity-specific conditions of the NWP unless he determines that such conditions do not comply with the provisions of 33 CFR 325.4. In the latter case the DE will consider the conditioned concurrence as a non-concurrence unless the permittee chooses to comply voluntarily with all the conditions in the conditioned concurrence.

(7) Where a state, after agreeing with the Corps consistency determination, subsequently attempts to reverse it's agreement for substantive reasons after the effective date of the NWP, the division engineer will review those reasons and consider whether there is substantial basis for suspension, modification, or revocation as outlined in 33 CFR 330.5. Otherwise, such attempted reversal is not effective and the Corps will consider the state CZMA consistency agreement to be valid for the NWP authorization until such time as the NWP is modified or reissued.

(8) Federal activities must be consistent with a state's Federally-approved coastal management program to the maximum extent practicable. Federal agencies should follow their own procedures and the Department of Commerce regulations appearing at 15 CFR part 930 to meet the requirements of the CZMA. Therefore, the provisions of 33 CFR 330.4(d)(1)-(7) do not apply to Federal activities. Indian tribes doing work on Indian Reservation lands shall be treated in the same manner as Federal applicants.
