
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 330 - NATIONWIDE PERMIT PROGRAM
#### ยง 330.4 Conditions, limitations, and restrictions.
##### State 401 water quality certification.

(c)(1) State 401 water quality certification pursuant to section 401 of the Clean Water Act, or waiver thereof, is required prior to the issuance or reissuance of NWPs authorizing activities which may result in a discharge into waters of the United States.

(2) If, prior to the issuance or reissuance of such NWPs, a state issues a 401 water quality certification which includes special conditions, the division engineer will make these special conditions regional conditions of the NWP for activities which may result in a discharge into waters of United States in that state, unless he determines that such conditions do not comply with the provisions of 33 CFR 325.4. In the latter case, the conditioned 401 water quality certification will be considered a denial of the certification (see paragraph (c)(3) of this section).

(3) If a state denies a required 401 water quality certification for an activity otherwise meeting the terms and conditions of a particular NWP, that NWP's authorization for all such activities within that state is denied without prejudice until the state issues an individual 401 water quality certification or waives its right to do so. State denial of 401 water quality certification for any specific NWP affects only those activities which may result in a discharge. That NWP continues to authorize activities which could not reasonably be expected to result in discharges into waters of the United States.

(4) DEs will take appropriate measures to inform the public of which activities, waterbodies, or regions require an individual 401 water quality certification before authorization by NWP.

(5) The DE will not require or process an individual permit application for an activity which may result in a discharge and otherwise qualifies for an NWP solely on the basis that the 401 water quality certification has been denied for that NWP. However, the district or division engineer may consider water quality, among other appropriate factors, in determining whether to exercise his discretionary authority and require a regional general permit or an individual permit.

(6) In instances where a state has denied the 401 water quality certification for discharges under a particular NWP, permittees must furnish the DE with an individual 401 water quality certification or a copy of the application to the state for such certification. For NWPs for which a state has denied the 401 water quality certification, the DE will determine a reasonable period of time after receipt of the request for an activity-specific 401 water quality certification (generally 60 days), upon the expiration of which the DE will presume state waiver of the certification for the individual activity covered by the NWPs. However, the DE and the state may negotiate for additional time for the 401 water quality certification, but in no event shall the period exceed one (1) year (see 33 CFR 325.2(b)(1)(ii)). Upon receipt of an individual 401 water quality certification, or if the prospective permittee demonstrates to the DE state waiver of such certification, the proposed work can be authorized under the NWP. For NWPs requiring a 45-day pre-construction notification the district engineer will immediately begin, and complete, his review prior to the state action on the individual section 401 water quality certification. If a state issues a conditioned individual 401 water quality certification for an individual activity, the DE will include those conditions as activity-specific conditions of the NWP.

(7) Where a state, after issuing a 401 water quality certification for an NWP, subsequently attempts to withdraw it for substantive reasons after the effective date of the NWP, the division engineer will review those reasons and consider whether there is substantial basis for suspension, modification, or revocation of the NWP authorization as outlined in ยง 330.5. Otherwise, such attempted state withdrawal is not effective and the Corps will consider the state certification to be valid for the NWP authorizations until such time as the NWP is modified or reissued.
