
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 330 - NATIONWIDE PERMIT PROGRAM
#### ยง 330.4 Conditions, limitations, and restrictions.
##### Discretionary authority.,i.e.

(e)The Corps reserves the right (, discretion) to modify, suspend, or revoke NWP authorizations. Modification means the imposition of additional or revised terms or conditions on the authorization. Suspension means the temporary cancellation of the authorization while a decision is made to either modify, revoke, or reinstate the authorization. Revocation means the cancellation of the authorization. The procedures for modifying, suspending, or revoking NWP authorizations are detailed in ยง 330.5.

(1) A division engineer may assert discretionary authority by modifying, suspending, or revoking NWP authorizations for a specific geographic area, class of activity, or class of waters within his division, including on a statewide basis, whenever he determines sufficient concerns for the environment under the section 404(b)(1) Guidelines or any other factor of the public interest so requires, or if he otherwise determines that the NWP would result in more than minimal adverse environmental effects either individually or cumulatively.

(2) A DE may assert discretionary authority by modifying, suspending, or revoking NWP authorization for a specific activity whenever he determines sufficient concerns for the environment or any other factor of the public interest so requires. Whenever the DE determines that a proposed specific activity covered by an NWP would have more than minimal individual or cumulative adverse effects on the environment or otherwise may be contrary to the public interest, he must either modify the NWP authorization to reduce or eliminate the adverse impacts, or notify the prospective permittee that the proposed activity is not authorized by NWP and provide instructions on how to seek authorization under a regional general or individual permit.

(3) The division or district engineer will restore authorization under the NWPs at any time he determines that his reason for asserting discretionary authority has been satisfied by a condition, project modification, or new information.

(4) When the Chief of Engineers modifies or reissues an NWP, division engineers must use the procedures of ยง 330.5 to reassert discretionary authority to reinstate regional conditions or revocation of NWP authorizations for specific geographic areas, class of activities, or class of waters. Division engineers will update existing documentation for each NWP. Upon modification or reissuance of NWPs, previous activity-specific conditions or revocations of NWP authorization will remain in effect unless the DE specifically removes the activity-specific conditions or revocations.
