
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 334 - DANGER ZONE AND RESTRICTED AREA REGULATIONS
#### ยง 334.75 Thames River, Naval Submarine Base New London, restricted area.
##### The regulations.

(b)(1) Vessels and other watercraft within the designated navigation channel may proceed through the restricted area at normal operating speeds without stopping. Vessels and watercraft may also utilize the water area within the restricted area located between the western edge of the designated channel and the western shore for fishing, anchoring and other recreational uses. However, all persons, vessels and watercraft, except U.S. military personnel and vessels must leave the restricted area when notified by personnel of the New London Submarine Base that such use will interfere with submarine maneuvering, operations or security.

(2) Commercial fishermen and shell fishermen may fish within the restricted area provided their vessels display registration numbers issued by the Naval Submarine Base, New London, Connecticut. The registration numbers may be obtained by contacting the Commanding Officer, Naval Submarine Base New London. All commercial fishermen and shell fishermen must also leave the restricted area when notified by personnel of the New London Submarine Base that such use will interfere with submarine maneuvering, operations or security.

(3) Vessels which are owned, operated or sponsored by local, state municipalities or academic institutions preparing for or participating in a water sport or water related recreational event sponsored by those local or state municipalities or academic institutions, or private or commercial vessels engaged in observing the conduct of the above event shall be exempt from the restrictions above, providing:

(i) The Commanding Officer, Naval Submarine Base New London, and the Coast Guard Captain of the Port are advised in writing at least 48 hours in advance of the event, or

(ii) The event was publicized in such a manner that the local public in general had a reasonable opportunity to learn of the event 48 hours in advance.

(4) The regulations in this section shall be enforced by the Commander, U.S. Naval Submarine Base New London, Connecticut, and such agencies as he/she may designate.
