
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 334 - DANGER ZONE AND RESTRICTED AREA REGULATIONS
#### ยง 334.140 Chesapeake Bay; U.S. Army Proving Ground Reservation, Aberdeen, Md.
##### Entrance into restricted waters by the public.

(d)(1) The following water areas are closed to the public at all times:

(i) Supesutie Narrows-all waters north and east of a line between Bear Point and Black Point;

(ii) All creeks except Landerick Creek;

(iii) The water adjacent to Carroll Island which lies between Brier Point and Lower Island Point also known as Hawthorne Cove;

(iv) The waters immediately off the mouth of Romney Creek;

(v) The waters adjacent to Abbey Point Recovery Field more accurately described as area number 16; depicted in Aberdeen Proving Ground Regulation 210-10, Appendix A.

(vi) The waters on the north side of the Bush River from Pond Point to Chelsea Chimney are closed for fishing purposes.

(2) The remainder of the restricted areas will normally be open for authorized use (including navigation and fishing) during the following hours:

(i) Monday through Thursday, 5 p.m. to 7:30 a.m.;

(ii) Weekends, 5 p.m. Friday to 7:30 a.m. Monday;

(iii) National (not state) holidays, 5 p.m. the day preceding the holiday to 7:30 a.m. the day following the holiday.

(3) When requirements of tests, as determined by the Commanding Officer, Aberdeen Proving Ground, or his designee, necessitate closing the restricted areas during the aforementioned times and days, the Commanding Officer, Aberdeen Proving Ground, will publish appropriate circulars or cause to be broadcast over local radio stations notices informing the public of the time and days which entrance to the restricted waters of Aberdeen Proving Ground by the general public will be prohibited.

(4) A fleet of patrol boats will be positioned at the perimeter of the restricted water zone boundaries (except in extreme weather conditions such as gales or ice) during periods of testing to prevent unauthorized entry. If necessary to attract attention of another vessel about to penetrate the restricted area, the patrol boat may operate a distinctive rotating blue and red light, public address system, sound a siren, or by radio contact on shipshore FM channel 16 and citizen band channel 12. Buoys will mark the restricted waters along the Chesapeake Bay perimeter during the period, normally 4 June through 1 October annually.
