
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 334 - DANGER ZONE AND RESTRICTED AREA REGULATIONS
#### ยง 334.190 Chesapeake Bay, in vicinity of Bloodsworth Island, MD, U.S. Navy.
##### The regulations.

(b)(1) No person, vessel or other craft shall approach closer than 75 yards to the beaches, shoreline, or piers of Bloodsworth Island, Pone Island, Northeast Island, Adams Island, or any Patuxent River Naval Air Station property at any time unless authorized to do so by the enforcing agency. No person, vessel or other craft shall approach rafts, barges, or platforms closer than 100 yards.

(2) No person, vessel, or other craft shall enter or remain in the danger zone when notified by the enforcing authority to keep clear. Any watercraft under way or at anchor, upon being so warned, shall immediately vacate the area and shall remain outside the area until conclusion of potentially hazardous test or training events.

(3) The area will be in use intermittently throughout the year.

(4) Prior to the commencement of any potentially hazardous test or training event that requires clearing of non-participant boats from the danger zone, surface or air search of the entire area will be made for the purpose of locating and warning all craft and persons not connected with the test or training event, and a patrol will be maintained throughout the duration of the event.

(5) All persons, vessels, or other craft shall clear the area when warned by patrol vessels.

(6) Patrol vessels will provide warning that a potentially hazardous test or training event is in progress or is about to commence; when so warned, fishing or oystering vessels or other craft not directly connected with the event shall not navigate within the danger zone. Deep-draft vessels proceeding in established navigation channels normally will be permitted to traverse the area upon coordination with range patrol vessels. The patrol vessels will ensure safe separation between all non-participant vessels and potentially hazardous operations.

(7) When potentially hazardous testing or training is not in progress or is not about to commence, oystering and fishing boats and other craft may operate within the danger zone.

(8) All potentially hazardous test or training events will be performed in such a way as to contain the hazard footprint to the established danger zone described in paragraph (a) of this section. Naval authorities will not be responsible for damage to nets, traps, buoys, pots, fish pounds, stakes, or other equipment that may be located within the danger zone.

(9) Nothing in this regulation shall be intended to prevent the lawful use of approved waterfowl hunting blinds along the shorelines of Bloodsworth Island range complex, provided that all necessary licenses and permits have been obtained from the Maryland Department of Natural Resources and the completed copy of the permit has been submitted to the Conservation Division Director at NAS Patuxent River. Waterfowl hunters must observe all warnings and range clearances, as noted herein.

(10) The regulations in this section shall be enforced by the Commander, Naval Air Station Patuxent River, Maryland, and such agencies as he/she may designate.
