
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 334 - DANGER ZONE AND RESTRICTED AREA REGULATIONS
#### ยง 334.210 Chesapeake Bay, in vicinity of Tangier Island; naval guided missiles test operations area.
##### The regulations.

(b)(1) Persons, vessels or other craft shall not enter or remain in the prohibited area at any time unless authorized to do so by the enforcing agency.

(2) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b)(6) of this section, persons, vessels or other craft shall not enter or remain in the restricted area when firing is or will soon be in progress unless authorized to do so by the enforcing agency.

(3) Advance notice will be given of the date on which the first firing is to be conducted and such notice will be published in "Notice to Mariners." Thereafter, the danger zone will be in use intermittently throughout the year and no further notice is contemplated that firing is continuing.

(4) Warning that firing is or will soon be in progress will be indicated by a red flag displayed from one of six dolphin platforms on the perimeter of the prohibited area, and by patrol vessels within the danger zone or by aircraft employing the method of warning known as "buzzing" which consists of low flight by the airplane and repeated opening and closing of the throttle. Surface or air search of the entire area will be made prior to the commencement of firing on each scheduled day. During periods of firing a patrol vessel will remain in the approaches to the restricted area and maintain continuous contact with the firing planes to warn when the area is not clear.

(5) Upon observing the warning flag or upon receiving a warning by any of the patrol vessels or aircraft, persons, vessels or other craft shall immediately vacate the restricted area and remain outside the area until the conclusion of firing for the day.

(6) This section shall not deny traverse of portions of the restricted area by commercial craft proceeding in established steamer lanes, but when firing is or will soon be in progress all such craft shall proceed on their normal course through the area with all practicable speed.

(7) All projectiles, bombs and rockets will be fired to land within the prohibited area, and on or in the immediate vicinity of a target in the restricted area located adjacent to the west side of Tangier Island. The Department of the Navy will not be responsible for damages by such projectiles, bombs, or rockets to nets, traps, buoys, pots, fishpounds, stakes, or other equipment which may be located within the restricted area.

(8) The regulations of this section shall be enforced by the Commander, Naval Air Bases, Fifth Naval District, Norfolk, Virginia, and such agencies as he may designate.
