
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 334 - DANGER ZONE AND RESTRICTED AREA REGULATIONS
#### ยง 334.280 James River, Skiffes Creek and Warwick River surrounding Joint Base Langley-Eustis, Virginia; restricted areas and danger zones.
##### The regulations.

(b)(1) For the restricted areas defined in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section:

(i) All vessels will contact the 3rd Port Harbor Master on marine channel 12 or 68 prior to entering or transiting these restricted areas.

(ii) The passage of fishing vessels to or from authorized traps, or the transit of commercial vessels, will be coordinated with the 3rd Port Harbor Master on marine channel 12 or 68.

(iii) The harvesting and cultivation of oyster beds or the setting of fish traps within these restricted areas will be allowed provided the commercial fisherman coordinate access to these areas with the 3rd Port Harbor Master on marine channel 12 or 68.

(iv) The Commander, Joint Base Langley-Eustis will, to the extent possible, give public notice from time to time through local news media and the Coast Guard's Local Notice to Mariners of the schedule of intended Department of Defense use of the restricted areas.

(2) For the restricted areas defined in paragraphs (a)(3), (4), and (5) of this section:

(i) Entry into these areas is for official government purposes only, or as authorized by the Commander, Joint Base Langley-Eustis.

(ii) Entry will be coordinated and conducted in accordance with the policies and procedures established by the Commander, Joint Base Langley-Eustis.

(3) For the danger zones defined in paragraphs (a)(6) and (7) of this section:

(i) Persons, vessels or other craft shall not enter or remain in the danger zone when firing is or will soon be in progress unless authorized to do so by the enforcing agency.

(ii) Advance notice of the schedule of small arms firing will be provided via the Joint Base Langley-Eustis web page.

(iii) All projectiles will be fired to land within the impact area on the Fort Eustis peninsula. Neither the Department of the Army nor the Department of the Air Force will be responsible for damages by such projectiles to nets, traps, buoys, pots, fishpounds, stakes, or other equipment which may be located within these danger zones.
