
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 334 - DANGER ZONE AND RESTRICTED AREA REGULATIONS
#### ยง 334.305 Little Creek Harbor, Fisherman's Cove, Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek-Fort Story, Little Creek, Virginia, Restricted Areas.
##### The Inner Harbor Restricted Area.

(2)All vessels or persons intending to transit inbound/outbound of the Inner Harbor Restricted Area shall request permission from Little Creek Harbor Port Control using VHF-FM channel 12 prior to transiting and will provide their destination/intentions with the exception of those vessels that meet the criteria in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. The Inner Harbor Restricted Area is limited to those privately owned vessels or persons calling upon the commercial/private piers located within the Inner Harbor and government owned vessels (public vessels) transiting to and from U.S. Navy or U.S. Coast Guard facilities and authorized DOD patrons of the U.S. Navy recreational marina. No other vessels or persons may enter or exit this area unless specific authorization is granted by Commanding Officer, Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek-Fort Story, and/or other persons or agencies as he/she may designate.

(3) All vessels or persons transiting inbound/outbound of the Inner Harbor Restricted Area are subject to all applicable federal and state laws including laws or regulations designed to protect the naval facility and persons or vessels assigned therein. Federal and state law enforcement officials may at any time take action to ensure compliance with their respective laws. In addition, this regulation authorizes Navy security personnel, designated by Commander, Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek-Fort Story or persons authorized to act in his/her behalf, the authority to ascertain the identity and intent of any vessels and/or persons transiting the restricted area that indicate by way of appearance or action they are a possible threat to government assets. If a determination is made that the vessel and/or persons are a threat to government assets located within the restricted area, Navy security units may take actions as provided by law or regulation that are deemed necessary to protect government personnel and assets located within the restricted area.
