
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 334 - DANGER ZONE AND RESTRICTED AREA REGULATIONS
#### ยง 334.305 Little Creek Harbor, Fisherman's Cove, Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek-Fort Story, Little Creek, Virginia, Restricted Areas.
##### The regulations,The Outer Harbor Restricted Area.

(b)-(1)(i) All privately owned vessels, properly registered and bearing identification in accordance with Federal and/or State laws and regulations, and all Government owned vessels (public vessels) may enter or exit the waters described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section at any time and transit inbound/outbound of the marked dredged channel leading to Little Creek Harbor between jetties 8 miles westward of Cape Henry Light. All vessels transiting inbound/outbound of the channel except for those vessels listed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section shall proceed at speeds commensurate with minimum wake. Any vessel equipped with a marine radio can monitor VHF-FM channel 12 for message traffic from Little Creek Port Control.

(ii) When Commanding Officer, Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek-Fort Story is ordered to implement Force Protection Conditions (FPCONs) Charlie/Delta, or when specific authority is granted by the District Engineer, all vessel traffic movement can be restricted except for those vessels that meet the criteria in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. FPCONs are a system of protective measures used by the Department of Defense (DOD) installations to guard against and deter terrorist attack. Senior commanders assign the FPCONs for their region, and installation commanders may raise FPCONS and tighten security measures based on local conditions. In the event FPCONs Charlie/Delta is implemented by the Commanding Officer, Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek, which requires the restriction of vessel traffic movement in the Outer Harbor Restricted Area, the installation will coordinate with the U.S. Coast Guard, Fifth District; Army Corps of Engineers, Norfolk District; and state and local law enforcement and governmental authorities. The installation will also disseminate information to the public and local news media outlets. Information on whether vessel traffic movement has been restricted in the Outer Harbor Restricted Area due to the implementation of FPCONs Charlie/Delta will also be published and disseminated by the U.S. Coast Guard.
