
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 334 - DANGER ZONE AND RESTRICTED AREA REGULATIONS
#### ยง 334.390 Atlantic Ocean south of entrance to Chesapeake Bay; firing range.
##### The regulation.

(b)(1) To accommodate ingress and egress within the southern approach to the Chesapeake Bay Federal navigation channels, no live fire exercise will take place within the area northeast of, and defined by a line intersecting points latitude 36&#xB0;47&#x2032;59&#x2033; N, longitude 75&#xB0;46&#x2032;05&#x2033; W and latitude 36&#xB0;44&#x2032;25&#x2033; N, longitude 75&#xB0;38&#x2032;57&#x2033; W, and this area is open to unrestricted surface navigation.

(2) Within the remainder of the danger zone vessels shall proceed through the area with caution and shall remain therein no longer than necessary for the purpose of transit.

(3) When firing is in progress during daylight hours, red flags will be displayed at conspicuous locations on the beach. When firing is in progress during periods of darkness, red flashing lights will be displayed from conspicuous locations on the beach which are visible from the water a minimum distance of four (4) nautical miles.

(4) Firing on the ranges will be suspended as long as any vessel is within the danger zone.

(5) Lookout posts will be manned by the activity or agency operating the firing range at the Naval Air Station Oceana, Dam Neck Annex, in Virginia Beach, Virginia. After darkness, night vision systems will be utilized by lookouts to aid in locating vessels transiting the area.

(6) There shall be no firing on the range during periods of low visibility which would prevent the recognition of a vessel (to a distance of 7,500 yards) which is properly displaying navigation lights, or which would preclude a vessel from observing the red range flags or lights.

(7) Throughout the entire danger zone anchoring, dredging, trawling and any bottom disturbing activities should be conducted with caution due to the potential of unexploded ordnance (UXO) and other munitions and explosives of concern (MEC) on the bottom.
