
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 334 - DANGER ZONE AND RESTRICTED AREA REGULATIONS
#### ยง 334.380 Atlantic Ocean south of entrance to Chesapeake Bay off Dam Neck, Virginia; naval firing range.
##### The regulations.

(b)(1) Vessels shall proceed through the area with caution and shall remain therein no longer than necessary for purpose of transit.

(2) When firing is in progress during daylight hours, red flags will be displayed at conspicuous locations on the beach. When firing is in progress during periods of darkness, red flashing lights will be displayed from conspicuous locations which are visible from the water a minimum distance of four (4) nautical miles.

(3) Firing on the ranges will be suspended as long as any vessel is within the danger zone.

(4) Lookout posts shall be manned by the activity or agency operating the firing range at Fleet Combat Center. After darkness, night vision systems will be utilized by lookouts to aid in locating vessels transiting the area.

(5) There shall be no firing on any ranges during the periods of low visibility which would prevent the recognition of a vessel (to a distance of 7,500 yards) which is properly displaying navigational lights, or which would preclude a vessel from observing the red range flags or lights.

(6) The regulations in this section shall be enforced by the Commanding Officer, Fleet Combat Training Center, Atlantic, Dam Neck, Virginia Beach, Virginia, and other such agencies as he/she may designate.
