
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 334 - DANGER ZONE AND RESTRICTED AREA REGULATIONS
#### ยง 334.420 Pamlico Sound and adjacent waters, N.C.; danger zones for Marine Corps operations.
##### The regulations.

(2)(i) The area described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section will be used as bombing, rocket firing, and strafing areas. Live and dummy ammunition will be used. The area shall be closed to navigation and all persons at all times except for such vessels as may be directed by the enforcing agency to enter on assigned duties. The area will be patrolled and vessels "buzzed" by the patrol plane prior to the conduct of operations in the area. Vessels or personnel which have inadvertently entered the danger zone shall leave the area immediately upon being so warned.

(ii) The areas described in paragraphs (b)(1) (ii), (iii) and (iv) of this section shall be used for bombing, rocket firing, and strafing areas. Practice and dummy ammunition will be used. All operations will be conducted during daylight hours, and the areas will be open to navigation at night. No vessel or person shall enter these areas during the hours of daylight without special permission from the enforcing agency. The areas will be patrolled and vessels "buzzed" by the patrol plane prior to the conduct of operations in the areas. Vessels or personnel which have inadvertently entered the danger zones shall leave the area immediately upon being warned.

(iii) The areas described in paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section shall be used as a strafing area. Practice and dummy ammunition will be used. Operations will be conducted on five consecutive days (Monday through Friday) per month during the months of February through November between the hours of 4 p.m. to 11 p.m. The block training dates will be scheduled two weeks in advance of the actual training start date. Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point will have a call-in number for public use to provide information on the current use of the training area. The Notification to Mariners System will also be utilized to inform the public on the status of the training area. No vessel or person shall enter the area during the scheduled block training session except for such vessels as may be directed by the enforcing agency to enter on assigned duties. The area will be patrolled and vessels "buzzed" by the patrol plane prior to the conduct of operations in the area. Vessels or personnel which have inadvertently entered the danger zone shall leave the area immediately upon being so warned.
