
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 334 - DANGER ZONE AND RESTRICTED AREA REGULATIONS
#### ยง 334.440 New River, N.C., and vicinity; Marine Corps firing ranges.
##### The regulations.

(2)(i) No person shall enter or remain in the waters of this area due the possibility of unexploded projectiles.

(ii) Vessels may proceed through the Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway in the area without stopping except in cases of extreme emergencies.

(iii) All navigable waters in the area between the south bank of Bear Creek and the north bank of the north connecting channel between the Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway and Browns Inlet shall be closed to navigation at all times. There are highly sensitive unexploded projectiles within the limits of this area.

(iv) Vessels may proceed through the north connecting channel and the south connecting channel (Banks Channel) in the area between the Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway and Browns Inlet to the Atlantic Ocean without stopping during periods of nonmilitary use. Caution should be used when proceeding through these waters due to the presence of unexploded projectiles lying in this area.

(v) Navigable waters in the area between the south connecting channel (Banks Channel) leading to Browns Inlet and Onslow Beach Bridge on both sides of the Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway are open to unrestricted navigation during periods of nonmilitary use. An unknown element of risk exists in this area due to the possible presence of unexploded projectiles.

(vi) Warning of impending military use of the area will be contained in weekly Notice to Mariners.

(vii) Vessels having specific authority from the Commanding General, Marine Corps Base, Camp Lejeune, North Carolina, may enter the area.
