
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 334 - DANGER ZONE AND RESTRICTED AREA REGULATIONS
#### ยง 334.440 New River, N.C., and vicinity; Marine Corps firing ranges.
##### The regulations.

(c)(1) No person shall enter or remain in the water in any closed section after notice of firing therein has been given. Sailing vessels and any watercraft having a speed of less than 5 knots shall keep clear of any closed sector at all times after notice of firing therein has been given. Vessels propelled by mechanical power at a speed greater than 5 knots may enter the sectors without restriction except when the firing signals are being displayed. When these signals are displayed, vessels shall clear the closed sectors immediately and no vessels shall enter such sectors until the signals indicate that firing has ceased.

(2) Firing will take place both day and night at irregular periods throughout the year. Insofar as training requirements will permit, underwater explosions will be restricted in the Atlantic Ocean sector (described in paragraph (a) of this section) during the periods May 1 and June 5, inclusive, and November 22 to December 15, inclusive.

(3) Two days in advance of the day when firing in any sector except the Stone Creek sector is scheduled to begin, the enforcing agency will warn the public of the contemplated firing, stating the sector or sectors to be closed, through the public press and the U.S. Coast Guard and, in the case of the Atlantic Ocean sector, the Cape Fear Pilots Association at Southport, and the Pilots Association at Moorehead City, North Carolina. The Stone Creek sector may be closed without advance notice.

(4) Towers at least 50 feet in height will be erected near the shore at the northeast and southwest limits of the Atlantic Ocean sector, and towers at least 25 feet in height will be erected near the easterly shore at the upper and lower limits of each New River sector. On days when firing is to take place a red flag will be displayed on each of the towers marking the sector or sectors to be closed. These flags will be displayed by 8:00 a.m., and will be removed when firing ceases for the day. Suitable range markers will be erected indicating the bearings of the north and west limits of the Atlantic Ocean sector.

(5) During the night firing, red lights will be displayed on the towers; and, in the case of the Atlantic Ocean sector, searchlights will be employed as barrier lights to enable safety observers to detect vessels which may attempt to enter the danger zone.

(6) No person shall enter or remain within a 2 acre area surrounding a waterborne refueling training operation, in either the Grey Point Sector, Farnell Bay Sector, or Morgan Bay Sector as described in paragraph (b) of this section, for the duration of the training operation after a notice to conduct a waterborne refueling training operation has been published in the local notice to mariners and has been broadcast over the Marine Band radio network. The 2 acre area surrounding a waterborne refueling training operation will be patrolled and persons and vessels shall clear the area under patrol upon being warned by the surface patrol craft.
