
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 334 - DANGER ZONE AND RESTRICTED AREA REGULATIONS
#### ยง 334.475 Brickyard Creek and tributaries and the Broad River at Beaufort, SC.
##### The regulation:

(b)(1) Unauthorized personnel, vessels and other watercraft shall not enter the restricted areas described in paragraphs (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5) and (a)(8) of this section at any time.

(2) The public shall have unrestricted access and use of the waters described in paragraph (a)(6) of this section whenever the MCAS is in Force Protection Condition Normal, Alpha or Bravo. Whenever the facility is in Force Protection Condition Charlie or Delta, personnel, vessels and other watercraft entering the restricted area described in paragraph (a)(6) of this section shall proceed at normal speed and shall under no circumstances anchor, fish, loiter or photograph in any way until clear of the restricted area.

(3) The public shall have unrestricted access and use of the waters described in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(7), and (a)(9) of this section whenever the MCAS is in Force Protection Condition Normal Alpha or Bravo. Whenever the facility is in Force Protection Condition Charlie or Delta, personnel, vessels and other watercraft are prohibited from entering the waters described in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(7), and (a)(9) of this section, unless they first obtain an escort or other approval from the Commander, MCAS, Beaufort, South Carolina.

(4) Unauthorized personnel, vessels and other watercraft shall not enter the danger zone described in paragraph (a)(10) of this section at any time.

(5) All restricted areas and danger zones will be marked with suitable warning signs.

(6) It is understood that none of the restrictions herein will apply to properly marked Federal vessels performing official duties.

(7) It is further understood that unauthorized personnel will not take photographs from within the above described restricted areas.
