
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 334 - DANGER ZONE AND RESTRICTED AREA REGULATIONS
#### ยง 334.460 Cooper River and tributaries at Charleston, SC.
##### The regulations:

(b)(1) Unauthorized personnel, vessels and other watercraft shall not enter the restricted areas described in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), and (a)(4) of this section at any time.

(2) Personnel, vessels and other watercraft entering the restricted area described in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, shall proceed at normal speed and under no circumstances anchor, fish, loiter, or photograph until clear of the restricted area.

(3) Personnel, vessels and other watercraft may be restricted from using any or all of the area described in paragraphs (a)(3) and (a)(6) of this section without first obtaining an escort or other approval from Commander, Naval Base, Charleston, when deemed necessary and appropriately noticed by him/her for security purposes or other military operations.

(4) Personnel, vessels and other watercraft, other than those specifically authorized by Commanding Officer, U.S. Naval Weapons Station, Charleston, SC, entering the restricted area described in paragraph (a)(8) of this section shall proceed at normal speed, and under no circumstances anchor, fish, loiter, or photograph in any way until clear of the restricted area.

(5) Personnel, vessels and other watercraft, other than those specifically authorized by Commanding Officer, U.S. Naval Weapons Station, Charleston, SC, entering the areas described in paragraphs (a)(9) and (a)(10) of this section are prohibited from entering within one-hundred (100) yards of the west bank of the Cooper River, in those portions devoid of any vessels or manmade structures. In those areas where vessels or man-made structures are present, the restricted area will be 100 yards from the shoreline or 50 yards beyond those vessels or other man-made structures, whichever is the greater. This includes the area in paragraph (a)(10) of this section.

(6) In the interest of National Security, Commanding Officer, U.S. Naval Weapons Station, Charleston, SC, may at his/her discretion, restrict passage of persons, watercraft and vessels in the areas described in paragraphs (a)(7), (a)(8) and (a)(11) of this section until such time as he/she determines such restriction may be terminated.

(7) All restricted areas and all danger zones and the approaches leading to the danger zones will be marked with suitable warning signs.

(8) The regulations described in paragraphs (b) (1), (2) and (3) of this section shall be enforced by Commander, Naval Base, Charleston, and such agencies as he/she may designate.

(9) The regulations in this section for the danger zones described in paragraphs (a)(12) and (a)(13) of this section and the regulations described in paragraphs (b) (4), (5) and (6) of this section, shall be enforced by the Commanding Officer, Naval Weapons Station Charleston, SC, and such agencies as he/she may designate.

(10) It is understood that none of the restrictions herein will apply to properly marked Federal vessels performing official duties. It is further understood that Federal employees will not take photographs from within the above described restricted areas.

(11) The unauthorized entering or crossing of the danger zones described in paragraphs (a)(12) and (a)(13) of this section by all persons, watercraft and vessels is prohibited at all times unless specifically authorized by the Commanding Officer of the U.S. Naval Weapons Station Charleston, SC.
