
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 3 - COAST GUARD AREAS, DISTRICTS, SECTORS, MARINE INSPECTION ZONES, AND CAPTAIN OF THE PORT ZONES
##### Subpart 3.04 - Coast Guard Areas
###### ยง 3.04-1 Atlantic Area.

(a) The Area Office is in Portsmouth, VA.

(b) The Atlantic Area is comprised of the land areas and U.S. navigable waters of the First, Fifth, Seventh, Eighth and Ninth Coast Guard Districts and the ocean areas lying east of a line extending from the North Pole south along 95&#xB0; W. longitude to the North American land mass; thence along the east coast of the North, Central, and South American land mass to the intersection with 70&#xB0; W. longitude; thence due south to the South Pole. These waters extend east to the Eastern Hemisphere dividing line between the Atlantic and Pacific Areas which lies along a line extending from the North Pole south along 100&#xB0; E. longitude to the Asian land mass and along a line extending from the South Pole north along 17&#xB0; E. longitude to the African land mass.

(c)(1) Activities Europe is a part of Atlantic Area. Activities Europe's office is located in Schinnen, the Netherlands. The boundaries of Activities Europe's Marine Inspection Zone coincide with the boundaries of the Atlantic Area, which are described in paragraph (b) of this section, excluding the First, Fifth, Seventh, Eighth, and Ninth Coast Guard Districts.

(2) Only for this part, the boundary between Activities Europe and Activities Far East Marine Inspection Zones is demarked by a southerly line bisecting the border of the Republic of India and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
