
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 334 - DANGER ZONE AND RESTRICTED AREA REGULATIONS
#### ยง 334.505 St. Johns River, U.S. Coast Guard Station Mayport, Sector Jacksonville, Florida; restricted area.
##### The regulation.

(b)(1) The restricted area described in paragraph (a) of this section is only open to U.S. Government vessels. U.S. Government vessels include, but are not limited to, U.S. Coast Guard, U.S. Coast Guard Auxiliary, Department of Defense, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, state and local law enforcement, emergency services and vessels under contract with the U.S. Government. Warning signs notifying individuals of the restricted area boundary and prohibiting all unauthorized entry into the area will be posted along the property boundary.

(2) All persons, vessels and other craft are prohibited from entering, transiting, drifting, dredging or anchoring within the restricted area described in paragraph (a) of this section without prior approval from the Commanding Officer, U.S. Coast Guard Station Mayport or his/her designated representative.

(3) Fishing, trawling, net-fishing and other aquatic activities are prohibited in the restricted area without prior approval from the Commanding Officer, U.S. Coast Guard Station Mayport or his/her designated representative.

(4) The restrictions described in paragraph (b) of this section are in effect 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
