
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 334 - DANGER ZONE AND RESTRICTED AREA REGULATIONS
#### ยง 334.610 Key West Harbor, at U.S. Naval Base, Key West, Fla.; naval restricted areas and danger zone.
##### The Regulations:

(b)(1) Entering or crossing Restricted Areas #1 and #4 and the Danger Zone (Area #6) described in paragraph (a) of this section, by any person or vessel, is prohibited.

(2) Privately owned vessels, properly registered and bearing identification in accordance with Federal and/or State laws and regulations may transit the following portions of restricted areas #2, #3 and #5. NOTE: All vessels entering the areas at night must display lights as required by Federal laws and Coast Guard regulations or, if no constant lights are required, then the vessel must display a bright white light showing all around the horizon,

(i) The channel, approximately 75 yards in width, extending from the northwest corner of Pier D-3 of Trumbo Point Annex, eastward beneath the Fleming Key bridge and along the north shore of Trumbo Point Annex (area #3).

(ii) A channel of 150 feet in width which extends easterly from the main ship channel into Key West Bight, the northerly edge of which channel passes 25 feet south of the Trumbo Point Annex piers on the north side of the Bight. While the legitimate access of privately owned vessels to facilities of Key West Bight is unimpeded, it is prohibited to moor, anchor, or fish within 50 feet of any U.S. Government-owned pier or craft (area #3).

(iii) The dredged portion of Boca Chica channel from its seaward end to a point due south of the east end of the Boca Chica Bridge (area #5).

(iv) All of the portion of Restricted Area No. 2 that lies between the Truman Annex Mole and the Key West Harbor Range Channel. The transit zone extends to the northeasterly corner of the Truman Annex Mole, thence to the northwesterly end of the breakwater at Latitude 24&#xB0;33&#x2032;21.3&#x2033; N, Longitude 81&#xB0;48&#x2032;32.7&#x2033; W.

(3) Stopping or landing by any person and/or any vessel, other than Government-owned vessels and specifically authorized private craft in any of the restricted areas or danger zone described in paragraph (a) of this section is prohibited.

(4) Vessels using the restricted channel areas described in paragraph (b)(2) (i), (ii), (iii), and (iv) of this section shall proceed at speeds commensurate with minimum wake.

(c) The regulations in this section shall be enforced by the Commanding Officer, Naval Air Station, Key West, Florida, and such agencies as he/she may designate.
