
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 334 - DANGER ZONE AND RESTRICTED AREA REGULATIONS
#### ยง 334.605 Meloy Channel, U.S. Coast Guard Base Miami Beach, Florida; restricted area.
##### The regulations.

(b)(1) The restricted area described in paragraph (a) of this section is only open to U.S. Government vessels. U.S. Government vessels include, but are not limited to, U.S. Coast Guard and Coast Guard Auxiliary vessels, Department of Defense vessels, state and local law enforcement and emergency services vessels, and vessels under contract with the U.S. Government. Warning signs notifying individuals of the restricted area boundary and prohibiting all unauthorized entry into the area will be posted along the property boundary and, as appropriate, on the piers of the MacArthur Causeway Bridge adjacent to the restricted area.

(2) All persons, vessels, and other craft are prohibited from entering, transiting, drifting, dredging, or anchoring within the restricted area described in paragraph (a) of this section without prior approval from the Base Commander, U.S. Coast Guard Base Miami Beach or his/her designated representative.

(3) Fishing, trawling, net-fishing, and other aquatic activities are prohibited in the restricted area without prior approval from the Base Commander, U.S. Coast Guard Base Miami Beach or his/her designated representative.

(4) The restrictions described in paragraph (b) of this section are in effect 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
