
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 334 - DANGER ZONE AND RESTRICTED AREA REGULATIONS
#### ยง 334.620 Straits of Florida and Florida Bay in vicinity of Key West, Fla.; operational training area, aerial gunnery range, and bombing and strafing target areas, Naval Air Station, Key West, Fla.
##### The regulations.

(b)(1) In advance of scheduled air or surface operations which, in the opinion of the enforcing agency, may be dangerous to watercraft, appropriate warnings will be issued to navigation interests through official government and civilian channels or in such other manner as the District Engineer, Corps of Engineers, Jacksonville, Florida, may direct. Such warnings will specify the location, type, time, and duration of operations, and give such other pertinent information as may be required in the interests of safety.

(2) Watercraft shall not be prohibited from passing through the operational training area except when the operations being conducted are of such nature that the exclusion of watercraft is required in the interest of safety or for accomplishment of the mission, or is considered important to the national security.

(3) When the warning to navigation interests states that bombing and strafing operations will take place over the designated target areas or that other operations hazardous to watercraft are proposed to be conducted in a specifically described portion of the overall area, all watercraft will be excluded from the target area or otherwise described zone of operations and no vessel shall enter or remain therein during the period operations are in progress.

(4) Aircraft and naval vessels conducting operations in any part of the operational training area will exercise caution in order not to endanger watercraft. Operations which may be dangerous to watercraft will not be conducted without first ascertaining that the zone of operations is clear. Any vessel in the zone of operations will be warned to leave and upon being so warned the vessel shall leave immediately.

(5) The regulations in this section shall be enforced by the Commandant, Sixth Naval District, Charleston, S.C., and such agencies as he may designate.
