
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 334 - DANGER ZONE AND RESTRICTED AREA REGULATIONS
#### ยง 334.770 Gulf of Mexico and St. Andrew Sound, south of East Bay, Fla., Tyndall Drone Launch Corridor, Tyndall Air Force Base, Fla.; restricted area.
##### The regulations.

(b)(1) Military usage of areas is Monday through Friday between the hours of 7 a.m. and 5 p.m.

(2) Vessels are allowed to enter and remain in this area provided they have operational communication equipment capable of monitoring VHF Marine frequency Channel 16, (156.80 MHz). In the event the Marine radio equipment is not installed on the vessel, CB equipment with Channel 13 (27.115 MHz) will be used as an alternate means of communications. Warnings will be broadcast by the Air Force on Channel 16 (156.80 MHz) and Channel 13 (27.115 MHz) using the following sequence:

(i) Announcement 90 minutes prior to drone launch.

(ii) Announcement 60 minutes prior to drone launch.

(iii) Announcement of drone launch or drone cancelled, and the expected time of the drone launch. Upon receipt of the drone warning on either Channel 16 (156.80 MHz) or Channel 13 (27.115 MHz), vessels will take the necessary action to vacate the drone launch corridor not later than 60 minutes prior to expected drone launch.

(3) Vessels are authorized direct movement without stopping through this area at any time unless warned by helicopter or patrol boat.

(4) The area will be patrolled by helicopter/vessels during periods of hazardous military activity. Verbal warnings or instructions issued by these craft will be strictly adhered to.

(5) The regulations in this section shall be enforced by the Commanding Officer, Tyndall Air Force Base, Florida, and such agencies as he may designate.
