
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 334 - DANGER ZONE AND RESTRICTED AREA REGULATIONS
#### ยง 334.775 Naval Air Station Pensacola, Pensacola Bay, Pensacola and Gulf Breeze, Fla.; naval restricted area.
##### The restrictions.

(b)(1) The area described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section will normally be in use Monday through Wednesday between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. and one evening from 4 p.m. until 8 p.m., every other week.

(2) The area described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section will normally be utilized Wednesday through Friday between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. for parasail operations.

(3) During those times that specific missions, exercises, or training operations are being conducted, the U.S. Navy vessels and/or crafts designated as essential to the operation(s) by proper U.S. Navy authority shall have the rights-of-way. All other vessels and crafts are required to keep clear of and remain 300 yards from all naval vessels engaged in said operations. Approaching within 300 yards of vessels and/or crafts while they are engaged in operations and/or training exercises is prohibited.

(4) Vessel traffic through the restricted area will remain open during operations and/or exercises; however, mariners shall exercise extreme caution and be on the lookout for swimmers, small craft and helicopters when transiting the area. It should be presumed by all mariners that Navy operations and/or exercises are being conducted whenever military craft and/or helicopters are operating within the restricted area.

(5) Any problems encountered regarding Navy operations/exercises within the restricted area should be addressed to "Navy Pensacola Command" on Channel 16 (156.6 MHz) for resolution and/or clarification.

(6) The regulations in this section shall be enforced by the Commander of the Naval Air Station, Pensacola, Florida, and such agencies as he/she may designate.
