
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 334 - DANGER ZONE AND RESTRICTED AREA REGULATIONS
#### ยง 334.830 Lake Michigan; small-arms range adjacent to U.S. Naval Training Center, Great Lakes, Ill.
##### The regulations.

(b)(1) When firing affecting the danger zone is in progress, the enforcing agency will post guards at such locations that the waters in the danger zone may be observed and arrange signals whereby these guards may stop the firing should any person or vessel be seen in the waters of the danger zone. When firing is in progress, the enforcing agency will cause red flags to be displayed on shore near the rifle butts, which may be readily discernible to a person in a vessel within the danger zone.

(2) The enforcing agency is hereby authorized to use such agencies as shall be necessary to prohibit all persons and vessels from entering the area until such time as shall be convenient.

(3) If such flags are displayed it will indicate that firing is in progress, and that the waters in the danger zone are subject to impact by rounds missing or ricocheting off the impact berm and should not be entered until the flags are lowered.

(4) Wherever possible, the enforcing agency will warn the public of the contemplated times of firing and the areas involved two days in advance of the scheduled date, through the public press and the U.S. Coast Guard. The danger zone may, however, be closed without advance notice.

(5) [Reserved]

(6) The regulations in this section shall be enforced by the Commander, U.S. Naval Training Center, Great Lakes, Illinois, and such agencies as he may designate.
