
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 334 - DANGER ZONE AND RESTRICTED AREA REGULATIONS
#### ยง 334.850 Lake Erie, west end, north of Erie Ordnance Depot, Lacarne, Ohio.
##### Danger Area II.

(2)During all types of firing into Area II, red flags will be displayed, one from the safety tower at Camp Perry and one from the safety tower at the Erie Proof Front. During firing into Area II, patrol boats will police and maintain surveillance of the area, and will be in constant radio communication with the shore station controlling the firing.

(3) [Reserved]

(4) The appropriate enforcing officer has authority to suspend any scheduled firing for reasonable periods during regattas and immediately after fishing nets are destroyed or dislocated by severe storms.

(5) The special firing notices which will include schedules of use will be published by the enforcing officer indicated in paragraph (e) of this section, in sufficient time to permit circularization to interested parties and posting on the bulletin boards of post offices in surrounding localities. Special notices will also be furnished the District Engineer, Corps of Engineers, Detroit, Mich.; the Commander, Ninth Coast Guard District, Cleveland, Ohio; the Regional Manager, Federal Aviation Administration, Chicago, Ill.; and each of the enforcing agencies listed in paragraph (e) of this section. Users of the waterway shall familiarize themselves with the current special firing notices. If in doubt, inquiry should be made to the enforcing officer indicated in paragraph (e) of this section.

(6) Agencies desiring to use the areas shall present their requirements to the respective enforcing officer who is responsible for, and is granted authority to, coordinate the firing and established priorities, for the using agencies.
