
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 334 - DANGER ZONE AND RESTRICTED AREA REGULATIONS
#### ยง 334.930 Anaheim Bay Harbor, Calif.; Naval Weapons Station, Seal Beach.
##### The regulation.

(b)(1) The authority of the Naval Weapons Station Commanding Officer in this area extends to restricting and disallowing the navigating or anchorage of craft during such times as the Commanding Officer determines that considerations of national security or safety warrant such action(s).

(2) All craft authorized transit of this area shall stay within the limits of the entrance channel in the Outer Harbor, and confine their movement to within the limits of the marked small craft channel at the southern portion of the Inner Harbor.

(3) Recreational craft, such as water skis, jet skis (personal water craft), row boats, canoes, kayaks, wind surfers, sail boards, surf boards, etc., and any activity involving persons in the water, are specifically prohibited within the restricted area.

(4) Boats unable to throttle down or to maintain steerage way at 5 miles per hour speed shall proceed at the minimum speed consistent with seamanship in an area regularly subject to waterborne explosive handling operations. In case of doubt, boat operators of inbound boats will remain in the west end of the basin and outbound boats in the east end of the basin until informed by a representative of the Naval Weapons Station or U.S. Coast Guard of the completion of the waterborne explosive handling hazard.

(5) Smoking, open flames and barbecues in boats are prohibited during the transit of this area.

(6) Nothing in the regulations in this section shall be construed as relieving the owner or persons in command of any vessels or plant from the penalties of the law for obstructing navigation or for not complying with the navigation laws in regard to lights or signals or for otherwise violating law.

(7) All vessel operators shall heed and obey all posted signs and/or instructions issued by security personnel of the U.S. Naval Weapons Station.

(8) The regulations in this section shall be enforced by the Commanding Officer, U.S. Naval Weapons Station, Seal Beach, California, and such agencies as he/she may designate. For clarification or other information, the U.S. Naval Weapons Station Command Duty Officer should be contacted at (213) 594-7101.
