
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 334 - DANGER ZONE AND RESTRICTED AREA REGULATIONS
#### ยง 334.950 Pacific Ocean at San Clemente Island, California; Navy shore bombardment areas.
##### The regulations.

(b)(1) All persons and all vessels shall promptly vacate the areas when ordered to do so by the Navy or the Coast Guard. Persons and vessels shall not enter the areas during periods scheduled for firing. These areas are used for various surface and air gunnery and aerial bombing exercises by the United States Navy, Coast Guard and Marine Corps. Hazardous conditions exist during shore bombardment by naval ships in the area seaward of that described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section between the firing vessel and the shore. The area described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section is hazardous due to the possibility of rounds landing in the waters east of San Clemente Island.

(2) All persons in the area are warned that unexploded ordinance exists within the shore bombardment area on San Clemente Island and in the surrounding waters. All persons should exercise extreme caution when operating in the area.

(3) Information about scheduled exercises will be published in the Local Notice to Mariners and also may be obtained by calling the shore bombardment area scheduler at (619) 437-2231. Vessels in the vicinity of San Clemente Island may obtain information on the status of the range by contacting the Navy Observation Post by marine radio on channel 16. However, the Navy Observation Post is normally manned only during firing exercises. In addition, since the Navy Observation Post may not be able to receive radio transmissions or answer a vessel calling from the area described in paragraph (A)(3) of this section due to interference from the land mass, it is recommended that callers position their craft for line-of-sight transmission with the Navy Observation Posts near Pyramid Cove prior to assuming that the range is not in use.

(4) Except in an emergency, no vessel shall anchor in these areas without first obtaining permission from the Commander, Naval Base, San Diego or from the senior officer present in the area who may grant permission to anchor not exceeding the period of time that he, himself, is authorized to remain there. The senior officer present shall advise the Commander, Naval Base, San Diego when and to whom a berth is assigned.

(5) The regulations in this section shall be enforced by the Commander, Naval Base, San Diego, and such agencies as he/she shall designate.
