
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 334 - DANGER ZONE AND RESTRICTED AREA REGULATIONS
#### ยง 334.1120 Pacific Ocean in the vicinity of Point Mugu, Calif.; naval small arms firing range.
##### The regulations.

(b)(1) Range firing will normally take place between 6 a.m. and 6 p.m., Thursday through Monday, and between 6 a.m. and 11:30 p.m., Tuesday and Wednesday of each week. Within the above periods, firing will be conducted as determined by the Commanding Officer, U.S. Naval Construction Battalion Center, Port Hueneme, Calif.

(2) Except as otherwise provided in this section, the danger zone will be open to fishing and general navigation.

(3) The Commanding Officer, U.S. Naval Construction Battalion Center, Port Hueneme, California, will announce firing schedules. Each week, public notices will be issued giving advance firing schedules. Such notices will appear in the local newspapers and in local "Notice to Mariners," and "Notice to Airmen." For the benefit of fishermen and smallcraft operators, announcements will be made on the marine radio.

(4) When a scheduled firing is about to be undertaken or is in progress, a large red flag will be displayed from the control tower situated at latitude 34&#xB0;05&#x2032;32&#x2033;, longitude 119&#xB0;03&#x2032;57&#x2033;, so as to be clearly visible for a distance of at least three (3) miles offshore. Safety observers will be on duty at all times when the warning flag is being displayed from the tower. Upon completion of firing, or if the scheduled firing is canceled for any reason, fishermen and small-boat operators will be notified as far in advance as possible by Marine Radio Broadcast.

(5) Persons, vessels or other craft shall not enter or remain in the danger zone when the warning flag is being displayed unless authorized to do so by the range officer in the control tower.

(6) The regulations in this section shall be enforced by the Commandant, Eleventh Naval District, San Diego, California, and such agencies as he may designate.
