
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 334 - DANGER ZONE AND RESTRICTED AREA REGULATIONS
#### ยง 334.1125 Pacific Ocean Naval Air Weapons Station, Point Mugu, Small Arms Range, Ventura County, California; danger zone.
##### The regulations.

(b)(1) Range firing will normally take place between 7 a.m. and 5 p.m. Monday through Friday.

(2) The danger zone may be used at all times for navigation and fishing, except when advance notice of intention to use this area has been given by the enforcing agency by one or more of the following means:

(i) Notice published in Ventura County daily newspaper, at least two days in advance of the date of said use and in the local "Notice to Mariners."

(ii) Display of red flag from the tower at 34&#xB0;05&#x2032;53&#x2033; N., 119&#xB0;06&#x2032;59&#x2033; W; or display of red flashing beacons in the case of night firing.

(iii) Radio broadcast on VHF-FM channel 16.

(iv) Notice to individual craft by visit of United States vessel.

(v) Telephone advice to such fisherman's organizations as may request, in writing, that such advice be given.

(3) Safety observers will be on duty at all times when the range is in use. Upon completion of firings, or if the scheduled firing is canceled for any reason, fishermen and small boat operators will be notified as far in advance as possible by Marine Radio Broadcast.

(4) Persons, vessels or other craft shall not enter or remain in the danger zone when the warning flag or beacon is being displayed unless authorized to do so by the range officer in the control tower.

(5) The regulations in this section shall be enforced by personnel attached to the Naval Air Weapons Station, Point Mugu, California, and by such other agencies as the Commandant, Eleventh Naval District, San Diego, California, may designate.
