
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 334 - DANGER ZONE AND RESTRICTED AREA REGULATIONS
#### ยง 334.1130 Pacific Ocean, Western Space and Missile Center (WSMC), Vandenberg AFB, Calif.; danger zones.
##### The regulations.

(b)(1) Except as prescribed in this section or in other regulations, the danger zone will be open to fishing, location of fixed or movable oil drilling platforms and general navigation without restrictions.

(2) The stopping or loitering by any person or vessel is expressly prohibited within Danger Zone 4, between the mouth of the Santa Ynez River and Point Arguello, unless prior permission is obtained from the Commander, Western Space and Missile Center (WSMC) at Vandenberg AFB, California.

(3) The impacting of missile debris from launch operations will take place in any one or any group of zones in the danger areas at frequent and irregular intervals throughout the year. The Commander, WSMC, will announce in advance, the closure of zones hazarded by missile debris impact. Such advance announcements will appear in the weekly "Notice to Mariners." For the benefit of fishermen, small craft operators and drilling platform operators, announcements will also be made on radio frequency 2182 kc, 2638 kc, VHF channel 6 (156.30 MHZ), VHF channel 12 (156.60 MHZ), and VHF channel 16 (156.80 MHZ) for daily announcements. Additionally, information will be posted on notice boards located outside Port Control Offices (Harbormasters) at Morro Bay, Port San Luis, Santa Barbara, Ventura, Channel Islands, and Port Hueneme Harbors, and any established harbor of refuge between Santa Barbara and Morro Bay.

(4) All fishing boats, other small craft, drilling platforms and shipping vessels with radios are requested to monitor radio frequency 2182 kc, 2638 kc, VHF channel 6 (156.30 MHZ), VHF channel 12 (156.60 MHZ), or channel 16 (156.80 MHZ) while in these zones for daily announcements of zone closures.

(5) When a scheduled launch operation is about to begin, radio broadcast notifications will be made periodically, starting at least 24 hours in advance. Additional contact may be made by surface patrol boats or aircraft equipped with a loudspeaker system. When so notified, all persons and all vessels shall leave the specified zone or zones immediately by the shortest route.

(6) The Commander, WSMC, will extend full cooperation relating to the public use of the danger area and will fully consider every reasonable request for its use in light of requirements for national security and safety of persons and property.

(7) Where an established harbor of refuge exists, small craft may take shelter for the duration of zone closure.

(8) Fixed or movable oil drilling platforms located in zones identified as hazardous and closed in accordance with this regulation shall cease operations for the duration of the zone closure. The zones shall be closed continuously no longer than 72 hours at any one time. Such notice to evacuate personnel shall be accomplished in accordance with procedures as established by the Commander, WSMC, the U.S. Department of the Interior, Minerals Management Service and the oil industry in the adjacent waters of the outer continental shelf.

(9) No seaplanes, other than those approved by the Commander, WSMC, may enter the danger zones during launch closure periods.

(10) The regulations in this section shall be enforced by personnel attached to WSMC and by such other agencies as may be designated by the Commander, WSMC.

(11) The regulations in this section shall be in effect until further notice. They shall be reviewed again during August 1994.
