
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 334 - DANGER ZONE AND RESTRICTED AREA REGULATIONS
#### ยง 334.1175 Pacific Ocean, at Camp Rilea, Clatsop County, Oregon; danger zone.
##### The regulations.

(b)(1) No person or vessel shall enter or remain in the danger zone when restrictions are in force during weapons range training activities. At all other times, nothing in this regulation prohibits any lawful uses of this area.

(2) A schedule for proposed closures of the danger zone will be furnished to the Coast Guard, Astoria Command Center one week in advance of range training activities to provide local notice to mariners. Changes to the schedule made less than one week in advance of the event will be transmitted to the Command Center on the day the change is made.

(3) At least 30 minutes prior to restricting navigation in the danger zone, red flags will be raised on wooden poles immediately next to the beach at the north and south boundaries of Camp Rilea. The red flags will remain flying while the ranges are in use. During night weapons training activities, red lights will be substituted for the flags. Closure announcements will be broadcast over marine VHF Channel 16/19. When range training activities are completed, the red flags will be removed and an announcement made over marine VHF Channel 16/19 that restrictions are lifted.

(4) When restrictions are in force, Camp Rilea will visually monitor the danger zone using radar and guards, equipped with binoculars and two-way radios, posted on the beach near the north and south boundaries of the Camp. If a vessel is detected in the danger zone, a cease fire will be called on all active weapons ranges and Camp Rilea will attempt to contact the vessel using marine VHF radio. Cease fire will be maintained until the vessel leaves the danger zone.
