
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 334 - DANGER ZONE AND RESTRICTED AREA REGULATIONS
#### ยง 334.1190 Hood Canal and Dabob Bay, Wash.; naval non-explosive torpedo testing area.
##### The regulations.

(2)(i) The area will be used intermittently by the Navy for non-explosive torpedo ranging. Launching will be conducted only between 8:00 a.m., and sunset on days other than Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays. At no time will the navigation lanes generally paralleling the shore be closed to navigation.

(ii) Navigation will be permitted within the area at all times except when naval exercises are in progress. No vessel shall enter or remain in the area when such exercises are in progress. Prior to commencement of an exercise, the Navy will make an aerial or surface reconnaissance of the area. Vessels under way and laying a course through the area will not be interfered with, but they shall not delay their progress. Vessels anchored or cruising in the area and vessels unobserved by the Navy reconnaissance which enter or are about to enter the area while a torpedo is in the water will be contacted by a Navy patrol boat and advised to steer clear. Torpedos will be tested only when all vessels or other craft have cleared the area.

(iii) When operations are in progress, use of the area will be indicated by the presence of Naval vessels flying a "Baker" (red) flag.

(iv) Notices of temporary suspension and revival of operations will be published in local newspapers and in Notice to Mariners published by the U.S. Coast Guard.
