
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 334 - DANGER ZONE AND RESTRICTED AREA REGULATIONS
#### ยง 334.1250 Carr Inlet, naval restricted areas.
##### Buoy Testing Area.

(iii)No vessel shall, at anytime, anchor or tow a drag of any kind within 1,000 yards of the buoy testing area.

(iv) The remainder of the area shall be open to navigation at all times except when the range is in use or when hydrophones are being calibrated. When the range is in use or hydrophones are being calibrated, quick flashing beacon lights will be displayed on signal towers located at Gibson Point, Green Point, Penrose Point, Pitt Island and Hyde Point. These beacon lights will be either red or green. The beacon lights will show quick flashing every two seconds. The ranging of vessels or calibration of hydrophones requiring retrictions will be conducted 24 hours per day for up to 5 days consecutively, and will total approximately 150 days spread throughout the year. Shutting off of beacon lights will indicate termination of use of the range. Insofar as possible, the schedule of operations giving the days the range will be in use for each forthcoming month will be published in local newspapers and in the local U.S. Coast Guard Notice to Mariners.

(v) When the red beacon lights are displayed, indicating that the range is in use or hydrophones are being calibrated, navigation within the area will be restricted as follows:
