
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 334 - DANGER ZONE AND RESTRICTED AREA REGULATIONS
#### ยง 334.1380 Marine Corps Base Hawaii (MCBH), Kaneohe Bay, Island of Oahu, Hawaii - Ulupau Crater Weapons Training Range; danger zone.
##### The regulations.

(b)(1) Weapons firing at the Ulupau Crater Weapons Training Range may occur at any time between 6 a.m. and 11 p.m., Monday through Sunday. Specific dates and hours for weapons firing, along with information regarding onshore warning signals, will be promulgated by the U.S. Coast Guard's Local Notice to Mariners. Information on weapons firing schedules may also be obtained by calling the MCBH Range Manager, AC/S G-3 (telephone number 808-257-8816/17).

(2) Whenever live firing is in progress during daylight hours, two large red triangular warning pennants will be flown at each of two highly visible and widely separated locations on the shore at Ulupau Crater.

(3) Whenever any weapons firing is scheduled and in progress during periods of darkness, flashing red warning beacons will be displayed on the shore at Ulupau Crater.

(4) Boaters will have complete access to the danger zone whenever there is no weapons firing scheduled, which will be indicated by the absence of any warning flags, pennants, or beacons displayed ashore.

(5) The danger zone is not considered safe for boaters whenever weapons firing is in progress. Boaters shall expeditiously vacate the danger zone at best speed and by the most direct route whenever weapons firing is scheduled. Passage of vessels through the danger zone when weapons firing is in progress will be permitted, but boaters shall proceed directly through the area at best speed. Weapons firing will be suspended as long as there is a vessel in the danger zone. Whenever a boater disregards the publicized warning signals that hazardous weapons firing is scheduled, the boater will be personally requested to expeditiously vacate the danger zone by MCBH Kaneohe Bay military personnel utilizing by hailing the vessel on VHF channel 16 or contacting directly by U.S. Navy surface craft.

(6) Observation posts will be manned whenever any weapons firing is scheduled and in progress. Visibility will be sufficient to maintain visual surveillance of the entire danger zone and for an additional distance of 5 miles in all directions whenever weapons firing is in progress.
