
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 334 - DANGER ZONE AND RESTRICTED AREA REGULATIONS
#### ยง 334.1425 Pacific Ocean adjacent to the Mason Live-Fire Training Range Complex located at U.S. Marine Corps Base, Camp Blaz, on the northwestern coast of Guam; danger zone.
##### The regulation.

(b)(1) The enforcing agency will designate which area will be closed for use on dates designated for live fire. No persons, watercraft, or vessels shall enter or remain in the area during the times designated for live fire except those authorized by the enforcing agency. All live-fire training will cease if a person, watercraft, or vessel inadvertently enters the designated area and may resume once they have cleared the danger zone. The Installation Range Control Officer will be responsible for submitting all local Notices to Mariners for specific dates of firing, which will be disseminated through the U.S. Coast Guard and on the Marine Corps Base Camp Blaz website. The area will be open to normal maritime traffic when the range is not in use.

(2) When the range is in use red flags will be displayed from conspicuous and easily seen locations on the east and west boundaries of the danger zone to signify that the range is in use. These flags will be removed when firing ceases for the day.

(3) During the night firing, red lights will be displayed on the east and west sides of the danger zone to enable safety observers to detect vessels that may attempt to enter the danger zone. All range flags and red lights will be visible from 360 degrees. Due to the depth of the ocean the danger zone will not be marked with buoys.
