
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter F - Vessel Operating Regulations
#### PART 97 - RULES FOR THE SAFE OPERATION OF VESSELS, STOWAGE AND SECURING OF CARGOES
##### Subpart A - Cargo Securing Manuals
###### ยง 97.200 Cargo securing manual (CSM) approval for U.S.-flagged vessels on international voyages.
####### http://www.uscg.mil/hq/cg5/cg522/cg5222,

(2) The Commandant is responsible for overseeing and managing the review and approval of CSM approval authority applications and providing an up-to-date list of organizations authorized to act under this subpart, which is available ator by requesting it in writing from the Commandant and enclosing a self-addressed, stamped envelope.

(3) The applicant must submit two dated copies of a CSM that meets the requirements of this subpart to a CSM approval authority for review and approval. If any amendments are submitted, they must be dated. The CSM must include a "change page" document to ensure continuous documentation of amendments made and the dates they were completed.

(4) The approval authority will retain one copy of the CSM for its records.

(b) If the approval authority completes the review process and approves the CSM, the approval authority will provide a CSM approval letter on its letterhead, containing-

(1) Date of CSM approval;

(2) A subject line reading: "APPROVAL OF CARGO SECURING MANUAL (AMENDMENT-if applicable) FOR THE M/V ____, OFFICIAL NUMBER ____";

(3) The following statement: "This is to certify that the Cargo Securing Manual (Amendment-if applicable) dated ____ for the M/V ____, Official Number ____, has been approved on behalf of the United States. The Cargo Securing Manual (Amendment-if applicable) was reviewed for compliance with Maritime Safety Committee Circular 1353 (MSC.1/Circ. 1353/Rev.1) for content, and correctness of the calculations on which the approval is based. This approval letter is to be kept with the Cargo Securing Manual, as proof of compliance with regulations VI/5.6 and VII5 of the 2004 amendments to the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS) 1974.";

(4) Signature of the approval authority official responsible for review and approval of the CSM; and

(5) The approval authority's seal or stamp.

(c) If the approval authority completes the review process and disapproves the CSM, the approval authority will provide a letter on its letterhead, containing-

(1) Date of CSM disapproval; and

(2) Explanation of why the CSM was disapproved and what the submitter must do to correct deficiencies.

(d) The submitter of a disapproved CSM may resubmit the CSM with amendments for further review, either to correct deficiencies noted by the approval authority or to expand the CSM to fully meet the requirements of this part.

(e) The original copy of the CSM approval letter must be kept with the approved CSM and its amendments, together with supporting documents and calculations used in granting the approval, on board the vessel for review by Coast Guard personnel upon request.
