
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 336 - FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED IN THE EVALUATION OF ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS DREDGING PROJECTS INVOLVING THE DISCHARGE OF DREDGED MATERIAL INTO WATERS OF THE U.S. AND OCEAN WATERS
#### ยง 336.1 Discharges of dredged or fill material into waters of the U.S.
##### State water quality certification:

(8)Section 401 of the CWA requires the Corps to seek state water quality certification for dredged material disposal into waters of the U.S. The state certification request must be processed to a conclusion by the state within a reasonable period of time. Otherwise, the certification requirements of section 401 are deemed waived. The district engineer will request water quality certification from the state at the earliest practicable time using the following procedures:

(i) In addition to the Corps section 404 public notice, information and data demonstrating compliance with state water quality standards will be provided to the state water quality certifying agency along with the request for water quality certification. The information and data may be included within the 404(b)(1) evaluation. The district engineer will request water quality certification to be consistent with the maintenance dredging schedule for the project. Submission of the public notice, including information and data demonstrating compliance with the state water quality standards, will constitute a valid water quality certification request pursuant to section 401 of the CWA.

(ii) If the proposed disposal activity may violate state water quality standards, after consideration of disposal site dilution and dispersion, the district engineer will work with the state to acquire data to satisfy compliance with the state water quality standards. The district engineer will use the technical manual "Management Strategy for Disposal of Dredged Material: Contaminant Testing and Controls" or its appropriate updated version as a guide for developing the appropriate tests to be conducted on such dredged material.

(iii) If the state does not take final action on a request for water quality certification within two months from the date of the initial request, the district engineer will notify the state of his intention to presume a waiver as provided by section 401 of the CWA. If the state agency, within the two-month period, requests an extension of time, the district engineer may approve one 30-day extension unless, in his opinion, the magnitude and complexity of the information contained in the request warrants a longer or additional extension period. The total period of time in which the state must act should not exceed six months from the date of the initial request. Waiver of water quality certification can be conclusively presumed after six months from the date of the initial request.

(iv) The procedures of ยง 337.2 will be followed if the district engineer determines that the state data acquisition requirements exceed those necessary in establishment of the Federal standard.
