
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 336 - FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED IN THE EVALUATION OF ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS DREDGING PROJECTS INVOLVING THE DISCHARGE OF DREDGED MATERIAL INTO WATERS OF THE U.S. AND OCEAN WATERS
#### § 336.1 Discharges of dredged or fill material into waters of the U.S.
##### Procedures.

(b)If changes in a previously approved disposal plan for a Corps navigation project warrant re-evaluation under the CWA, the following procedures should be followed by district engineers prior to discharging dredged material into waters of the U.S. except where emergency action as described in § 337.7 of this chapter is required.

(1) A public notice providing opportunity for a public hearing should be issued at the earliest practicable time. The public notification procedures of § 337.1 of this chapter should be followed.

(2) The public hearing procedures of 33 CFR part 327 should be followed.

(3) As soon as practicable, the district engineer will request from the state a 401 water quality certification and, if applicable, provide a coastal zone consistency determination for the Corps activity using the procedures of § 336.1(b) (8) and (9), respectively, of this part.

(4) Discharges of dredged material will be evaluated using the guidelines authorized under section 404(b)(1) of the CWA, or using the ODA regulations, where appropriate. If the guidelines alone would prohibit the designation of a proposed discharge site, the economic impact on navigation and anchorage of the failure to use the proposed discharge site will also be considered in evaluating whether the proposed discharge is to be authorized under CWA section 404(b)(2).

(5) The EPA Administrator can prohibit or restrict the use of any defined area as a discharge site under 404(c) whenever he determines, after notice and opportunity for public hearing and after consultation with the Secretary of the Army, that the discharge of such materials into such areas will have an unacceptable adverse effect on municipal water supplies, shellfish beds and fishery areas, wildlife, or recreation areas. Upon notification of the prohibition of a discharge site by the Administrator the district engineer will complete the administrative processing of the proposed project up to the point of signing the Statement of Findings (SOF) or Record of Decision (ROD). The unsigned SOF or ROD along with a report described in § 337.8 of this chapter will be forwarded through the appropriate Division office to the Dredging Division, Office of the Chief of Engineers.

(6) In accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), and the regulations of the Council on Environmental Quality (40 CFR parts 1500-1508), an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) or Environmental Assessment (EA) will be prepared for all Corps of Engineers projects involving the discharge of dredged or fill material, unless such projects are included within a categorical exclusion found at 33 CFR part 230 or addressed within an existing EA or EIS. If a proposed maintenance activity will result in a deviation in the operation and maintenance plan as described in the EA or EIS, the district engineer will determine the need to prepare a new EA, EIS, or supplement. If a new EA, EIS, or supplement is required, the procedures of 33 CFR part 230 will be followed.

(7) If it can be anticipated that related work by other Federal or non-Federal interests will occur in the same area as Corps projects, the district engineer should use all reasonable means to include it in the planning, processing, and review of Corps projects. Related work normally includes, but is not necessarily limited to, maintenance dredging of approach channels and berthing areas connected to Federal navigation channels. The district engineer should coordinate the related work with interested Federal, state, regional, and local agencies and the general public at the same time he does so for the Corps project. The district engineer should ensure that related work meets all substantive and procedural requirements of 33 CFR parts 320 through 330. Documents covering Corps maintenance activities normally should also include an appropriate discussion of ancillary maintenance work. District engineers should assist local interests to obtain from the state any necessary section 401 water quality certification and, if required, the section 307 coastal zone consistency concurrence. The absence of such certification or concurrence by the state or the denial of a Corps permit for related work shall not be cause for delay of the Federal project. Local sponsors will be responsible for funding any related work. If permitting of the related work complies with all legal requirements and is not contrary to the public interest, section 10, 404, and 103 permits normally will be issued by the district engineer in a separate SOF or ROD. Authorization by nationwide or regional general permit may be appropriate. If the related work does not receive a necessary state water quality certification and/or CZMA consistency concurrence, or are determined to be contrary to the public interest the district engineer should re-examine the project viability to ensure that continued maintenance is warranted.
