
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 336 - FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED IN THE EVALUATION OF ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS DREDGING PROJECTS INVOLVING THE DISCHARGE OF DREDGED MATERIAL INTO WATERS OF THE U.S. AND OCEAN WATERS
#### ยง 336.1 Discharges of dredged or fill material into waters of the U.S.
##### State coastal zone consistency:

(9)Section 307 of the CZMA requires that activities subject to the CZMA which a Federal agency conducts or supports be consistent with the Federally approved state management program to the maximum extent practicable. The state is provided a reasonable period of time as defined in ยง 336.1(b)(9)(iv) to take final action on Federal consistency determinations; otherwise state concurrence can be presumed. The district engineer will provide the state a consistency determination at the earliest practicable time using the following procedures:

(i) The Corps section 404 public notice and any additional information that the district engineer determines to be appropriate will be provided the state coastal zone management agency along with the consistency determination. The consistency determination will consider the maintenance dredging schedule for the project. Submission of the public notice and, as appropriate, any additional information as determined by the district engineer will constitute a valid coastal zone consistency determination pursuant to section 307 of the CZMA.

(ii) If the district engineer decides that a consistency determination is not required for a Corps activity, he may provide the state agency a written determination that the CZMA does not apply.

(iii) The district engineer may provide the state agency a general consistency determination for routine or repetitive activities.

(iv) If the state fails to provide a response within 45 days from receipt of the initial consistency determination, the district engineer will presume state agency concurrence. If the state agency, within the 45-day period, requests an extension of time, the district engineer will approve one 15-day extension unless, in his opinion, the magnitude and complexity of the information contained in the consistency determination warrants a longer or additional extension period. The longer or additional extension period shall not exceed six months from the date of the initial consistency determination.

(v) If the district engineer determines that the state recommendations to achieve consistency to the maximum degree practicable exceed either his authority or funding for a proposed dredging or disposal activity, he will so notify the state coastal zone management agency indicating that the Corps has complied to the maximum extent practicable with the state's coastal zone management program. If the district engineer determines that state recommendations to achieve consistency to the maximum degree practicable do not exceed his authority or funding but, nonetheless, are excessive, he will follow the procedures of ยง 337.2.
