
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 336 - FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED IN THE EVALUATION OF ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS DREDGING PROJECTS INVOLVING THE DISCHARGE OF DREDGED MATERIAL INTO WATERS OF THE U.S. AND OCEAN WATERS
#### ยง 336.1 Discharges of dredged or fill material into waters of the U.S.
##### Water quality.

(2)The 404(b)(1) guidelines at 40 CFR part 230 and ocean dumping criteria at 40 CFR part 220 implement the environmental protection provisions of the CWA and ODA, respectively. These guidelines and criteria provide general regulatory guidance and objectives, but not a specific technical framework for evaluating or managing contaminated sediment that must be dredged. Through the section 404(b)(1) evaluation process (or ocean disposal criteria for the territorial sea), the district engineer will evaluate the water quality impacts of the proposed project. The evaluation will include consideration of state water quality standards. If the district engineer determines the dredged material to be contaminated, he will follow the guidance provided in the most current published version of the technical manual for contaminant testing and controls. This manual is currently cited as: Francingues, N.R., Jr., et al. 1985. "Management Strategy for Disposal of Dredged Material: Contaminant Testing and Controls," Miscellaneous Paper D-85-1, U.S. Army Waterways Experiment Station, Vicksburg, Mississippi. The procedures of ยง 336.1(b)(8) will be followed for state water quality certification requests.
