
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 336 - FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED IN THE EVALUATION OF ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS DREDGING PROJECTS INVOLVING THE DISCHARGE OF DREDGED MATERIAL INTO WATERS OF THE U.S. AND OCEAN WATERS
#### ยง 336.1 Discharges of dredged or fill material into waters of the U.S.
##### Fish and wildlife.

(8)(i) In those cases where the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act (FWCA) applies, district engineers will consult, through the public notification process, with the Regional Directors of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the National Marine Fisheries Service and the head of the agency responsible for fish and wildlife for the state in which the work is to be performed, with a view to the conservation of fish and wildlife resources by considering ways to prevent their direct and indirect loss and damage due to the proposed operation and maintenance activity. The district engineer will give full consideration to these views on fish and wildlife conservation in evaluating the activity. The proposed operations may be modified in order to lessen the damage to such resources. The district engineer should include such justifiable means and measures for fish and wildlife resources that are found to be appropriate. Corps funding of Fish and Wildlife Service activities under the Transfer of Funds Agreement between the Fish and Wildlife Service and the Corps is not applicable for Corps operation and maintenance projects.

(ii) District engineers should consider ways of reducing unavoidable adverse environmental impacts of dredging and disposal activities. The determination as to the extent of implementation of such measures will be done by the district engineer after weighing the benefits and detriments of the maintenance work and considering applicable environmental laws, regulations, and other relevant factors.
