
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 336 - FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED IN THE EVALUATION OF ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS DREDGING PROJECTS INVOLVING THE DISCHARGE OF DREDGED MATERIAL INTO WATERS OF THE U.S. AND OCEAN WATERS
#### ยง 336.1 Discharges of dredged or fill material into waters of the U.S.
##### Historic resources.

(6)Archeological, historical, or architectural resource surveys may be required to locate and identify previously unrecorded historic properties in navigation channels and at dredged or fill material disposal sites. If properties that may be historic are known or found to exist within the navigation channel or proposed disposal area, field testing and analysis may sometimes be necessary in order to evaluate the properties against the criteria of the National Register of Historic Places. Such testing should be limited to the amount and kind needed to determine eligibility for the National Register; more detailed and extensive work on a property may be prescribed later, as the outcome of review under section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act. Historic properties are not normally found in previously constructed navigation channels or previously used disposal areas. Therefore, surveys to identify historic properties should not be conducted for maintenance dredging and disposal activities proposed within the boundaries of previously constructed navigation channels or previously used disposal areas unless there is good reason to believe that historic properties exist there.

(i) The district engineer will establish whether historic properties located in navigation channels or at disposal sites are eligible for inclusion in the National Register of Historic Places in accordance with applicable regulations of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation and the Department of the Interior.

(ii) The district engineer will take into account the effects of any proposed actions on properties included in or eligible for inclusion in the National Register of Historic Places, and will request the comments of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, in accordance with applicable regulations of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation.
