
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 337 - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
#### ยง 337.2 State requirements.

The procedures of this section should be followed in implementing state requirements.

(a) District engineers should cooperate to the maximum extent practicable with state agencies to prevent violation of Federally approved state water quality standards and to achieve consistency to the maximum degree practicable with an approved coastal zone management program.

(b) If the state agency imposes conditions or requirements which exceed those needed to meet the Federal standard, the district engineer should determine and consider the state's rationale and provide to the state information addressing why the alternative which represents the Federal standard is environmentally acceptable. The district engineer will accommodate the state's concerns to the extent practicable. However, if a state agency attempts to impose conditions or controls which, in the district engineers opinion, cannot reasonably be accommodated, the following procedures will be followed.

(1) In situations where an agency requires monitoring or testing, the district engineer will strive to reach an agreement with the agency on a data acquisition program. The district engineer will use the technical manual "Management Strategy for Disposal of Dredged Material: Contaminant Testing and Controls" or its appropriate updated version as a guide for developing the appropriate tests to be conducted. If the agency insists on requirements which, in the opinion of the district engineer, exceed those required in establishment of the Federal standard, the agency will be asked to fund the difference in cost. If the agency agrees to fund the difference in cost, the district engineer will comply with the request. If the agency does not fund the additional cost, the district engineer will follow the guidance in paragraph (b) (3) of this section.

(2) When an agency requires special conditions or implementation of an alternative which the Federal standard does not, district engineers will proceed as follows: In those cases where the project authorization requires a local sponsor to provide suitable disposal areas, disposal areas must be made available by a sponsor before dredging proceeds. In other cases where there are no local sponsor requirements to provide disposal areas, the state or the prospective local sponsor will be advised that, unless the state or the sponsor provides suitable disposal areas, the added Federal cost of providing these disposal areas will affect the priority of performing dredging on that project. In either case, states will be made aware that additional costs to meet state standards or the requirements of the coastal zone management program which exceed those necessary in establishment of the Federal standard may cause the project to become economically unjustified.

(3) If the state denies or notifies the district engineer of its intent to deny water quality certification or does not concur regarding coastal zone consistency, the project dredging may be deferred. A report pursuant to ยง 337.8 of this section will be forwarded to CECW-D, Office of the Chief of Engineers, Washington, DC 20314-1000 for resolution.
