
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 338 - OTHER CORPS ACTIVITIES INVOLVING THE DISCHARGE OF DREDGED MATERIAL OR FILL INTO WATERS OF THE U.S.
#### § 338.2 Activities involving the discharge of dredged or fill material into waters of the U.S.

(a) Generally, fill activities conducted by the Corps for operations and maintenance of existing Civil Works water resource and navigation projects are routine and have little, if any, potential for significant degradation of the environment. District engineers are encouraged to develop general authorizations in accordance with section 404 of the CWA and 104 of the ODA following the procedures of § 337.5 of this chapter for categories of such routine activities. The general authorization should satisfy all compliance requirements including water quality certifications and, if applicable, coastal zone consistency determinations. For activities which are not conducive to the development of general authorizations or are more appropriately evaluated on an individual basis, the following procedures should be followed.

(b) A public notice should be issued using the procedures § 337.1 of this chapter.

(c) Water quality certifications should be requested and, if applicable, coastal zone consistency determinations should be provided using the procedures of § 336.1(b) (8) and (9) of this chapter.

(d) The discharge site should be specified through the application of the section 404(b)(1) guidelines.

(e) The procedures of 40 CFR part 230 should be used to determine the NEPA compliance requirements.

(f) The factors of § 336.1(c) of this chapter should be followed when evaluating fill activities.

(g) Upon completion of all required coordination and after receipt of the necessary state certifications, the district engineer should prepare an SOF in accordance with § 337.6.
