
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 385 - PROGRAMMATIC REGULATIONS FOR THE COMPREHENSIVE EVERGLADES RESTORATION PLAN
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 385.2 Applicability of the programmatic regulations.

(a) This part applies to all activities conducted to implement the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan.

(b) As used in this part, the Secretary of the Army acts through the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works with respect to the Army's civil works program pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 3016.

(c) Nothing in this part shall be interpreted to amend, alter, diminish, or otherwise affect:

(1) The rights, powers and duties provided under the "Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan Assurance of Project Benefits Agreement," dated January 9, 2002 pursuant to section 601(h)(2) of WRDA 2000; or

(2) Any existing legal water rights of the United States, the State of Florida, the Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Florida, or the Seminole Tribe of Florida, including rights under the compact among the Seminole Tribe of Florida, the State, and the South Florida Water Management District, defining the scope and use of water rights of the Seminole Tribe of Florida, as codified by section 7 of the Seminole Indian Land Claims Settlement Act of 1987 (25 U.S.C. 1772e).

(d) This part is intended to aid the internal management of the implementing agencies and is not intended to create any right or benefit enforceable at law by a party against the implementing agencies or their officers. Nothing in this part shall create a right or expectation to benefits or enhancements, temporary or permanent, in third parties that are not specifically authorized by Congress in section 601 of WRDA 2000.

(e) Nothing in this part is intended to, or shall be interpreted to, reserve or allocate water or to prescribe the process for reserving or allocating water or for water management under Florida law. Nor is this part intended to, nor shall it be interpreted to, prescribe any process of Florida law.
