
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 385 - PROGRAMMATIC REGULATIONS FOR THE COMPREHENSIVE EVERGLADES RESTORATION PLAN
#### Subpart A - General Provisions
##### ยง 385.6 Review of programmatic regulations.

(a) The Secretary of the Army shall review, and if necessary revise, the regulations of this part at least every five years. In addition, the Secretary of the Army may review and revise the regulations of this part whenever the Secretary believes that such review and revision is necessary to attain the goals and purposes of the Plan. The Secretary of the Army shall place appropriate notice in theupon initiating review of the regulations of this part.

(b) Upon completing the review of the regulations of this part, the Secretary shall promulgate any revisions to the regulations after notice and opportunity for public comment in accordance with applicable law, with the concurrence of the Secretary of the Interior and the Governor, and in consultation with the Seminole Tribe of Florida, the Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Florida, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Secretary of Commerce, and other Federal, State, and local agencies.

(c) Within 180 days after being provided with the final revisions to the programmatic regulations of this part, or such shorter period that the Secretary of the Interior and Governor may agree to, the Secretary of the Interior and the Governor shall provide the Secretary of the Army with a written statement of concurrence or non-concurrence with the revisions. A failure to provide a written statement of concurrence or non-concurrence within such time frame shall be deemed as meeting the concurrency process of paragraph (b) of this section. A copy of any concurrency or nonconcurrency statements shall be made a part of the administrative record and referenced in the final revised programmatic regulations. Any non-concurrency statement shall specifically detail the reason or reasons for the non-concurrence.
