
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 385 - PROGRAMMATIC REGULATIONS FOR THE COMPREHENSIVE EVERGLADES RESTORATION PLAN
#### Subpart C - CERP Implementation Processes
##### § 385.12 Pilot projects.

(a) The Plan includes pilot projects to address uncertainties associated with certain components such as aquifer storage and recovery, in-ground reservoir technology, seepage management, and wastewater reuse. The purpose of the pilot projects is to develop information necessary to better determine the technical feasibility of these components prior to development of a Project Implementation Report.

(b) Prior to initiating activities on a pilot project, the Corps of Engineers and the non-Federal sponsor shall develop a Project Management Plan as described in § 385.24.

(c) Project Implementation Reports shall not be necessary for pilot projects. Prior to implementing a pilot project, the Corps of Engineers and the non-Federal sponsor shall prepare a Pilot Project Design Report.

(1) The Pilot Project Design Report shall contain the technical information necessary to construct the pilot project including engineering and design, cost estimates, real estate analyses, and appropriate NEPA documentation.

(2) The Pilot Project Design Report shall include a detailed operational testing and monitoring plan necessary to develop information to assist in better determining the technical feasibility of certain components prior to development of a Project Implementation Report.

(3) In accordance with § 385.18, the Corps of Engineers and the non-Federal sponsor shall provide the public with opportunities to review and comment on the draft Pilot Project Design Report.

(4) The Corps of Engineers and the non-Federal sponsor shall approve the final Pilot Project Design Report in accordance with applicable law.

(d) Upon completion of operational testing and monitoring, the Corps of Engineers and the non-Federal sponsor shall, in consultation with the Department of the Interior, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of Commerce, the Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Florida, the Seminole Tribe of Florida, the Florida Department of Environmental Protection, and other Federal, State, and local agencies, prepare a Pilot Project Technical Data Report, documenting the findings and conclusions from the operational testing and monitoring of the pilot project. The purpose of the Pilot Project Technical Data Report is to help assess the viability of technology and to assist in the development of the full-scale project. The Corps of Engineers and the non-Federal sponsor shall also consult with the South Florida Ecosystem Restoration Task Force in preparing the report.

(1) In accordance with § 385.22(b), the draft Pilot Project Technical Data Report shall be externally peer reviewed.

(2) In accordance with § 385.18, the public shall be provided with opportunities to review and comment on the draft Pilot Project Technical Data Report.

(3) The final Pilot Project Technical Data Report shall be made available to the public.
