
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 385 - PROGRAMMATIC REGULATIONS FOR THE COMPREHENSIVE EVERGLADES RESTORATION PLAN
#### Subpart C - CERP Implementation Processes
##### ยง 385.18 Public outreach.
###### General requirements.

(b)(1) The Corps of Engineers and non-Federal sponsors shall provide a transparent, publicly accessible process through which scientific and technical information is used in the development of policy decisions throughout the implementation process for the Plan.

(2) The Corps of Engineers and non-Federal sponsors shall develop and conduct outreach activities for project or program-level activities in order to provide information to the public and to provide opportunities for involvement by the public.

(3) The Corps of Engineers and non-Federal sponsors shall monitor the effectiveness of outreach activities throughout the implementation process.

(4) Project Management Plans and Program Management Plans shall include information concerning any outreach activities to be undertaken during the implementation of the project or activity.

(5) Project Delivery Team meetings and RECOVER meetings shall be open to attendance by the public. The public shall be notified in advance of these meetings through e-mail, posting on a web site, or other appropriate means. The public shall be provided with an opportunity to comment at such meetings.

(6) Public meetings and workshops shall be held at such times and locations as to facilitate participation by the public.

(7) The Corps of Engineers and non-Federal sponsors shall provide opportunities for the public to review and comment on draft documents.
