
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 385 - PROGRAMMATIC REGULATIONS FOR THE COMPREHENSIVE EVERGLADES RESTORATION PLAN
#### Subpart C - CERP Implementation Processes
##### ยง 385.24 Project Management Plans.
###### General requirements.

(a)(1) The Corps of Engineers and the non-Federal sponsor shall, in consultation with the Department of the Interior, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of Commerce, the Seminole Tribe of Florida, the Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Florida, the Florida Department of Environmental Protection, and other Federal, State, and local agencies, develop a Project Management Plan prior to initiating activities on a project.

(2) The Project Management Plan shall define the activities, and where appropriate, the subordinate tasks, as well as the assignment of responsibility for completing products and activities such as Project Implementation Reports, Pilot Project Design Reports, plans and specifications, real estate acquisition, construction contracts and construction, Comprehensive Plan Modification Reports, and other activities necessary to support implementation of the Plan.

(3) The Project Management Plan shall include a quality control plan, as described in ยง 385.21.

(4) As appropriate, the Project Management Plan shall include activities to be conducted to meet the requirements of the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act, as described in ยง 385.26(e).

(5) The Project Management Plan shall provide schedule and funding information for the project.

(6) In accordance with ยง 385.18, Corps of Engineers and the non-Federal sponsor shall provide opportunities for the public to review and comment on the Project Management Plan.
