
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 385 - PROGRAMMATIC REGULATIONS FOR THE COMPREHENSIVE EVERGLADES RESTORATION PLAN
#### Subpart C - CERP Implementation Processes
##### ยง 385.26 Project Implementation Reports.
###### Project Implementation Report review and approval process.

(f)(1) The Corps of Engineers and the non-Federal sponsor shall provide opportunities for the public to review and comment on the draft Project Implementation Report and NEPA document, in accordance with ยง 385.18 and applicable law and Corps of Engineers policy.

(2) The Project Implementation Report shall contain an appropriate letter of intent from the non-Federal sponsor indicating concurrence with the recommendations of the Project Implementation Report.

(3) Upon the completion of the Project Implementation Report and NEPA document, the District Engineer shall submit the report and NEPA document to the Division Engineer.

(4) Upon receipt and approval of the Project Implementation Report the Division Engineer shall issue a public notice announcing completion of the Project Implementation Report based upon:

(i) The Division Engineer's endorsement of the findings and recommendations of the District Engineer; and

(ii) The Division Engineer's assessment that the project has been developed and the report prepared in accordance with current law and policy. The notice shall indicate that the report has been submitted to Corps of Engineers Headquarters for review.

(5) Headquarters, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers shall conduct a review in accordance with applicable policies and regulations of the Corps of Engineers. Headquarters, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers shall administer the 30-day state and agency review of the Project Implementation Report, and as appropriate, file the Environmental Impact Statement with the Environmental Protection Agency.

(6) After completion of the review and other requirements of law and policy, the Chief of Engineers shall submit the Project Implementation Report and the Chief of Engineers' recommendations on the project to the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works.

(7) The Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works shall review all Project Implementation Reports, and shall, prior to either approving them or submitting the Assistant Secretary's recommendations to Congress, coordinate the project and proposed recommendations with the Office of Management and Budget.

(i) For projects authorized by section 601(c) of WRDA 2000, the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works shall review and approve the Project Implementation Report prior to implementation of the project.

(ii) For projects authorized by section 601(b)(2)(C) of WRDA 2000, the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works shall review the Project Implementation Report prior to submitting the Assistant Secretary's recommendations to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate for approval.

(iii) For all other projects, the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works shall review the Project Implementation Report prior to submitting the Assistant Secretary's recommendations regarding authorization to Congress.
