
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 385 - PROGRAMMATIC REGULATIONS FOR THE COMPREHENSIVE EVERGLADES RESTORATION PLAN
#### Subpart C - CERP Implementation Processes
##### ยง 385.28 Operating Manuals.
###### System Operating Manual.

(b)(1) Not later than December 31, 2005, the Corps of Engineers and the South Florida Water Management District shall, in consultation with the Department of the Interior, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of Commerce, the Seminole Tribe of Florida, the Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Florida, the Florida Department of Environmental Protection, and other Federal, State, and local agencies, develop a System Operating Manual that provides a system-wide operating plan for the operation of implemented projects of the Plan and other Central and Southern Florida Project features to ensure that the goals and purposes of the Plan are achieved.

(2) The System Operating Manual shall initially be based on the existing completed Central and Southern Florida Project features and shall be developed by the Corps of Engineers as provided in ยง 222.5(g) of this chapter and by the South Florida Water Management District as its laws and regulations require. Existing water control plans, regulation schedules, and Master Water Control Plans for the Central and Southern Florida Project shall remain in effect until approval of the System Operating Manual.

(3) The System Operating Manual shall be revised whenever the Corps of Engineers and the South Florida Water Management District, in consultation with the Department of the Interior, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of Commerce, the Seminole Tribe of Florida, the Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Florida, the Florida Department of Environmental Protection, and other Federal, State, and local agencies, believe it is necessary to ensure that the goals and purposes of the Plan are achieved.

(4) Except as provided in this part, the System Operating Manual shall follow the procedures for preparation of water control manuals, regulation schedules and Master Water Control Manuals in ยง 222.5 of this chapter and applicable Corps of Engineers regulations.

(5) The Corps of Engineers and the South Florida Water Management District shall provide notice and opportunity for public comment for any significant modification to the System Operating Manual.
