
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 385 - PROGRAMMATIC REGULATIONS FOR THE COMPREHENSIVE EVERGLADES RESTORATION PLAN
#### Subpart C - CERP Implementation Processes
##### ยง 385.28 Operating Manuals.
###### Project Operating Manuals.

(c)(1) The Corps of Engineers and the non-Federal sponsor shall, in consultation with the Department of the Interior, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of Commerce, the Seminole Tribe of Florida, the Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Florida, the Florida Department of Environmental Protection, and other Federal, State, and local agencies, develop a Project Operating Manual for each project of the Plan that is implemented.

(2) Project Operating Manuals shall be considered supplements to the System Operating Manual, and present aspects of the projects not common to the system as a whole.

(3) Each Project Implementation Report shall, as appropriate, include a draft Project Operating Manual as an appendix to the Project Implementation Report.

(4) As appropriate, the draft Project Operating Manual shall be revised for the project construction phase and the operational monitoring and testing phase after completion of project construction.

(5) The final Project Operating Manual shall be completed as soon as practicable after completion of the operational testing and monitoring phase of the project. The completed project shall continue to be operated in accordance with the approved draft Project Operating Manual until the final Project Operating Manual is approved.

(6) The Corps of Engineers and the non-Federal sponsor shall provide notice and opportunity for public comment for any significant modification to the Project Operating Manual.
