
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 385 - PROGRAMMATIC REGULATIONS FOR THE COMPREHENSIVE EVERGLADES RESTORATION PLAN
#### Subpart C - CERP Implementation Processes
##### ยง 385.27 Project Cooperation Agreements.
###### Changes to water reservations.

(c)Reservations or allocations of water are a State responsibility. Any change to the reservation or allocation of water for the natural system made under State law shall require an amendment to the Project Cooperation Agreement.

(1) The District Engineer shall, in consultation with the South Florida Water Management District, the Florida Department of Environmental Protection, the Department of the Interior, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of Commerce, the Seminole Tribe of Florida, the Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Florida, and other Federal, State, and local agencies, verify in writing that the revised reservation or allocation continues to provide for an appropriate quantity, timing, and distribution of water dedicated and managed for the natural system after considering any changed circumstances or new information since completion of the Project Implementation Report. In accordance with applicable State law, the non-Federal sponsor shall provide opportunities for the public to review and comment on any proposed changes in the water reservation made by the State.

(2) The Secretary of the Army shall notify the appropriate committees of Congress whenever a change to the reservation or allocation of water for the natural system executed under State law as described in the Project Implementation Report has been made. Such notification shall include the Secretary's and the State's reasons for determining that the revised reservation or allocation continues to provide for an appropriate quantity, timing, and distribution of water dedicated and managed for the natural system after considering any changed circumstances or new information since completion of the Project Implementation Report. The Secretary of the Army's notification to the appropriate committees of Congress shall be made available to the public.
