
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter G - Regattas and Marine Parades
#### PART 100 - SAFETY OF LIFE ON NAVIGABLE WATERS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 100.35 Special local regulations.

(a) The Commander of a Coast Guard District or Captain of the Port (COTP) as authorized by 33 CFR 1.05-1(i), after approving plans for the holding of a regatta or marine parade within his or her district or zone, is authorized to promulgate such special local regulations as he or she deems necessary to insure safety of life on the navigable waters immediately prior to, during, and immediately after the approved regatta or marine parade. Such regulations may include a restriction on, or control of, the movement of vessels through a specified area immediately prior to, during, and immediately after the regatta or marine parade.

(b) The Commander of a Coast Guard District or COTP as authorized by 33 CFR 1.05-1(i), after approving plans for the holding of a regatta or marine parade upon the navigable waters within his or her district or zone, and promulgating special regulations thereto, must give the public full and adequate notice of the dates of the regatta or marine parade, together with full and complete information of the special local regulations, if there be such. Such notice should be published in the local notices to mariners.

(c) The special local regulations referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, when issued and published by the Commander of a Coast Guard District or COTP as authorized by 33 CFR 1.05-1(i), must have the status of regulations issued pursuant to 46 U.S.C 70041.

(d) We have organized the special local regulations by district. Subparts B through J contain special local regulations from the First, Fifth, Seventh, Eighth, Ninth, Eleventh, Thirteenth, Fourteenth, and Seventeenth Districts, respectively.
