
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 385 - PROGRAMMATIC REGULATIONS FOR THE COMPREHENSIVE EVERGLADES RESTORATION PLAN
#### Subpart D - Incorporating New Information Into the Plan
##### ยง 385.32 Comprehensive Plan Modification Report.
###### Review and approval of Comprehensive Plan Modification Report.

(b)(1) The Corps of Engineers and the South Florida Water Management District shall provide opportunities for the public to review and comment on the draft Comprehensive Plan Modification Report and NEPA document, in accordance with ยง 385.18 and applicable law and Corps of Engineers policy.

(2) The Comprehensive Plan Modification Report shall contain an appropriate letter of intent from the South Florida Water Management District indicating concurrence with the recommendations of the Comprehensive Plan Modification Report.

(3) Upon the completion of the Comprehensive Plan Modification Report and NEPA document, the District Engineer shall submit the report and NEPA document to the Division Engineer.

(4) Upon receipt and approval of the Comprehensive Plan Modification Report, the Division Engineer shall issue a public notice announcing completion of the Comprehensive Plan Modification Report based upon:

(i) The Division Engineer's endorsement of the findings and recommendations of the District Engineer; and

(ii) The Division Engineer's assessment that the report has been prepared in accordance with current law and policy. The notice shall indicate that the report has been submitted to Corps of Engineers Headquarters for review.

(5) Headquarters, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers shall conduct a review in accordance with applicable policies and regulations of the Corps of Engineers. Headquarters, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers shall administer the 30-day state and agency review of the Comprehensive Plan Modification Report, and, as appropriate, file the Environmental Impact Statement with the Environmental Protection Agency.

(6) After completion of the policy review and other requirements of law and policy, the Chief of Engineers shall submit the Comprehensive Plan Modification Report and the Chief of Engineers' recommendations to the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works.

(7) The Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works shall review the Comprehensive Plan Modification Report and shall, prior to submitting the Assistant Secretary's recommendations to Congress, coordinate the proposed recommendations with the Office of Management and Budget.
