
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 385 - PROGRAMMATIC REGULATIONS FOR THE COMPREHENSIVE EVERGLADES RESTORATION PLAN
#### Subpart E - Ensuring Protection of the Natural System and Water Availability Consistent With the Goals and Purpose of the Plan
##### ยง 385.35 Achievement of the benefits of the Plan.
###### Pre-CERP baseline water availability and quality.

(a)(1) Not later than June 14, 2004 the Corps of Engineers and the South Florida Water Management District shall, in consultation with the Department of the Interior, the Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Florida, the Seminole Tribe of Florida, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of Commerce, the Florida Department of Environmental Protection, and other Federal, State, and local agencies, develop for approval by the Secretary of the Army, the pre-CERP baseline to be used to aid the Corps of Engineers and the South Florida Water Management District in determining if existing legal sources of water will be eliminated or transferred as a result of project implementation as described in ยง 385.36 and memorialize the pre-CERP baseline in an appropriate document. The Corps of Engineers and the South Florida Water Management District shall consult with the South Florida Ecosystem Restoration Task Force in the development of the pre-CERP baseline.

(i) The pre-CERP baseline may express the quantity, timing, and distribution of water in stage duration curves; exceedance frequency curves; quantities available in average, wet, and dry years; or any other method which is based on the best available science.

(ii) The pre-CERP baseline shall include appropriate documentation that includes a description of the assumptions used to develop the pre-CERP baseline.

(iii) In addition to the development of the pre-CERP baseline, the Corps of Engineers and the South Florida Water Management District shall conduct other analyses that they deem necessary to determine if an existing legal source of water has been eliminated or transferred or if a new source of water is of comparable quality to that which has been eliminated or transferred in accordance with ยง 385.36.

(2) In accordance with ยง 385.18, the Corps of Engineers and the South Florida Water Management District shall provide opportunities for the public to review and comment on the pre-CERP baseline.

(3) The pre-CERP baseline shall be developed with the concurrence of the Secretary of the Interior and the Governor. Within 180 days of being provided the pre-CERP baseline, or such shorter period that the Secretary of the Interior and the Governor may agree to, the Secretary of the Interior and the Governor shall provide the Secretary of the Army with a written statement of concurrence or non-concurrence with the pre-CERP baseline. A failure to provide a written statement of concurrence or non-concurrence within such time frame shall be deemed as meeting the concurrency process of this section. A copy of any concurrency or non-concurrency statements shall be made a part of the administrative record and referenced in the final determination of the pre-CERP baseline. Any non-concurrency statement shall specifically detail the reason or reasons for the non-concurrence.

(4) Nothing in this paragraph is intended to, or shall it be interpreted to, reserve or allocate water or to prescribe the process for reserving or allocating water or for water management under Florida law. Nothing in this section is intended to, nor shall it be interpreted to, prescribe any process of Florida law.
