
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 385 - PROGRAMMATIC REGULATIONS FOR THE COMPREHENSIVE EVERGLADES RESTORATION PLAN
#### Subpart E - Ensuring Protection of the Natural System and Water Availability Consistent With the Goals and Purpose of the Plan
##### ยง 385.39 Evaluating progress towards other water-related needs of the region provided for in the Plan.
###### Purpose.

(a)(1) The overarching objective of the Plan is the restoration, preservation, and protection of the South Florida ecosystem while providing for other water-related needs of the region, including water supply and flood protection. Progress towards providing for these other water-related needs shall also be evaluated.

(2) As provided for in paragraph (c) of this section, the Secretary of the Army and the Governor shall establish interim targets for evaluating progress towards other water-related needs of the region provided for in the Plan throughout the implementation process. The interim targets and interim goals shall be consistent with each other.

(3) The Department of the Army shall include these interim targets in appropriate Corps of Engineers guidance.

(4) To ensure flexibility in implementing the Plan over the next several decades, and to ensure that interim targets may reflect changed circumstances or new information resulting from adaptive management, the interim targets may be modified, consistent with the processes set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, to reflect new information resulting from changed or unforeseen circumstances, new scientific and technical information, new or updated modeling; information developed through the assessment principles contained in the Plan; and future authorized changes to the Plan integrated into the implementation of the Plan.

(5) The Corps of Engineers and the South Florida Water Management District shall sequence and schedule projects as appropriate to achieve the interim goals and interim targets for other water-related needs of the region provided for in the Plan, to the extent practical given funding, technical, or other constraints.

(6) If the interim targets have not been met or are unlikely to be met, then the Corps of Engineers and the South Florida Water Management District shall determine why the interim targets have not been met or are unlikely to be met and either:

(i) Initiate adaptive management actions pursuant to ยง 385.31(d) to achieve the interim targets as soon as practicable, consistent with the purposes of the Plan and consistent with the interim goals established pursuant to ยง 385.38; or

(ii) Recommend changes to the interim targets in accordance with paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
