
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 385 - PROGRAMMATIC REGULATIONS FOR THE COMPREHENSIVE EVERGLADES RESTORATION PLAN
#### Subpart E - Ensuring Protection of the Natural System and Water Availability Consistent With the Goals and Purpose of the Plan
##### ยง 385.39 Evaluating progress towards other water-related needs of the region provided for in the Plan.
###### Process for establishing interim targets.

(c)(1) The recommendations of RECOVER shall be provided to the Corps of Engineers and the South Florida Water Management District. These recommendations shall be provided no later than June 14, 2004. The proposed interim targets shall be developed by the Secretary of the Army and the Governor, in consultation with the Department of the Interior, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of Commerce, the Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Florida, the Seminole Tribe of Florida, the Florida Department of Environmental Protection, and other Federal, State, and local agencies, and the South Florida Ecosystem Restoration Task Force. In considering the interim targets, the Secretary of the Army and the Governor, shall be provided with, and consider, the technical recommendations of RECOVER and any modifications to those recommendations by the Corps of Engineers or the South Florida Water Management District. The Secretary of the Army shall provide a notice of availability of the proposed interim targets to the public in theand seek public comments. After considering comments of the public on the proposed interim targets, and incorporating any suggestions that are appropriate and consistent with the goals and purposes of the Plan, the Secretary of the Army and the Governor, shall establish the final interim targets, and the Secretary of the Army shall provide a notice of availability to the public in theby no later than December 13, 2004, but not prior to the execution of the Interim Goals Agreement pursuant to ยง 385.38. Interim targets are intended to facilitate inter-agency planning, monitoring, and assessment throughout the implementation process and are not standards or schedules enforceable in court.

(2) In developing its recommendations for interim targets, RECOVER shall use the principles in paragraph (b) of this section.

(3) The Secretary of the Army and the Governor shall review the interim targets at a minimum every five years beginning five years after the establishment of the interim targets to determine if they should be revised and to determine what those revisions should be. The public shall also be provided with an opportunity to comment on the proposed revisions. The Secretary of the Army and the Governor may also revise the interim targets whenever appropriate as new information becomes available. Any revisions to the interim targets shall be established consistent with the process described in this section.
