
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter IV - Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation
### PART 401 - SEAWAY REGULATIONS AND RULES
#### Subpart A - Regulations
##### Condition of Vessels
###### ยง 401.12 Minimum requirements - mooring lines and fairleads.

(a) Unless otherwise permitted by the officer the minimum requirements in respect to mooring lines which shall be available for securing on either side of the vessel, winches and the location of fairleads on vessels are as follows:

(1) Vessels of 100 m or less in overall length shall have at least three mooring lines-wires or synthetic hawsers, two of which shall be independently power operated and one if synthetic, may be hand held.

(i) One line shall lead forward from the break of the bow and one line shall lead astern from the quarter and be independently power operated by winches, capstans or windlasses and lead through closed chocks or fairleads acceptable to the Manager and the Corporation; and

(ii) One synthetic hawser may be hand held or if wire line is used shall be powered. The line shall lead astern from the break of the bow through a closed chock to suitable bitts on deck for synthetic line or led from a capstan, winch drums or windlass to an approved fairlead for a wire line.

(2) Vessels of more than 100 m but not more than 150 m in overall length shall have three mooring lines-wires or synthetic hawsers, which shall be independently power operated by winches, capstans or windlasses.

(i) All lines shall be led through closed chocks or fairleads acceptable to the Manager and the Corporation.

(ii) One mooring line shall lead forward and one shall lead astern from the break of the bow and one mooring line shall lead astern from the quarter.

(3) Vessels of more than 150 m but not more than 200 m in overall length shall have four mooring lines, wires or synthetic hawsers, which shall be independently power operated by winches.

(i) One mooring line shall lead forward and one mooring line shall lead astern from the break of the bow.

(ii) One mooring line shall lead forward and one mooring line shall lead astern from the quarter.

(iii) All lines shall be led through closed chocks or fairleads acceptable to the Manager and the Corporation.

(4) Vessels of more than 200 m in overall length shall have four mooring lines-wires, independently power operated by the main drums of adequate power operated winches as follows:

(i) One mooring line shall lead forward and one mooring line shall lead astern from the break of the bow.

(ii) One mooring line shall lead forward and one mooring line shall lead astern from the quarter.

(iii) All lines shall be led through a type of fairlead acceptable to the Manager and the Corporation.

(5) Every vessel shall have a minimum of two spare mooring lines available and ready for immediate use.

(b) Unless otherwise permitted by the officer, the following table sets out the requirements for the location of fairleads or closed chocks for vessels of 100 m or more in overall length:
