
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter IV - Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation
### PART 401 - SEAWAY REGULATIONS AND RULES
#### Subpart A - Regulations
##### Preclearance and Security for Tolls
###### § 401.24 Application for preclearance.
####### www.greatlakes-seaway.com

(a) The representative of a vessel may, on a preclearance form obtained from the Manager, St. Lambert, Quebec or downloaded from the St. Lawrence Seaway Web site (), apply for preclearance, giving particulars of the ownership, liability insurance and physical characteristics of the vessel and guaranteeing payment of the fees that may be incurred by the vessel. The form may also be completed and submitted on the Seaway Web site via e-business. Preclearance application must be received by the St. Lawrence Seaway between 08:00-16:00 hours Monday through Friday excluding holidays and at least 24 hours prior to Seaway inspection or vessel arrival.

(b) For representatives benefitting from the exemption of security tolls as set out in § 401.26(c) and § 401.26(d), a continuous preclearance status may be assigned to all vessels under their responsibility. Validation of the continuous preclearance status will be required every 5 years.

(c) For representatives with a valid security for tolls and a good payment history as set out in § 401.26(c) and § 401.26(d), a continuous preclearance status may be assigned to all vessels under their responsibility. Validation of the continuous preclearance status will be required every year.

(d) In the event that a vessel under the representative's responsibility is modified or upgraded, an application for preclearance will be required to update the vessel's information and reset the vessel's preclearance status.
