
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter IV - Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation
### PART 401 - SEAWAY REGULATIONS AND RULES
#### Subpart A - Regulations
##### Radio Communications
###### ยง 401.64 Calling in.

(a) Every vessel, intending to transit or in transit, shall report on the assigned frequency to the designated Seaway station when opposite any calling in point or checkpoint (indicated on the General Seaway Plan) and, when reporting, shall give the information indicated in Schedule III.

(b) Changes in information provided under paragraph (a), including updated ETAs that vary from the ETAs provided under that paragraph by 30 minutes or more, shall be reported to the appropriate Seaway station.

(c) A down bound vessel in St. Lambert Lock shall switch to channel 10 (156.5 MHz) for a traffic report from Quebec Vessel Management Center.

(d) After obtaining the situation report referred to in paragraph (c) of this section, the downbound vessel shall return to guarding channel 14 (156.7 MHz) and remain on that channel until it is clear of St. Lambert Lock chamber.

(e) When the downbound vessel has cleared the downstream end of the lower approach wall of St. Lambert Lock, the master of the vessel shall call "Seaway Beauharnois" and request permission to switch to channel 10 (156.5 MHz).

(f) Seaway Beauharnois shall grant the permission requested pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section and advise the downbound vessel of any upbound traffic that may be cleared for Seaway entry but not yet at C.I.P. 2.

(g) In the event of an expected meeting of vessels between the downstream end of the lower approach wall and C.I.P. 2, the downbound vessel shall remain on channel 14 (156.7 MHz) until the meeting has been completed.

(h) After the meeting, the downbound vessel shall call "Seaway Beauharnois" before switching to channel 10 (156.5 MHz).
