
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter IV - Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation
### PART 401 - SEAWAY REGULATIONS AND RULES
#### Subpart A - Regulations
##### Toll Assessment and Payment
###### ยง 401.74 Transit declaration.
####### www.greatlakes-seaway.com.

(a) A Seaway Transit Declaration Form (Cargo and Passenger) shall be forwarded to the Manager by the representative of a vessel, for each vessel that has an approved preclearance except non-cargo vessels, within fourteen (14) days after the vessel enters the Seaway on any up bound or down bound transit. The form may be obtained from the St. Lawrence Management Corporation, 151 Ecluse Street, St. Lambert, Quebec, J4R 2V6 or downloaded from the St. Lawrence Seaway Web site atThe form may also be completed and submitted on the Seaway Web site via e-business.

(b) The loaded or manifest weight of cargo shall be shown on the Seaway Transit Declaration Form, except in the case of petroleum products where gallonage meters are not available at the point of loading, in which case offloaded weights may be shown on the Declaration Form.

(c) Where a vessel carries cargo to or from an overseas port, a copy of the cargo manifest, duly certified, shall be forwarded with the Seaway Transit Declaration Form.

(d) A Weight-Scale Certificate or similar document issued in the place of a cargo manifest may be accepted in lieu thereof.

(e) Where a Seaway Transit Declaration Form is found to be inaccurate concerning the destination, cargo or passengers, the representative shall immediately forward to the Manager a revised Declaration Form.
