
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter IV - Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation
### PART 401 - SEAWAY REGULATIONS AND RULES
#### Subpart A - Regulations
##### Dangerous Cargo
###### ยง 401.72 Reporting - explosive and hazardous cargo vessels.

(a) Every explosive vessel or hazardous cargo vessel shall, when reporting information related to cargo as required by ยง 401.64(a), report the nature and tonnage of its explosive or hazardous cargo where applicable. Every vessel carrying grain which is under fumigation shall declare to the nearest traffic control center the nature of the fumigant, its properties and cargo holds affected.

(b) Every explosive vessel requiring a Seaway Explosives Permission Letter shall, when reporting in, give the number of its Seaway Explosives Permission Letter.

(c) Every hazardous cargo vessel carrying metal turnings, shavings, cuttings or borings in bulk shall, when reporting information related to cargo as required by ยง 401.64(a), give the high temperature reading of each compartment at that time, together with the high temperature reading in each compartment taken on completion of loading.

(d) Every vessel carrying radioactive substances shall, when reporting in, give the number and date of issue of any required certificate issued by the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission (CNSC) and/or the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (USNRC) authorizing such shipment.

(e) Every vessel carrying dangerous cargo, as defined in ยง 401.66, and all tankers carrying liquid cargo in bulk, and all vessels carrying grain under fumigation shall, prior to transiting any part of the Seaway, file with the Manager a copy of the current load plan that includes the following information:

(1) The name of the cargo, its IMO class and UN number as set out in the IMDG Code, if applicable, or, if the cargo is not classed by the IMO and does not have a UN number, the words "NOT CLASSED";

(2) The approximate total weight in metric tonnes or total volume in cubic meters and the stowage location of each commodity;

(3) The approximate weight in metric tonnes or the approximate volume in cubic meters in each hold or tank;

(4) The flashpoint of the cargo, if applicable; and

(5) The estimated date of entry into the Seaway and the date and time that the load plan was last issued or amended.

(6) Tankers in ballast shall report the previous cargo of each cargo hold on a plan as described in this paragraph (e).

(f) For tankers, the information required under this section shall be detailed on a plan showing the general layout of the tanks, and a midships cross-section showing the double bottom tanks and ballast side tanks.

(g) If a Safety Data Sheet (SDS) on a hazardous cargo that a vessel is carrying is not available in a Seaway Traffic Control Center, the vessel shall provide information enabling the preparation of an SDS.

(h) Every vessel shall submit its load plan to the nearest Seaway Traffic Control Center from which it will be distributed to all other Seaway Traffic Control Centers. Any changes in stowage, including loading and discharging during a transit, the ship shall submit an updated plan before departing from any port between St. Lambert and Long Point.

(i) Failure to comply with the requirements in this section may result in unnecessary delays or transit refusal.
