
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter IV - Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation
### PART 401 - SEAWAY REGULATIONS AND RULES
#### Subpart A - Regulations
##### Navigation Closing Procedures
###### ยง 401.97 Closing procedures and ice navigation.

(a) No wintering vessel shall return downbound through the Montreal-Lake Ontario Section of the Seaway in the same navigation season in which it entered the Seaway unless the transit is authorized by the Corporation and the Manager.

(b) No vessel shall transit the Montreal-Lake Ontario Section of the Seaway during the closing period in a navigation season unless

(1) It reports at the applicable calling in point referred to in paragraph (c) of this section on or before the clearance date in that navigation season; or

(2) It reports at the applicable calling in point referred to in paragraph (c) of this section within a period of 96 hours after the clearance date in that navigation season, it complies with the provisions of the agreement between Canada and the United States, known as the St. Lawrence Seaway Tariff of Tolls and the transit is authorized by the Corporation and the Manager.

(c) For the purposes of paragraph (b) of this section, the calling in point is,

(1) In the case of an upbound vessel, Cape St. Michel; and

(2) In the case of a downbound vessel, Cape Vincent.

(d) No vessel shall transit the Montreal-Lake Ontario Section of the Seaway after the period of 96 hours referred to in paragraph (b)(2) of this section unless the transit is authorized by the Corporation and the Manager.

(e) Every vessel that, during a closing period, enters the Montreal-Lake Ontario Section of the Seaway, upbound or downbound, or departs upbound from any port, dock, wharf or anchorage in that Section shall,

(1) At the time of such entry or departure, report to the nearest Seaway station the furthermost destination of the vessel's voyage and any intermediate destinations within that Section; and

(2) At the time of any change in those destinations, report such changes to the nearest Seaway station.

(f) Where ice conditions restrict navigation,

(1) No upbound vessel that has a power to length ratio of less than 24:1 (kW/meter) and a forward draft of less than 50 dm, and

(2) No downbound vessel that has a power to length ratio of less than 15:1 (kW/meter) and a forward draft of less than 25 dm shall transit between the St. Lambert Lock and the Iroquois Lock of the Montreal-Lake Ontario Section of the Seaway and CIP 15 and CIP 16 of the Welland Canal.
