
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter IV - Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation
### PART 401 - SEAWAY REGULATIONS AND RULES
#### Subpart A - Regulations
##### Schedule I to Subpart A of Part 401 - Vessels Transiting U.S. Waters

No vessel of 1600 gross tons or more shall transit the U.S. waters of the St. Lawrence Seaway unless it is equipped with the following maneuvering data and equipment:

(a) Charts of the Seaway that are currently corrected and of large enough scale and sufficient detail to enable safe navigation. These may be published by a foreign government if the charts contain similar information to those published by the U.S. Government.

(b) U.S. Coast Guard Light List, currently corrected.

(c) U.S. Coast Pilot, current edition.

(d) Current Seaway Notices Affecting Navigation.

(e) The following maneuvering data prominently displayed on a fact sheet in the wheelhouse:

(1) For full and half speed, a turning circle diagram to port and starboard that shows the time and distance of advance and transfer required to alter the course 90 degrees with maximum rudder angle and constant power settings:

(2) The time and distance to stop the vessel from full and half speed while maintaining approximately the initial heading with minimum application of rudder;

(3) For each vessel with a fixed propeller, a table of shaft revolutions per minute, for a representative range of speeds, and a notice showing any critical range of revolutions at which the engine designers recommend that the engine not be operated on a continuous basis.

(4) For each vessel that is fitted with a controllable pitch propeller, a table of control settings for a representative range of speeds;

(5) For each vessel that is fitted with an auxiliary device to assist in maneuvering, such as a bow thruster, a table of vessel speeds at which the auxiliary device is effective in maneuvering the vessel;

(6) The maneuvering information for the normal load and normal ballast condition for:

(A) Calm weather-wind 10 knots or less, calm sea;

(B) No current;

(C) Deep water conditions-water depth twice the vessel's draft or greater; and

(D) Clean hull.

(7) At the bottom of the fact sheet, the following statement:

The response of the (name of the vessel) may be different from the above if any of the following conditions, on which the maneuvering is based, are varied:

(a) Calm weather-wind 10 knots or less, calm sea;

(b) No current;

(c) Deep water conditions-water depth twice the vessel's draft or greater;

(d) Clean hull;

(e) Intermediate drafts or unusual trim."

(e) Illuminated magnetic compass at main steering station with compass deviation table, graph or record.

(f) Gyro-compass with illuminated gyro-repeater at main steering station.

(g) Marine radar system for surface navigation. Additionally, vessels of 10,000 gross tons or more must have a second main radar system that operates independently of the first.

(h) Efficient echo sounding device.

(i) Illuminated rudder angle indicator or repeaters that are:

(1) Located in the wheelhouse;

(2) Arranged so that they can easily be read from any position on the bridge.

(j) Illuminated indicator showing the operating mode of that device when vessel is equipped with auxiliary maneuvering devices.
