
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter IV - Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation
### PART 401 - SEAWAY REGULATIONS AND RULES
#### Subpart C - Assessment, Mitigation or Remission of Penalties
##### ยง 401.206 Procedure for payment of civil penalty for violation of the Seaway regulations.

(a) The payment must be by money order or certified check payable to the order of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation and mailed to the Comptroller. If the payment is made in person at the offices of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, the payment may be in cash or by postal money order or check payable to the order of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation.

(b) The payment of any penalty will be acknowledged by written receipt.

(c) If the penalty paid is determined by the Associate Administrator to have been improperly or excessively imposed, the payor will be notified and requested to submit an application for a refund which should be mailed to the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, attention of the Chief Engineer. Such application must be made by the payor within one year of the date of notification provided for in this section.

(d) In the event the alleged violator is about to leave the jurisdiction of the United States, he or she will be required, before being allowed to depart, to post a bond in the amount and manner suitable to the Associate Administrator, from which bond any subsequent assessed or mitigated penalty may be satisfied.
