
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter G - Regattas and Marine Parades
#### PART 100 - SAFETY OF LIFE ON NAVIGABLE WATERS
##### Subpart B - First Coast Guard District
###### ยง 100.110 East River 4th of July Fireworks, East River, Manhattan, NY.
####### Regulations.

(c)(1) In accordance with the special local regulations in ยง 100.35, entry into, transiting, or anchoring within the limited access area defined in paragraph (a) of this section, is prohibited, unless authorized by the COTP or a designated representative.

(2) All vessels that are authorized by the COTP or a designated representative to enter the limited access areas established in this section must adhere to the following restrictions:

(i) Area ALPHA access is limited to vessels greater than or equal to 20 meters (65.6ft) in length.

(ii) Area BRAVO access is limited to vessels less than 20 meters (65.6ft) in length.

(iii) All vessels are prohibited from entering area CHARLIE without permission from the COTP or a designated representative.

(iv) Area DELTA access is limited to vessels greater than or equal to 20 meters (65.6ft) in length.

(v) Area ECHO access is limited to vessels less than 20 meters (65.6ft) in length.

(vi) All vessels are prohibited from entering the moving protection zone defined in paragraph (a)(6) of this section without permission from the COTP or a designated representative.

(vii) Vessels desiring to utilize any of these limited access areas defined in paragraph (a) of this section must enter the area by 7:30 p.m.

(3) During periods of enforcement all persons and vessels in the limited access areas defined in paragraph (a) of this section must comply with all lawful orders and directions from the COTP New York or the COTP New York's designated representative.

(4) Vessel operators desiring to enter or operate within a limited access area defined in paragraph (a) of this section should contact the COTP New York at (718) 354-4356 or on VHF 16 to obtain permission.

(5) Spectators or other vessels must not anchor, block, loiter or impede the transit of event participants or official patrol vessels in the limited access area defined in paragraph (a) of this section during the effective dates and times unless authorized by COTP New York or designated representative.

(6) The COTP or a representative will inform the public through local notice to mariners and/or Broadcast Notices to Mariners of the enforcement period for the regulated area as well as any changes of the enforcement times.
