
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter IV - Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation
### PART 403 - RULES OF PROCEDURE OF THE JOINT TOLLS REVIEW BOARD
#### ยง 403.4 Applications. [Rule 4]

(a) Every proceeding before the Board shall be commenced by an application made to it, which shall be in writing and signed by, or on behalf of, the applicant.

(b) An applicant shall file six copies of his application setting forth a clear and complete statement of the facts the grounds for the complaint, and the relief or remedy to which the applicant claims to be entitled.

(c) Applicants resident in Canada shall file their complaints with the St. Lawrence Seaway Joint Tolls Reviews Board, Tower "A", Place de Ville, 320 Queen Street, Ottawa, Ontario KIR 5A3. Applicants resident in the United States of America shall file their complaints with the St. Lawrence Seaway Joint Tolls Review Board, 800 Independence Ave., SW., Washington, D.C. 20591. Other applicants may file their complaints with the Board at either address.

(d) One copy of each application received shall be held and be available for public inspection at the offices of the Board in Ottawa, Ontario, and Massena, N.Y.

(e) The Board shall publish notice of the receipt of applications in the "Canada Gazette" and the

(f) Interested parties shall have thirty days from date of publication of notice in which to make representations or to submit briefs to the Board. [Rule 4]
