
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter G - Regattas and Marine Parades
#### PART 100 - SAFETY OF LIFE ON NAVIGABLE WATERS
##### Subpart B - First Coast Guard District
###### ยง 100.130 Special Local Regulations; Recurring Annual Marine Events in Sector Boston Captain of the Port Zone.
####### http://www.navcen.uscg.gov/.,http://www.homeport.uscg.mil.

This section applies to the marine events listed in Table 1 of this section. The regulations in this section will be enforced for the duration of each event, on or about the dates indicated in Table 1 of this section. Annual notice of the exact dates and times of the effective period of the regulations in this section with respect to each event, the geographical description of each regulated area, and details concerning the nature of the event and the number of participants and type(s) of vessels involved will be provided to the local maritime community through the Local Notice to Mariners and/or Broadcast Notice to Mariners well in advance of the events. If the event does not have a date listed, then the exact dates and times of the enforcement will be announced through a Notice of Enforcement in theMariners should consult theor their LNM to remain apprised of minor schedule or event changes. First Coast Guard District LNM can be found at:The Sector Boston Marine Events schedule can also be viewed electronically atAlthough listed in the Code of Federal Regulations, sponsors of events listed in Table 1 of this section are still required to submit a marine event permit application in accordance with 33 CFR 100.15.

(a) The Coast Guard may patrol each event area under the direction of a designated Coast Guard Patrol Commander (PATCOM). PATCOM may be contacted on Channel 16 VHF-FM (156.8 MHz) by the call sign "PATCOM." Official patrol vessels may consist of any Coast Guard, Coast Guard Auxiliary, state, or local law enforcement vessels assigned or approved by the Captain of the Port, Sector Boston.

(b) Vessels may not transit the regulated areas without PATCOM approval. Vessels permitted to transit must operate at a no wake speed, in a manner which will not endanger participants or other crafts in the event.

(c) Spectators or other vessels shall not anchor, block, loiter, or impede the transit of event participants or official patrol vessels in the regulated areas during the effective dates and times, or dates and times as modified through LNM, unless authorized by an official patrol vessel.

(d) PATCOM may control the movement of all vessels in the regulated area. When hailed or signaled by an official patrol vessel, a vessel shall come to an immediate stop and comply with the lawful directions issued. Failure to comply with a lawful direction may result in expulsion from the area, citation for failure to comply, or both.

(e) PATCOM may delay or terminate any marine event in this subpart at any time it is deemed necessary to ensure the safety of life or property. Such action may be justified as a result of weather, traffic density, spectator operation or participant behavior.

(f) For all power boat races listed, vessels operating within the regulated area must be at anchor within a designated spectator area or moored to a waterfront facility in a way that will not interfere with the progress of the event.

(g) For all regattas, boat parades, and rowing and paddling boat races, vessels not associated with the event shall maintain a separation of at least 50 yards from the participants.
