
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter G - Regattas and Marine Parades
#### PART 100 - SAFETY OF LIFE ON NAVIGABLE WATERS
##### Subpart C - Fifth Coast Guard District
###### ยง 100.501 Special Local Regulations; Marine Events Within the Fifth Coast Guard District.
####### Regulations for specific marine events in paragraph (i) of this section,USNA Blue Angels Air Show, Coast Guard Sector Maryland-National Capital Region-COTP Zone.,harbormaster@annapolis.gov

(h)-(1)Except for an emergency situation, a vessel may not anchor or maintain station within the spectator area without the permission of the COTP Maryland-National Capital Region or designated Event PATCOM. The COTP Maryland-National Capital Region has designated this spectator area for commercial small passenger vessel use. This area is closed except for commercial small passenger vessels holding a valid Certificate of Inspection regulated under 46 CFR chapter I, subchapters K and T (46 CFR 114.110, and 175.110). Vessels that meet the requirements of this section may request access to the Severn River spectator area by contacting the City of Annapolis Harbormaster at (410) 263-7973 or emailto obtain a vessel spectator area application. Vessel spectator area applications shall be submitted no later than 10 calendar days prior to the event date. Applicants will be notified by the COTP Maryland-National Capital Region or COTP representative regarding status of applications and further instructions. All vessels shall contact the Event PATCOM on VHF-FM channels 16 or 22A prior to transiting to the spectator area to confirm entry approval. Vessels approved for spectator area access shall follow the instructions issued by the official patrol vessels or the Event PATCOM when entering the regulated area. The regulations for this event will restrict access to some of the anchorage grounds at Annapolis Harbor, MD, specifically Middle Ground Anchorage, South Anchorage, and Naval Anchorage for Small Craft, listed at 33 CFR 110.159(a)(1) through (4).
