
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter G - Regattas and Marine Parades
#### PART 100 - SAFETY OF LIFE ON NAVIGABLE WATERS
##### Subpart C - Fifth Coast Guard District
###### ยง 100.501 Special Local Regulations; Marine Events Within the Fifth Coast Guard District.
####### Air Show Baltimore, Coast Guard Sector Maryland-National Capital Region-COTP Zone.,info@sailbaltimore.org

(2)Except for an emergency situation, a vessel may not anchor or hold station within the spectator area without the permission of the COTP Maryland-National Capital Region or Event PATCOM. The COTP Maryland-National Capital Region has designated this spectator area for commercial small passenger vessel use. This area is closed except for commercial small passenger vessels holding a valid Certificate of Inspection regulated under 46 CFR chapter I, subchapters K and T (46 CFR 114.110 and 175.110). Vessels that meet the requirements of this section may request access to the Patapsco River spectator area by contacting the Sail Baltimore at (410) 522-7300 or emailingto obtain a vessel spectator area application. Vessel spectator area applications shall be submitted no later than 10 calendar days prior to the event date. Applicants will be notified by the COTP Maryland-National Capital Region or COTP representative regarding status of applications and further instructions. All vessels shall contact the Event PATCOM on VHF-FM channels 16 or 22A prior to transiting to the spectator area to confirm entry approval. Vessels approved for spectator area access shall follow the instructions issued by on scene official patrol vessels or the Event PATCOM when entering the regulated area. The regulations for this event will restrict access to some of the anchorage grounds listed at 33 CFR 110.158, Baltimore Harbor, MD. Specifically anchorage grounds:

(i) Anchorage No. 1, general anchorage;

(ii) Anchorage No. 2, general anchorage;

(iii) Anchorage No. 3A, general anchorage; and

(iv) Anchorage No. 3B, general anchorage and

(v) Anchorage No. 3C, general anchorage.
