
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter G - Regattas and Marine Parades
#### PART 100 - SAFETY OF LIFE ON NAVIGABLE WATERS
##### Subpart D - Seventh Coast Guard District
###### ยง 100.702 Special Local Regulations; Marine Events within the Captain of the Port Miami.
####### Special local regulations.

(c)(1) The COTP Miami or Designated Representative may control the movement of all vessels in the regulated area. When hailed or signaled by an official patrol vessel, a vessel in these areas shall immediately comply with the directions given. Failure to do so may result in removal from the area, citation for failure to comply, or both.

(2) The COTP Miami or Designated Representative may terminate the event, or the operation of any vessel participating in the event, at any time it is deemed necessary for the protection of life or property.

(3) Only event sponsor designated participants and official patrol vessels are allowed to enter the regulated area, unless otherwise authorized by the COTP Miami or Designated Representative.

(4) Spectators may request permission from the COTP Miami or Designated Representative to enter, transit, remain within, or anchor in the regulated area. If permission is granted, spectators must abide by the directions of the COTP Miami or a Designated Representative. The COTP Miami or Designated Representative may delay or terminate any event in this subpart at any time to ensure safety of life or property. Such action may be justified as a result of weather, traffic density, spectator operation, or participant behavior.
