
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter G - Regattas and Marine Parades
#### PART 100 - SAFETY OF LIFE ON NAVIGABLE WATERS
##### Subpart D - Seventh Coast Guard District
###### ยง 100.703 Special Local Regulations; Recurring Marine Events, Sector St. Petersburg.
####### Special local regulations.

(c)(1) The COTP St. Petersburg or designated representative may forbid and control the movement of all vessels in the regulated area. When hailed or signaled by an official patrol vessel, a vessel in these areas shall immediately comply with the directions given. Failure to do so may result in expulsion from the area, citation for failure to comply, or both.

(2) The COTP St. Petersburg or designated representative may terminate the event, or the operation of any vessel participating in the event, at any time it is deemed necessary for the protection of life or property. Such action may be justified as a result of weather, traffic density, spectator operation, or participant behavior.

(3) Only event sponsor designated participants and official patrol vessels are allowed to enter the regulated area, unless otherwise authorized by the COTP St. Petersburg or designated representative.

(4) Spectators are only allowed inside the regulated area if they remain within a designated spectator area. Spectators may contact the COTP St. Petersburg or designated representative to request permission to enter, transit through, remain within, or anchor in the regulated area. If permission is granted, spectators must abide by the directions of the COTP St. Petersburg or a designated representative.
