
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter G - Regattas and Marine Parades
#### PART 100 - SAFETY OF LIFE ON NAVIGABLE WATERS
##### Subpart F - Ninth Coast Guard District
###### ยง 100.901 Great Lakes annual marine events.
####### Sponsors of events listed in Table 1 must still submit an application each year in accordance with 33 CFR 100.15.

Permanent special local regulations are hereby established for the marine events listed in Table 1. These regulations will be effective annually, for the duration of each event, on or about the dates indicated in Table 1. Annual notice of the exact dates and times of the effective period of the regulations with respect to each event, the geographical description of each regulated area, and details concerning the nature of the event and the number of participants and type(s) of vessels involved will be published in local notices to mariners. To be placed on the mailing list for such notices, contact: Commander(oan), Ninth Coast Guard District, 1240 E. Ninth St., Cleveland, OH 44199-2060.

(a) The Coast Guard will patrol the regatta area under the direction of a designated Coast Guard Patrol Commander. The Patrol Commander may be contacted on Channel 16 (156.8 MHZ) by the call sign "Coast Guard Patrol Commander." Vessels desiring to transit the regulated area may do so only with prior approval of the Patrol Commander and when so directed by that officer. Vessels will be operated at a no wake speed to reduce the wake to a minimum, and in a manner which will not endanger participants in the event or any other craft. The rules contained in the above two sentences shall not apply to participants in the event or vessels of the patrol operating in the performance of their assigned duties.

(b) The Patrol Commander may direct the anchoring, mooring, or movement of any boat or vessel within the regatta area. A succession of sharp, short signals by whistle or horn from vessels patrolling the area under the direction of the U.S. Coast Guard Patrol Commander shall serve as a signal to stop. Vessels so signaled shall stop and shall comply with the orders of the Patrol Commander. Failure to do so may result in expulsion from the area, citation for failure to comply, or both.

(c) The Patrol Commander may establish vessel size and speed limitations and operating conditions.

(d) The Patrol Commander may restrict vessel operation within the regatta area to vessels having particular operating characteristics.

(e) The Patrol Commander may terminate the marine event or the operation of any vessel at any time it is deemed necessary for the protection of life and property.

(f) Patrol Commander means a Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer who has been designated by the Captain of the Port to monitor a regatta area, permit entry into the regatta area, give legally enforceable orders to persons or vessels within the regatta area, and take other actions authorized by the Captain of the Port.

Sponsor: New York Power Authority.

Date: Last weekend of July.

Location: Lake Ontario, Wright's Landing/Oswego Harbor, NY within an 800 foot radius of the fireworks launching platform located in approximate position 43&#xB0;28&#x2032;10&#x2033; N 076&#xB0;31&#x2032;04&#x2033; W.

Sponsor: Presque Isle Powerboat Racing Association.

Date: 3rd or 4th weekend of June.

Location: That portion of Lake Erie, Presque Isle Bay, south of a line drawn from 42&#xB0;08&#x2032;54&#x2033; N 080&#xB0;05&#x2032;42&#x2033; W; to 42&#xB0;07&#x2032; N 080&#xB0;21&#x2032; W will be a regulated area. That portion of Lake Erie, Presque Isle bay, north of a line drawn from 42&#xB0;08&#x2032;54&#x2033; N 080&#xB0;05&#x2032;42&#x2033; W; to 42&#xB0;07&#x2032; N 080&#xB0;21&#x2032; W will be a "caution area". All vessels transiting the caution area will be operated at bare steerageway, keeping the vessel's wake at a minimum, and will exercise a high degree of caution in the area. The bay entrance will not be effected.

Sponsor: Presque Isle Powerboat Racing Association.

Date: 3rd or 4th weekend of June.

Location: That portion of Lake Erie, Presque Isle Bay, Entrance Channel, and the enclosed area from Erie Harbor Pier Head Light (LLNR 3430) northeast to 42&#xB0;12&#x2032;48&#x2033; N 079&#xB0;57&#x2032;24&#x2033; W, thence south to shore just east of Shades Beach.

Sponsor: Friendship Festival

Date: 4th of July holiday.

Location: That portion of the Niagara River and Buffalo.

Harbor from:

Sponsor: Niagara Frontier Boat Racing Association.

Date: 4th or 5th weekend of September.

Location: That portion of the Niagara River, Tonawanda Channel, between Tonawanda Channel Buoy 31 to approximatelymile southwest of Twomile Creek along a line drawn from 43&#xB0;00&#x2032;45&#x2033; N 078&#xB0;55&#x2032;06&#x2033; W to 43&#xB0;00&#x2032;28&#x2033; N 078&#xB0;54&#x2032;56&#x2033; W (Sipco Oil Company).

Sponsor: Sodus Bay Historical Society.

Date: 4th of July holiday.

Location: Lake Ontario, within a 500 foot radius around a barge anchored in approximate position 43&#xB0;15.73&#x2032; N 076&#xB0;58.23&#x2032; W, in Sodus Bay.

Sponsor: Erie Maritime Programs, Inc.

Date: 1st or 2nd weekend of July.

Location: That portion of Lake Erie, Presque Isle Bay

Entrance Channel and Presque Isle Bay from:

Sponsor: Port Bay Improvement Association.

Date: 1st or 2nd weekend of July.

Location: That portion of Lake Ontario, Port Bay Harbor, NY within a 500 ft radius surrounding a barge anchored in approximate position 43&#xB0;17&#x2032;46&#x2033; N 076&#xB0;50&#x2032;02&#x2033; W.

Sponsor: Thunder on the Water Inc.

Date: 3rd or 4th weekend of June.

Location: That portion of Lake Ontario, Oswego Harbor from the West Pier Head Light (LLNR 2080) north to:

Sponsor: We Love Erie Days Festival, Inc.

Date: 3rd weekend of August.

Location: That portion of Lake Erie, Erie Harbor, within a 300 foot radius, surrounding the Erie Sand and Gravel Pier, located in position 42&#xB0;08&#x2032;16&#x2033; N 080&#xB0;05&#x2032;40&#x2033; W.

Sponsor: Bridgefest Committee.

Date: 2nd weekend of June.

Location: Keweenaw Waterway, from the Houghton Hancock Lift Bridge to 1000 yards west of the bridge, near Houghton, MI.

Sponsor: Office of the Mayor, Duluth, MN.

Date: 4th of July weekend.

Location: That portion of the Duluth Harbor Basin Northern Section bounded on the south by a line drawn on a bearing of 087&#xB0; true from the Cargill Pier through Duluth Basin Lighted Buoy #5 (LLNR 15905) to the opposite shore on the north by the Duluth Aerial Bridge. That portion of Duluth Harbor Basin Northern Section within 600 yards of position 46&#xB0;46&#x2032;47&#x2033; N 092&#xB0;06&#x2032;10&#x2033; W.

Sponsor: City of Sault Ste Marie, MI.

Date: 4th of July weekend.

Location: That portion of the St. Mary's River, Sault Ste. Marie, MI within a 1000 foot radius of Brady Park, located on the south shore of the river. These waters are enclosed by the Locks to the west and to the east from a line drawn from the pier light of the east center pier to the U.S. Coast Guard Base to the southeast.
