
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter G - Regattas and Marine Parades
#### PART 100 - SAFETY OF LIFE ON NAVIGABLE WATERS
##### Subpart G - Eleventh Coast Guard District
###### ยง 100.1102 Annual Marine Events on the Colorado River, between Davis Dam (Bullhead City, Arizona) and Headgate Dam (Parker, Arizona).
####### General.

(a)Special local regulations are established for the events listed in Table 1 of this section. Notice of implementation of these special local regulations will be made by publication in the30 days prior to the event for those events without specific dates or by Notice to Mariners 20 Days prior to the event for those events listing a period for which a firm date is identifiable. In all cases, further information on exact dates, times, and other details concerning the number and type of participants and an exact geographical description of the areas are published by the Eleventh Coast Guard District in the Local Notice to Mariners at least 20 days prior to each event. To be placed on the mailing list for Local Notice to Mariners contact: Commander (dpw), Eleventh Coast Guard District, Coast Guard Island, Building 50-2, Alameda, CA 94501-5100.Sponsors of events listed in Table 1 of this section must submit an application each year in accordance with 33 CFR 100.15 to the cognizant Coast Guard Sector Commander no less than 60 days before the start of the proposed event. Sponsors are informed that ample lead time is required to inform all Federal, state, local agencies, and/or other interested parties and to provide the sponsor the best support to ensure the safety of life and property. A Coast Guard-National Park Service agreement exists for both the Glen Canyon and Lake Mead National Recreational Areas; applicants shall contact the cognizant authority for approval of events in these areas.
