
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter G - Regattas and Marine Parades
#### PART 100 - SAFETY OF LIFE ON NAVIGABLE WATERS
##### Subpart G - Eleventh Coast Guard District
###### ยง 100.1105 San Francisco Bay Navy Fleetweek Parade of Ships and Blue Angels Demonstration.
####### Regulations:

(c)All persons and/or vessels not authorized as participants or official patrol vessels are considered spectators. The "official patrol" consists of any Coast Guard, public, state or local law enforcement vessels assigned and/or approved by Commander, Coast Guard Sector San Francisco to patrol the Fleetweek event.

(1) Except for persons or vessels authorized by the Coast Guard Patrol Commander, in regulated area "Alpha" no person may enter or remain within 500 yards of any Navy parade vessel. No person or vessel shall anchor, block, loiter in, or impede the through transit of ship parade participants or official patrol vessels in regulated area "Alpha."

(2) Except for persons or vessels authorized by the Coast Guard Patrol Commander, no person or vessel may enter or remain within regulated area "Bravo."

(3) When hailed and/or signaled by an official patrol vessel, a person or vessel shall come to an immediate stop. Persons or vessels shall comply with all directions given.

(4) The Patrol Commander shall be designated by the Commander, Coast Guard Sector San Francisco, California. The Coast Guard Patrol Commander is empowered to forbid and control the movement of all vessels in the regulated areas.
