
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter G - Regattas and Marine Parades
#### PART 100 - SAFETY OF LIFE ON NAVIGABLE WATERS
##### Subpart G - Eleventh Coast Guard District
###### ยง 100.1106 Special Local Regulation; Mavericks Surf Competition.
####### Special Local Regulations.

(d)The following regulations apply between 6 a.m. and 6 p.m. on the competition day.

(1) Only support vessels may be authorized by the Patrol Commander (PATCOM) to enter Zone 1 during the competition.

(2) Entering the water in Zone 1 by any person other than the competitors is prohibited. Competitors may enter the water in Zone 1 from authorized support vessels only.

(3) Spectator vessels and support vessels within Zone 2 must maneuver as directed by PATCOM. Given the changing nature of the surf in the vicinity of the competition, PATCOM may close Zone 2 to all vessels due to hazardous conditions. Due to weather and sea conditions, the Captain of the Port may deny access to Zone 2 and the remainder of the regulated area to all vessels other than competitors and support vessels on the day of the event

(4) Entering the water in Zone 2 by any person is prohibited.

(5) Rafting and anchoring of vessels are prohibited within the regulated area.

(6) Only vessels authorized by the PATCOM will be permitted to tow other watercraft within the regulated area.

(7) Spectator and support vessels in Zones 1 and 2 must operate at speeds which will create minimum wake, in general, 7 miles per hour or less.

(8) When hailed or signaled by the PATCOM by a succession of sharp, short signals by whistle or horn, the hailed vessel must come to an immediate stop and comply with the lawful directions issued. Failure to comply with a lawful direction may result in additional operating restrictions, citation for failure to comply, or both.

(9) During the events, vessel operators may contact the PATCOM on VHF-FM channel 23A.
