
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter G - Regattas and Marine Parades
#### PART 100 - SAFETY OF LIFE ON NAVIGABLE WATERS
##### Subpart H - Thirteenth Coast Guard District
###### ยง 100.1301 Seattle seafair unlimited hydroplane race.

(a) This section will only be enforced during times announced by the Captain of the Port. The event, which is one week or less in duration, generally occurs during the last week of July or the first two weeks of August. The Captain of the Port will provide notice of the enforcement of this special local regulation by Notice of Enforcement in theAdditional information may be available through Broadcast Notice to Mariners and Local Notice to Mariners.

(b) The area where the Coast Guard will restrict general navigation by this regulation during the hours it is in effect is: The waters of Lake Washington bounded by the Interstate 90 (Mercer Island /Lacey V. Murrow) Bridge, the western shore of Lake Washington, and the east/west line drawn tangent to Bailey Peninsula and along the shoreline of Mercer Island.

(c) The area described in paragraph (b) of this section has been divided into two zones. The zones are separated by a line perpendicular from the I-90 Bridge to the northwest corner of the East log boom and a line extending from the southeast corner of the East log boom to the southeast corner of the hydroplane race course and then to the northerly tip of Ohlers Island in Andrews Bay. The western zone is designated Zone I, the eastern zone, Zone II. (Refer to NOAA Chart 18447).

(d) The Coast Guard will maintain a patrol consisting of Coast Guard vessels, assisted by Auxiliary Coast Guard vessels, in Zone II. The Coast Guard patrol of this area is under the direction of the Coast Guard Patrol Commander (the "Patrol Commander"). The Patrol Commander is empowered to control the movement of vessels on the racecourse and in the adjoining waters during the periods this regulation is in effect. The Patrol Commander may be assisted by other federal, state and local law enforcement agencies.

(e) Only authorized vessels may be allowed to enter Zone I during the hours this regulation is in effect. Vessels in the vicinity of Zone I shall maneuver and anchor as directed by Coast Guard Officers or Petty Officers.

(f) During the times in which the regulation is in effect, swimming, wading, or otherwise entering the water in Zone I by any person is prohibited while hydroplane boats are on the racecourse. At other times in Zone I, any person entering the water from the shoreline shall remain west of the swim line, denoted by buoys, and any person entering the water from the log boom shall remain within ten (10) feet of the log boom.

(g) During the times in which the regulation is in effect, any person swimming or otherwise entering the water in Zone II shall remain within ten (10) feet of a vessel.

(h) During the times this regulation is in effect, rafting to a log boom will be limited to groups of three vessels.

(i) During the times this regulation is in effect, up to six (6) vessels may raft together in Zone II if none of the vessels are secured to a log boom.

(j) During the times this regulation is in effect, only vessels authorized by the Patrol Commander, other law enforcement agencies or event sponsors shall be permitted to tow other watercraft or inflatable devices.

(k) Vessels proceeding in either Zone I or Zone II during the hours this regulation is in effect shall do so only at speeds which will create minimum wake, seven (07) miles per hour or less. This maximum speed may be reduced at the discretion of the Patrol Commander.

(l) Upon completion of the daily racing activities, all vessels leaving either Zone I or Zone II shall proceed at speeds of seven (07) miles per hour or less. The maximum speed may be reduced at the discretion of the Patrol Commander.

(m) A succession of sharp, short signals by whistle or horn from vessels patrolling the areas under the direction of the Patrol Commander shall serve as signal to stop. Vessels signaled shall stop and shall comply with the orders of the patrol vessel; failure to do so may result in expulsion from the area, citation for failure to comply, or both. The Coast Guard may be assisted by other federal, state and local law enforcement agencies, as well as official Seafair event craft.
