
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart 1.05 - Rulemaking
###### ยง 1.05-1 Delegation of rulemaking authority.

(a) The Secretary of Homeland Security is empowered by various statutes to issue regulations regarding the functions, powers and duties of the Coast Guard.

(b) The Secretary of Homeland Security has delegated much of this authority to the Commandant, U.S. Coast Guard, including authority to issue regulations regarding the functions of the Coast Guard and the authority to redelegate and authorize successive redelegations of that authority within the Coast Guard.

(c) The Commandant has reserved the authority to issue any rules and regulations determined to be significant under Executive Order 12866, Regulatory Planning and Review.

(d) The Commandant has redelegated the authority to develop and issue those regulations necessary to implement laws, treaties and Executive Orders to the Assistant Commandant for Response Policy (CG-5R). The Commandant further redelegates this same authority to the Director, National Pollution Fund Center (Director, NPFC) for those regulations within the Director, NPFC area of responsibility.

(1) The Assistant Commandant for Response Policy (CG-5R) may further reassign the delegated authority of this paragraph to:

(i) Any Director within the CG-5 Directorate as appropriate; or

(ii) Any other Assistant Commandant as appropriate.

(2) The authority redelegated in paragraph (d) of this section is limited to those regulations determined to be nonsignificant within the meaning of Executive Order 12866.

(e)(1) The Commandant has redelegated to the Coast Guard District Commanders, with the reservation that this authority must not be further redelegated except as specified in paragraph (i) below, the authority to issue regulations pertaining to the following:

(i) Anchorage grounds and special anchorage areas.

(ii) The designation of lightering zones.

(iii) The operation of drawbridges.

(iv) The establishment of Regulated Navigation Areas.

(v) The establishment of safety and security zones.

(vi) The establishment of special local regulations.

(vii) The establishment of inland waterways navigation regulations.

(viii) The establishment of safety zones around OCS facilities being constructed, maintained, or operated on the Outer Continental Shelf.

(2) This delegation does not extend to those matters specified in paragraph (c) of this section or rules and regulations which have been shown to raise substantial issues or to generate controversy.

(f) Except for those matters specified in paragraph (c) of this section, the Commandant has redelegated to Coast Guard Captains of the Port, with the reservation that this authority must not be further redelegated, the authority to establish safety and security zones.

(g) The Commandant has redelegated to Coast Guard District Commanders, Captains of the Port, the Deputy Commandant for Operations (CG-DCO), and the Assistant Commandant for Response Policy, the authority to make the certification required by section 605(b) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (Sec. 605(b), Pub. L. 96-354, 94 Stat. 1168 (5 U.S.C. 605)) for rules that they issue.

(h) The Chief, Office of Regulations and Administrative Law (CG-LRA), has authority to develop and issue those regulations necessary to implement all technical, organizational, and conforming amendments and corrections to rules, regulations, and notices.

(i) The Commandant has redelegated to the Coast Guard District Commanders the authority to redelegate in writing to the Captains of the Port (COTP), with the reservation that this authority must not be further redelegated, the authority to issue such special local regulations as the COTP deems necessary to ensure safety of life on the navigable waters immediately prior to, during, and immediately after regattas and marine parades.

(j) The Commandant has redelegated to Coast Guard District Commanders the authority to redelegate in writing to the Coast Guard District Bridge Manager, with the reservation that this authority must not be further redelegated, the authority to issue temporary deviations from drawbridge operating regulations as the District Bridge Manager deems necessary.
