
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter G - Regattas and Marine Parades
#### PART 100 - SAFETY OF LIFE ON NAVIGABLE WATERS
##### Subpart I - Fourteenth Coast Guard District
###### ยง 100.1402 Special Local Regulation; Kailua Bay, Ironman World Championship, Kailua-Kona, Hawaii.
####### Special local regulations.

(c)(1) The COTP Honolulu or PATCOM may forbid and control the movement of all vessels and persons, including event participants, in the regulated area. When hailed or signaled by an official patrol, a vessel or person in the regulated area shall immediately comply with the directions given by the patrol. Failure to do so may result in the Coast Guard expelling the person or vessel from the area, issuing a citation for failure to comply, or both. The COTP Honolulu or PATCOM may terminate the event at any time the COTP Honolulu or PATCOM believes it necessary to do so for the protection of life.

(2) Except for participants and safety support vessels, a person or vessel within the regulated area at the start of enforcement of this section must immediately depart the regulated area.

(3) Support and enforcement vessels consist of any local law enforcement and sponsor provided vessels assigned or approved by the COTP Honolulu, the event PATCOM, or COTP Honolulu designated representatives, to patrol the regulated area.

(4) The regulated area consists of all navigable waters starting at the shoreline northeast of Kailua Pier at 19&#xB0;38.341&#x2032; N, 155&#xB0;59.782&#x2032; W; thence southeast to 19&#xB0;37.416&#x2032; N, 155&#xB0;59.444&#x2032; W; thence southwest to 19&#xB0;37.397&#x2032; N, 155&#xB0;59.500&#x2032; W; thence northwest to 19&#xB0;38.150&#x2032; N, 155&#xB0;59.760&#x2032; W, thence north and back to Kailua Pier at 19&#xB0;38.398&#x2032; N, 155&#xB0;59.816&#x2032; W, and returning along the pier to the originating point on the shoreline at to 19&#xB0;38.341&#x2032; N, 155&#xB0;59.782&#x2032; W.

(5) Spectators shall not enter into, anchor, block, loiter, or impede the transit of participants or support/enforcement vessels in the regulated area during the enforcement of this section, unless cleared for entry by the COTP Honolulu, the event PATCOM, or the COTP's designated representatives.

(6) Persons desiring to transit the regulated area identified may contact the COTP Honolulu in advance at the Sector Honolulu Command Center telephone number (808) 842-2600 and (808) 842-2601 or immediately prior to or during the event to the COTP Honolulu's PATCOM or designated representative on VHF-FM marine channel 16 (156.8 Mhz) to seek permission to transit or remain in the area. If permission is granted, all persons and vessels must comply with the instructions of the COTP Honolulu, the event PATCOM, or the COTP's designated representative and proceed at the minimum speed necessary to maintain a safe course while in the area.

(7) If enforcement of the regulated area is no longer necessary, the COTP Honolulu, event Patrol Commander, or COTP designated representative will inform the public through radio broadcasts that the regulated area is no longer being enforced.
