
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter H - Maritime Security
#### PART 101 - MARITIME SECURITY: GENERAL
##### Subpart E - Other Provisions
###### ยง 101.514 TWIC Requirement.

(a) All persons requiring unescorted access to secure areas of vessels, facilities, and OCS facilities regulated by parts 104, 105 or 106 of this subchapter must possess a TWIC before such access is granted, except as otherwise noted in this section. A TWIC must be obtained via the procedures established by TSA in 49 CFR part 1572.

(b) Federal officials are not required to obtain or possess a TWIC. Except in cases of emergencies or other exigent circumstances, in order to gain unescorted access to a secure area of a vessel, facility, or OCS facility regulated by parts 104, 105 or 106 of this subchapter, a Federal official must present his/her agency issued, HSPD 12 compliant credential. Until each agency issues its HSPD 12 compliant cards, Federal officials may gain unescorted access by using their agency's official credential. The COTP will advise facilities and vessels within his or her area of responsibility as agencies come into compliance with HSPD 12.

(c) Law enforcement officials at the State or local level are not required to obtain or possess a TWIC to gain unescorted access to secure areas. They may, however, voluntarily obtain a TWIC where their offices fall within or where they require frequent unescorted access to a secure area of a vessel, facility or OCS facility.

(d) Emergency responders at the State or local level are not required to obtain or possess a TWIC to gain unescorted access to secure areas during an emergency situation. They may, however, voluntarily obtain a TWIC where their offices fall within or where they desire frequent unescorted access to a secure area of a vessel, facility or OCS facility in non-emergency situations.
