
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter H - Maritime Security
#### PART 101 - MARITIME SECURITY: GENERAL
##### Subpart E - Other Provisions
###### ยง 101.530 PACS requirements for Risk Group A.

This section lays out requirements for a Physical Access Control System (PACS) that may be used to meet electronic TWIC inspection requirements.

(a) A PACS may use a TWIC directly to perform electronic TWIC inspection;

(b) Each PACS card issued to an individual must be linked to that individual's TWIC, and the PACS must contain the following information from each linked TWIC:

(1) The name of the TWIC-holder holder as represented in the Printed Information container of the TWIC.

(2) The TWIC-signed CHUID (with digital signature and expiration date).

(3) The TWIC resident biometric template.

(4) The TWIC digital facial image.

(5) The PACS Personal Identification Number (PIN).

(c) When first linked, a one-time electronic TWIC inspection must be performed, and the TWIC must be verified as authentic, valid, and biometrically matched to the individual presenting the TWIC.

(d) Each time the PACS card is used to gain access to a secure area, the PACS must-

(1) Conduct identity verification by:

(i) Conducting a biometric scan, and match the result with the biometric template stored in the PACS that is linked to the TWIC, or

(ii) Having the individual enter a stored PACS PIN and conducting a Non-TWIC visual identity verification as defined in ยง 101.105.

(2) Conduct a card validity check; and

(3) Maintain records in accordance with ยง 104.235(g) or ยง 105.225(g) of this subchapter, as appropriate.
