
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter H - Maritime Security
#### PART 101 - MARITIME SECURITY: GENERAL
##### Subpart E - Other Provisions
###### ยง 101.550 TWIC inspection requirements in special circumstances.
####### Special requirements for Risk Group A vessels and facilities.

(c)If a TWIC reader or a PACS cannot read an individual's biometric templates due to poor biometric quality or no biometrics enrolled, the owner or operator may grant the individual unescorted access to secure areas based on either of the following secondary authentication procedures:

(1) The owner or operator must conduct a visual TWIC inspection and require the individual to correctly submit his or her TWIC Personal Identification Number.

(2) [Reserved]

(d) If an individual cannot present a TWIC for any reason other than those outlined in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, the vessel or facility operator may not grant the individual unescorted access to secure areas. The individual must be under escort at all times while in the secure area.

(e) With the exception of individuals granted access according to paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, all individuals granted unescorted access to secure areas of a vessel, facility, or OCS facility must be able to produce their TWICs upon request from the TSA, the Coast Guard, another authorized Department of Homeland Security representative, or a Federal, State, or local law enforcement officer.

(f) There must be disciplinary measures in place to prevent fraud and abuse.

(g) Owners or operators must establish the frequency of the application of any security measures for access control in their approved security plans, particularly if these security measures are applied on a random or occasional basis.

(h) The vessel, facility, or OCS facility operator should coordinate the TWIC Program, when practical, with identification and TWIC access control measures of other entities that interface with the vessel, facility, or OCS facility.
