
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter H - Maritime Security
#### PART 104 - MARITIME SECURITY: VESSELS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 104.115 Compliance.

(a) Vessel owners or operators must ensure their vessels are operating in compliance with this part.

(b) Owners or operators of foreign vessels must comply with the following-

(1) Vessels subject to the International Convention for Safety of Life at Sea, 1974, (SOLAS), Chapter XI-1 or Chapter XI-2, must carry on board a valid International Ship Security Certificate that certifies that the verifications required by part A, Section 19.1, of the International Ship and Port Facility Security (ISPS) Code (Incorporated by reference, see ยง 101.115 of this subchapter) have been completed. This includes ensuring that the vessel meets the applicable requirements of SOLAS Chapter XI-2 (Incorporated by reference, see ยง 101.115 of this chapter) and the ISPS Code, part A, having taken into account the relevant provisions of the ISPS Code, part B, and that the vessel is provided with an approved security plan.

(2) Vessels not subject to SOLAS Chapter XI-1 or Chapter XI-2, may comply with this part through an Alternative Security Program or a bilateral arrangement approved by the Coast Guard. If not complying with an approved Alternative Security Program or bilateral arrangement, these vessels must meet the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.

(c) By August 23, 2018, owners and operators of vessels subject to this part must amend their Vessel Security Plans to indicate how they will implement the TWIC requirements in this subchapter. By August 23, 2018, owners and operators of vessels subject to this part must operate in accordance with the TWIC provisions found within this subchapter.
