
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter H - Maritime Security
#### PART 104 - MARITIME SECURITY: VESSELS
##### Subpart B - Vessel Security Requirements
###### ยง 104.230 Drill and exercise requirements.
####### Drills.

(b)(1) The VSO must ensure that at least one security drill is conducted at least every 3 months, except when a vessel is out of service due to repairs or seasonal suspension of operation provided that in such cases a drill must be conducted within one week of the vessel's reactivation. Security drills may be held in conjunction with non-security drills where appropriate.

(2) Drills must test individual elements of the VSP, including response to security threats and incidents. Drills should take into account the types of operations of the vessel, vessel personnel changes, and other relevant circumstances. Examples of drills include unauthorized entry to a restricted area, response to alarms, and notification of law enforcement authorities.

(3) If the vessel is moored at a facility on the date the facility has planned to conduct any drills, the vessel may, but is not required to, participate in the facility's scheduled drill.

(4) Drills must be conducted within one week from whenever the percentage of vessel personnel with no prior participation in a vessel security drill on that vessel exceeds 25 percent.

(5) Not withstanding paragraph (b)(4) of this section, vessels not subject to SOLAS may conduct drills within 1 week from whenever the percentage of vessel personnel with no prior participation in a vessel security drill on a vessel of similar design and owned or operated by the same company exceeds 25 percent.
