
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter H - Maritime Security
#### PART 104 - MARITIME SECURITY: VESSELS
##### Subpart B - Vessel Security Requirements
###### ยง 104.255 Declaration of Security (DoS).

(a) Each vessel owner or operator must ensure procedures are established for requesting a DoS and for handling DoS requests from a facility or other vessel.

(b) At MARSEC Level 1, the Master or Vessel Security Officer (VSO), or their designated representative, of any cruise ship or manned vessel carrying Certain Dangerous Cargoes, in bulk, must complete and sign a DoS with the VSO or Facility Security Officer (FSO), or their designated representative, of any vessel or facility with which it interfaces.

(1) For a vessel-to-facility interface, prior to arrival of a vessel to a facility, the FSO and Master, VSO, or their designated representatives must coordinate security needs and procedures, and agree upon the contents of the DoS for the period of time the vessel is at the facility. Upon a vessel's arrival to a facility and prior to any passenger embarkation or disembarkation or cargo transfer operation, the FSO or Master, VSO, or designated representatives must sign the written DoS.

(2) For a vessel engaging in a vessel-to-vessel activity, prior to the activity, the respective Masters, VSOs, or their designated representatives must coordinate security needs and procedures, and agree upon the contents of the DoS for the period of the vessel-to-vessel activity. Upon the vessel-to-vessel activity and prior to any passenger embarkation or disembarkation or cargo transfer operation, the respective Masters, VSOs, or designated representatives must sign the written DoS.

(c) At MARSEC Levels 2 and 3, the Master, VSO, or designated representative of any manned vessel required to comply with this part must coordinate security needs and procedures, and agree upon the contents of the DoS for the period of the vessel-to-vessel activity. Upon the vessel-to-vessel activity and prior to any passenger embarkation or disembarkation or cargo transfer operation, the respective Masters, VSOs, or designated representatives must sign the written DoS.

(d) At MARSEC Levels 2 and 3, the Master, VSO, or designated representative of any manned vessel required to comply with this part must coordinate security needs and procedures, and agree upon the contents of the DoS for the period the vessel is at the facility. Upon the vessel's arrival to a facility and prior to any passenger embarkation or disembarkation or cargo transfer operation, the respective FSO and Master, VSO, or designated representatives must sign the written DoS.

(e) At MARSEC Levels 1 and 2, VSOs of vessels that frequently interface with the same facility may implement a continuing DoS for multiple visits, provided that:

(1) The DoS is valid for the specific MARSEC Level;

(2) The effective period at MARSEC Level 1 does not exceed 90 days; and

(3) The effective period at MARSEC Level 2 does not exceed 30 days.

(f) When the MARSEC Level increases beyond the level contained in the DoS, the continuing DoS becomes void and a new DoS must be signed and implemented in accordance with this section.

(g) The COTP may require at any time, at any MARSEC Level, any manned vessel subject to this part to implement a DoS with the VSO or FSO prior to any vessel-to-vessel activity or vessel-to-facility interface when he or she deems it necessary.
