
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter H - Maritime Security
#### PART 104 - MARITIME SECURITY: VESSELS
##### Subpart D - Vessel Security Plan (VSP)
###### ยง 104.400 General.
####### http://www.uscg.mil/HQ/MSC.

(b) The VSP must be submitted to the Commanding Officer, Marine Safety Center, U.S. Coast Guard, 4200 Wilson Boulevard Suite 400, Arlington, VA 22203 for visitors. Send all mail to: Commanding Officer (MSC), Attn: Marine Safety Center, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7430, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7430, in a written or electronic format. Information for submitting the VSP electronically can be found atOwners or operators of foreign flag vessels that are subject to SOLAS Chapter XI-1 or Chapter XI-2 must comply with this part by carrying on board a valid International Ship Security Certificate that certifies that the verifications required by Section 19.1 of part A of the ISPS Code (Incorporated by reference, see ยง 101.115 of this subchapter) have been completed. As stated in Section 9.4 of the ISPS Code, part A requires that, in order for the ISSC to be issued, the provisions of part B of the ISPS Code need to be taken into account.

(c) The VSP is sensitive security information and must be protected in accordance with 49 CFR part 1520.

(d) If the VSP is kept in an electronic format, procedures must be in place to prevent its unauthorized deletion, destruction, or amendment.
