
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 5 - COAST GUARD AUXILIARY
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 5.5 Organization, officers, and leadership.

(a) The Coast Guard Auxiliary is organized pursuant to the Auxiliary Act and Coast Guard regulations. Organizational elements include a national board and staff, national leadership, areas, districts, regions, divisions, and flotillas. A flotilla is the basic organizational unit of the Auxiliary.

(b) The Auxiliary has elected and appointed officers.

(1) Elected officers are in charge of Auxiliary units and elements at both the national and local levels of the Auxiliary organization. The Unit Leader is the senior elected officer at each level of the Auxiliary organization: Flotilla Commanders, Division Commanders, District Commodores, and the National Commodore are unit leaders.

(2) Appointed officers are appointed by elected officers and hold staff positions in Auxiliary units at both the national and local levels of the Auxiliary organization.

(c) For all Auxiliary units, the Unit Leader is the person authorized to exercise the authority set forth in ยง 5.7 on behalf of his or her unit, and may delegate that authority.

(d) For all Auxiliary units, the Finance Officer is the person authorized to handle, transfer and disburse bank accounts, monies, stocks, bonds, and other items of intangible personal property on behalf of his or her Auxiliary Unit.
