
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter H - Maritime Security
#### PART 106 - MARINE SECURITY: OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF (OCS) FACILITIES
##### Subpart D - Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) Facility Security Plan (FSP)
###### ยง 106.410 Submission and approval.

(a) The owner or operator of each OCS facility currently in operation must either-

(1) Submit one copy of the Facility Security Plan (FSP) for review and approval to the cognizant District Commander and a letter certifying that the FSP meets the applicable requirements of this part; or

(2) If intending to operate under an Approved Alternative Security Program, submit a letter signed by the OCS facility owner or operator stating which approved Alternative Security Program the owner or operator intends to use.

(b) Owners or operators of OCS facilities not in service on or before December 31, 2003, must comply with the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section 60 days prior to beginning operations.

(c) The cognizant District Commander will examine each submission for compliance with this part and either:

(1) Approve it and specify any conditions of approval, returning to the submitter a letter stating its acceptance and any conditions;

(2) Return it for revision, returning a copy to the submitter with brief descriptions of the required revisions; or

(3) Disapprove it, returning a copy to the submitter with a brief statement of the reasons for disapproval.

(d) An FSP may be submitted and approved to cover more than one OCS facility where they share similarities in physical characteristics, location, and operations.

(e) Each OCS facility owner or operator that submits one FSP to cover two or more OCS facilities of similar design, location, and operation must address OCS facility-specific information that includes the physical and operational characteristics of each OCS facility.

(f) An FSP that is approved by the cognizant District Commander is valid for 5 years from the date of its approval. The cognizant District Commander will issue an approval letter, as indicated in ยง 106.115 of this part.
