
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter H - Maritime Security
#### PART 106 - MARINE SECURITY: OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF (OCS) FACILITIES
##### Subpart D - Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) Facility Security Plan (FSP)
###### ยง 106.415 Amendment and audit.
####### Amendments.

(a)(1) Amendments to a Facility Security Plan (FSP) that are approved by the cognizant District Commander may be initiated by:

(i) The OCS facility owner or operator; or

(ii) The cognizant District Commander, upon a determination that an amendment is needed to maintain the OCS facility's security. The cognizant District Commander will give the OCS facility owner or operator written notice and request that the OCS facility owner or operator propose amendments addressing any matters specified in the notice. The OCS facility owner or operator will have at least 60 days to submit its proposed amendments. Until amendments are approved, the OCS facility owner or operator shall ensure temporary security measures are implemented to the satisfaction of the cognizant District Commander.

(2) Proposed amendments must be sent to the cognizant District Commander. If initiated by the OCS facility owner or operator, the proposed amendment must be submitted at least 30 days before the amendment is to take effect unless the cognizant District Commander allows a shorter period. The cognizant District Commander will approve or disapprove the proposed amendment in accordance with ยง 106.410 of this subpart.

(3) Nothing in this section should be construed as limiting the OCS facility owner or operator from the timely implementation of such additional security measures not enumerated in the approved FSP as necessary to address exigent security situations. In such cases, the owner or operator must notify the cognizant District Commander by the most rapid means practicable as to the nature of the additional measures, the circumstances that prompted these additional measures, and the period of time these additional measures are expected to be in place.

(4) If the owner or operator has changed, the Facility Security Officer (FSO) must amend the Facility Security Plan (FSP) to include the name and contact information of the new OCS facility owner(s) or operator(s) and submit the affected portion of the FSP for review and approval in accordance with ยง 106.410 of this subpart.
