
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter H - Maritime Security
#### PART 107 - NATIONAL VESSEL AND FACILITY CONTROL MEASURES AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart B - Unauthorized Entry Into Cuban Territorial Waters
###### ยง 107.215 Regulations.

(a) Each person or vessel to which this subpart applies may not get underway or depart from U.S. territorial waters without a written permit from the Commander, Seventh Coast Guard District, or the District Commander's designee. Permits may be obtained pursuant to the process established in ยง 107.220. The owner, agent, master, or person in charge of the vessel must maintain the written permit for the vessel on board the vessel.

(b) Each person or vessel to which this subpart applies must obey any oral or written order issued by a Coast Guard Area or District Commander, or their designees, who may issue oral or written orders to control the anchorage or movement of such vessels and persons. Designees include Captains of the Port, and commissioned, warrant and petty officers of the Coast Guard.

(c) No person or vessel to which this subpart applies may obstruct or interfere with the exercise of any power conferred by this subpart.

(d) Coast Guard commissioned, warrant and petty officers may go or remain on board a vessel subject to this subpart, may place guards on the subject vessel, may remove all persons not specifically authorized by the Coast Guard to go or remain on board the subject vessel, and may take full or partial possession or control of any such vessel or part thereof, or person on board. Such actions to be taken are in the discretion of the Coast Guard Area or District Commander, or their designees, as deemed necessary to ensure compliance with this subpart and any order given pursuant thereto.

(e) Where there is a reasonable, articulable basis to believe a vessel to which this subpart applies intends to enter Cuban territorial waters, any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer may require the owners, agents, masters, officers, or persons in charge, or any member of the crew of any such vessel to provide verbal assurance that the vessel will not enter Cuban territorial waters as a condition for a vessel to get underway from a berth, pier, mooring, or anchorage in U.S. territorial waters, or to depart from U.S. territorial waters. A Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer may require the owners, agents, masters, officers, or persons in charge of the vessel to identify all persons on board the vessel and provide verbal assurances that all persons on board have received actual notice of these regulations. The failure of an owner, agent, master, officer, or person in charge, or any member of the crew of any vessel (including all auxiliary vessels) to which this subpart applies to provide requested verbal assurances shall not be used as the sole basis for seizing the vessel for forfeiture under this subpart.

(f) The provisions of this subpart are in addition to any powers conferred by law upon Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officers, and not in limitation of any powers conferred by law or regulation upon such officers, or any other officers of the United States.
