
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter H - Maritime Security
#### PART 107 - NATIONAL VESSEL AND FACILITY CONTROL MEASURES AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart B - Unauthorized Entry Into Cuban Territorial Waters
###### ยง 107.220 Permits.

(a) Applications for a permit may be obtained by writing or calling the Chief of Response at Commander, Seventh Coast Guard District (dr), 909 SE First Avenue, Miami, FL 33131, telephone (305) 415-6800, or by such other means as the District Commander may make available to the public. The completed application may be returned via regular mail or facsimile to the Chief of Response at Commander, Seventh Coast Guard District (dr), 909 SE First Avenue, Miami, FL 33131, facsimile (305) 415-6809, or by other means prescribed by the District Commander for the convenience of the applicant.

(b) All applications must be written in English and legible.

(c) The information and documentation in this paragraph must be provided with the application in order for it to be complete and considered by the Coast Guard:

(1) The name, address, and telephone number of the applicant;

(2) A copy of the valid vessel registration;

(3) A copy of a valid and applicable license issued to the applicant by the U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security, pursuant to the Export Administration Regulations, 15 CFR chapter VII, subchapter C, parts 730-774 for the export of the vessel to Cuba; and

(4) A copy of a valid and applicable specific license issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC), pursuant to the Cuban Assets Control Regulations, 31 CFR part 515, authorizing the applicant's travel-related transactions in Cuba. Applicants who do not require such an OFAC specific license shall make a written certification to that effect identifying which OFAC general license applies or explaining why no OFAC license is required.

(d) Such applications must provide the documentation required by ยง 107.220(c) for each person to which this subpart applies on board the particular vessel.

(e) Upon receiving an application for a permit, the Seventh Coast Guard District Commander (dr) has ten (10) calendar days from the receipt of the application to decide whether the application is complete and, if so, whether a permit will be issued or denied. Applicants will be notified in writing of the decision to issue or deny a permit. Incomplete applications will be returned to the applicant, along with the reasons why such application was deemed incomplete.
