
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter H - Maritime Security
#### PART 107 - NATIONAL VESSEL AND FACILITY CONTROL MEASURES AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart B - Unauthorized Entry Into Cuban Territorial Waters
###### ยง 107.225 Appeals.

(a) Upon written notification by the Coast Guard that an application has been denied, the applicant may request the Seventh Coast Guard District Commander to reconsider. The request to reconsider must be in writing, must be made within five (5) business days from the date of receipt of the initial denial, and must contain complete supporting documentation and evidence which the applicant wishes to have considered. Requests for reconsideration must be mailed to Commander, Seventh Coast Guard District (d), 909 SE First Avenue, Miami, FL 33131.

(b) Upon receipt of the request to reconsider, the Seventh Coast Guard District Commander may direct a representative to gather and submit documentation or other evidence, which, in the judgment of the Seventh District Commander, would be necessary or helpful to a resolution of the request. If gathered and submitted, a copy of this documentation and evidence shall be made available to the applicant. The applicant shall be afforded five (5) business days from the date of receipt of documentation and evidence gathered by the Seventh Coast Guard District Commander's representative to submit rebuttal materials. On or before the fifteenth (15th) calendar day following submission of all materials, the Seventh Coast Guard District Commander shall issue a ruling, in writing, on the request to reconsider. The ruling may reverse the initial denial, or, if the denial is upheld, must contain the specific basis for denial of the application upon reconsideration.

(c) The Seventh Coast Guard District Commander's denial of a request for reconsideration taken under paragraph (b) of this section constitutes final agency action.
