
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Anchorages
#### PART 109 - GENERAL
##### ยง 109.05 Anchorage grounds.

(a) Section 7 of the Rivers and Harbors Act of March 4, 1915 (33 U.S.C. 471), authorizes the establishment of anchorage grounds for vessels in navigable waters of the United States whenever it is apparent that these are required by the maritime or commercial interests of the United States for safe navigation. The statute also authorizes the adoption of suitable rules and regulations regarding the establishment of anchorage grounds, which are enforced by the Coast Guard. The authority conferred by this statute was transferred to and vested in the Secretary of Homeland Security by section 902(j) of the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Act of 2006 (Pub. L. 109-241, 120 Stat. 516), and delegated to the Commandant of the U.S. Coast Guard in Department of Homeland Security Delegation No. 0170.1. The Commandant redelegated the authority to establish anchorage grounds to each Coast Guard District Commander as provided in 33 CFR 1.05-1(e)(1)(i).

(b) District Commanders will, whenever matters relating to the anchorage of vessels are under consideration, ascertain the view of the District and Division Engineer, Corps of Engineers, U.S. Army, and the proper representatives of other departments likely to be interested, including the Commandant of the Naval District concerned and the medical officer in charge of the quarantine station at localities where quarantine anchorages are involved, in order that they may arrange for suitable representation at such hearings. The views of the medical officer in charge of the quarantine station relating to the proposed location and boundaries of the quarantine anchorage will be accepted insofar as practicable and consistent with the establishment of other anchorage areas. (An Act of Congress approved July 1, 1944, as amended (42 U.S.C. 267), authorizes the Surgeon General, with the approval of the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, to designate the boundaries of the quarantine grounds and quarantine anchorages for vessels which are reserved for use at each United States quarantine station.) A notice of public hearing concerning changes to the Anchorage Regulations will be issued by the District Commander and will be mailed to all known interested parties. After providing an opportunity for public participation, the District Commander will, if circumstances so warrant, issue changes to the Anchorage Regulations, or in appropriate cases forward recommendations for such changes to the Commandant.

(c) As soon as publication has been noted in thethe District Commander will publish changes to the Anchorage Regulations in the Local Notice to Mariners.
