
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 5 - COAST GUARD AUXILIARY
##### Subpart D - Facilities and Other Equipment
###### ยง 5.36 Loan of vessels, aircraft, radio stations, motorized vehicles, trailers, or other equipment to the Coast Guard.

(a) A vessel, aircraft, radio station, motorized vehicle, trailer, or other equipment may be loaned to the Coast Guard for a specific period, and must be returned at the expiration of that period, unless circumstances or an emergency make the return impracticable at that time. The Commandant will determine the method, time, and documents to be exchanged upon the return to the owner of any facility. The property will be re-inventoried as of the time, date, and place of re-delivery, and mutually settled by the owner and the Coast Guard representative. If the vessel, aircraft, radio station, motorized vehicle, trailer, or other equipment was accepted during an emergency, any claim for lost equipment or stores must be supported by invoices showing the date of purchase and the cost thereof by the person submitting the claim. The Coast Guard representative will take all proper precautions to protect the owner's interest, as well as that of the United States.

(b) Except as permitted in paragraph (c) of this section, no vessel, aircraft, radio station, motorized vehicle, trailer, or other equipment will be deemed loaned to the Coast Guard until an acceptance, on the prescribed form, has been signed on behalf of the Coast Guard by a person authorized by the Commandant to sign such an acceptance and a complete inventory of consumable and expendable stores and equipment has been made and mutually settled by the owner and the Coast Guard representative.

(c) In an emergency, a vessel, aircraft, radio station, motorized vehicle, trailer, or other equipment may be loaned to Coast Guard without an inventory or the use of the prescribed form.
