
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Anchorages
#### PART 110 - ANCHORAGE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Anchorage Grounds
###### ยง 110.140 Buzzards Bay, Nantucket Sound, and adjacent waters, Mass.
####### The regulations.

(d)(1) Floats or buoys for marking anchors or moorings in place will be allowed in all areas. Fixed mooring piles or stakes are prohibited.

(2) Except in cases of great emergency, no vessels shall be anchored in New Bedford Outer Harbor, Buzzards Bay near the entrance to the approach channel to Cape Cod Canal, or Vineyard and Nantucket Sounds, outside of the anchorage areas defined in paragraphs (a) to (c) of this section.

(3) Anchors must not be placed outside the anchorage areas, nor shall any vessel be so anchored that any portion of the hull or rigging will at any time extend outside the boundaries of the anchorage area.

(4) Any vessel anchoring under the circumstances of great emergency outside any anchorage area must be placed near the edge of the channel and in such position as not to interfere with the free navigation of the channel, nor obstruct the approach to any pier nor impede the movement of any boat, and shall move away immediately after the emergency ceases or upon notification by an officer of the Coast Guard.

(5) A vessel upon being notified to move into the anchorage limits or to shift its position in anchorage grounds must get under way at once or signal for a tug, and must change position as directed with reasonable promptness.

(6) Whenever the maritime or commercial interests of the United States so require, any officer of the Coast Guard is hereby empowered to shift the position of any vessel anchored within the anchorage areas, of any vessel anchored outside the anchorage areas, and of any vessel which is so moored or anchored as to impede or obstruct vessel movements in any channel.

(7) Nothing in this section shall be construed as relieving the owner or person in charge of any vessel from the penalties of the law for obstructing navigation or for obstructing or interfering with range lights, or for not complying with the navigation laws in regard to lights, fog signals, or for otherwise violating the law.
