
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Anchorages
#### PART 110 - ANCHORAGE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Anchorage Grounds
###### ยง 110.146 Long Island Sound.
####### General regulations.

(b)(1) These anchorages are designated for general purposes, but are intended primarily for use by commercial vessels of 300 gross tons and greater and all tank vessels including tank barges. Except in emergencies, commercial vessels of 300 gross tons and greater and all tank vessels, including tank barges, anchoring in the Captain of the Port Long Island Sound Zone inside the line of demarcation shall anchor in the anchorage grounds described above.

(2) Prior to anchoring in the anchorage area, all vessels shall notify the Coast Guard Captain of the Port via VHF-FM Channel 16.

(3) In anchorages where lightering and bunkering operations are authorized, the Captain of the Port must be notified at least four hours in advance of a vessel conducting lightering or bunkering operations, as required by 156.118 of this title. In addition, all lightering and bunkering operations must be done in accordance with 156.120 of this title.

(4) Within an anchorage, navigation is prohibited within 500 yards of an anchored vessel that is conducting bunkering or lightering operations. In accordance with the "Regulated Navigation Area: Long Island Sound Marine Inspection and Captain of the Port Zone," 33 CFR 165.153(d)(7), navigation also is prohibited within 100 yards of a vessel engaged in commercial service.

(5) Any vessel conducting lightering or bunkering operations shall display by day a red flag at its mast head or at least 10 feet above the upper deck if the vessel has no mast, and by night the flag must be illuminated by spotlight. These signals shall be in addition to day signals, lights, and whistle signals required by rules 30 (33 U.S.C. 2030) and 35 (33 U.S.C. 2035) of the Inland Navigation Rules when at anchor in a general anchorage area.

(6) Except as otherwise provided, a vessel may not occupy an anchorage for more than 30 days, unless the vessel obtains written permission from the Captain of the Port.

(7) If a request is made for the long-term lay up of a vessel, the Captain of the Port may establish special conditions with which the vessel must comply in order for such a request to be approved.

(8) The Captain of the Port may prescribe specific conditions for vessels anchoring within the anchorage grounds described in this section, pursuant to 33 CFR 109.05. These conditions may include, but are not limited to: The number and location of anchors; scope of chain; readiness of the engineering plant and equipment; use of tugs; and requirements for maintaining communication guards on selected radio frequencies.

(9) No vessel in such condition that it is likely to sink or otherwise become a menace or obstruction to navigation or anchorage of other vessels shall occupy an anchorage, except in cases where unforeseen circumstances create conditions of imminent peril to personnel, and then only for such period as may be authorized by the Captain of the Port.

(10) All vessels anchored within the designated anchorage grounds shall comply with the regulations found in 33 CFR 164.19 and shall maintain a continuous bridge watch by a licensed deck officer proficient in English, monitoring VHF-FM Channel 16. This individual shall confirm that the ship's crew performs frequent checks of the vessel's position to ensure the vessel is not dragging anchor. A second VHF-FM radio monitoring Channel 13 is strongly recommended.

(11) Anchors shall be placed well within the anchorage grounds so that no portion of the hull or rigging will at any time extend outside of the anchorage area.

(12) The Coast Guard Captain of the Port may close the anchorage area and direct vessels to depart the anchorage during periods of adverse weather or at other times as deemed necessary in the interest of port safety and security.

(13) Any vessel anchored in these grounds must be capable of getting underway if ordered by the Captain of the Port and must be able to do so within two (2) hours of notification by the Captain of the Port. If a vessel will not be able to get underway within two (2) hours of notification, permission must be requested from the Captain of the Port to remain in the anchorage. No vessel shall anchor in a "dead ship" status (propulsion or control unavailable for normal operations) without prior approval of the Captain of the Port.

(14) Fixed moorings, piles or stakes are prohibited.
