
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Anchorages
#### PART 110 - ANCHORAGE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Anchorage Grounds
###### ยง 110.149 Narragansett Bay, RI.
####### Brenton Point anchorage ground.

(a)An area bounded by the following coordinates: 41&#xB0;22&#x2032;37.1&#x2033; N, 71&#xB0;14&#x2032;40.3&#x2033; W; thence to 41&#xB0;20&#x2032;42.8&#x2033; N, 71&#xB0;14&#x2032;40.3&#x2033; W; thence to 41&#xB0;18&#x2032;24.1&#x2033; N, 71&#xB0;20&#x2032;32.5&#x2033; W; thence to 41&#xB0;20&#x2032;22.6&#x2033; N, 71&#xB0;20&#x2032;32.5&#x2033; W; thence back to point of origin.

(b) The following regulations apply in the Brenton Point anchorage ground.

(1) Prior to anchoring within the anchorage area, all vessels shall notify the Coast Guard Captain of the Port via VHF-FM Channel 16.

(2) Except as otherwise provided, no vessel may occupy this anchorage ground for a period of time in excess of 96 hours without prior approval of the Captain of the Port.

(3) If a request is made for the long-term lay up of a vessel, the Captain of the Port may establish special conditions with which the vessel must comply in order for such a request to be approved.

(4) No vessel in such condition that it is likely to sink or otherwise become a menace or obstruction to navigation or anchorage of other vessels shall occupy an anchorage except in cases where unforeseen circumstances create conditions of imminent peril to personnel and then only for such period as may be authorized by the Captain of the Port.

(5) Anchors shall be placed well within the anchorage areas so that no portion of the hull or rigging will at any time extend outside of the anchorage area.

(6) The Coast Guard Captain of the Port may close the anchorage area and direct vessels to depart the anchorage during periods of adverse weather or at other times as deemed necessary in the interest of port safety and security.

(7) Any vessel anchored in these grounds must be capable of getting underway if ordered by the Captain of the Port and must be able to do so within two hours of notification by the Captain of the Port. If a vessel will not be able to get underway within two hours of notification, permission must be requested from the Captain of the Port to remain in the anchorage. No vessel shall anchor in a "dead ship" status (propulsion or control unavailable for normal operations) without prior approval of the Captain of the Port.

(8) Brenton Point anchorage ground is a general anchorage area reserved primarily for commercial vessels waiting to enter Narragansett Bay.

(9) Temporary floats or buoys for marking anchors or moorings in place will be allowed in this area. Fixed mooring piles or stakes will not be allowed.

(10) All coordinates referenced use datum: NAD 83.
