
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Anchorages
#### PART 110 - ANCHORAGE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Anchorage Grounds
###### ยง 110.155 Port of New York.
####### General regulations.

(l)(1) No vessel in excess of 800 feet (243.84 meters) in length overall or 40 feet (12.192 meters) in draft may anchor unless it notifies the Captain of the Port at least 48 hours prior to entering Ambrose Channel.

(2) Except in cases of great emergency, no vessel shall be anchored in the navigable waters of the Port of New York outside of the anchorage areas established in this section, nor cast anchor within a cable or pipe line area shown on a Government chart, nor be moored, anchored, or tied up to any pier, wharf, or vessel in such manner as to obstruct or endanger the passage of any vessel in transit by, or to or from, adjacent wharves, piers, or slips.

(3) No vessel shall occupy for a longer period than 30 days, unless a permit is obtained from the Captain of the Port for that purpose, any anchorage for which the time of occupancy is not otherwise prescribed in this section. No vessel in a condition such that it is likely to sink or otherwise become a menace or obstruction to navigation or anchorage of other vessels shall occupy an anchorage except in an emergency, and then only for such period as may be permitted by the Captain of the Port.

(4) Whenever, in the opinion of the Captain of the Port, such action may be necessary, that officer may require any or all vessels in any designated anchorage area to moor with two or more anchors.

(5) Every vessel whose crew may be reduced to such number that it will not have sufficient men on board to weigh anchor at any time shall be anchored with two anchors, with mooring swivel put on before the crew shall be reduced or released, unless the Captain of the Port shall waive the requirement of a mooring swivel.

(6) Anchors of all vessels must be placed well within the anchorage areas, so that no portion of the hull or rigging shall at any time extend outside the boundaries of the anchorage area.

(7) Any vessel anchoring under circumstances of great emergency outside of the anchorage areas must be placed near the edge of the channel and in such position as not to interfere with the free navigation of the channel nor obstruct the approach to any pier nor impede the movement of any boat, and shall move away immediately after the emergency ceases, or upon notification by the Captain of the Port.

(8) Operations near commercial mooring buoys permitted by the District Engineer, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.

(i) No vessel shall continuously occupy a mooring when a vessel in regular traffic requires the berth or when navigation would be menaced or inconvenienced thereby.

(ii) No vessel shall moor or anchor in any anchorage in such a manner as to interfere with the use of a duly authorized mooring buoy. Nor shall any vessel moored to a buoy authorized by the District Engineer, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers be moored such that any portion of that vessel comes within 50 feet of a marked or dredged channel.

(iii) No vessel shall be operated within the limits of an anchorage at speed exceeding 6 knots when in the vicinity of a moored vessel.

(iv) In an emergency the Captain of the Port may shift the position of any unattended vessel moored in or near any anchorage.

(9) Barge dispensing stations and stake boats may be anchored in such places as the Captain of the Port may designate.

(10) Upon approval of the District Engineer, Corps of Engineers, the Captain of the Port may permit wrecking plant or other vessels legally engaged in recovering sunken property, or in laying or repairing pipe lines or cables legally established, or plant engaged in dredging operations, to anchor within channels of the Port of New York. Permit issued by the Captain of the Port is not necessary for plant engaged upon works of river and harbor improvement under the supervision of the District Engineer, but the District Engineer will notify the Captain of the Port in advance of all such proposed work.

(11) Whenever the maritime or commercial interests of the United States so require, the Captain of the Port is hereby empowered to shift the position of any vessel anchored within the anchorage areas, of any vessel anchored outside the anchorage areas, of any vessel which is so moored or anchored as to impede or obstruct vessel movements in any channel or obstruct or interfere with range lights and of any vessel which, lying at the exterior end of a pier or alongside an open bulkhead, obstructs or endangers the passage of vessels in transit by, or to or from, adjacent wharf property or impedes the movements of vessels entering or leaving adjacent slips.

(12) A vessel upon being notified to move into the anchorage limits or to shift its position on anchorage grounds, shall get under way at once or signal for a tug, and shall change position as directed, with reasonable promptness.

(13) Nothing in this section shall be construed as relieving any vessel or the owner or person in charge of any vessel from the penalties of law for obstructing navigation or for obstructing or interfering with range lights, or for not complying with the navigation laws in regard to lights, fog signals, or for otherwise violating law.

(14) Any vessel prohibited by these rules from anchoring in a specific anchorage because of the vessel's length or draft may anchor in the anchorage with permission from the Captain of the Port.
