
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Anchorages
#### PART 110 - ANCHORAGE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Anchorage Grounds
###### ยง 110.155 Port of New York.
####### Regulations for explosive anchorages.

(n)(1) Anchorages Nos. 49-F and 49-G are reserved for vessels carrying explosives. All vessels carrying explosives shall be within these areas when anchored, except as provided in paragraph (n)(6) of this section.

(2) A written permit shall be obtained from the Captain of the Port before vessels carrying explosives, or on which explosives are to be loaded, may proceed to the anchorages provided for them; and no vessel shall occupy a berth in such anchorage except by authority of such permit, which permit may be revoked at any time.

(3) Vessels used in connection with loading or unloading explosives on vessels in anchorage areas, including tugs and stevedore boats, shall carry a written permit from the Captain of the Port. The Captain of the Port may, in his discretion, require every person having business on board vessels which are being loaded with explosives, other than members of the crew, to have a pass from the Captain of the Port in such form as he shall prescribe. Such permit or pass shall be shown whenever required by him or by his authorized agents.

(4) Whenever any vessel not fitted with mechanical power anchors in the explosives anchorages while carrying explosives, the Captain of the Port may require the attendance of a tug upon such vessel when in his judgment such action is necessary.

(5) Vessels carrying explosives shall comply with the general regulations in paragraph (l) of this section when applicable.

(6) The District Engineer, Corps of Engineers, may authorize, in writing, a vessel carrying explosives for use on river and harbor works or on other work under Federal permit issued by the District Engineer to anchor in or near the vicinity of such work without a permit from the Captain of the Port. The District Engineer will prescribe the quantities of such explosives allowed on such vessel and the conditions under which they are to be stored and handled, and will furnish the Captain of the Port with a copy of such safety instructions together with a copy of his written authorization.

(7) Every vessel loading, unloading, transporting, or containing explosives shall display by day a red flag at least 16 square feet in area at its masthead, or at least 10 feet above the upper deck if the vessel has no mast, and shall display by night a red light in the same position specified for the flag.

(8) When local regulations of any place require previous local authority for the transfer of explosives or fireworks between vessels or between a vessel and a wharf or other place ashore, the Captain of the Port will permit the removal from the anchorage of such vessel containing explosives to any place covered by such local regulations only when he is satisfied that the required local authority has been granted.
