
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Anchorages
#### PART 110 - ANCHORAGE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Anchorage Grounds
###### ยง 110.157 Delaware Bay and River.
####### General regulations.

(b)(1) Except in cases of great emergency, no vessel shall be anchored in Delaware Bay and River between Ship John Light and The Pennsylvania Railroad Company bridge at Delair, New Jersey, outside of the anchorage areas established in this section, or within a cable or pipe line area shown on a Government chart, or be moored, anchored, or tied up to any pier, wharf, or other vessel in such manner as to obstruct or endanger the passage of any vessel. When an emergent condition exists due to congestion in the prescribed anchorage areas in the Delaware River, the Captain of the Port may authorize the anchorage of vessels in locations other than the prescribed areas. Vessels so anchored must not be anchored within the channel limits. Any vessel anchored outside of the prescribed anchorage limits must move to a prescribed anchorage area when space becomes available.

(2) No vessel shall occupy any prescribed anchorage for a longer period than 48 hours without a permit from the Captain of the Port. Vessels expecting to be at anchor for more than 48 hours shall obtain a permit from the Captain of the Port for that purpose. No vessel in such condition that it is likely to sink or otherwise become a menace or obstruction to navigation or anchorage of other vessels shall occupy an anchorage except in an emergency, and then only for such period as may be permitted by the Captain of the Port.

(3) Whenever, in the opinion of the Captain of the Port such action may be necessary, he may require any or all vessels in any designated anchorage area to moor with two or more anchors.

(4) [Reserved]

(5) Anchors shall be placed well within the anchorage areas, so that no portion of the hull or rigging will at any time extend outside of the anchorage area.

(6) Light-draft barges using the anchorages shall be anchored away from the deeper portions of the anchorages, so as not to interfere with the anchoring of deep-draft vessels. Any barges towed in tandem to an anchorage area shall be bunched together when anchoring.

(7) Upon approval of the District Engineer, Corps of Engineers, the Captain of the Port may permit wrecking plant or other vessels legally engaged in recovering sunken property, or in laying or repairing pipe lines or cables, or plant engaged in dredging operations, to anchor in channels. Such permission is not necessary for plant engaged upon works of river and harbor improvement under the supervision of the District Engineer, but the District Engineer will notify the Captain of the Port in advance of all such proposed work.

(8) [Reserved]

(9) A vessel upon being notified to shift its position shall get under way at once or signal for a tug and shall change position as directed with reasonable promptness.

(10) Nothing in this section shall be construed as relieving any vessel or the owner or person in charge of any vessel from the penalties of law for obstructing navigation or for obstructing or interfering with range lights, or for not complying with the laws relating to lights and fog signals or other navigation laws and regulations.

(11) Annually from September 1 until December 31, additional requirements and restrictions in this paragraph for the use of anchorages defined in paragraphs (a)(7), (a)(8), and (a)(10) of this section apply.

(i) Before anchoring in Anchorage 7 off Marcus Hook, as described in paragraph (a)(8) of this section, a vessel must first obtain permission from the Captain of the Port, Philadelphia, at least 24 hours in advance of arrival. Permission to anchor will be granted on a "first-come, first-served" basis. The Captain of the Port, Philadelphia, will allow only one vessel at a time to be at anchor in Anchorage 7, and no vessel may remain within Anchorage 7 for more than 12 hours. Any vessel arriving from or departing to sea that requires an examination by the public health service, customs or immigration authorities will be directed to an anchorage for the required inspection by the Captain of the Port on a case-by-case basis.

(ii) For Anchorage 6 off Deepwater Point, as described in paragraph (a)(7) of this section, and Anchorage 9 as described in paragraph (a)(10) of this section.

(A) Any vessel 700 feet or greater in length requesting anchorage shall obtain permission from the Captain of the Port, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, at least 24 hours in advance.

(B) Any vessel from 700 to 750 feet in length shall have one tug alongside at all times while the vessel is at anchor.

(C) Any vessel greater than 750 feet in length shall have two tugs alongside at all times while the vessel is at anchor.

(D) The Master, owner or operator of a vessel at anchor shall ensure that any tug required by this section is of sufficient horsepower to assist with necessary maneuvers to keep the vessel clear of the navigation channel.

(iii) As used in this section, Captain of the Port means the Commander of Sector Delaware Bay or any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant or petty officer who has been authorized by the Captain of the Port to act on his behalf. The Captain of the Port may be contacted by telephone at (215) 271-4807 or via VHF marine band radio, channel 16.
