
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Anchorages
#### PART 110 - ANCHORAGE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Anchorage Grounds
###### ยง 110.157 Delaware Bay and River.
####### Regulations for vessels carrying and handling explosives.

(c)(1) All vessels carrying explosives as defined in and subject to Title 49 Code of Federal Regulations, Parts 171 through 177, or on which such explosives are to be loaded, shall obtain a permit from the Captain of the Port, except as provided in paragraph (c)(5) of this section. The maximum amount of explosives for which a permit is required in 49 CFR Parts 171 through 177, which may be carried or loaded at any time by a vessel shall not exceed 800 tons, except in cases of great emergency or by special permit from the Captain of the Port. This written permit shall be obtained from the Captain of the Port before vessels carrying explosives or on which explosives are to be loaded within the weight limit specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, may anchor in any anchorge. Permits will not be issued for Anchorage 2 under any circumstances. Such permit may be revoked at any time. All vessels used in connection with loading, or unloading explosives shall carry written permits from the Captain of the Port, and shall show such permit whenever required by him or his representative.

(2) Vessels handling explosives shall be anchored so as to be at least 2,200 feet from any other vessel, but the number of vessels which may anchor in an anchorage at any one time shall be at the discretion of the Captain of the Port. This provision is not intended to prohibit barges or lighters from tying up alongside the vessels for the transfer of cargo.

(3) Whenever a vessel or barge not mechanically self-propelled anchors while carrying explosives or while awaiting the loading of explosives, the Captain of the Port may require the attendance of a tug upon such vessel or barge when in his judgment such action is necessary.

(4) Fishing and navigation are prohibited within an anchorage whenever occupied by an anchored vessel displaying a red flag.

(5) The District Engineer, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, may authorize, in writing, a vessel carrying explosives for use on river and harbor works or on other work under Department of the Army permit, to anchor in or near the vicinity of such work. The Captain of the Port will prescribe the conditions under which explosives shall be stored and handled in such cases.

(6) Vessels carrying explosives or on which explosives are to be loaded, within the weight limit specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, shall comply with the general regulations in paragraph (b) of this section when applicable.

(7) Nothing in this section shall be construed as relieving any vessel or the owner or person-in-charge of any vessel, and all others concerned, of the duties and responsibilities imposed upon them to comply with the regulations governing the handling, loading or discharging of explosives entitled "Subchapter C-Hazardous Materials Regulations" (49 CFR Parts 171 through 177).
