
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Anchorages
#### PART 110 - ANCHORAGE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Anchorage Grounds
###### ยง 110.158 Baltimore Harbor, MD.
####### General regulations.

(c)(1) Except as otherwise provided, this section applies to vessels over 20 meters long and all vessels carrying or handling certain dangerous cargo while anchored in an anchorage ground described in this section.

(2) Except in cases where unforeseen circumstances create conditions of imminent peril, or with the permission of the Captain of the Port, no vessel shall be anchored in Baltimore Harbor or the Patapsco River outside of the anchorage areas established in this section for more than 24 hours. No vessel shall anchor within a tunnel, cable or pipeline area shown on a government chart. No vessel shall be moored, anchored, or tied up to any pier, wharf, or other vessel in such manner as to extend into established channel limits. No vessel shall be positioned so as to obstruct or endanger the passage of any other vessel.

(3) Except in an emergency, a vessel that is likely to sink or otherwise become an obstruction to navigation or the anchoring of other vessels may not occupy an anchorage, unless the vessel obtains permission from the Captain of the Port.

(4) Upon notification by the Captain of the Port to shift its position, a vessel at anchor must get underway and shall move to its new designated position within two hours after notification.

(5) The Captain of the Port may prescribe specific conditions for vessels anchoring within the anchorages described in this section, including, but not limited to, the number and location of anchors, scope of chain, readiness of engineering plant and equipment, usage of tugs, and requirements for maintaining communication guards on selected radio frequencies.

(6) No vessel at anchor or at a mooring within an anchorage may transfer oil to or from another vessel unless the vessel has given the Captain of the Port the four hours advance notice required by ยง 156.118 of this chapter.

(7) No vessel shall anchor in a "dead ship" status (propulsion or control unavailable for normal operations) without prior approval of the Captain of the Port.
