
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Anchorages
#### PART 110 - ANCHORAGE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Anchorage Grounds
###### ยง 110.159 Annapolis Harbor, MD.
####### The regulations.

(b)(1) Except in the case of emergency, no vessel shall be anchored in the area to the north and east of the Annapolis Channel bounded on the east by Greenbury Point; on the south by a line bearing 270&#xB0; from the southern tip of Greenbury Point; on the west by the Annapolis Channel; on the north by the southern boundry of the cable area and the shoreline of the Government reservation and Carr Creek.

(2) Except in the case of emergency, no vessel shall be anchored in Annapolis Harbor to the westward of the dredged channel and northward of the southern boundry of the South Anchorage outside of the established anchorage areas, except in Spa Creek and the area to the southwestward of the Naval anchorage for small craft. No vessel shall be so anchored that any part of the vessel extends at any time within this area. Any vessel anchoring, under great emergency, within this area shall be placed as close to an anchorage area as practicable, and shall move away immediately after the emergency ceases.

(3) No vessel shall be anchored in the cable and pipeline area, lying between the Naval Academy and the Naval Ship Research and Development Laboratory and having the following limits: Southeastern limit, from Triton Light 072&#xB0; to white "Cable Crossing" sign at the Naval Ship Research and Development Laboratory; northwestern limit, a line bearing 054&#xB0; from the Capitol Dome.

(4) Except in the case of emergency, no vessel shall be anchored, without permission of the Superintendent, U.S. Naval Academy, in the Naval Academy Drill area described as follows:

That portion of the Severn River lying to the northeastward of the Naval Academy, bounded on the north by the State Highway Bridge and on the south by the northern limit of the cable and pipeline area, excluding that area off the eastern shoreline enclosed by a line bearing approximately 131&#xB0; from the eastern abutment of the State Highway Bridge to the vicinity of Ferry Point. This drill area also includes the lower part of Dorseys Creek below the Naval Academy Drawbridge. Requests to anchor in this drill area shall be made to the Superintendent, U.S. Naval Academy.

(5) The restrictions in this section do not apply to the anchoring or marking by buoys of apparatus used for the purpose of taking seafood, except within the cable or pipeline area described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(6) The regulations in paragraph (b) of this section shall be enforced by the Superintendent, U.S. Naval Academy, and such agencies as he may designate.
