
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Anchorages
#### PART 110 - ANCHORAGE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Anchorage Grounds
###### ยง 110.168 Hampton Roads, Virginia and adjacent waters.
####### General regulations.

(c)(1) Except as otherwise provided, this section applies to vessels over 20 meters long and vessels carrying or handling dangerous cargo or Class 1 (explosive) materials while anchored in an anchorage ground described in this section.

(2) Except as otherwise provided, a vessel may not occupy an anchorage for more than 30 days, unless the vessel obtains permission from the Captain of the Port.

(3) Except in an emergency, a vessel that is likely to sink or otherwise become a menace or obstruction to navigation or to the anchoring of other vessels, may not occupy an anchorage, unless the vessel obtains permission from the Captain of the Port.

(4) The Captain of the Port may, upon application, assign a vessel to a specific berth within an anchorage for a specified period of time.

(5) The Captain of the Port may grant a revocable permit to a vessel for a habitual use of a berth. Only the vessel that holds the revocable permit may use the berth during the period that the permit is in effect.

(6) The Commander, Fifth Coast Guard District, may authorize the establishment and placement of temporary mooring buoys within a berth. Placement of a fixed structure within an anchorage may be authorized by the District Engineer, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.

(7) If an application is for the long-term lay up of a vessel, the Captain of the Port may establish special conditions in the permit with which the vessel must comply.

(8) Upon notification by the Captain of the Port to shift its position within an anchorage, a vessel at anchor must get underway at once or signal for a tug. The vessel must move to its new location within 2 hours after notification.

(9) The Captain of the Port may prescribe specific conditions for vessels anchoring within the anchorages described in this section, including, but not limited to, the number and location of anchors, scope of chain, readiness of engineering plant and equipment, usage of tugs, and requirements for maintaining communications guards on selected radio frequencies.

(10) A vessel that does not have a sufficient crew on board to weigh anchor at any time must have two anchors in place, unless the Captain of the Port waives this requirement. Members of the crew may not be released until the required anchors have been set.

(11) No vessel at anchor or at a mooring within an anchorage may transfer oil to another vessel unless the vessel has given the Captain of the Port the four hours advance notice required by ยง 156.118 of this title.

(12) Barges may not anchor in the deeper portions of anchorages or interfere with the anchoring of deep-draft vessels.

(13) Barges towed in tandem to an anchorage must be nested together when anchored.

(14) Any vessel anchored or moored in an anchorage adjacent to the Chesapeake Bay Bridge Tunnel or Monitor-Merrimac Bridge Tunnel (MMBT) must be capable of getting underway within 30 minutes with sufficient power to keep free of the bridge tunnel complex.

(15) A vessel may not anchor or moor in an anchorage adjacent to the Chesapeake Bay Bridge Tunnel or Monitor-Merrimac Bridge Tunnel (MMBT) if its steering or main propulsion equipment is impaired.
