
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Anchorages
#### PART 110 - ANCHORAGE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Anchorage Grounds
###### ยง 110.168 Hampton Roads, Virginia and adjacent waters.
####### Anchorage G.

(4)(i) Except for a naval vessel, a vessel may not anchor in Anchorage G without the permission of the Captain of the Port.

(ii) When handling or transferring Class 1 (explosive) materials in Anchorage G, naval vessels must comply with Department of Defense Ammunition and Explosives Safety Standards, or the standards in this section, whichever are the more stringent.

(iii) When barges and other vessels are berthed at the Ammunition Barge Mooring Facility, located at latitude 36&#xB0;58&#x2032;34&#x2033; N, longitude 76&#xB0;21&#x2032;12&#x2033; W., no other vessel, except a vessel that is receiving or offloading Class 1 (explosive) materials, may anchor within 1,000 yards of the Ammunition Barge Mooring Facility. Vessels transferring class 1 (explosive) materials must display by day a red flag (Bravo flag) in a prominent location and by night a fixed red light.

(iv) Whenever a vessel is handling or transferring Class 1 (explosive) materials while at anchor in Anchorage G, no other vessel may anchor in Anchorage G without the permission of the Captain of the Port. The Captain of the Port must consult with the Commander, Naval Station Norfolk, before granting a vessel permission to anchor in Anchorage G.

(v) A vessel located within Anchorage G may not handle or transfer Class 1 (explosive) materials within 400 yards of Norfolk Harbor Entrance Reach.

(vi) A vessel may not handle or transfer Class 1 (explosive) materials within 850 yards of another anchored vessel, unless the other vessel is also handling or transferring Class 1 (explosive) materials.

(vii) A vessel may not handle or transfer Class 1 (explosive) materials within 850 yards of Anchorage F or H.
