
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Anchorages
#### PART 110 - ANCHORAGE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Anchorage Grounds
###### ยง 110.170 Cape Fear, NC.
####### General regulations.

(c)(1) Vessels in the Atlantic Ocean near Cape Fear River Inlet awaiting berthing space within the Port of Wilmington shall only anchor within the anchorage grounds defined and established in paragraph (a) of this section, except in cases of emergency.

(2) Vessels anchoring under circumstances of emergency outside the anchorage areas shall be shifted to new positions within the anchorage grounds immediately after the emergency ceases.

(3) Vessels may anchor anywhere within the anchorage grounds provided such anchoring does not interfere with the operations of any other vessel at anchorage; except a vessel may not anchor within 1,500 yards of a vessel carrying or handling dangerous cargoes, cargoes of a particular hazard, or Class 1 (explosive) materials. Vessels shall lie at anchor with as short of a chain or cable as conditions permit.

(4) Prior to entering the anchorage grounds, all vessels must notify the Coast Guard Captain of the Port Sector North Carolina (COTP) via VHF-FM channel 16.

(5) No vessel may anchor within the anchorage grounds for more than 72 hours without the prior approval of the COTP. To obtain this approval, contact the COTP via VHF-FM channel 16.

(6) The COTP may close the anchorage grounds and direct vessels to depart the anchorage during periods of severe weather or at other times as deemed necessary in the interest of port safety or security.

(7) The COTP may prescribe specific conditions for vessels anchoring within the anchorage grounds, including but not limited to, the number and location of anchors, scope of chain, readiness of engineering plant and equipment, usage of tugs, and requirements for maintaining communications guards on selected radio frequencies.
