
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Anchorages
#### PART 110 - ANCHORAGE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Anchorage Grounds
###### ยง 110.184 Atlantic Ocean, Offshore Jacksonville, FL.
####### The regulations.

(b)(1) Commercial vessels in the Atlantic Ocean near the Port of Jacksonville desiring to anchor must anchor only within the anchorage area defined and established in paragraph (a) of this section, except in cases of emergency.

(2) All vessels within the designated anchorage area must maintain a 24-hour bridge watch by a licensed or credentialed deck officer proficient in English, monitoring VHF-FM channel 16. This individual must confirm that the ship's crew performs frequent checks of the vessel's position to ensure the vessel is not dragging anchor.

(3) Vessels may anchor anywhere within the designated anchorage area, provided that: Such anchoring does not interfere with the operations of any other vessels currently at anchorage; and all anchor and chain or cable is positioned in such a manner to preclude dragging.

(4) No vessel may anchor in a "dead ship" status (that is, propulsion or control unavailable for normal operations) without the prior approval of the Captain of the Port (COTP). Vessels which are planning to perform main propulsion engine repairs or maintenance, must immediately notify the COTP on VHF-FM Channel 22A. Vessels must also report marine casualties in accordance with 46 CFR 4.05-1.

(5) No vessel may anchor within the designated anchorage for more than 72 hours without the prior approval of the COTP. To obtain this approval, contact the COTP on VHF-FM Channel 22A.

(6) The COTP may close the anchorage area and direct vessels to depart the anchorage during periods of adverse weather or at other times as deemed necessary in the interest of port safety or security.

(7) Commercial vessels anchoring under emergency circumstances outside the anchorage area must shift to new positions within the anchorage area immediately after the emergency ceases.
