
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Anchorages
#### PART 110 - ANCHORAGE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Anchorage Grounds
###### ยง 110.188 Atlantic Ocean off Miami and Miami Beach, Fla.
####### The regulations.

(b)(1) Vessels in the Atlantic Ocean in the vicinity of Port of Miami must anchor only within the anchorage areas hereby defined and established, except in cases of emergency.

(2) Prior to entering the anchorage areas, all vessels must notify the Coast Guard Captain of the Port via VHF-FM channel 16.

(3) All vessels within the designated anchorages must maintain a 24-hour bridge watch by a licensed or credentialed deck officer proficient in English, monitoring VHF-FM channel 16. This individual must confirm that the ship's crew performs frequent checks of the vessel's position to ensure the vessel is not dragging anchor.

(4) Vessels may anchor anywhere within the designated anchorage areas provided that: Such anchoring does not interfere with the operations of any other vessels currently at anchorage; and all anchor and chain or cable is positioned in such a manner to preclude dragging over reefs.

(5) No vessel may anchor in a "dead ship" status (that is, propulsion or control unavailable for normal operations) without the prior approval of the Captain of the Port. Vessels experiencing casualties, such as main propulsion, main steering, or anchoring equipment malfunction, or which are planning to perform main propulsion engine repairs or maintenance, must immediately notify the Coast Guard Captain of the Port via Coast Guard Sector Miami on VHF-FM channel 16.

(6) No vessel may anchor within the designated anchorages for more than 72 hours without the prior approval of the Captain of the Port. To obtain this approval, contact the Coast Guard Captain of the Port via VHF-FM channel 16.

(7) The Coast Guard Captain of the Port may close the anchorage areas and direct vessels to depart the anchorage during periods of adverse weather or at other times as deemed necessary in the interest of port safety or security.

(8) Commercial vessels anchoring under emergency circumstances outside the anchorage areas must shift to new positions within the anchorage areas immediately after the emergency ceases.

(9) Whenever the maritime or commercial interests of the United States so require, the Captain of the Port, U.S. Coast Guard, Miami, Florida, may direct relocation of any vessel anchored within the anchorage areas. Once directed, such vessel must get underway at once or signal for a tug, and must change position as directed.
