
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Anchorages
#### PART 110 - ANCHORAGE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Anchorage Grounds
###### ยง 110.195 Mississippi River below Baton Rouge, LA, including South and Southwest Passes.
####### The Regulations.

(c)(1) Anchoring in the Mississippi River below Baton Rouge, LA., including South and Southwest Passes is prohibited outside of established anchorages except in cases of emergency. In an emergency, if it becomes necessary to anchor a vessel outside an established anchorage, the vessel shall be anchored so that it does not interfere with or endanger any facility or other vessel. The master or person in charge of the vessel shall notify the Captain of the Port of the location of the emergency anchoring by the most expeditious means and shall move the vessel as soon as the emergency is over.

(2) In an emergency, if it becomes necessary to anchor a vessel in South Pass or Southwest Pass, the vessel shall be positioned as close to the left descending bank as possible.

(3) No vessel may be anchored unless it maintains a bridge watch, guards and answers Channel 16 FM (or the appropriate VTS New Orleans sector frequency), maintains an accurate position plot and can take appropriate action to ensure the safety of the vessel, structure, and other vessels.

(4) When anchoring individually, or in fleets, vessels shall be anchored with sufficient anchors, or secured with sufficient lines, to ensure their remaining in place and withstanding the actions of winds, currents and the suction of passing vessels.

(5) No vessel may be anchored over revetted banks of the river or within any cable or pipeline area. The locations of revetted areas and cable and pipeline areas may be obtained from the District Engineer, Corps of Engineers, New Orleans, LA.

(6) The intention to transfer any cargo while in an anchorage shall be reported to the Captain of the Port, giving particulars as to name of ships involved, quantity and type of cargo, and expected duration of the operation. The Captain of the Port shall be notified upon completion of operations. Cargo transfer operations are not permitted in the New Orleans General or Quarantine Anchorages. Bunkering and similar operations related to ship's stores are exempt from reporting requirements.

(7) Vessels anchored in the Lower Kenner Bend Anchorage are prohibited from using or exercising the ship's hold cargo cranes. Vessels in this anchorage must keep the ship's hold cargo gear in the down and hawsed position, as rigged for sea transits. Deck-mounted cranes, deck booms and stiff legs may be used to take on ships stores and spare parts and may be used to move manifold hoses.

(8) Nothing in this section relieves the owner or person in charge of any vessel from the penalties for obstructing or interfering with navigational aids or for failing to comply with the navigation laws for lights, day shapes, or fog signals and any other applicable laws and regulations.
