
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Anchorages
#### PART 110 - ANCHORAGE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Anchorage Grounds
###### ยง 110.196 Sabine Pass Channel, Sabine Pass, Tex.
####### The regulations.

(b)(1) The anchorage area is for the temporary use of vessels of all types, but especially for naval and merchant vessels awaiting weather and tidal conditions favorable to the resumption of their voyages.

(2) Except when stress of weather or adverse tides or currents make sailing impractical or hazardous, vessels shall not anchor in the anchorage area for periods exceeding 48 hours unless expressly authorized by the Captain of the Port to anchor for longer periods.

(3) Vessels shall not anchor so as to obstruct the passage of other vessels proceeding to or from available anchorage spaces.

(4) Anchors shall not be placed channelward from the anchorage area, and no portion of the hull or rigging of any anchored vessel shall extend channelward from the limits of the anchorage area.

(5) Vessels using spuds for anchors shall anchor as close to shore as practicable having due regard for the provisions in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(6) Fixed moorings, piles or stakes, and floats or buoys for marking anchorages or moorings in place are prohibited.

(7) Whenever the maritime or commercial interests of the United States so require, the Captain of the Port is hereby empowered to shift the position of any vessel anchored or moored within or outside of the anchorage area including any vessel which is moored or anchored so as to obstruct navigation or interfere with range lights.
