
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Anchorages
#### PART 110 - ANCHORAGE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Anchorage Grounds
###### ยง 110.214 Los Angeles and Long Beach harbors, California.
####### General Regulations,Anchorage Assignment.

(a)-(1)(i) Unless otherwise directed by the Captain of the Port Los Angeles-Long Beach, the pilot stations for the Port of Long Beach and the Port of Los Angeles will assign the use of commercial anchorages within their jurisdictions (Long Beach and Los Angeles Harbors respectively). All anchorages outside (seaward) of the federal breakwater will be assigned by the Los Angeles-Long Beach Vessel Traffic Information Service (VTIS). The master, pilot, or person in charge of a vessel must notify the appropriate pilot station (for anchorages inside the federal breakwater) or the VTIS (for anchorages outside the federal breakwater) of their intention to anchor, upon anchoring, and at least fifteen minutes prior to departing an anchorage. All anchorage assignments will be made as described in this part unless modified by the Captain of the Port.

(ii) Radio communications for port entities governing anchorages are as follows: Los Angeles-Long Beach Vessel Traffic Information Service, call sign "LA-Long Beach Traffic," Channel 14 VHF-FM; Los Angeles Port Pilots, Channel 73 VHF-FM; Long Beach Port Pilots, Channel 74 VHF-FM.

(iii) The exact boundary separating the Port of Long Beach from the Port of Los Angeles is published in local Port Tariffs. For purposes of this rule, Long Beach waters are those east, and Los Angeles waters are those west, of the following locations:

(A) Inner Harbor: The Henry Ford (Badger Avenue) Bridge.

(B) Middle Harbor: The Pier 400 Transportation Corridor.

(C) Outer Harbor: The western boundary of Commercial Anchorage B.
