
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Anchorages
#### PART 110 - ANCHORAGE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Anchorage Grounds
###### ยง 110.214 Los Angeles and Long Beach harbors, California.
####### Required approvals, permits and notifications.

(2)(i)(A) No vessel may anchor in deep draft sub-anchorages B-7, B-9, B-11, D-5, D-6 or D-7 within Los Angeles or Long Beach harbors for more than 48 consecutive hours unless extended anchorage permission is obtained from the Captain of the Port. These sub-anchorages are defined by the following coordinates and dimensions:

(B) No vessel may anchor anywhere else within Los Angeles or Long Beach harbors for more than 10 consecutive days unless extended anchorage permission is obtained from the Captain of the Port. In determining whether extended anchorage permission will be granted, consideration will be given, but not necessarily limited to: The current and anticipated demands for anchorage space within the harbor, the requested duration, the condition of the vessel, and the reason for the request.

(ii) No vessel while carrying, loading, or unloading division 1.1 or 1.2 materials as defined in 49 CFR 173.50, or Cargoes of Particular Hazard (COPH) as defined in 33 CFR 126.10, or Certain Dangerous Cargoes (CDC) as defined in 33 CFR 160.202, may anchor without first obtaining a permit issued by the Captain of the Port.

(iii) Vessels requiring use of an explosives anchorage should contact the Captain of the Port at least 24 hours prior to the anticipated need for the explosives anchorage to allow for proper activation of that anchorage.

(iv) Except with the prior approval of the Captain of the Port, or, in the case of an emergency, with approval of the Captain of the Port immediately subsequent to anchoring, no commercial vessel greater than 1600 gross tons may anchor in Los Angeles-Long Beach Harbor unless it maintains the capability to get underway within 30 minutes. Any vessel unable to meet this requirement must immediately notify the Captain of the Port and make arrangements for an adequate number of tugs to respond to the vessel within 30 minutes notice.

(v) In anchorages where lightering is authorized, the Captain of the Port must be notified at least 4 hours in advance of a vessel conducting lightering operations (see 33 CFR 156.118).
