
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Anchorages
#### PART 110 - ANCHORAGE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Anchorage Grounds
###### ยง 110.216 Pacific Ocean at Santa Catalina Island, Calif.
####### The regulations.

(b)(1) The Descanso Bay anchorage is reserved for yachts and other small craft. Floats or buoys for marking anchors or moorings in place will be allowed in this area. Fixed mooring piles or stakes are prohibited.

(2) The Isthmus Cove anchorage shall be available for anchorage of all types of craft. Temporary floats or buoys for marking anchors or moorings in place will be allowed in this area. Fixed mooring piles or stakes are prohibited.

(3) The non-anchorage area described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall be used only by commercial vessels. Commercial vessels of 15 feet draft or over may anchor in this area seaward of the Catalina Island Steamship Line pier during hours between sunrise and sunset. The use of this area for anchorage is forbidden to all other craft at all times. Fixed mooring piles or stakes and floats or buoys for marking anchors or moorings in place are prohibited.

(4) The instructions of the Captain of the Port requiring vessels to anchor bow and stern, or with two bow anchors, or requiring shifting the anchorage of any vessel within the anchorage grounds for the common safety or convenience, or for otherwise enforcing the regulations in this section, shall be promptly complied with by owners, masters, and persons in charge of vessels.

(5) Nothing in this section shall be construed as relieving the owner or person in charge of any vessels or plant from the penalties of law for obstructing navigation or for obstructing or interfering with range lights, or for not complying with the navigation laws in regard to lights, fog signals, or for otherwise violating law.

(6) The Avalon Bay anchorage is reserved for large passenger vessels of over 1600 gross tons, unless otherwise authorized by the Captain of the Port Los Angeles-Long Beach.
