
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Anchorages
#### PART 110 - ANCHORAGE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Anchorage Grounds
###### ยง 110.224 San Francisco Bay, San Pablo Bay, Carquinez Strait, Suisun Bay, Sacramento River, San Joaquin River, and connecting waters, CA.
####### General regulations.

(a)(1) Within the navigable waters of San Francisco Bay, San Pablo Bay, Carquinez Strait, Suisun Bay, New York Slough, San Joaquin River Deep Water Channel, the Stockton Turning Basin, the Sacramento River Deep Water Ship Channel between Suisun Bay and the east end of the West Sacramento Turning Basin, and connecting waters, anchoring is prohibited outside of designated anchorages except when required for safety or with the written permission of the Captain of the Port. Each vessel anchoring outside an established anchorage area shall immediately notify the Captain of the Port of her position and reason for anchoring.

(2) No vessel may permanently moor in areas adjacent to the San Joaquin River Deep Water Channel except with the written permission of the Captain of the Port.

(3) Each vessel anchoring for safety reasons in the San Joaquin River Deep Water Channel, the Sacramento River Deep Water Ship Channel, or the Stockton or West Sacramento Turning Basins shall be positioned as near to the edge of the channel or turning basin as possible so as not to interfere with navigation, or obstruct the approach to any pier, wharf, slip, or boat harbor and shall move as soon as the reason for anchoring no longer exists or when notified to move by the Captain of the Port.

(4) No vessel may anchor within a tunnel, cable, or pipeline area shown on a Government chart.

(5) No vessel may moor, anchor, or tie up to any pier, wharf, or other vessel in such a manner as to extend into an adjacent channel or fairway.

(6) No vessel in such a condition that it is likely to sink or otherwise become a menace or obstruction to navigation or anchorage of other vessels may occupy an anchorage, except when unforeseen circumstances create conditions of imminent peril to personnel and then only for such period as may be authorized by the Captain of the Port.

(7) Each vessel carrying explosives shall only anchor in an explosives anchorage except as authorized by paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(17) of this section.

(8) No vessel other than a vessel under Federal supervision may go alongside or in any manner moor to any Government-owned vessel, mooring buoy, or pontoon boom, their anchor cables, or any of their appendages. No vessel other than a vessel under Federal supervision may obstruct or interfere in any manner with the mooring, unmooring, or servicing of vessels owned by the United States.

(9) The Captain of the Port may require any vessel in a designated anchorage area to moor with two or more anchors.

(10) Each vessel that will not have sufficient personnel on board to weigh anchor at any time shall anchor with two anchors with mooring swivel, unless otherwise authorized by the Captain of the Port.

(11) Deep-draft vessels shall take precedence over vessels of lighter draft in the deeper portions of all anchorages. Light-draft barges and vessels shall anchor away from the deeper portions of the anchorage so as not to interfere with the anchoring of deep-draft vessels. Should circumstances warrant, the Captain of the Port may require lighter draft vessels to move to provide safe anchorage, particularly in Anchorages 7 and 9, for deep-draft vessels.

(12) Barges towed in tandem to any anchorage shall nest together when anchoring.

(13) Each vessel that is notified by the Captain of the Port or his authorized representative to shift her position shall promptly shift her position.

(14) No person may use these anchorages for any purpose other than the purpose stated in these anchorage regulations.

(15) Where these regulations require that a vessel notify the Captain of the Port, the operator of the vessel shall transmit such report to the San Francisco Vessel Traffic Service.

(16) Nothing in this section may be construed as relieving any vessel or the owner or person in charge of any vessel from the penalties of law for obstructing or interfering with range lights or for not complying with the laws relating to lights, day signals, and fog signals and other navigation laws and regulations.

(17) The District Engineer, Corps of Engineers, may issue written permission for anchoring a single barge carrying explosives in quantities considered by the District Engineer as safe and necessary in the vicinity of work being done directly under the District Engineer supervision or under a Department of the Army permit. When issuing such a permit, the District Engineer shall prescribe the conditions under which the explosives must be stored and handled and shall furnish a copy of the permit and a copy of the rules and regulations for storing and handling to the Captain of the Port.

(18) No vessel may anchor in a "dead ship" status (propulsion or control unavailable for normal operations) at any anchorage other than in Anchorage 9 as specified in Table 110.224(D)(1) without prior approval of the Captain of the Port.
