
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Anchorages
#### PART 110 - ANCHORAGE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Anchorage Grounds
###### ยง 110.224 San Francisco Bay, San Pablo Bay, Carquinez Strait, Suisun Bay, Sacramento River, San Joaquin River, and connecting waters, CA.
####### Explosive anchorages.

(c)In addition to the general regulations in paragraph (a) of this section, the following regulations apply to each explosives anchorage described in this section.

(1) Explosives anchorages and, where established, surrounding forbidden anchorage zones, are temporarily activated as needed by the Captain of the Port. When not activated, explosives anchorages and surrounding forbidden anchorage zones become part of the general anchorage which encompasses them or, if not located within the boundaries of a general anchorage, become available for general navigation.

(2) Notice of activation and deactivation of explosives anchorages will be disseminated by Coast Guard Broadcast Notice to Mariners.

(3) Each vessel which anchors in an explosives anchorage or surrounding forbidden anchorage zone while such anchorage is not activated shall be prepared to move within one hour if the anchorage is activated.

(4) Unless otherwise authorized by the Captain of the Port:

(i) No vessel may anchor in an activated explosives anchorage except vessels loaded with, loading, or unloading explosives.

(ii) No vessel may enter or remain in an activated explosives anchorage except (A) vessels loaded with, loading or unloading explosives, (B) lighters or barges delivering cargo to or from such vessels, or (C) a tug authorized by paragraph (c)(7)(iii) of this section.

(iii) No vessel carrying explosives or on which explosives are to be loaded may enter or remain in an activated explosives anchorage without written permission from the Captain of the Port. Such a permit must be obtained before entering the anchorage and may be revoked at any time.

(iv) No vessel may anchor in the forbidden anchorage zone surrounding an activated explosives anchorage.

(5) Each vessel loaded with, loading, or unloading explosives, while within an explosives anchorage, shall display by day at her masthead, or at least 10 feet above the upper deck if the vessel has no mast, a red flag at least 16 square feet in area.

(6) Each passing vessel shall reduce speed as necessary so as to insure that its wake does not interfere with cargo transfer operations aboard any vessel displaying a red flag in an explosives anchorage.

(7) The Captain of the Port may:

(i) Issue permission to any vessel carrying flammable solids, oxidizing materials, corrosive liquids, flammable liquids, compressed gases, or poisonous substances to occupy a berth in an activated explosives anchorage. Such a permit must be obtained before entering the anchorage and may be revoked at any time.

(ii) Require any person having business on board a vessel which is loaded with, loading, or unloading explosives to have a document that is acceptable to the Coast Guard for identification purposes and to show that document to the Captain of the Port.

(iii) Require a non-self-propelled vessel, or a self-propelled vessel that is unable to maneuver under its own power, that occupies an activated explosives anchorage to be attended by a tug.
