
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Anchorages
#### PART 110 - ANCHORAGE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Anchorage Grounds
###### ยง 110.228 Columbia River, Oregon and Washington.
####### Regulations.

(b)(1) All designated anchorages are intended for the primary use of deep-draft vessels over 200 feet in length.

(2) If a vessel under 200 feet in length is anchored in a designated anchorage, the master or person in charge of the vessel shall:

(i) Ensure that the vessel is anchored so as to minimize conflict with large, deep-draft vessels utilizing or seeking to utilize the anchorage; and

(ii) Move the vessel out of the area if requested by the master of a large, deep-draft vessel seeking to enter or depart the area or if directed by the Captain of the Port.

(3) Vessels desiring to anchor in designated anchorages shall contact the pilot office that manages that anchorage to request an appropriate position to anchor. Columbia River Bar Pilots manage Astoria North Anchorage and Astoria South Anchorage. Columbia River Pilots manage all designated anchorages upriver from Astoria.

(4) No vessel may occupy a designated anchorage for more than 30 consecutive days without permission from the Captain of the Port.

(5) No vessel being laid-up or dismantled or undergoing major alterations or repairs may occupy a designated anchorage without permission from the Captain of the Port.

(6) No vessel carrying a Cargo of Particular Hazard listed in ยง 126.10 of this chapter may occupy a designated anchorage without permission from the Captain of the Port.

(7) No vessel in a condition such that it is likely to sink or otherwise become a hazard to the operation of other vessels shall occupy a designated anchorage except in an emergency and then only for such periods as may be authorized by the Captain of the Port.

(8) Vessels anchoring in Astoria North Anchorage should avoid placing their anchor in the charted cable area.
