
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Anchorages
#### PART 110 - ANCHORAGE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Anchorage Grounds
###### ยง 110.236 Pacific Ocean off Barbers Point, Island of Oahu, Hawaii: Offshore pipeline terminal anchorages.
####### The regulations.

(b)(1) No vessels may anchor, moor, or navigate in anchorages A, B, C, or D except:

(i) Vessels using the anchorages and their related pipelines for loading or unloading;

(ii) Commercial tugs, lighters, barges, launches, or other vessels engaged in servicing the anchorage facilities or vessels using them;

(iii) Public vessels of the United States.

(2) When vessels are conducting loading or unloading operations as indicated by the display of a red flag (international code flag B) at the masthead, passing vessels of over 100 gross tons shall not approach within 1,000 yards at a speed in excess of 6 knots.

(3) The owner of any vessel wanting to use an anchorage ground and use of the related pipeline facilities shall notify the Captain of the Port, Honolulu, Hawaii, and the Commanding Officer, U.S. Naval Air Station, Barbers Point, Hawaii, at least 24 hours in advance of desired occupancy of the anchorage ground by the vessel. Such notification must include the maximum height above the waterline of the uppermost portion of the vessel's mast and a description of the masts' lighting including height of the highest anchor light and any aircraft warning lights to be displayed by the vessel at night.

(4) When, in the opinion of the Captain of the Port, or his authorized representative, oil transfer operations within these anchorages could jeopardize the safety of vessels or facilities in the area, or cause an undue risk of oil pollution, such oil transfer operations shall be immediately terminated until such time as the cognizant Coast Guard officer determines that the danger has subsided.

(5) Nonanchorage areas A, B, and C are established for the protection of submerged pipelines. Except for vessels servicing pipeline facilities, no anchoring, dragging, seining or other potential pipeline fouling activities are permitted within these areas.

(6) Nothing in this section shall be construed as relieving the owner or person in charge of any vessel from complying with the rules of the road and safe navigation practice.

(7) The regulations of this section are enforced by the Captain of the Port or his duly authorized representative.
