
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter I - Anchorages
#### PART 110 - ANCHORAGE REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Anchorage Grounds
###### ยง 110.250 St. Thomas Harbor, Charlotte Amalie, V.I.
####### The regulations.

(b)(1) The outer harbor anchorage shall be used by vessels undergoing examination by quarantine, customs, immigration, and Coast Guard officers. Upon completion of these examinations, vessels shall move promptly to anchorage. This anchorage shall also be used by vessels having drafts too great to permit them to use the inner harbor anchorage. No vessel shall remain more than 48 hours in this anchorage without a permit from the Harbor Master.

(2) The small-craft anchorage shall be used by small vessels undergoing examination and also by small vessels anchoring under permit from the Harbor Master.

(3) The requirements of the Navy shall predominate in the deep-draft anchorage. When occupied by naval vessels all other vessels and craft shall remain clear of the area. When the area is not required for naval vessels, the Harbor Master may upon application made in advance assign other vessels to the area. Vessels so assigned and occupying the area shall move promptly upon notification by the Harbor Master.

(4) The harbor regulations for the Port of St. Thomas, V.I. of the United States and approaches thereto, including all waters under its jurisdiction, as adopted by the Government of the Virgin Islands, will apply to the Long Bay Anchorage.

(5) In addition, the Long Bay Anchorage is reserved for all types of small vessels, including sailing and motor pleasure craft, and such craft shall anchor in no other area except Anchorage E, in the northern portion of the harbor of Charlotte Amalie.

(6) Floats for marking anchors in place will be allowed in the Long Bay anchorage; stakes or mooring piles are prohibited.

(7) Vessels not more than 65 feet in length are not required to exhibit or carry anchor lights within the Long Bay anchorage, but must display them if emergency requires anchoring in any other part of the harbor.

(8) No vessel may anchor in any of the St. Thomas Harbor Anchorages without a permit from the Harbor Master.

(9) The Coast Guard Captain of the Port San Juan is hereby empowered, whenever the maritime or commercial interests of the United States so require, to shift the position of any vessel anchored within the Long Bay anchorage, and of any vessel which is so moored or anchored as to impede or obstruct vessel movement in the harbor, and to enforce all regulations of this section should the need arise.
