
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 115 - BRIDGE LOCATIONS AND CLEARANCES; ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
##### ยง 115.50 Application for bridge permits.
###### Special instructions.

(h)(1) Vertical and horizontal distances will be shown using bar scales. The north and south line will be indicated by a meridian arrow. Soundings and elevations will be shown in feet and refer to the established Government datum plane at the locality.

(2) The direction of the current or, for tidal waters, the direction of the ebb and flow, will be indicated by arrow(s), and will be shown close to the proposed location of the bridge, and at both ends of the waterway shown on the map of location.

(3) The plans will show in figures the least clear height of the lowest part of the superstructure over navigation openings, with reference to the planes of mean high water and mean low water if the bridge is to cross tidal water. If the waters are nontidal, the least clear height will be shown with reference to the planes of extreme high water and mean low water. If records of river heights are available, the 2 percent flowline (the plane above which flood waters have not remained more than 2 percent of the time) will be indicated. Reference will also be made to other datum planes if appropriate for the waterway in question.

(4) If harbor lines have been established at the site of the bridge, their position will be shown on the plans.
