
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 115 - BRIDGE LOCATIONS AND CLEARANCES; ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
##### ยง 115.60 Procedures for handling applications for bridge permits.
###### District Commander's review of application and plans.

(a)When an application is received, the District Commander verifies the authority for construction of the bridge, reviews the application and plans for sufficiency, ascertains the views of local authorities and other interested parties, and ensures that the application complies with relevant environmental laws, regulations, and orders. If the application contains any defects that would prevent issuance of a permit (as for example, if the proposed bridge provided insufficient clearance), the applicant is notified that the permit cannot be granted and given reasons for this determination. The applicant may then request that the application be considered by the Commandant. If the applicant makes such a request, or if the application is not found defective, the District Commander notifies the public that it has been received and continues its processing. A copy of this notification will be sent to the state, interstate agency or the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) responsible for acting on requests for water quality certification for the project. If the state, interstate agency, or the EPA fails to issue or deny the water quality certification within 30 days after receiving the copy of this notification, the requirements for a water quality certification are waived. If the appropriate agency notifies the District Commander that the applicant has not filed a request for water quality certification, or requests additional time to review an application, additional time will be granted.
