
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 116 - ALTERATION OF UNREASONABLY OBSTRUCTIVE BRIDGES
##### ยง 116.40 Plans and specifications under the Truman-Hobbs Act.

(a) After an Order to Alter has been issued to a bridge owner under the Truman-Hobbs Act, the Chief, Office of Bridge Programs will issue a letter to the bridge owner outlining the owner's responsibilities to submit plans and specifications to the Chief, Office of Bridge Programs for the alteration of the bridge. The plans and specifications, at a minimum, must provide for the clearances identified in the Order to Alter. The plans and specifications may also include any other additional alteration to the bridge that the owner considers desirable to meet the requirements of railroad or highway traffic. During the alteration process, balanced consideration shall be given to the needs of rail, highway, and marine traffic.

(b) The Chief, Office of Bridge Programs will approve or reject the plans and specifications submitted by the bridge owner, in whole or in part, and may require the submission of new or additional plans and specifications.

(c) When Chief, Office of Bridge Programs has approved the submitted plans and specifications, they are final and binding upon all parties, unless later changes are approved by the Chief, Office of Bridge Programs. Any changes to the approved plans will be coordinated with the District Commander.
