
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 116 - ALTERATION OF UNREASONABLY OBSTRUCTIVE BRIDGES
##### ยง 116.55 Appeals.

(a) Except for the decision to issue an Order to Alter, if a complainant disagrees with a recommendation regarding obstruction or eligibility made by a District Commander, or the Chief, Office of Bridge Programs, the complainant may appeal that decision to the Deputy Commandant for Operations.

(b) The appeal must be submitted in writing to the Commandant (CG-DCO-D), Attn: Deputy for Operations Policy and Capabilities, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7318, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7318, within 60 days after the District Commander's or the Chief, Office of Bridge Programs decision. The Deputy Commandant for Operations will make a decision on the appeal within 90 days after receipt of the appeal. The Deputy Commandant of Operations' decision of this appeal shall constitute final agency action.

(c) Any Order of Apportionment made or issued under section 6 of the Truman-Hobbs Act, 33 U.S.C. 516, may be reviewed by the Court of Appeals for any judicial circuit in which the bridge in question is wholly or partly located, if a petition for review is filed within 90 days after the date of issuance of the order. The review is described in section 10 of the Truman-Hobbs Act, 33 U.S.C. 520. The review proceedings do not operate as a stay of any order issued under the Truman-Hobbs Act, other than an order of apportionment, nor relieve any bridge owner of any liability or penalty under other provisions of that act.
