
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart 1.05 - Rulemaking
###### ยง 1.05-55 Direct final rule.

(a) A direct final rule may be issued to allow noncontroversial rules that are unlikely to result in adverse public comment to become effective more quickly.

(b) A direct final rule will be published in thewith an effective date that is generally at least 90 days after the date of publication.

(c) The public will usually be given at least 60 days from the date of publication in which to submit comments or notice of intent to submit comments.

(d) If no adverse comment or notice of intent to submit an adverse comment is received within the specified period, the Coast Guard will publish a notice in theto confirm that the rule will go into effect as scheduled.

(e) If the Coast Guard receives a written adverse comment or a written notice of intent to submit an adverse comment, the Coast Guard will publish a notice in the final rule section of theto announce withdrawal of the direct final rule. If an adverse comment clearly applies to only part of a rule, and it is possible to remove that part without affecting the remaining portions, the Coast Guard may adopt as final those parts of the rule on which no adverse comment was received. Any part of a rule that is the subject of an adverse comment will be withdrawn. If the Coast Guard decides to proceed with a rulemaking following receipt of an adverse comment, a separate Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) will be published unless an exception to the Administrative Procedure Act requirements for notice and comment applies.

(f) A comment is considered adverse if the comment explains why the rule would be inappropriate, including a challenge to the rule's underlying premise or approach, or would be ineffective or unacceptable without a change.
