
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 117 - DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Requirements
###### Arkansas
####### ยง 117.123 Arkansas Waterway.

(a) Across the Arkansas Waterway, the draw of the Rob Roy Drawbridge, mile 67.4, at Pine Bluff, Arkansas is maintained in the closed to navigation position and is remotely operated. Any vessel which requires an opening of the draw of this bridge shall establish contact by radiotelephone with the remote drawbridge operator on VHF-FM Channel 12 in Omaha, Nebraska. To establish contact, the vessel shall key the VHF-FM radio microphone four times in five seconds and listen for an acknowledgement tone. The remote drawbridge operator will then establish normal verbal radio communication on VHF-FM Channel 12 and advise the vessel whether the requested span can be immediately opened and will maintain constant radio contact with the vessel until the requested span has opened and vessel passage has been completed. The bridge is equipped with a Photoelectric Boat Detection System to prevent the span from lowering if there is an obstruction under the span. If the drawbridge cannot be opened immediately, the remote drawbridge operator will notify the calling vessel and provide an estimated time for a drawspan opening.

(b) Across the Arkansas Waterway, the draw of the Baring Cross Railroad Drawbridge, mile 119.6 at Little Rock, Arkansas, is maintained in the closed position and is remotely operated. Use the following procedures to request an opening of this bridge when necessary for transit:
