
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 117 - DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Requirements
###### California
####### ยง 117.187 Petaluma River.

(a) The draw of the SMART Blackpoint railroad bridge, mile 0.8 at Blackpoint, shall be maintained in the fully open position, except for the crossing of trains or for maintenance. When the draw is closed and visibility from the drawtender's station is less than one mile up or down the channel, the drawtender shall sound two long blasts every minute. When the draw is reopened, the drawtender shall sound three short blasts.

(b) The draw of the SMART Haystack Landing railroad bridge, mile 12.4 at Petaluma, shall open on signal from 3 a.m. to 11 p.m. if at least 30 minutes notice is given to the drawtender. At all other times, the draw shall be maintained in the fully open position, except for the crossing of trains or for maintenance. When the draw is closed and visibility from the drawtender's station is less than one mile up or down the channel, the drawtender shall sound two long blasts every minute. When the draw is reopened, the drawtender shall sound three short blasts.

(c) The draw of the Petaluma highway bridge at "D" Street, mile 13.7, at Petaluma, shall open on signal if at least four hours notice is given for openings from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m., and if at least 24 hours notice is given for openings from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m.
