
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 117 - DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Requirements
###### Connecticut
####### ยง 117.213 New Haven Harbor, Quinnipiac and Mill Rivers.

The draws of the Tomlinson Bridge, mile 0.0, the Ferry Street Bridge, mile 0.7, and the Grand Avenue Bridge, mile 1.3, across the Quinnipiac River, and the Chapel Street Bridge, mile 0.4, across the Mill River, shall operate as follows:

(a) The draw of the Tomlinson Bridge at mile 0.0, across the Quinnipiac River shall open on signal; except that, from 7:30 a.m. to 8:30 a.m., noon to 12:15 p.m., 12:45 p.m. to 1 p.m., and 4:45 p.m. to 5:45 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays, the draw need not open for the passage of vessel traffic.

(b) The draw of the Ferry Street Bridge at mile 0.7, across Quinnipiac River, shall open on signal; except that, from 7:30 a.m. to 8:30 a.m. and 4:45 p.m. to 5:45 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays, the draws need not open for the passage of vessel traffic. From 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. the draw shall open on signal if at least a one-hour advance notice is given by calling the number posted at the bridge.

(c) The draw of the Grand Avenue Bridge at mile 1.3, across the Quinnipiac River shall open on signal; except that, from 7:30 a.m. to 8:30 a.m. and 4:45 p.m. to 5:45 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays, the draw need not open for the passage of vessel traffic. From 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. the draw shall open on signal if at least a one-hour advance notice is given by calling the number posted at the bridge.

(d) The draw of the Chapel Street Bridge at mile 0.4, across the Mill River shall open on signal; except that, from 7:30 a.m. to 8:30 a.m. and 4:45 p.m. to 5:45 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays, the draw need not open for the passage of vessel traffic. From 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. the draw shall open on signal after at least a one-hour advance notice is given by calling the number posted at the bridge.
