
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 117 - DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Requirements
###### Connecticut
####### ยง 117.217 Norwalk River.

(a) The draw of the Washington Street S136 Bridge, mile 0.0, at Norwalk, shall operate as follows:

(1) The draw shall open on signal; except that, from 7 a.m. to 8:45 a.m., 11:45 a.m. to 1:15 p.m., and 4 p.m. to 6 p.m., Monday through Friday, except holidays, the draw need not be opened for the passage of vessels that draw less than 14 feet of water.

(2) The draw need not open for the passage of vessel traffic, from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m., on the first Saturday in December, to facilitate the running of the annual Norwalk River Fun Run. Should inclement weather force the postponement of the race the above bridge closure shall be implemented the next day, the first Sunday after the first Saturday in December, from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m.

(3) The bridge opening signal is three short blasts. Vessels drawing 14 feet of water or more shall add one prolonged blast after the three short blasts.

(b) The draw of the Metro-North "WALK" Bridge, mile 0.1, at Norwalk, shall operate as follows:

(1) The draw shall open on signal between 4:30 a.m. and 9 p.m. after at least a two hour advance notice is given; except that, from 5:45 a.m. through 9:45 a.m. and from 4 p.m. through 8 p.m., Monday through Friday excluding holidays, the draw need not open for the passage of vessel traffic unless an emergency exists.

(2) From 9 p.m. through 4:30 a.m. the draw shall open on signal after at least a four hour advance notice is given.

(3) A delay in opening the draw not to exceed 10 minutes may occur when a train scheduled to cross the bridge without stopping has entered the drawbridge lock.

(4) Requests for bridge openings may be made by calling the bridge via marine radio VHF FM Channel 13 or the telephone number posted at the bridge.
