
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 117 - DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Requirements
###### Connecticut
####### ยง 117.219 Pequonnock River.

(a) The draw of the Stratford Avenue Bridge at mile 0.1, at Bridgeport, shall open on signal; except that, from 6:45 a.m. to 7:15 a.m., 7:45 a.m. to 8:15 a.m., 11:45 a.m. to 1:15 p.m., and 4:30 p.m. to 6:10 p.m., the draw need not open for the passage of vessel traffic. From December 1 through March 31, from 8 p.m. to 4 a.m., the draw shall open on signal if at least a six-hour notice is given by calling the number posted at the bridge.

(b) The draw of the Metro-North Peck Bridge at mile 0.3, at Bridgeport shall operate as follows:

(1) The draw shall open on signal between 5:45 a.m. to 9 p.m. if at least four hours advance notice is given; except that, from 5:45 a.m. to 9:45 a.m., and 4 p.m. to 8 p.m., Monday through Friday excluding holidays, the draw need not open for the passage of vessel traffic unless an emergency exists.

(2) From 9 p.m. to 5:45 a.m., the draw shall open on signal if at least an eight hour notice is given.

(3) A delay in opening the draw not to exceed 15 minutes may occur when a train scheduled to cross the bridge without stopping has entered the drawbridge block.

(4) Requests for bridge openings may be made by calling the telephone number posted at the bridge.

(c) The draw of the East Washington Street Bridge at mile 0.6, shall open on signal or after one prolonged blast followed by two short blasts, if at least a twenty four hour notice is given by calling the number posted at the bridge.
