
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 117 - DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Requirements
###### District of Columbia
####### ยง 117.255 Potomac River.

(a) The draw of the Woodrow Wilson Memorial (I-95) bridge, mile 103.8, between Alexandria, Virginia, and Oxon Hill, Maryland-

(1) Shall open on signal at any time only for a vessel in distress, notwithstanding the provisions of ยง 117.31.

(2) Shall open for the passage of a commercial vessel at any time except:

(i) From Monday through Friday (except Federal holidays), 5 a.m. to 8 p.m.

(ii) Saturday, Sunday, and Federal holidays, 2 p.m. to 7 p.m.

(3) Need not open for the passage of a commercial vessel under paragraph (a)(2) of this section unless-

(i) The owner or operator of the vessel provides the bridge tender with an estimate of the approximate time of that passage at least 12 hours in advance at (703) 836-2396; and

(ii) the owner or operator of the vessel notifies the bridge tender at least 4 hours in advance of the requested time for that passage.

(4) Shall open for the passage of a recreational vessel at any time except:

(i) Monday through Friday (except Federal holidays), 5 a.m. to 12 midnight;

(ii) Saturday, Sunday, and Federal holidays, 7 a.m. to 12 midnight, except as provided in paragraph (a)(4)(iii) of this section;

(iii) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section, the bridge may open beginning at 10 p.m. on Saturday, Sunday, or a Federal holiday for the passage of a recreational vessel if the owner or operator of the vessel notifies the Bridge Tender of the time of that passage by not later than 12 hours before that time.

(5) Need not open for the passage of a recreational vessel under paragraph (a)(4) of this section unless-

(i) The owner or operator of the vessel provides the bridge tender with an estimate of the approximate time of that passage at least 12 hours in advance at (703) 836-2396; and

(ii) the owner or operator of the vessel notifies the bridge tender at least 4 hours in advance of the requested time for that passage.

(6) A recreational vessel may pass through the drawspan at any time it is open for the passage of a commercial vessel.

(b) The draws of all other bridges need not be opened for the passage of vessels.

(c) This section is also issued under the authority of Pub. L. 102-587, 106 Stat. 5039.
