
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 117 - DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Requirements
###### Florida
####### ยง 117.261 Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway from St. Marys River to Key Largo.
######## Broward County.

(bb)(1) Hillsboro Boulevard bridge (SR 810), mile 1050.0 at Deerfield Beach. The draw shall open on the hour and half-hour.

(2) NE 14th Street bridge, mile 1055.0 at Pompano. The draw shall open on the quarter-hour and three-quarter hour.

(3) Atlantic Boulevard (SR 814) bridge, mile 1056.0 at Pompano. The draw shall open on the hour and half-hour.

(4) Commercial Boulevard (SR 870) bridge, mile 1059.0, at Lauderdale-by-the-Sea. The draw shall open on the hour and half-hour.

(5) Oakland Park Boulevard bridge, mile 1060.5 at Fort Lauderdale. The draw shall open on the quarter-hour and three-quarter hour.

(6) East Sunrise Boulevard (SR 838) bridge, mile 1062.6, at Fort Lauderdale. The draw shall open on the hour and half-hour. On the first weekend in May, the draw need not open from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday, and, on the first Saturday in May, the draw need not open from 9:45 p.m. to 10:45 p.m.

(7) East Las Olas bridge, mile 1064 at Fort Lauderdale. The draw shall open on the quarter-hour and three-quarter hour. On the first weekend in May, the draw need not open from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday, and, on the first Saturday in May, the draw need not open from 9:45 p.m. to 10:45 p.m.

(8) SE 17th Street (Brooks Memorial) bridge, mile 1065.9 at Fort Lauderdale. The draw shall open on the hour and half-hour.

(9) Dania Beach Boulevard bridge, mile 1069.4 at Dania Beach. The draw shall open on the hour and half-hour.

(10) Sheridan Street bridge, mile 1070.5, at Fort Lauderdale. The draw shall open on the quarter-hour and three-quarter hour.

(11) Hollywood Beach Boulevard (SR 820) bridge, mile 1072.2 at Hollywood. The draw shall open on the hour and half-hour.

(12) Hallandale Beach Boulevard (SR 824) bridge, mile 1074.0 at Hallandale. The draw shall open on the quarter-hour and three-quarter hour.

(cc)-(kk) [Reserved]
