
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 117 - DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Requirements
###### Florida
####### ยง 117.287 Gulf Intracoastal Waterway.

(a) Public vessels of the United States and tugs with tows must be passed through the drawspan of each drawbridge listed in this section at anytime.

(a-1) The draw of the Boca Grande Swingbridge, mile 34.3, shall open on signal; except that, from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays, the draw need open only on the hour and half hour. On Saturday, Sunday and Federal holidays, from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m., the draw need open only on the hour, quarter hour, half hour and three quarter hour.

(a-2) The draw of the Venice Avenue bridge, mile 56.6 at Venice, shall open on signal, except that from 7 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday except Federal holidays, the draw need open only at 10 minutes after the hour, 30 minutes after the hour and 50 minutes after the hour and except between 4:35 p.m. and 5:35 p.m. when the draw need not open.

(b) The draw of the Hatchett Creek (US-41) bridge, mile 56.9 at Venice, shall open on signal, except that, from 7 a.m. to 4:20 p.m., Monday through Friday except Federal holidays, the draw need open only on the hour, 20 minutes after the hour, and 40 minutes after the hour and except between 4:25 p.m. and 5:25 p.m. when the draw need not open. On Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays from 7:30 a.m. to 6 p.m. the draw need open only on the hour, quarter-hour, half-hour, and three quarter-hour. This bridge need not open to navigation on the second Sunday of November annually, from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., to facilitate the Iron Man Triathlon event.

(c)(1) The Stickney Point Bridge, mile 68.6, at South Sarasota, Florida shall open on signal, except that from 6 a.m. to 7 p.m. daily, the draw need only open on the hour and half hour.

(2) The draw of the Siesta Drive Bridge, mile 71.6, at Sarasota, Florida shall open on signal, except that from 6 a.m. to 7 p.m. daily, the draw need only open on the hour and half hour.

(d)(1) The draw of the Cortez (SR 684) Bridge, mile 87.4, at Bradenton Beach, Florida shall open on signal, except that from 6 a.m. to 7 p.m. daily, the draw need only open on the quarter hour and three quarter hour.

(2) The draw of the Anna Maria (SR 64) (Manatee Avenue West) Bridge, mile 89.2, at Bradenton Beach, Florida shall open on signal, except that from 6 a.m. to 7 p.m. daily, the draw need only open on the quarter hour and three quarter hour.

(e) [Reserved]

(f) The draw of the Corey Causeway (SR693) bridge, mile 117.7 at South Pasadena, shall open on signal; except that, from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. Monday through Friday, and 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays, the draw need be opened only on the hour, 20 minutes after the hour, and 40 minutes after the hour.

(g) The draw of the Treasure Island Causeway bridge, mile 119.0 shall open on signal except that from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. the draw need open on the hour, 20 minutes after the hour and 40 minutes after the hour Monday through Friday and on the quarter hour and three quarter hour on Saturday, Sunday and Federal holidays.

(h) The draw of the Welch Causeway (SR 699) Bridge, Gulf Intracoastal Waterway mile 122.8, at Madeira Beach, Florida, shall open on signal; except that, from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. daily, except Federal holidays, the draw need only open on the hour and half hour.
