
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 117 - DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Requirements
###### Florida
####### ยง 117.313 New River.

(a) The draw of the SE. Third Avenue bridge, mile 1.4 at Fort Lauderdale shall open on signal; except that, from 7:30 a.m. to 9 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. to 6 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays, the draw need not open. Public vessels of the United States, tugs with tows, and vessels in distress shall be passed at any time.

(b) The draw of the Andrews Avenue bridge, mile 2.3 at Fort Lauderdale, shall open on signal; except that, from 7:30 a.m. to 9 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. to 6 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays, the draw need not open. The draw need not open for inbound vessels when the draw of the Florida East Coast Railroad bridge, mile 2.5 at Fort Lauderdale is in the closed position for the passage of a train. Public vessels of the United States, tugs with tows, and vessels in distress shall be passed at any time.

(c) The draw of the Florida East Coast (FEC) Railroad Bridge across the New River, mile 2.5, at Fort Lauderdale shall operate as follows:

(1) The drawbridge shall be maintained in the fully open-to-navigation position for vessels at all times, except during periods when it is closed for the passage of rail traffic, inspections, and to perform periodic maintenance authorized in accordance with subpart A of this part.

(2) The drawbridge shall not be closed to navigation for more than 60 consecutive minutes.

(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the drawbridge shall open and remain open to navigation for a fixed 10-minute period each hour from 5 a.m. to 11:59 p.m., except that the drawbridge shall be open at the following times which shall serve as the hourly fixed 10-minute period:

(i) Additionally, in each hour from 12:00 p.m. to 2:59 p.m., the drawbridge shall open and remain open to navigation for an additional 10-minute period.

(ii) The 10-minute opening periods shall be published on a quarterly basis by the drawbridge owner and reflected on the drawbridge owner's website and mobile application.

(4) The drawbridge shall have a drawbridge tender onsite at all times who is capable of physically tending and operating the drawbridge by local control, if necessary, or when ordered by the Coast Guard.

(i) The drawbridge tender shall provide estimated times of drawbridge openings and closures, upon request.

(ii) Operational information will be provided 24 hours a day on VHF-FM channels 9 and 16 or by telephone at (305) 889-5572. Signs shall be posted visible to marine traffic and displaying VHF radio contact information, website and application information, and the telephone number for the bridge tender.

(5) In the event of a drawbridge operational failure, or other emergency circumstances impacting normal drawbridge operations, the drawbridge owner shall immediately notify the Coast Guard Captain of the Port Miami and provide an estimated time of repair and return to normal operations.

(6) A drawbridge log shall be maintained including drawbridge opening and closing times. The drawbridge log should include reasons for those drawbridge closings that interfere with scheduled openings in this section. This drawbridge log shall be maintained by the drawbridge owner and upon request, be provided to the Coast Guard.

(7) A website and mobile application shall be maintained by the drawbridge owner and publish:

(i) Drawbridge opening times required by this paragraph (c);

(ii) Timely updates to schedules; including but not limited to impacts due to emergency circumstances, repairs, and inspections;

(iii) At least 24-hour advance notice for each schedule in order to facilitate planning by maritime operators; and

(iv) To the extent reasonably practicable, at least 60-minutes advance notice of schedule changes or delays.

(8) The drawbridge shall display the following lights:

(i) When the drawbridge is in the fully open position, green lights shall be displayed to indicate that vessels may pass.

(ii) When rail traffic approaches the block signal, the lights shall go to flashing red, then the drawbridge lowers and locks, and the lights shall remain flashing red.

(iii) After the rail traffic has cleared the drawbridge, the drawbridge shall open and the lights return to green.

(d) [Reserved]

(e) The draw of the Marshal (Seventh Avenue) bridge, mile 2.7 at Fort Lauderdale shall open on signal; except that, from 7:30 a.m. to 9 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. to 6 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays, the draw need not open. Public vessels of the United States, tugs with tows, and vessels in distress shall be passed at any time.
