
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 117 - DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Requirements
###### Louisiana
####### ยง 117.465 Lafourche Bayou.

(a) The draws of the following bridges shall open on signal; except that, from August 1 through May 31, the draw need not open for the passage of vessels Monday through Friday except Federal holidays from 7 a.m. to 8:30 a.m.; from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. and from 4:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m., unless otherwise indicated:

(1) SR 308 (Golden Meadow) Bridge, mile 23.9, at Golden Meadow

(2) Galliano Pontoon Bridge, mile 27.8, at Galliano

(3) SR 308 (South Lafourche (Tarpon)) Bridge, mile 30.6, at Galliano, need not open for the passage of vessels from August 1 through May 31, Monday through Friday except Federal holidays from 6:45 a.m. to 8:30 a.m.; from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. and from 4:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m.

(4) Cote Blanche Pontoon Bridge, mile 33.9, at Cutoff

(5) Cutoff Vertical Lift Bridge, mile 36.3, at Cutoff

(6) LA 657 (Larose) Vertical Lift Bridge, mile 38.7, at Larose.

(b) The draw of the Valentine bridge, mile 44.7 at Valentine, shall open on signal; except that, from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m., the draw shall open on signal if at least four hours advance notification is given. During the advance notification period, the draw shall open on less than four hours notice for an emergency and shall open on demand should a temporary surge in water traffic occur.

(c) The draws of the S3220 bridge, mile 49.2 near Lockport, and the S655 bridge, mile 50.8 at Lockport, shall open on signal; except that, from 6 p.m. to 10 a.m. the draws shall open on signal if at least four hours notice is given. During the advance notice period, the draws shall open on less than four hours notice for an emergency and shall open on demand should a temporary surge in waterway traffic occur.

(d) The draw of the State Route LA 654 bridge, mile 53.2 at Clotilda, shall open on signal if at least four hours notice is given. During the advance notice period, the draw shall open on less than four hours notice for an emergency and shall open on demand should a temporary surge in waterway traffic occur.

(e) The draws of the S3199 bridge, mile 58.2, and the Lafourche Parish bridge, mile 58.7, both at Raceland, shall open on signal if at least six hours notice is given.

(f) The draw of the S649 bridge, mile 66.6, shall open on signal if at least forty-eight hours notice is given.

(g) The draws of the Burlington Northern Santa Fe railroad bridge, mile 69.0 at Lafourche, and all bridges upstream of the Burlington Northern Santa Fe railroad bridge need not be opened for the passage of vessels.
