
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 20 - RULES OF PRACTICE, PROCEDURE, AND EVIDENCE FOR FORMAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS OF THE COAST GUARD
##### Subpart C - Pleadings and Motions
###### ยง 20.301 Representation.

(a) A party may appear-

(1) Without counsel;

(2) With an attorney; or

(3) With other duly authorized representative.

(b) Any attorney, or any other duly authorized representative, shall file a notice of appearance. The notice must indicate-

(1) The name of the case, including docket number if assigned;

(2) The person on whose behalf the appearance is made; and

(3) The person's and the representative's mailing addresses and telephone numbers.

(c) Any attorney or other duly authorized representative shall also file a notice, including the items listed in paragraph (a) of this section, for any withdrawal of appearance.

(d) Any attorney shall be a member in good standing of the bar of the highest court of a State, the District of Columbia, or any territory or commonwealth of the United States. A personal representation of membership is sufficient proof, unless the ALJ orders more evidence.

(e) Any person who would act as a duly authorized representative and who is not an attorney shall file a statement setting forth the basis of his or her authority to so act. The ALJ may deny appearance as representative to any person who, the ALJ finds, lacks the requisite character, integrity, or proper personal conduct.
