
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 20 - RULES OF PRACTICE, PROCEDURE, AND EVIDENCE FOR FORMAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS OF THE COAST GUARD
##### Subpart C - Pleadings and Motions
###### ยง 20.304 Service of documents.

(a) The ALJ shall serve upon each party to the proceeding a copy of each document issued by the ALJ in it. The ALJ shall serve upon each interested person, as determined under ยง 20.404, a copy of the notice of hearing. Unless this part provides otherwise, the ALJ shall upon request furnish to each such interested person a copy of each document filed with the Hearing Docket Clerk or issued by the ALJ.

(b) Unless the ALJ orders otherwise, each person filing a document with the Hearing Docket Clerk shall serve upon each party a copy of it.

(c) If a party filing a document must serve a copy of it upon each party, each copy must bear a certificate of service, signed by or on behalf of the filing party, stating that she or he has so served it. The certificate shall be in substantially the following form:

(d) This table describes how to serve filed documents.

(e)(1) Unless the ALJ orders otherwise, if a party files a document under ยง 20.302, the party must serve a copy to the person indicated in this table.

(2) Service upon counsel or representative constitutes service upon the person to be served.

(f) The serving party must send service copies to the address indicated in this table.

(g) This table describes when service of a filed document is complete.

(h) If a person refuses to accept delivery of any document or fails to claim a properly addressed document other than a complaint sent under this subpart, the Coast Guard considers the document served anyway. Service is valid at the date and the time of mailing, of deposit with a contract service or express-courier service, or of refusal to accept delivery.
