
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 117 - DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Requirements
###### Massachusetts
####### ยง 117.598 Eel Pond Channel.

The following requirements apply to the draw of Eel Pond (Water Street) drawbridge at mile 0.0 at Falmouth, Massachusetts.

(a) The draw shall open at all times as soon as possible for a public vessels of the United States, State or local vessels used for public safety, and vessels in distress. The opening signal for these vessels shall be four or more short blast of a whistle, horn, or radio request.

(b) The owners of this bridge shall provide and keep in good legible condition clearance gauges for each draw with figures not less than 12 inches high designed, installed and maintained according to the provisions of section 118.160 of this chapter.

(c) The draw shall operate as follows:

(1) On signal from October 15 through May 14, from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. except as provided in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section.

(2) Need open on signal only on the hour and half hour as follows:

(i) From May 15 through June 14 and from September 16 through October 14, from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m.

(ii) From June 15 through September 15, from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m.

(3) The draw shall open on signal if at least 8 hours advance notice is given:

(i) At all times on Christmas, New Years, Easter and all Sundays in January and February.

(ii) At all other times not stipulated in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section.
