
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 117 - DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Requirements
###### Massachusetts
####### ยง 117.618 Saugus River.

(a) The following requirements apply to all bridges across the Saugus River:

(1) Public vessels of the United States, state or local vessels used for public safety, and vessels in distress shall be passed through the draw of each bridge as soon as possible at any time. The opening signal from these vessels is four or more short blasts of a whistle or horn or a radio request.

(2) The owners of these bridges shall provide and keep in good legible condition clearance gauges with figures not less than 12 inches high designed, installed and maintained according to provisions of ยง 118.160 of this chapter.

(3) Trains and locomotives shall be controlled so that any delay in opening the draw span shall not exceed seven minutes. However, if a train moving toward the bridge has crossed the home signal for the bridge before the signal requesting opening of the bridge is given, the train may continue across the bridge and must clear the bridge interlocks before stopping.

(b) The draw of the General Edwards SR1A Bridge, mile 1.7, between Revere and Lynn, shall open on signal at all times if at least a two-hour advance notice is given by calling the number posted at the bridge.

(c) The Fox Hill (SR107) Bridge, at mile 2.5, shall operate as follows:

(1) The draw shall open on signal, except that, from October 1 through May 31, from 7 p.m. to 5 a.m., the draw shall open after at least a one-hour advance notice is given by calling the number posted at the bridge.

(2) From noon to 6 p.m. on Thanksgiving Day, and all day on Christmas, and New Years Day, the draw shall open on signal after at least a one-hour advance notice is given by calling the number posted at the bridge.
