
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 117 - DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Requirements
###### Massachusetts
####### ยง 117.619 Taunton River.

(a) The Brightman Street (Route-6) Bridge at mile 1.8, between Fall River and Somerset, shall operate as follows:

(b) The draw shall open on signal between 5 a.m. and 9 p.m., daily. From 9 p.m. through 5 a.m. the draw shall open on signal after at least a one-hour advance notice is given by calling the number posted at the bridge.

(c) From June 1 through August 31, the draw need not open for the passage of pleasure craft from 7 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. and from 4 p.m. to 6:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except holidays. The draw shall open for commercial vessels at all times.

(d) From 6 p.m. on December 24 to midnight on December 25, and from 6 p.m. on December 31 to midnight on January 1, the draw shall open on signal if at least a two-hour advance notice is given by calling the number posted at the bridge.

(e) The owner of the bridge shall provide and keep in good legible condition clearance gauges located on both upstream and downstream sides of the draw with figures not less than twelve inches in height, designed, installed and maintained according to the provisions of ยง 118.160 of this chapter.

(f) The draw of the Veterans Memorial Bridge, mile 2.1, across the Taunton River between Fall River and Somerset, shall operate as follows:

(1) From 7 a.m. through 3 p.m. the draw shall open on signal.

(2) From 3 p.m. through 7 a.m. the draw shall open on signal provided a two hour advance notice is given by calling the number posted at the bridge.
