
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 117 - DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Requirements
###### Michigan
####### ยง 117.631 Detroit River (Trenton Channel).

(a) The draw of the Grosse Ile Toll Bridge (Bridge Road), mile 8.8, at Grosse Ile, shall operate as follows:

(1) From March 16 through December 14-

(i) Between the hours of 7 a.m. and 11 p.m., seven days a week and holidays, the draw need open only from three minutes before to three minutes after the hour and half-hour for pleasure craft; for commercial vessels, during this period of time, the draw shall open on signal as soon as possible.

(ii) Between the hours of 11 p.m. and 7 a.m., the draw shall open on signal for pleasure craft and commercial vessels.

(2) From December 15 through March 15, no bridge tenders are required to be on duty at the bridge and the bridge shall open on signal if at least a twelve-hour advance notice is given.

(b) The draw of the Wayne County highway bridge (Grosse Ile Parkway), mile 5.6, at Grosse Ile, shall operate as follows:

(1) From March 16 through December 14-

(i) Between the hours of 7 a.m. and 11 p.m., seven days a week and holidays, the draw need open only from three minutes before to three minutes after the quarter and three-quarter hour for pleasure craft, with no opening required at 7:45 a.m., 8:45 a.m., 4:15 p.m. and 5:15 p.m., Monday through Friday, except holidays; for commercial vessels, during these periods of time, the draw shall open on signal as soon as possible.

(ii) Between the hours of 11 p.m. and 7 a.m., the draw shall open on signal for pleasure craft and commercial vessels.

(2) From December 15 through March 15, no bridgetenders are required to be on duty at the bridge and the bridge shall open on signal if at least a twelve-hour advance notice is given.

(c) At all times, the bridges listed in this section shall open as soon as possible for public vessels of the United States, State or local government vessels used for public safety and vessels in distress.
