
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 117 - DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Requirements
###### New Jersey
####### ยง 117.723 Hackensack River.

(a) The following requirements apply to all bridges across the Hackensack River:

(1) The owners of each bridge shall provide and keep in good legible condition clearance gauges for each draw, with figures not less than 18 inches high for bridges below the turning basin at mile 4.0, and 12 inches high for bridges above mile 4.0. The gauges shall be designed, installed and maintained according to the provisions of ยง 118.160 of this chapter.

(2) Train and locomotives shall be controlled so that any delay in opening the draw shall not exceed 10 minutes. However, if a train moving toward the bridge has crossed the home signal for the bridge before the signal requesting the opening of the bridge is given, the train may continue across the bridge and must clear the bridge interlocks before stopping or reversing.

(3) New Jersey Transit Rail Operations' (NJTRO) roving crews shall consist of two qualified operators on each shift, each having a vehicle which is equipped with marine and railroad radios, a cellular telephone, and emergency bridge repair and maintenance tools. This crew shall be split with one drawtender stationed at Upper Hack and the other drawtender at the NJTRO HX drawbridge. Adequate security measures shall be provided to prevent vandalism to the bridge operating controls and mechanisms to ensure prompt openings of NJTRO bridges.

(4) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) through (j) of this section, the draws shall open on signal.

(b) The draw of the PATH Bridge, mile 3.0, at Jersey City, shall open on signal provided at least a two-hour advance notice is provided by calling the number posted at the bridge. The draw need not open for the passage of vessel traffic Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays, from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. and from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m.

Additional bridge openings shall be provided for commercial vessels from 6 a.m. to 7:20 a.m.; 9:20 a.m. to 10 a.m.; 4 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. and from 6:50 p.m. to 8 p.m. provided at least a two-hour advance notice is given by calling the number posted at the bridge.

(c) The draw of the Hack-Freight Railroad Bridge at mile 3.1, shall open on signal at all times, except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The bridge shall be operated from a remote location at all times, except when it is tended locally. Sufficient closed circuit television cameras, approved by the Coast Guard, shall be operated and maintained at the bridge site to enable the remotely located bridge tender to have full view of both river traffic and the bridge.

(1) Radiotelephone Channel 13/16 VHF-FM shall be maintained and utilized to facilitate communication in both remote and local control locations. The bridge shall also be equipped with directional microphones and horns to receive and deliver signals to vessels.

(2) Whenever the remote control system equipment is partially disabled or fails for any reason, the bridge shall be physically tended and operated by local control as soon as possible, but no more than 45 minutes after malfunction or disability of the remote system. Mechanical bypass and override capability of the remote system shall be provided and maintained.

(d) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the draw of the NJTRO Lower Hack Bridge, mile 3.4, at Jersey City shall open on signal if at least a one-hour advance notice is given to the drawtender at the Upper Hack bridge, mile 6.9, at Secaucus, New Jersey by calling the number posted at the bridge. In the event the NJTRO HX draw tender is at the Newark/Harrison (Morristown Line) Bridge, mile 5.8, on the Passaic River, up to an additional half hour delay is permitted.

(e) The draw of the Amtrak Portal Bridge, mile 5.0, at Little Snake Hill, New Jersey, need not open for the passage of vessel traffic from 5 a.m. to 10 a.m. and from 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. Additional bridge openings shall be provided for tide restricted commercial vessels between 7 a.m. and 8 a.m. and between 5 p.m. and 6 p.m., if at least a two-hour advance notice is given by calling the number posted at the bridge. At all other times the bridge shall open on signal if at least two-hour advance notice is given.

(f) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the draw of the NJTRO Upper Hack Bridge, mile 6.9 at Secaucus, N.J. shall open on signal unless the drawtender is at the NJTRO HX Bridge, mile 7.7 at Secaucus, N.J. over the Hackensack River, then up to a half hour delay is permitted.

(g) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the draw of the NJTRO HX Bridge at mile 7.7, shall open on signal if at least a half hour notice is given to the drawtender at the Upper Hack Bridge.

(h) The draw of the Harold J. Dillard Memorial (Court Street) Bridge, mile 16.2, Hackensack, shall open on signal if at least four hours notice is given.

(i) The draw of the New York Susquehanna and Western Railroad bridge, mile 16.3, and the Midtown bridge, mile 16.5, both at Hackensack, need not be opened for the passage of vessels, however, the draws shall be restored to operable condition within 12 months after notification by the District Commander to do so.

(j) The draw of the Route 1 & 9 Bridge, mile 1.8, at Jersey City, shall open on signal; except that, from 11 p.m. to 7 a.m., the draw shall open on signal if at least two hours advance notice is given by calling the number posted at the bridge.

(k) The draw of the Route 7 Bridge, mile 3.1, at Jersey City, shall open on signal if at least four hours advance notice is given by calling the number posted at the bridge.
