
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 20 - RULES OF PRACTICE, PROCEDURE, AND EVIDENCE FOR FORMAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS OF THE COAST GUARD
##### Subpart C - Pleadings and Motions
###### ยง 20.311 Withdrawal or dismissal.

(a) An administrative proceeding may end in withdrawal without any act by an ALJ in any of the following ways:

(1) By the filing of a stipulation by all parties who have appeared in the proceeding.

(2) By the filing of a notice of withdrawal by the Coast Guard representative at any time before the respondent has served a responsive pleading.

(3) With respect to a complaint filed under section 311(b)(6) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1321(b)(6)) or section 109(d) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9609(b)), by the filing of-

(i) A notice of withdrawal by the Coast Guard representative at any time after the respondent has served a responsive pleading, but before the issuance of an order assessing or denying a class II civil penalty, together with

(ii) A certification by the representative that the filing of the notice is due to a request by the Attorney General-in accordance with subsection 10(d) of Executive Order 12777 (56 FR 54757; 3 CFR, 1991 Comp., p. 351)-that the Coast Guard refrain from conducting an administrative proceeding.

(b) Unless the stipulation or notice of withdrawal states otherwise, a withdrawal under paragraph (a) of this section is without prejudice.

(c) Except as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, no administrative proceeding may end in withdrawal unless approved by an ALJ upon such terms as she or he deems proper.

(d) Any respondent may move to dismiss a complaint, the government may move to dismiss a petition, or any party may lodge a request for relief, for failure of another party to-

(1) Comply with the requirements of this part or with any order of the ALJ;

(2) Show a right to relief based upon the facts or law; or

(3) Prosecute the proceeding.

(e) A dismissal resides within the discretion of the ALJ.
