
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 117 - DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Requirements
###### New Jersey
####### ยง 117.733 New Jersey Intracoastal Waterway.

(a) The draw of the Route 35 Bridge, mile 1.1 across Manasquan River at Brielle, shall open on signal except as follows:

(1) From May 15 through September 30:

(i) On Saturdays, Sundays and Federal holidays, from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m., the draw need only open 15 minutes before the hour and 15 minutes after the hour.

(ii) On Mondays to Thursdays from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m., and on Fridays, except Federal holidays from 12 p.m. to 7 p.m., the draw need only open 15 minutes before the hour and 15 minutes after the hour.

(2) Year-round from 11 p.m. to 8 a.m., the draw need only open if at least four hours notice is given.

(b) The draw of the Route 88 Bridge, mile 3.0, across Point Pleasant Canal at Point Pleasant, shall operate as follows:

(1) From 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. the draw shall open on signal.

(2) From 11:01 p.m. to 6:59 a.m. the draw shall open on signal, if at least four hours advance notice is given.

(c) The draw of the Route 13 Bridge, mile 3.9, across Point Pleasant Canal at Point Pleasant, shall operate as follows:

(1) From 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. the draw shall open on signal.

(2) From 11:01 p.m. to 6:59 a.m. the draw shall open on signal, if at least four hours advance notice is given.

(d) The draw of the County Route 528 Bridge, mile 6.3 across Barnegat Bay at Mantoloking, shall open on signal; except that from Memorial Day through Labor Day on Saturdays, Sundays and Federal holidays from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m., the draw need only open on the hour, twenty minutes after the hour, and forty minutes after the hour.

(e) The draw of the S37 Bridge across Barnegat Bay, mile 14.1 at Seaside Heights, shall open on signal except as follows:

(1) From December 1 through March 31, the draw need only open if at least four hours notice is given.

(2) From April 1 through November 30 from 11 p.m. to 8 a.m., the draw need only open if at least four hours notice is given.

(3) From Memorial Day through Labor Day from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., the draw need only open on the hour and half hour.

(f) The draw of the AMTRAK New Jersey Transit Rail Operations (NJTRO) automated railroad swing bridge across Beach Thorofare, mile 68.9 at Atlantic City shall operate as follows:

(1) Open on signal from 11 p.m. to 6 a.m. From 6 a.m. to 11 p.m., the draw shall open on signal from 20 minutes to 30 minutes after each hour and remain open for all waiting vessels.

(2) Opening of the draw span may be delayed for ten minutes except as provided in ยง 117.31(b). However, if a train is moving toward the bridge and has crossed the home signal for the bridge before the signal requesting opening of the bridge is given, that train may continue across the bridge and must clear the bridge interlocks before stopping.

(3) When the bridge is not tended locally and/or is operated from a remote location, sufficient closed circuit TV cameras shall be operated and maintained at the bridge site to enable the remotely located bridge/train controller to have full view of both river traffic and the bridge.

(4) Radiotelephone Channel 13 (156.65 MHz) VHF-FM, shall be maintained and utilized to facilitate communication in both remote and local control locations. The bridge shall also be equipped with directional microphones and horns to receive and deliver signals to vessels within a mile that are not equipped with radiotelephones.

(5) Whenever the remote control system equipment is partially disabled or fails for any reason, the bridge shall be physically tended and operated by local control. Personnel shall be dispatched to arrive at the bridge as soon as possible, but not more that one hour after malfunction or disability of the remote system. Mechanical bypass and override capability of the remote operation system shall be provided and maintained.

(6) When the draw is opening and closing, or is closed, yellow flashing lights located on the ends of the center piers shall be displayed continuously until the bridge is returned to the fully open position.

(g) The draw of the Route 30 Bridge across Beach Thorofare, mile 67.2 at Atlantic City, shall open on signal if at least four hours of notice is given; except that:

(1) From April 1 through October 31, from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. the draw need only open on the hour.

(2) On July 4, the draw need not open from 9:40 p.m. until 11:15 p.m. to accommodate the annual July 4th fireworks show. Should inclement weather prevent the fireworks event from taking place as planned, the draw need not open from 9:40 p.m. until 11:15 p.m. on July 5th to accommodate the annual July 4th fireworks show.

(3) On the third or fourth Wednesday of August the draw will open every two hours on the hour from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m. and need not open from 4 p.m. until 8 p.m. to accommodate the annual Air Show.

(h) The draw of the US40-322 (Albany Avenue) Bridge, mile 70.0 across Inside Thorofare, at Atlantic City, shall open on signal except that:

(1) Year-round, from 11 p.m. to 7 a.m.; and from November 1 through March 31 from 3 p.m. to 11 p.m., the draw need only open if at least four hours notice is given;

(2) From June 1 through September 30:

(i) From 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. and from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. the draw need only open on the hour and half hour; and

(ii) From 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. the draw need not open.

(3) On July 4, the draw need not open from 9:40 p.m. until 11:15 p.m. to accommodate the annual July 4th fireworks show. Should inclement weather prevent the fireworks event from taking place as planned, the draw need not open from 9:40 p.m. until 11:15 p.m. on July 5th to accommodate the annual July 4th fireworks show.

(4) On the third or fourth Wednesday of August, the draw will open every two hours on the hour from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m. and need not open from 4 p.m. until 8 p.m. to accommodate the annual Air Show.

(i) The draw of the Dorset Avenue Bridge across Inside Thorofare, mile 72.1 at Ventnor City, shall open on signal except that from June 1 through September 30, from 9:15 a.m. to 9:15 p.m., the draw need only open at 15 and 45 minutes after the hour.

(j) The draw of the Stone Harbor Boulevard Bridge, mile 102.0 across Great Channel, at Stone Harbor, shall open on signal except that:

(1) From October 1 through March 31 from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. the draw need only open if at least eight hours notice is given.

(2) From Memorial Day through Labor Day from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturdays, Sundays and Federal holidays, the draw need open only on the hour, 20 minutes after the hour, and 20 minutes before the hour.

(3) From 10 p.m. on December 24 until 6 a.m. on December 26, the draw need open only if at least two hours notice is given.

(k) The draw of Two-Mile Bridge, mile 112.2, across Middle Thorofare in Wildwood Crest, shall open on signal except:

(1) From 9:15 a.m. to 10:30 a.m. on the fourth Sunday in March of every year, the draw need not open for vessels. If the fourth Sunday falls on a religious holiday, the draw need not open for vessels from 9:15 a.m. to 10:30 a.m. on the third Sunday of March of every year.

(2) From 10:30 p.m. on December 24 until 10:30 p.m. on December 26, the draw need open only if at least two hours notice is given.

(l) The draw of Cape May Canal Railroad Bridge across Cape May Canal, mile 115.1, at Cape May shall operate as follows:

(1) The draw shall be maintained in the open position; the draw may close only for the crossing of trains and maintenance of the bridge. When the draw is closed for a train crossing a bridge tender shall be present to reopen the draw after the train has cleared the bridge. When the draw is closed for maintenance a bridge tender shall be present to open the draw upon signal.

(2) Train service generally operates as follows (please contact Cape May Seashore Lines for current train schedules):

(i) Winter (generally December through March): In general, there is no train service, therefore the bridge is unmanned and placed in the full open position.

(ii) Spring (generally April through May and Fall (generally September through November): Generally weekend service only: Friday through Sunday train service starts at 10 a.m. and ends at 7:30 p.m. Monday through Thursday the bridge generally unmanned and in the open position.

(iii) Summer Service (generally June through August): Daily train service starting at 10 a.m. and ending 7:30 p.m.

(3) When a vessel approaches the drawbridge with the draw in the open position, the vessel shall give the opening signal. If no acknowledgement is received within 30 seconds, the vessel may proceed, with caution, through the open draw. When the draw is open and will be closing promptly, the drawbridge will generally signal using sound signals or radio telephone.

(4) Opening of the draw span may be delayed for ten minutes after a signal to open except as provide in (117.31(b). However, if a train is moving toward the bridge and has crossed the home signal for the bridge before the signal requesting opening of the bridge is given, the train may continue across the bridge and must clear the bridge interlocks as soon as possible in order to prevent unnecessary delays in the opening of the draw.
