
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 117 - DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Requirements
###### New Jersey
####### ยง 117.739 Passaic River.

(a) The following requirements apply to all bridges in this section across the Passaic River:

(1) The owners of these bridges shall provide, and keep in good legible condition, clearance gauges with figures not less than twelve (12) inches high designed, installed and maintained according to the provisions of ยง 118.160 of this chapter.

(2) New Jersey Transit Rail Operations' (NJTRO) roving crews shall consist of an adequate number of operators to ensure NJTRO bridges are operated according to the requirements of this section.

(b) The draw of the Routes 1 & 9 (Lincoln Highway) Bridge, mile 1.8, at Newark, shall open on signal if at least four hours notice is given.

(c) The draw of CONRAIL's Point-No-Point Railroad Bridge, mile 2.6, at Newark, shall open on signal if at least four hours notice is given to the CONRAIL Movement Desk. After the signal to open is given, the opening may be delayed no more than ten minutes.

(d) The draw of the Jackson Street Bridge, mile 4.6, shall open on signal if at least four hours notice is given by calling the number posted at the bridge.

(e) The draw of the Amtrak Dock Bridge, mile 5.0, at Harrison, shall open on signal after at least a twenty-four hour advance notice is given by calling the number posted at the bridge; except that, from 7:20 a.m. to 9:20 a.m. and from 4:30 p.m. to 6:50 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays, the draw need not be opened for the passage of vessel traffic. At all other times, a bridge opening may be delayed no more than ten minutes for the passage of rail traffic, unless the draw tender and the vessel operator agree to a longer delay.

(f) The draw of the Bridge Street Bridge, mile 5.6, shall open on signal if at least four hours notice is given by calling the number posted at the bridge.

(g) The draw of the NJTRO Newark-Harrison (Morristown Line) Bridge, mile 5.8, at Harrison, New Jersey shall open on signal if at least one hour advance notice is given to the drawtender at Upper Hack Bridge mile 6.9, across the Hackensack River at Secaucus, N.J. In the event the HX drawtender is at the Lower Hack Bridge, mile 3.4 on the Hackensack River, at Jersey City then up to an additional half hour delay in opening is permitted. After the signal to open is given, the opening may be delayed no more than ten minutes. From 7:15 a.m. to 9 a.m. and from 4:30 p.m. to 6:50 p.m., Monday through Friday except federal holidays, the draw need not open.

(h) The Route 280 Bridge, mile 5.8, at Harrison, New Jersey, shall open on signal if at least 24 hours notice is given by calling the number posted at the bridge.

(i) The draw of the Clay Street Bridge, mile 6.0, shall open on signal if at least four hours notice is given by calling the number posted at the bridge.

(j) The draw of the NJTRO (West Arlington) Bridge, mile 8.0, at Kearney, shall open on signal from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. if at least eight hours notice is given. After the signal to open is given, the opening may be delayed no more than ten minutes. From 11 p.m. to 7 a.m., the draw need not be opened.

(k) The draw of the Route 7 (Rutgers Street) Bridge, mile 8.9, at Belleville, shall open on signal if at least four hours notice is given.

(l) The draw of the Avondale Bridge, mile 10.7, at Lyndhurst, shall open on signal if at least four hours notice is given.

(m) The draw of the NJTRO Bridge, mile 11.7, shall open on signal after at least a 24 hour notice is given by calling the number posted at the bridge.

(n) West Eighth Street Bridge, mile 15.3, at Garfield need not open for the passage of vessels.

(o)-(s) [Reserved]
