
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 117 - DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Requirements
###### New Jersey
####### ยง 117.741 Raccoon Creek.

(a) The draw of the Route 130 highway bridge, mile 1.8 at Bridgeport, shall open on signal:

(1) May 1 through October 31, from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m.

(2) At all other times, if at least four hours notice is given.

(b) The draw of the CONRAIL Railroad Bridge, mile 2.0 at Bridgeport, shall operate as follows:

(1) From March 1 through November 30, the draw shall be left in the open position at all times and will only be closed for the passage of trains and to perform periodic maintenance authorized in accordance with subpart A of this part.

(i) Trains shall be controlled so that any delay in opening of the draw shall not exceed ten minutes except as provided in ยง 117.31(b).

(ii) Before the bridge closes for any reason, a train crewmember will observe the waterway for approaching craft, which will be allowed to pass. A train crewmember will then operate the bridge by radiophone. The bridge shall only be closed if a train crewmember's visual inspection shows that the channel is clear and there are no vessels transiting in the area.

(iii) While the CONRAIL Railroad Bridge is moving from the full open to the full closed position, a train crewmember will maintain constant surveillance of the navigational channel to ensure no conflict with maritime traffic exists. In the event of failure or obstruction, the train crewmember will stop the bridge and return the bridge to the open position.

(iv) The CONRAIL Railroad channel traffic lights will change from flashing green to flashing red anytime the bridge is not in the full open position.

(v) During closing of the span, the channel traffic lights will change from flashing green to flashing red, the horn will sound four times, followed by a pause, then the four blasts will be repeated and the bridge will close. When the rail traffic has cleared the swing span, the horn will automatically sound five times to signal the draw of the CONRAIL Railroad Bridge is about to return to its full open position.

(vi) During open span movement, the channel traffic lights will be flashing red, the horn will sound four times, followed by a pause, then four blasts will be repeated until the bridge is in the full open position. In the full open position, the channel traffic lights will then turn from flashing red to flashing green.

(2) At all other times, the draw may be left in the closed position and opened on signal if at least four hours notice is given by telephone at (856) 231-2393.
