
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 117 - DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Requirements
###### New Jersey
####### ยง 117.745 Rancocas Creek.

(a) The following requirements apply to all bridges across the Rancocas River (Creek):

(1) Public vessels of the United States must be passed through the drawspan of each drawbridge as soon as possible without delay at anytime. The opening signal from these vessels is four or more short blasts of a whistle or horn, or a radio request.

(2) The owners of these bridges shall provide and keep in good legible condition clearance gauges for each draw with figures not less than 12 inches high designed, installed and maintained according to the provisions of ยง 118.160 of this chapter.

(3) Trains and locomotives shall be controlled so that any delay in opening the draw span shall not exceed ten minutes. However, if a train moving toward the bridge has crossed the home signal for the bridge before the signal requesting opening of the bridge is given, that train may continue across the bridge and must clear the bridge interlocks before stopping or reversing.

(b) The drawspan for the Riverside-Delanco/SR#543 Drawbridge, mile 1.3 at Riverside must operate as follows:

(1) From April 1 through October 31 open on signal from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m.

(2) From November 1 through March 31 from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m., open on signal if at least 24 hours notice is given, except as provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(3) Year round from 11 p.m. to 7 a.m. need not open for the passage of vessels, except as provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(c) The draw of the Centerton County Route 635 Bridge, mile 7.8, at Mt. Laurel, need not open for the passage of vessels.
