
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 117 - DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Requirements
###### New York
####### ยง 117.773 Buffalo River.

(a) The draw of the Michigan Avenue bridge, mile 1.3, at Buffalo, shall operate as follows:

(1) From March 22 through December 15, the draw shall open within 20 minutes of signal. However, the draw need not open from 7:30 a.m. to 9 a.m., and from 4 p.m. to 5:45 p.m., Monday through Saturday.

(2) From December 16 through March 21, the draw shall open on signal if notice is given at least 4 hours in advance of a vessel's time of intended passage through the draw.

(b) The draw of the Ohio Street bridge, mile 2.1, at Buffalo, shall operate as follows:

(1) From March 22 through December 15, the draw shall open on signal within 20 minutes after a request is made to the Michigan Avenue drawtender. However, the draw need not open from 7:30 a.m. to 9 a.m., and from 4 p.m. to 5:45 p.m., Monday through Saturday.

(2) From December 16 through March 21, the draw shall open on signal if notice is given at least 4 hours in advance of a vessel's time of intended passage through the draw.

(3) In addition to the standard signals required for requesting the bridge to open, the owners of this bridge shall maintain and monitor a marine radiotelephone for use by the Michigan Avenue drawtender for receiving requests for opening the Ohio Street bridge. The drawtender shall maintain communications with any transiting vessel until the vessel has cleared both the Ohio Street and Michigan Avenue draws.

(c) The draws of the CSX Transportation railroad bridges, miles 4.02 and 4.39, both at Buffalo, shall open on signal if notice is given at least 4 hours in advance of a vessel's time of intended passage through the draws.

(d) The South Park Avenue bridge, mile 5.3, at Buffalo, shall open on signal if notice is given at least 4 hours in advance of a vessel's time of intended passage through the draw. However, the draw need not open from 7 a.m. to 8:30 a.m., and from 4:30 p.m. to 6 p.m., Monday through Saturday.

(e) The periods when the bridges need not open on signal prescribed in paragraphs (a)(1), (b)(1), and (d) in this section shall not be effective on Sundays, and on New Year's Day, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, or days observed in lieu of any of these under State law.
