
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 117 - DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Requirements
###### New York
####### ยง 117.789 Harlem River.

(a) The draws of all railroad bridges across the Harlem River may remain in the closed position from the time a train scheduled to cross the bridge is within five minutes from the bridge, and until that train has fully crossed the bridge. The maximum time permitted for delay shall not exceed ten (10) minutes. Land and water traffic should pass over or through the draw as soon as possible to prevent unnecessary delays in the opening and closure of the draw.

(b)(1) The draws of the bridges at 103 Street, mile 0.0, 125 Street (Triborough), mile 1.3, Willis Avenue, mile 1.5, Third Avenue, mile 1.9, Madison Avenue, mile 2.3, 145 Street, mile 2.8, Macombs Dam, mile 3.2, 207 Street, mile 6.0, and the Broadway Bridge, mile 6.8, shall open on signal if at least a four-hour advance notice is given to the New York City Highway Radio (Hotline) Room and the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority (TBTA) for the 125 Street (Triborough), mile 1.3. The draws of the above bridges, except the Broadway Bridge, need not open for the passage of vessel traffic from 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. to 7 p.m., Monday through Friday, except federal holidays. The draw of the Broadway Bridge need not open for the passage of vessel traffic from 7 a.m. to 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. to 7 p.m., Monday through Friday, except federal holidays.

(2) The draws of the Willis Avenue Bridge, mile 1.5, Third Avenue Bridge, mile 1.9, and the Madison Avenue Bridge, mile 2.3, need not open for the passage of vessel traffic at various times between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. on the first Sunday in May and November. The exact time and date of each bridge closure will be published in the Local Notice to Mariners several weeks prior to each closure.

(c) The draw of the Metro North (Park Avenue) Bridge, mile 2.1, shall open on signal, except, as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, if at least a four-hour advance notice is given. The draw need not open for the passage of vessel traffic from 5 a.m. to 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. to 8 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays.

(d) The draw of the Spuyten Duyvil railroad bridge, mile 7.9, shall open on signal at all times, except as provided in paragraph (a) of this section.
