
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 117 - DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Requirements
###### New York
####### ยง 117.797 Lake Champlain.

(a) The drawspan for each drawbridge listed in this section must open as soon as possible for public vessels of the United States.

(b) The draw of the US2 Bridge, mile 91.8, over Lake Champlain, between South Hero Island and North Hero Island, shall operate as follows:

(1) The draw shall open on signal on the hour and the half hour from May 15th through October 15th from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. daily.

(2) The draw shall open on signal from May 15th through October 15th from 8 p.m. to 8 a.m. if at least four hours notice is given by calling the number posted at the bridge.

(3) The draw shall open on signal from October 16th through May 14th if at least four hours notice is given by calling the number posted at the bridge.

(c) The draw of the Central Vermont Railway bridge across Missisquoi Bay, mile 105.6 shall open on signal:

(1) From June 15 through September 15:

(i) Monday through Friday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.;

(ii) Saturdays, Sundays, Independence Day and Labor Day from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m.;

(iii) At all other times, if at least two hours notice is given.

(2) From September 16 through June 14 if at least 24 hours notice is given.

(d) The draw of the SR78 bridge, mile 105.9 across the entrance to Missisquoi Bay between Alburg Tongue and Hog Island at East Alburg, shall open on signal if at least 24 hours notice is given.
