
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 117 - DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Requirements
###### New York
####### ยง 117.799 Long Island, New York Inland Waterway from East Rockaway Inlet to Shinnecock Canal.

(a) At all times, public vessels of the United States must be passed through the drawspan of each drawbridge listed in this section as soon as possible.

(b) The draw of each bridge listed in this section need not be opened for sailing vessels, unless the vessels are under machinery power or under tow, if an opening would unduly delay other vessel or vehicular traffic.

(c) The owners of the bridges listed in this section shall provide and keep in good legible condition two board gages painted white with black figures not less than eight inches high to indicate the vertical clearance under the closed draw at all stages of the tide. The gages shall be so placed on the bridges that they are plainly visible to operators of vessels approaching the bridges either up or downstream.

(d) The draws of the West Bay bridge, mile 0.1 across Quantuck Canal, Beach Lane bridge, mile 1.1 across Quantuck Canal, Quoque bridge, mile 1.1 across Quoque Canal and the Smith Point bridge, mile 6.1 across Narrow Bay shall open on signal from October 1 through April 30 from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. and from May 1 through September 30 from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. At all other times during these periods, the draws shall open as soon as possible but no more than one hour after a request to open is received.

(e) The draw of the Atlantic Beach Bridge across Reynolds Channel, mile 0.4, shall open on signal-

(1) From October 1 through May 14;

(2) From May 15 through September 30, except that it need be opened only on the hour and half-hour from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. on weekdays and from 11 a.m. to 9 p.m. on Saturdays, Sundays, Memorial Day, Independence Day, and Labor Day; and

(3) From May 15 through September 30, from two hours before to one hour after predicted high tide. Predicted high tide occurs 10 minutes earlier than that predicted for Sandy Hook, as given in the tide table published by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

(f) The draw of the Loop Parkway Bridge across Long Creek, mile 0.7, shall open for commercial vessels engaged in commerce, the draw shall open Monday thru Friday from 6:20 a.m. to 9:50 a.m. and 3:20 p.m. to 7:20 p.m. on signal at 20 and 50 minutes after the hour, and on signal at all other times. For all other vessels, the draw shall open on Monday thru Friday from 6:20 a.m. to 7:20 p.m. on signal at 20 and 50 minutes after the hour, and the draw shall open on Saturday, Sunday and Federal Holidays from 7:20 a.m. to 8:20 p.m. on signal at 20 and 50 minutes after the hour, and on signal at all other times.

(g) The draw of the Long Beach Bridge across Reynolds Channel, mile 4.7, shall open on signal; except that:

(1) From midnight to 8 a.m. year-round, the draw shall open on signal if at least four hours notice is given; and

(2) From 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. on Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays from May 15 through September 30, the draw need be opened only on the hour and half hour.

(3) From 10 p.m. to midnight on July 3 each year the draw need not open for the passage of vessel traffic.

(h) The draw of the Meadowbrook State Parkway Bridge, mile 12.8, across Sloop Channel, shall open on signal if at least a one-half hour notice is given to the New York State Department of Transportation, as follows:

(1) Every other hour on the even hour.

(2) From April 1 through October 31, on Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays, every three hours beginning at 1:30 a.m. Notice may be given from the telephone located at the moorings on each side of the bridge or by marine radio.

(3) From 9 p.m. to midnight, on the Fourth of July, the Meadowbrook State Parkway Bridge need not open for the passage of vessel traffic.

(i) The draw of the Captree State Parkway Bridge at mile 30.7, across the State Boat Channel, at Captree Island, shall open on signal if at least a one half hour advance notice is given by calling the number posted at the bridge as follows:

(1) Every other hour on the even hour.

(2) From April 1 through October 31, on Saturday, Sunday, and Federal holidays every three hours beginning at 3 a.m.
