
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 117 - DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Requirements
###### Ohio
####### ยง 117.851 Portage River.

(a) Public vessels of the United States, State or local government vessels used for public safety, vessels in distress and vessels seeking shelter from rough weather shall be passed through the draws listed in this section as soon as possible. Except as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) with respect to the Monroe Street bridge, commercial vessels shall be passed through the draws of this section as soon as possible.

(b) The owners of the bridges listed in this section shall provide and keep in good legible condition two board gages painted white with black figures to indicate the vertical clearance under the closed draw at all stages of the tide. The gages shall be so placed on the bridge that they are plainly visible to operators of vessels approaching the bridge either up or downstream.

(c) The draw of the Monroe Street bridge, mile 0.4 at Port Clinton, shall open as follows:

(1) From May 1 through November 30-

(i) Between the hours of 12 midnight and 6 a.m., the draw shall open on signal.

(ii) Between the hours of 6 a.m. and 12 midnight, the draw shall open on signal. However, the draw need not open on signal during this time for recreational craft and commercial vessels licensed to carry fifteen or less passengers, or less than ten gross tons, unless in distress or seeking shelter from rough weather. For these vessels, the draw need open only from three minutes before to three minutes after the hour and half-hour.

(2) From December 1 through April 30, the draw shall open on signal if at least 24 hours' notice is given.

(d) The draw of the Norfolk Southern Bridge, Mile 1.5 at Port Clinton, is remotely operated, is required to operate a radio telephone, and shall open on signal. However, from December 1 through April 30, the draw shall open on signal if at least 24 hours notice is given.
