
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 117 - DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Requirements
###### Ohio
####### ยง 117.855 Maumee River.

(a) The draw of the Craig Memorial highway bridge, mile 3.30, at Toledo, shall operate as follows:

(1) From April through December 20-

(i) Between the hours of 7 a.m. and 11 p.m., the draw need open only from three minutes before to three minutes after the hour and half-hour with no opening required at 7:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. for pleasure craft; for commercial vessels, during this period of time, the draw shall open on signal as soon as possible.

(ii) Between the hours of 11 p.m. and 7 a.m., the draw shall open on signal for commercial vessels and pleasure craft.

(2) From December 21 through March 31, no bridgetenders are required to be on duty at the bridge and the draw shall open on signal from December 21 through December 31, if at least a four hour advance notice is given and from January 1 through March 31, if at least a twelve hour advance notice is given.

(b) The draw of the Cherry Street highway bridge, mile 4.30 at Toledo, shall operate as follows:

(1) From April 1 through December 20-

(i) Between the hours of 7 a.m. and 11 p.m., the draw need open only from three minutes before to three minutes after the quarter and three-quarter hour with no opening required at 7:45 a.m. and 4:45 p.m. for pleasure craft; for commercial vessels, during this period of time, the draw shall open on signal as soon as possible.

(ii) Between the hours of 11 p.m. and 7 a.m., the draw shall open on signal for commercial vessels and pleasure craft.

(2) From December 21 through March 31, no bridgetenders are required to be at the bridge and the draw shall open on signal from December 21 through December 31, if at least a four hour advance notice is given and from January 1 through March 31, if at least a twelve hour advance notice is given.

(c) The draws of the CSX Transportation railroad bridge, mile 1.07, Wheeling and Lake Erie Railroad Bridge, mile 1.80 and Norfolk Southern railroad bridge, mile 5.76, all at Toledo, shall operate as follows:

(d) At all times, the bridges listed in this section shall open as soon as possible for public vessels of the United States, state or local government vessels used for public safety and vessels in distress.
