
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 117 - DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Requirements
###### Oregon
####### ยง 117.897 Willamette River.

(a) The draws of the Union Pacific railroad bridge, mile 119.6 at Albany; and mile 164.3 near Harrisburg, need not open for the passage of vessels. However the draws shall be returned to operable condition within six months after notification by the District Commander to do so.

(b) The draw of the Oregon State highway bridge, mile 132.1 at Corvallis, shall open on signal if at least seven days notice is given. However, the draw need not be opened on Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal Holidays.

(c) The draws of the bridges listed in paragraph (c)(3) of this section shall open on signal if appropriate advance notice is given to the drawtender of the Hawthorne Bridge subject to the following requirements and exceptions:

(1) The draws need not open for the passage of vessels from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. every Monday through Friday; except that on New Year's Day, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day, the draws shall open in accordance with the notice requirements of paragraph (c)(3) below.

(2) During Rose Festival Week or when the water elevation reaches and remains above + 12 feet, no advance notice is required to request opening, except during the normal closed periods in (c)(1) above.

(3)(i) Broadway Bridge, mile 11.7, from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday, one hour's notice shall be given for draw openings. At all other times, notice of at least two hours in advance is required.

(ii) Steel Bridge (upper deck only), Portland, mile 12.1. From 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday, one hour's notice shall be given for draw openings. At all other times, two hours notice is required.

(iii) Burnside Bridge, mile 12.4, from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday, one hour's notice shall be given for draw openings. At all other times, two hours notice is required.

(iv) Morrison Bridge, Portland, mile 12.8, from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday, one hour's notice shall be given for draw openings. At all other times, two hours notice is required.

(v) Hawthorne Bridge, Portland, mile 13.1, no advance notice required.

(vi) Morrison Bridge, Portland, mile 12.8, will open a single leaf of the double leaf bascule bridge, upon the receipt of a telephone (503-988-3452) or VHF channel 13 radio signal to the Hawthorne Bridge, at Willamette River mile 13.1, given at least a two-hour advance notice, or four-hour advance notice if tug assist is required.
