
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 117 - DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Requirements
###### Oregon
####### ยง 117.899 Youngs Bay and Lewis and Clark River.

(a) The draw of the US101 (New Youngs Bay) highway bridge, mile 0.7, across Youngs Bay at Smith Point, shall open on signal for the passage of vessels if at least one half-hour notice is given to the draw tender at the Lewis and Clark River Bridge by marine radio, telephone, or other suitable means from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. During all other times, including weekends from 5 p.m. on Friday until 7 a.m. on Monday, and all Federal holidays except Columbus Day, the draw shall open on signal if at least a two-hour notice is given to the Oregon Department of Transportation (ODOT) by telephone. The opening signal shall be two prolonged blasts followed by one short blast.

(b) The draw of the Oregon State (Old Youngs Bay) highway bridge, mile 2.4, across Youngs Bay foot of Fifth Street, shall open on signal for the passage of vessels if at least one half-hour notice is given to the draw tender at the Lewis and Clark River Bridge by marine radio, telephone, or other suitable means from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. During all other times, including weekends from 5 p.m. on Friday until 7 a.m. on Monday, and all Federal holidays except Columbus Day, the draw shall open on signal if at least a two-hour notice is given to ODOT by telephone. The opening signal shall be two prolonged blasts followed by one short blast.

(c) The draw of the Oregon State (Lewis and Clark River) highway bridge, mile 1.0, across the Lewis and Clark River, shall open on signal for the passage of vessels if at least one half-hour notice is given by marine radio, telephone, or other suitable means from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. During all other times, including weekends from 5 p.m. on Friday until 7 a.m. on Monday, and all Federal holidays except Columbus Day, the draw shall open on signal if at least a two-hour notice is given to ODOT by telephone. The opening signal shall be two prolonged blasts followed by four short blast.
