
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 117 - DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Requirements
###### Pennsylvania
####### ยง 117.905 Schuylkill River.

(a) The following requirements apply to all drawbridges across the Schuylkill River:

(1) The draws of railroad bridges need not be opened when there is a train in the bridge block approaching the bridge with the intention of crossing, or within five minutes of the known time of the passage of a scheduled passenger train.

(2) The opening of a bridge may not be delayed more than five minutes for a highway bridge or 10 minutes for a railroad bridge, after the signal to open is given.

(3) The owners of drawbridges shall provide and keep in good legible condition two board gages painted white with black figures not less than six inches high to indicate the vertical clearance under the closed draw at all stages of the tide. The gages shall be so placed on the bridge that they are plainly visible to operators of vessels approaching the bridge either up or downstream.

(b) The Passyunk Avenue bridge, mile 3.5 at Philadelphia, shall open on signal at all times if at least four hours notice is given. Public vessels of the United States shall be passed as soon as possible at any time.

(c) The draw of the Conrail bridge, mile 5.5 at Grays Ferry Avenue, Philadelphia, shall open on signal; except that, on Saturdays and Sundays, the draw shall open on signal if at least two hours notice is given. Public vessels of the United States shall be passed as soon as possible at any time.

(d) The draw of the University Avenue bridge, mile 6.2 at Philadelphia, shall open on signal at all times if at least two hours notice is given. Public vessels of the United States shall be passed as soon as possible at any time.

(e) The draw of the CSX Bridge, mile 6.4 near Christian Street, Philadelphia, need not be opened for the passage of vessels.
