
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 20 - RULES OF PRACTICE, PROCEDURE, AND EVIDENCE FOR FORMAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS OF THE COAST GUARD
##### Subpart F - Discovery
###### ยง 20.604 Requests for production of documents or things, for inspection or other purposes.

(a) Any party seeking production of documents or things for inspection or other purposes shall so move to the ALJ. The motion must state with particularity-

(1) The purpose and scope of the request; and

(2) The documents and materials sought.

(b) The ALJ shall review the motion and enter an order approving or denying it in whole or in part.

(c) A party shall serve on the party in possession, custody, or control of the documents the order to produce or to permit inspection and copying of documents.

(d) A party may, after approval of an appropriate motion by the ALJ, inspect and copy, test, or sample any tangible things that contain, or may lead to, relevant information, and that are in the possession, custody, or control of the party upon whom the request is served.

(e) A party may, after approval of an appropriate motion by the ALJ, serve on another party a request to permit entry upon designated property in the possession or control of the other party for the purpose of inspecting, measuring, surveying, photographing, testing, or sampling the property or any designated object or area. A request to permit entry upon property must set forth with reasonable particularity the feature to be inspected and must specify a reasonable time, place, and manner for making the inspection and performing the related acts.

(f) The party upon whom the request is served shall respond within 30 days after the service of the request. Inspection and related activities will be permitted as requested, unless there are objections, in which case the reason for each objection must be stated.
