
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 117 - DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Requirements
###### Texas
####### ยง 117.988 Taylor Bayou Outfall Canal (Joint Outfall Canal (JOC)).

The draw of the Valero Bridge, mile 2.44, at the Valero facility in West Port Arthur, shall operate as follows:

(a) The draw shall be unmanned and maintained in the fully open-to-navigation position, except 6:30 a.m. through 7:30 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. through 6:30 p.m. daily.

(b) One hour prior to closing, a broadcast will be made warning of the impending closure on VHF-FM channels 16 and 13.

(c) 10 minutes prior to closing, the broadcast will be repeated warning of the impending closure on VHF-FM channels 16 and 13.

(d) The crewmember/tender will monitor the portable marine radio on approach to the bridge. When work crew approaches the bridge, it will stop and the crewmember/tender will observe the waterway for approaching vessels. If vessels are observed approaching the bridge, they will be allowed to pass prior to closing the bridge.

(e) An audible alarm will be heard during the opening and closing sequences of the bridge.

(f) Emergency marine traffic will be allowed to pass upon request. The bridge will require up to 30 minutes to cycle to allow for the passage of vessels. This request can be made on VHF-FM channel 16.

(g) If the bridge is required to operate outside of the specified times, the bridge will be tended until it is returned to the open-to-navigation position.
