
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 117 - DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Requirements
###### Vermont
####### ยง 117.993 Lake Champlain.

(a) The drawspan for each of the drawbridges listed in this section must open as soon as possible for the passage of public vessels of the United States.

(b) The draw of the US2 Bridge, mile 91.8, over Lake Champlain, between South Hero Island and North Hero Island, shall operate as follows:

(1) The draw shall open on signal on the hour and the half hour from May 15th through October 15th from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. daily.

(2) The draw shall open on signal from May 15th through October 15th from 8 p.m. to 8 a.m. if at least four hours notice is given by calling the number posted at the bridge.

(3) The draw shall open on signal from October 16th through May 14th if at least four hours notice is given by calling the number posted at the bridge.

(c) The draw of the New England Central Railroad Bridge across Missiquoi Bay, mile 105.6, at Swanton, Vermont, shall operate as follows:

(1) From June 15 through September 15, the draw shall remain in the full open position at all times and shall only be closed for the passage of rail traffic or the performance of maintenance authorized in accordance with subpart A of this part.

(2) From September 16 through June 14, the draw may remain in the closed position and shall be opened on signal for the passage of vessel traffic after at least a twenty four hour notice is given by calling the number posted at the bridge.

(3) The draw may be operated either remotely by the New England Central Railroad train dispatcher located at St. Albans, Vermont or manually by a draw tender located at the bridge.

(4) A sufficient number of infrared cameras shall be maintained in good working order at all times with a clear unobstructed view of the channel under the bridge, and the up and down stream approaches to the bridge. A signal horn and message boards located both up and down stream, necessary to warn marine traffic that the bridge will be closing, shall also be maintained in good working order at all times. In the event that any of the cameras, navigation lights, horn, or message board become disabled, personnel shall be deployed to the bridge to be on scene within two hours from the known time of the equipment failure.

(5) The draw may operate remotely as follows: Once it is determined that the draw must be opened or closed, the train dispatcher shall observe the waterway both up and down stream via the infrared cameras to verify that the channel is clear of all approaching vessel traffic. All approaching vessel traffic shall be allowed to pass before the bridge may be closed. Once it is determined that no vessel traffic is approaching the dispatcher shall sound the warning horn and activate the up and down stream message boards indicating that the bridge will be closing. After at least a one minute delay the draw may then be closed and the swing span navigation lights shall display as red to indicate the bridge is in the closed position. Once the train clears the bridge the draw shall be returned to the full open position and the swing span lights shall display as green to indicate the draw is in the full open position.

(6) In the event that the dispatcher cannot verify that the channel is clear of all vessel traffic and the bridge cannot be safely closed, an on-scene train crewmember shall observe the waterway for any vessel traffic and then communicate with the train dispatch office either by radio or telephone to request the bridge be safely closed. Personnel shall then be deployed to the bridge to arrive within two hours to inspect and repair the bridge remote operation equipment.

(7) The bridge shall be operated manually from the tender's house located at the bridge until all necessary repairs are completed to the remote operation equipment.
