
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 117 - DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Requirements
###### Virginia
####### ยง 117.997 Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway, South Branch of the Elizabeth River to the Albermarle and Chesapeake Canal.

(a) The draw of the Belt Line Railroad Bridge, mile 2.6, in Portsmouth and Chesapeake will operate as follows:

(1) The bridge will be left in the open position at all times and will only be lowered for the passage of trains and to perform periodic maintenance authorized in accordance with subpart A of this part.

(2) The bridge will be operated by the controller at the Berkley Yard office.

(3) The controller will monitor waterway traffic in the area of the bridge and directly beneath the bridge with closed circuit cameras mounted on top of the bridge and with surface navigational radar.

(4) When the bridge closes for any reason, the controller will announce 30 minutes in advance, 15 minutes in advance, and immediately proceeding the actual lowering, over marine channel 13, that the Belt Line Railroad Bridge is closing for river traffic. In each of these three announcements, the bridge/train controller will request all concerned river traffic to please acknowledge on marine channel 13.

(5) The bridge shall only be operated from the remote site if closed circuit visual and radar information shows there are no vessels in the area and no opposing radio communications have been received.

(6) While the Belt Line Bridge is moving from the full open position to the full closed position, the bridge/train controller will maintain constant surveillance of the navigational channel to ensure no conflict with maritime traffic exists. In the event of failure of a camera or the radar system, or loss of marine-radio communications, the bridge shall not be operated by the off-site bridge/train controller from the remote location.

(7) If the off-site bridge/train controller's visibility of the navigational channel is less thanof a mile, the bridge shall not be operated from the remote location.

(8) When the draw cannot be operated from the remote site, a bridgetender must be called to operate the bridge in the traditional on-site manner.

(9) The Belt Line mid-channel lights will change from green to red anytime the bridge is not in the full open position.

(10) During the downward and upward span movement, a warning alarm will sound until the bridge is seated and locked down or in the full open position.

(11) When the bridge has returned to its full up position, the mid-channel light will turn from red to green, and the controller will announce over marine radio channel 13, "Security, security, security, the Belt Line bridge is open for river traffic." Operational information will be provided 24 hours a day on marine channel 13 and via telephone 757-271-1741 or 757-633-2241.

(b) The draw of the Norfolk and Western railroad bridge across the South Branch of the Elizabeth River, mile 3.6 at Portsmouth-Chesapeake, shall be maintained in the open position; except the draw may close for the crossing of trains and maintenance of the bridge. When the draw is closed, a drawtender shall be present and the draw shall open on signal.

(c) The draw of the Gilmerton (US13/460) bridge, mile 5.8, in Chesapeake:

(1) Shall open on signal at any time for commercial vessels carrying liquefied flammable gas or other hazardous materials.

(2) From 6:30 a.m. to 8:30 a.m. and from 3:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays:

(i) Need not open for the passage of recreational or commercial vessels that do not qualify under paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section.

(ii) Need not open for commercial cargo vessels, including tugs, and tugs with tows, unless 2 hours advance notice has been given to the Gilmerton Bridge at757-485-5567.

(3) Shall open on signal at all other times.

(d) The draw of the Norfolk Southern #7 Railroad Bridge, mile 5.8 in Chesapeake, shall operate as follows:

(1) The draw shall be remotely controlled by the operator at the Norfolk Southern #5 Railroad Bridge office over the Eastern Branch of the Elizabeth River, at mile 1.1, in Norfolk.

(2) The draw shall be left in the open position to vessels and will only be closed for the passage of trains and to perform periodic maintenance authorized in accordance with subpart A of this part.

(3) Trains shall be controlled so that any delay in opening of the draw shall not exceed ten minutes except as provided in ยง 117.31(b).

(4) Before the bridge closes for any reason, the off-site remote operator will monitor waterway traffic in the area with closed circuit cameras and motion sensors mounted on the bridge. The bridge will only be closed if the off-site remote operator's visual inspection shows that the channel is clear and there are no vessels transiting in the area.

(5) While the bridge is moving from the full open position to the full closed position, the off-site remote operator will maintain constant surveillance of the navigation channel to ensure that no conflict with maritime traffic exists. In the event of failure or obstruction, the off-site remote operator will stop and return the bridge to the full open position to vessels. In the event of a failure or obstruction, a bridge tender must be called by the off-site remote operator and must be on-site within 30 minutes of the call to operate the bridge.

(6) During closing of the span, the channel traffic lights will change from flashing green to flashing red, the horn will sound twice, and an audio voice warning device will announce bridge movement, then two repeat blasts of the horn will sound until the bridge is seated and locked down. When the bridge is seated and locked down to vessels, the channel traffic lights will flash red.

(7) During the open span movement, the channel traffic lights will flash red, the horn will sound twice, followed by a pause, and then five repeat blasts of the horn will sound until the bridge is in the full open position to vessels. In the full open position to vessels, the bridge channel traffic lights will turn from flashing red to flashing green then an audio warning device will announce bridge movement by stating "Security, security, security, the Norfolk Southern #7 Railroad Bridge at mile 5.8 is open for river traffic".

(8) Operational information will be provided 24 hours a day on marine channel 13 and via telephone (757) 924-5320.

(e) The draw of the I64 bridge across the South Branch of the Elizabeth River, mile 7.1 at Chesapeake, shall open on signal if at least 24 hours notice is given.

(f) The draw of the Dominion Boulevard (US 17) bridge, mile 8.8 in Chesapeake:

(1) Shall open on signal at any time for commercial vessels carrying liquefied flammable gas or other hazardous materials.

(2) From 7 a.m. to 9 a.m. and from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m., Monday through Friday, need not open for the passage of recreational vessels, and need open for commercial cargo vessels not carrying hazardous materials, including tugs and tugs with tows, only when notice has been given at least 2 hours in advance to the Dominion Boulevard Bridge at (757) 547-0521.

(3) From 6 a.m. to 7 a.m. and from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday to Friday, and from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays, the draw need only be opened every hour on the hour, except the draw shall open on signal for commercial vessels that qualify under paragraphs (g)(1) or (g)(2) of this section.

(4) If any vessel is approaching the bridge and cannot reach the draw exactly on the hour, the drawtender may delay the opening up to ten minutes past the hour for the passage of the approaching vessel and any other vessels that are waiting to pass.

(5) Shall open on signal at all other times.

(g) The draw of the S168 bridge, mile 12 at Chesapeake (Great Bridge), shall open on signal; except that, from 6 a.m. to 7 p.m., the draw need be opened only on the hour. If any vessel is approaching the bridge and cannot reach the draw exactly on the hour, the drawtender may delay the hourly opening up to 10 minutes past the hour for the passage of the approaching vessel and any other vessels that are waiting to pass. Vessels in an emergency condition which presents danger to life or property shall be passed at any time.

(h) The draw of the Albemarle & Chesapeake Railroad bridge, mile 13.9, in Chesapeake, Virginia, shall be maintained in the open position; the draw may close only for the crossing of trains and maintenance of the bridge. When the draw is closed, a bridgetender shall be present to reopen the draw after the train has cleared the bridge.

(i) The draw of the Centerville Turnpike (SR170) bridge across the Albemarle and Chesapeake Canal, mile 15.2, at Chesapeake:

(1) Shall open on signal at any time for commercial vessels carrying liquefied flammable gas or other hazardous materials.

(2) From 6:30 a.m. to 8:30 a.m. and from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays:

(i) Need not open for the passage of recreational or commercial vessels that do not qualify under paragraph (i)(2)(ii) of this section.

(ii) Need not open for commercial cargo vessels, including tugs, and tugs with tows, unless 2 hours advance notice has been given to the Centerville Turnpike bridge at (757) 547-3632.

(3) From 8:30 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays, the draw need only be opened on the hour and half hour.

(4) If any vessel is approaching the bridge and cannot reach the draw exactly on the hour or half hour, the drawtender may delay the opening ten minutes past the hour or half hour for the passage of the approaching vessel and any other vessels that are waiting to pass.

(5) Shall open on signal at all other times.
