
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 117 - DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Requirements
###### Washington
####### ยง 117.1045 Hood Canal.

The draw of the Washington State pontoon highway bridge near Port Gamble operates as follows:

(a) The draw shall open on signal if at least one hour's notice is given. The draw shall be opened horizontally for 300 feet unless the maximum opening of 600 feet is requested.

(b) The draw of the Hood Canal Bridge, mile 5.0, need not open for vessel traffic from 3 p.m. to 6:15 p.m. daily from 3 p.m. May 22 to 6:16 p.m. September 30, except for commercial tug and tow vessels and vessels of the U.S. Navy or vessels attending the missions of the U.S. Navy and other public vessels of the United States. At all other times the bridge will operate in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) Telephone requests for bridge openings may be directed as collect calls to the Toll Office at the bridge site. The call may also be made by direct telephone communication through the Seattle Marine Operator, Station KOH, or through other marine wire or radio telephone service.

(d) During unusual or emergency periods, the authorized representative of the owner of or agency controlling the bridge shall open the draw on a demand basis for specified periods of time, normally not exceeding 48 hours, when requested by the Department of the Navy. While on a demand basis, a drawtender shall be in attendance on the bridge with radio communication equipment in operation.
