
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 117 - DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Requirements
###### Washington
####### ยง 117.1051 Lake Washington Ship Canal.

(a) When fog prevails by day or by night, the drawtender of each bridge listed in this section, after giving the acknowledging signal to open, shall toll a bell continuously during the approach and passage of vessels.

(b) All non-self-propelled vessels, craft, or rafts navigating this waterway for which the opening of any draw is necessary shall be towed by a suitable self-propelled vessel while passing the draw.

(c) The draw of the Burlington Northern Santa Fe railroad bridge, mile 0.1, shall open on signal.

(d) The draws of the Ballard Bridge, mile 1.1, Fremont Bridge, mile 2.6, and University Bridge, mile 4.3, shall open on signal, except that:

(1) The draws need not be opened for a period of up to 10 minutes after receiving an opening request, if needed to pass accumulated vehicular traffic. However, the draws shall open without delay, when requested by vessels engaged in towing operations.

(2) The draws need not open from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m. and from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. Monday through Friday, except all Federal holidays but Columbus Day for any vessel of less than 1000 tons, unless the vessel has in tow a vessel of 1000 gross tons or over.

(3) Between the hours of 11 p.m. and 7 a.m. the draws shall open if at least one hour notice is given by telephone, radiotelephone, or otherwise to the drawtender at the Fremont Avenue Bridge.

(e) The draw of the Montlake Bridge, mile 5.2, shall open on signal, except that:

(1) The draw need not open for a period of up to 10 minutes after receiving an opening request, if needed to pass accumulated vehicular traffic. However, the draw shall open without delay, when requested by vessels engaged in towing operations.

(2) For any vessel or watercraft of less than 1,000 gross tons, unless the vessel has in tow a vessel of 1,000 gross tons or over, from Monday through Friday, except Federal Holidays:

(i) The draw need not open from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m. and from 3:30 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. from April 30 to September 1 and from 7 a.m. to 10 a.m. and from 3:30 p.m. to 7 p.m. from September 1 to April 30.

(ii) The draw need open only on the hour and half hour from 12:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. and from 6 p.m. to 6:30 p.m.
