
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 117 - DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - Specific Requirements
###### Wisconsin
####### ยง 117.1093 Milwaukee, Menomonee, and Kinnickinnic Rivers and South Menomonee and Burnham Canals.

(a) The draws of the bridges over the Milwaukee River shall operate as follows:

(1) The draws of the North Broadway Street bridge, mile 0.5, and North Water Street bridge, mile 0.6, and Michigan Street bridge, mile 1.1, shall open on signal; except that, from April 16th through November 1st, from 7:30 a.m. to 8:30 a.m. and from 4 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays, the draws need not be opened, and from midnight to 7 a.m. Monday through Saturday except Federal holidays the bridges will open on signal if a 2-hour advance notice is provided.

(2) The draws of all other bridges across the Milwaukee River shall open on signal if at least 2-hours' notice is given except that, from April 16th through November 1st, from 7:30 a.m. to 8:30 a.m. and from 4 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays, the draws need not be opened.

(3) The following bridges are remotely operated, are required to operate a radiotelephone, and shall open as noted in this section: St. Paul Avenue, mile 1.21, Clybourn Street, mile 1.28, Wells Street, mile 1.61, Kilbourn Street, mile 1.70, State Street, mile 1.79, Highland Avenue, mile 1.97, and Knapp Street, mile 2.14.

(4) No vessel documented 12 tons or greater shall be held between any bridge at any time and must be passed as soon as possible.

(5) From November 2nd through April 15th, all drawbridges over the Milwaukee River will open on signal if a 12-hour advance notice is provided.

(b) The draws of bridges across the Menomonee River and South Menomonee Canal operate as follows:

(1) The draw of the North Plankinton Avenue bridge across the Menomonee River, mile 1.08, and the Canadian Pacific Railroad bridge, mile 1.05, shall open on signal; except that, from April 16th through November 1st, from 7:30 a.m. to 8:30 a.m. and from 4 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays, the draws need not be opened, and from midnight to 7 a.m. Monday through Friday except Federal holidays the bridges will open on signal if a 2-hour advance notice is provided.

(2) The draws of all other bridges across the Menomonee River and South Menomonee Canal shall open on signal if at least 2-hours' notice is given except that, from April 16th through November 1st, from 7:30 a.m. to 8:30 a.m. and from 4 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays, the draws need not be opened.

(3) The following bridges are remotely operated, are required to operate a radiotelephone, and shall open as noted in this section: North Plankinton Avenue, mile 1.08, North Sixth Street, mile 1.37, and North Ember Lane, mile 1.95, all over the Menomonee River and South Sixth Street, mile 1.51, over the South Menomonee Canal.

(4) No vessel documented over 12 tons shall be held between any bridge at any time and must be passed as soon as possible.

(5) From November 2nd through April 15th, all drawbridges over the Menomonee River and South Menomonee Canal will open on signal if a 12-hour advance notice is provided.

(c) The draws of bridges across the Kinnickinnic River operate as follows:

(1) The draw of the Kinnickinnic Avenue bridge, mile 1.5, shall open on signal; except that, from April 16th through November 1st, from 7:30 a.m. to 8:30 a.m. and from 4 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays, the draws need not be opened, and from midnight to 7 a.m. Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays, the bridges will open on signal if a 2-hour advance notice is provided.

(2) The draws of all other bridges across the Kinnickinnic River shall open on signal if at least 2-hours' notice is given except that, from April 16th through November 1st, from 7:30 a.m. to 8:30 a.m. and from 4 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays, the draws need not be opened.

(3) The following bridges are remotely operated, are required to operate a radiotelephone, and shall open as noted in this section: The South First Street Bridge, mile 1.78.

(4) No vessel documented over 12 tons shall be held between any bridge at any time and must be passed as soon as possible.

(5) From November 2nd through April 15th, all drawbridges over the Kinnickinnic River will open on signal if a 12-hour advance notice is provided.

(d) The Canadian Pacific Railroad Bridge at Mile 1.74 over the Burnham Canal, and the Sixteenth Street Bridge, mile 2.14, over the Menomonee River are closed by regulation and do not need to open for the passage of vessels.
