
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter J - Bridges
#### PART 118 - BRIDGE LIGHTING AND OTHER SIGNALS
##### ยง 118.160 Vertical clearance gauges.
###### Numerals.

(d)(1) Each gauge must be marked by black numerals and foot marks on a white background. Paint, if used, must be of good exterior quality, resistant to excessive chalking or bleeding. Manufactured numerals and background material may be used.

(2) The size, type, and spacing of numerals must conform to the Standard Alphabets for Highway Signs and the following table. The nominal day visibility distance is the distance at which the clearance information needs to be ascertained by approaching vessel operators. The District Commander determines this distance for each bridge.

(3) The length of the foot marks must be no less than the width of a single numeral used (except numerals 1 and 4), be the same thickness as the width of stroke of the numeral, and extend to the nearest margin of the white background. Foot marks must be spaced every foot for nominal day visibility of less than 500 feet, every two feet for a nominal day visibility of more than 500 feet but less than 1,000 feet, and every five feet for nominal day visibility of more than 1,000 feet.

(4) Intermediate foot marks may be used when more precise determination of actual clearance is necessary. Such intermediate foot marks must have a width of stroke one-half the width of the stroke required for the numeral and shall be three-quarters as long as the primary foot marks.

(5) The horizontal distance between the numeral and nearest edge of the white background shall be no less than one-half the width of a single numeral (excepting numerals 1 and 4).

(6) The minimum width of the white background shall be no less than three times the width of a single numeral (excepting numerals 1 and 4) plus the widths of each additional numeral (when multiple numerals are used plus numeral spacing).
