
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter L - Waterfront Facilities
#### PART 125 - IDENTIFICATION CREDENTIALS FOR PERSONS REQUIRING ACCESS TO WATERFRONT FACILITIES OR VESSELS
##### ยง 125.19 Standards.

Information concerning an applicant for a Coast Guard Port Security Card, or a holder of such card, which may preclude a determination that his character and habits of life are such as to warrant the belief that his presence on waterfront facilities, and port and harbor areas, including vessels and harbor craft therein, would not be inimical to the security of the United States, shall relate to the following:

(a) Advocacy of the overthrow or alteration of the Government of the United States by unconstitutional means.

(b) Commission of, or attempts or preparations to commit, an act of espionage, sabotage, sedition or treason, or conspiring with, or aiding or abetting another to commit such an act.

(c) Performing, or attempting to perform, duties or otherwise acting so as to serve the interests of another government to the detriment of the United States.

(d) Deliberate unauthorized disclosure of classified defense information.

(e) [Reserved]

(f) Having been adjudged insane, having been legally committed to an insane asylum, or treated for serious mental or neurological disorder, without evidence of cure.

(g) Having been convicted of any of the following offenses, indicative of a criminal tendency potentially dangerous to the security of such waterfront facilities and port and harbor areas, including vessels and harbor craft therein; arson, unlawful trafficking in drugs, espionage, sabotage, or treason.

(h) Drunkenness on the job or addiction to the use of narcotic drugs, without adequate evidence of rehabilitation.

(i) Illegal presence in the United States, its territories or possessions; having been found finally subject to deportation order by the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service.
