
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter L - Waterfront Facilities
#### PART 125 - IDENTIFICATION CREDENTIALS FOR PERSONS REQUIRING ACCESS TO WATERFRONT FACILITIES OR VESSELS
##### § 125.35 Notice by Commandant.

(a) The notice provided for in §§ 125.31 and 125.33 shall contain a statement of the reasons why the Commandant is not satisfied that the character and habits of life of the applicant or holder are such as to warrant the belief that his presence on waterfront facilities, and port and harbor areas, including vessels and harbor craft therein, would not be inimical to the security of the United States. Such notice shall be as specific and detailed as the interests of national security shall permit and shall include pertinent information such as names, dates, and places in such detail as to permit reasonable answer.

(b) The applicant or holder shall have 20 days from the date of receipt of the notice of reasons to file written answer thereto. Such answer may include statements or affidavits by third parties or such other documents or evidence as the applicant or holder deems pertinent to the matters in question.

(c) Upon receipt of such answer the procedure prescribed in § 125.29(b) shall be followed.

(d) If the Commandant is satisfied that the character and habits of life of the applicant or holder are such as to warrant the belief that his presence on waterfront facilities, and port and harbor areas, including vessels and harbor craft therein, would not be inimical to the security of the United States, he shall, in the case of an applicant, direct that a Coast Guard Port Security Card be issued to the applicant, or, in the case of a holder, notify him accordingly.

(e) If the Commandant is not satisfied that the applicant's or holder's character and habits of life are such as to warrant the belief that his presence on waterfront facilities, and port and harbor areas, including vessels and harbor craft therein, would not be inimical to the security of the United States, the Commandant shall refer the matter to a Hearing Board for hearing and recommendation in accordance with the provisions of this part.
