
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter L - Waterfront Facilities
#### PART 126 - HANDLING OF DANGEROUS CARGO AT WATERFRONT FACILITIES
##### ยง 126.27 General permit for handling dangerous cargo.

A general permit is hereby issued for the handling, storing, stowing, loading, discharging or transporting of dangerous cargo (other than designated dangerous cargo) in bulk, portable tanks, containers, or packagings, at designated waterfront facilities, conditioned upon the observance and fulfillment of the following:

(a) The conditions set forth in ยง 126.15 shall at all times be strictly observed.

(b) You must notify the COTP before you handle, store, stow, load, discharge, or transport, in the net weight amounts specified, the following dangerous cargo, except when contained within transport units or railroad or highway vehicles being transported across or on the waterfront facility solely for transfer to or from a railroad-car ferry, highway-vehicle ferry, or carfloat:

(1) Class 1, Division 1.3 and Division 1.5 (Explosive) materials, with a net explosive quantity in excess of 36,400 kg (40 net tons) at any one time.

(2) Class 2, Division 2.1 (Flammable Gas) materials in bulk packaging; or Division 2.3 (Poison Gas) materials in excess of 72,800 kg (80 net tons) at any one time.

(3) A Class 7 (Radioactive) material in a highway route controlled quantity, as defined in 49 CFR 173.403.

(4) Flammable solids or oxidizers, in excess of 100 net tons at any one time.

(5) Flammable gases, in excess of 10 net tons at any one time.

(6) Poisons (Class A).

(7) A bulk shipment of a cargo of particular hazard.

(c) No Class 1 (explosive) materials (as defined in 49 CFR 173.50) or other dangerous cargoes prohibited from, or not permitted for, transportation by 46 CFR part 148 or 49 CFR parts 171 through 179 may be present on the waterfront facility.

(d) Break-bulk dangerous cargo must be segregated according to 49 CFR 176.83(a) through (c). No separation is required for break-bulk dangerous cargo in limited-quantity packaging.

(e) Transport units and portable tanks containing dangerous cargo must be segregated according to 49 CFR 176.83(a), (b), and (f). The requirements for vertical segregation and for on-deck, horizontal segregation in 49 CFR 176.83(f) apply. No separation is required for transport units containing dangerous cargo only in limited quantity packaging.

(f) Break-bulk dangerous cargo must be segregated from transport units containing dangerous cargo according to 49 CFR 176.83(e).

(g) Solid dangerous bulk cargo must be separated to prevent the interaction of incompatible materials in the event of an accident. Cargo not required to be segregated, when in break-bulk form, is not required to be segregated, when in bulk form. Dangerous cargo in break-bulk form must be segregated from solid dangerous cargo in bulk according to 49 CFR 176.83.

(h) Materials that are dangerous when wet (Division 4.3), water-soluble oxidizers (Division 5.1), and corrosive solids (Class 8) must be stored in a manner that prevents them from coming into contact with water.

(i) Corrosive liquids (Class 8) and liquid oxidizers (Division 5.1) must be handled and stored so that, in the event of a leak from their packaging, they would not come in contact with organic materials.

(j) Dangerous cargo stored on the facility must be arranged in a manner that retards the spread of fire, such as by interspersing dangerous cargo with inert or fire retardant material.

(k) Dangerous cargo stored on the facility, but not intended for use on the facility, must be packaged, marked, and labeled according to 49 CFR parts 171 through 180, as if the cargo was in transportation.

(l) Class 7 (Radioactive) material must be stored as specified in 49 CFR 173.447.
