
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter L - Waterfront Facilities
#### PART 126 - HANDLING OF DANGEROUS CARGO AT WATERFRONT FACILITIES
##### ยง 126.28 Ammonium nitrate, ammonium nitrate fertilizers, fertilizer mixtures, or nitro carbo nitrate; general provisions.

(a) When any item of ammonium nitrate, ammonium nitrate fertilizers, fertilizer mixtures, or nitro carbo nitrate, described and defined as an oxidizer by the regulations of 49 CFR part 173 is handled, stored, stowed, loaded, discharged or transported on a waterfront facility, the following provisions shall apply:

(1) All outside containers shall be marked with the proper shipping name of the nitrate packed within the container.

(2) The building on a waterfront facility used for storage of any of these materials shall be of such construction as to afford good ventilation.

(3) Storage of any of these materials shall be at a safe distance from electric wiring, steam pipes, radiators or any heating mechanism.

(4) These materials shall be separated by a fire resistant wall or by a distance of at least 30 feet from organic materials or other chemicals and substances which could cause contamination such as flammable liquids, combustible liquids, corrosive liquids, chlorates, permanganates, finely divided metals, caustic soda, charcoal, sulfur, cotton, coal, fats, fish oils or vegetable oils.

(5) Storage of any of these materials shall be in a clean area upon clean wood dunnage, or on pallets over a clean floor. In the case of a concrete floor, storage may be made directly on the floor if it is first covered with a moisture barrier such as a polyethylene sheet or asphaltic laminated paper.

(6) Any spilled material shall be promptly and thoroughly cleaned up and removed from the waterfront facility. If any spilled material has remained in contact with a wooden floor for any length of time the floor shall be scrubbed with water and all spilled material shall be thoroughly dissolved and flushed away.

(7) An abundance of water for firefighting shall be readily available.

(8) Open drains, traps, pits or pockets which could be filled with molten ammonium nitrate if a fire occurred (and thus become potential detonators for the storage piles) must be eliminated or plugged.
