
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter L - Waterfront Facilities
#### PART 127 - WATERFRONT FACILITIES HANDLING LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS AND LIQUEFIED HAZARDOUS GAS
##### Subpart A - General
###### § 127.001 Applicability.

(a) Subparts A and B of this part apply to the marine transfer area for LNG of each new waterfront facility handling LNG and to new construction in the marine transfer area for LNG of each waterfront facility handling LNG.

(b) Subpart A of this part and §§ 127.301 through 127.617 apply to the marine transfer area for LNG of each active existing waterfront facility handling LNG.

(c) Sections 127.007(b), (c), and (d), and 127.019(b) of subpart A of this part apply to the marine transfer area for LNG of each inactive facility.

(d) Subparts A and C of this part apply to the marine transfer area for LHG of each active waterfront facility handling LHG.

(e) Sections 127.007 (b), (c), and (d); 127.019(b); and 127.1325(c) of subparts A and C of this part apply to the marine transfer area for LHG of each inactive facility.

(f) Waterfront facilities handling LNG and LHG constructed, expanded, or modified under a contract awarded after March 4, 2022, are required to comply with the applicable standards referenced in § 127.003. All other facilities, unless expanded or modified in accordance with this part, are required to meet previously applicable standards but may request to apply a later edition of the standards in accordance with § 127.017.
