
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter L - Waterfront Facilities
#### PART 127 - WATERFRONT FACILITIES HANDLING LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS AND LIQUEFIED HAZARDOUS GAS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 127.010 Reconsideration of the Letter of Recommendation.

(a) A person requesting reconsideration pursuant to ยง 127.009(c) must submit a written request to the Captain of the Port (COTP) who issued the Letter of Recommendation (LOR), and send a copy of the request to the agency to which the LOR was issued. The request must explain why the COTP should reconsider his or her recommendation.

(b) In response to a request described in paragraph (a) of this section, the COTP will do one of the following-

(1) Send a written confirmation of the LOR to the agency to which the LOR was issued, with copies to the person making the request and the owner or operator; or

(2) Revise the LOR, and send the revised LOR to the agency to which the original LOR was issued, with copies to the person making the request and the owner or operator.

(c) A person whose request for reconsideration results in a confirmation as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, and who is not satisfied with that outcome, may request, in writing, the opinion of the District Commander of the district in which the LOR was issued.

(1) The request must explain why the person believes the District Commander should instruct the COTP to reconsider his or her recommendation.

(2) A person making a request under paragraph (c) of this section must send a copy of the request to the agency to which the LOR was issued.

(3) In response to the request described in this paragraph (c), the District Commander will do one of the following-

(i) Send a written confirmation of the LOR to the agency to which the LOR was issued, with copies to the person making the request, the owner or operator, and the COTP; or

(ii) Instruct the COTP to reconsider the LOR, and send written notification of that instruction to the agency to which the original LOR was issued, with copies to the person making the request and the owner or operator.

(d) The District Commander's written confirmation described in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section ends the reconsideration process with respect to that specific request for reconsideration. If the COTP issues an LOR pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) or (c)(3)(ii) of this section, persons described in ยง 127.009(c) may request reconsideration of that revised LOR using the process beginning in paragraph (a) of this section.
