
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 20 - RULES OF PRACTICE, PROCEDURE, AND EVIDENCE FOR FORMAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS OF THE COAST GUARD
##### Subpart I - Decisions
###### ยง 20.901 Summary decisions.

(a) Any party may move for a summary decision in all or any part of the proceeding on the grounds that there is no genuine issue of material fact and that the party is entitled to a decision as a matter of law. The party must file the motion no later than 15 days before the date fixed for the hearing and may include supporting affidavits with the motion. Any other party, 10 days or less after service of a motion for summary decision, may serve opposing affidavits or countermove for summary decision. The ALJ may set the matter for argument and call for the submission of briefs.

(b) The ALJ may grant the motion if the filed affidavits, the filed documents, the material obtained by discovery or otherwise, or matters officially noted show that there is no genuine issue of material fact and that a party is entitled to a summary decision as a matter of law.

(c) Each affidavit must set forth such matters as would be admissible in evidence and must show affirmatively that the affiant is competent to testify to the matters stated in the affidavit. Once a party has moved for summary decision and supported his or her motion as provided in this section, no party opposing the motion may rest upon the mere allegations or denials of facts contained in his or her own pleadings. The response to the motion, by affidavit or as otherwise provided in this section, must provide a specific basis to show that there is a genuine issue of material fact for the hearing.

(d) If it appears from the affidavit of a party opposing the motion that this party cannot, for reasons stated, present by affidavit matters essential to justify his or her opposition, the ALJ may deny the motion for summary decision, may order a continuance to enable the obtaining of information, or may make such other order as is just.

(e) No denial of all or any part of a motion for summary decision is subject to interlocutory appeal.
