
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 20 - RULES OF PRACTICE, PROCEDURE, AND EVIDENCE FOR FORMAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS OF THE COAST GUARD
##### Subpart I - Decisions
###### ยง 20.904 Reopening.

(a) To the extent permitted by law, the ALJ may, for good cause shown in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, reopen the record of a proceeding to take added evidence.

(b) Any party may move to reopen the record of a proceeding 30 days or less after the closing of the record.

(1) Each motion to reopen the record must clearly set forth the facts that the movant would try to prove and the grounds for reopening the record.

(2) Any party who does not respond to any motion to reopen the record waives any objection to the motion.

(c) The ALJ may reopen the record of a proceeding if he or she believes that any change in fact or law, or that the public interest, warrants reopening it.

(d) The filing of a motion to reopen the record of a proceeding does not affect any period for appeals specified in subpart J of this part, except that the filing of such a motion tolls the running of whatever time remains in the period for appeals until either the ALJ acts on the motion or the party filing it withdraws it.

(e)(1) At any time, a party may file a petition to reopen with the Docketing Center for the ALJ to rescind any order suspending or revoking a merchant mariner's license, certificate of registry, credential, or endorsement document if-

(i) The order rests on a conviction-

(A) For violation of a dangerous-drug law;

(B) Of an offense that would prevent the issuance or renewal of the license, certificate, credential, or endorsement document; or

(C) Of an offense described in subparagraph 205(a)(3)(A) or (B) of the National Driver Register Act of 1982 (23 U.S.C. 401, note); and

(ii) The respondent submits a specific order of court to the effect that the conviction has been unconditionally set aside for all purposes.

(2) The ALJ, however, may not rescind his or her order on account of any law that provides for a subsequent conditional setting-aside, modification, or expunging of the order of court, by way of granting clemency or other relief after the conviction has become final, without regard to whether punishment was imposed.

(f) Three years or less after an S&R proceeding has resulted in revocation of a credential, endorsement, license, certificate, or document, the respondent may file a motion for reopening of the proceeding to modify the order of revocation with the ALJ Docketing Center.

(1) Any motion to reopen the record must clearly state why the basis for the order of revocation is no longer valid and how the issuance of a new merchant mariner credential with appropriate endorsement is compatible with the requirement of good discipline and safety at sea.

(2) Any party who does not respond to any petition to reopen the record waives any objection to the motion.
