
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter L - Waterfront Facilities
#### PART 127 - WATERFRONT FACILITIES HANDLING LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS AND LIQUEFIED HAZARDOUS GAS
##### Subpart C - Waterfront Facilities Handling Liquefied Hazardous Gas
###### Design and Construction
####### ยง 127.1101 Piping systems.

Each piping system within the marine transfer area for LHG used for the transfer of LHG must meet the following criteria:

(a) Each system must be designed and constructed in accordance with ASME B31.3-2020 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 127.003).

(b) Each pipeline on a pier or wharf must be located so that it is not exposed to physical damage from vehicular traffic or cargo-handling equipment. Each pipeline under navigable waters must be covered or protected to meet 49 CFR 195.248.

(c) The transfer manifold of each liquid transfer line and of each vapor return line must have an isolation valve with a bleed connection, such that transfer hoses and loading arms can be blocked off, drained or pumped out, and depressurized before disconnecting. Bleeds or vents must discharge to a safe area such as a tank or flare.

(d) In addition to the isolation valve at the transfer manifold, each liquid-transfer line and each vapor return line must have a readily accessible isolation valve located near the edge of the marine transfer area for LHG.

(e) Each power-operated isolation valve must be timed to close so that it will not produce a hydraulic shock capable of causing failure of the line or equipment. Unless the layout of the piping allows the isolation valve at the transfer manifold to close within 30 seconds without creating excessive stresses on the system, the layout must be reconfigured to reduce the stresses to a safe level.

(f) Each waterfront facility handling LHG that transfers to or from a vessel requiring vapor return during transfer must be equipped with a vapor return line designed to attach to the vessel's vapor connection.

(g) Where two or more LHGs are loaded or unloaded at the same facility, each manifold must be identified or marked to indicate each LHG it handles.

(h) Each pipeline used to transfer flammable liquids or vapors must be provided with precautions against static, lightning, and stray current in accordance with API RP 2003 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 127.003).
