
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter L - Waterfront Facilities
#### PART 127 - WATERFRONT FACILITIES HANDLING LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS AND LIQUEFIED HAZARDOUS GAS
##### Subpart C - Waterfront Facilities Handling Liquefied Hazardous Gas
###### Operations
####### ยง 127.1302 Training.

(a) Each operator of a waterfront facility handling LHG must ensure that each person assigned to act as a person in charge of transfers for the facility has training in the following subjects:

(1) Properties and hazards of each LHG being transferred to or from the facility.

(2) Use of the gas detectors required by ยง 127.1203.

(3) Use of the equipment for respiratory protection required by ยง 127.1209.

(4) Basic firefighting procedures, including the use of the portable fire extinguishers required by ยง 127.1503.

(5) Content and use of the examined Operations Manual and examined Emergency Manual.

(6) The configuration and limitations of cargo systems of LHG vessels.

(7) Procedures for transferring LHG to and from LHG vessels.

(8) Procedures for response to a release of the LHG handled by the facility.

(9) First aid for persons-

(i) With burns;

(ii) Needing cardio-pulmonary resuscitation;

(iii) Exposed to toxic liquid or toxic vapors (if a toxic LHG is handled by the facility); and

(iv) Needing transport to a medical facility.

(10) Restrictions on access to the marine transfer area for LHG.

(b) Each person that receives training under paragraph (a) of this section shall receive refresher training in the same subjects at least once every 5 years.

(c) The operator must maintain, for each person trained, a record of all training provided under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. The operator must retain these records for the duration of the person's employment on the waterfront facility plus 12 months.

(d) Training conducted to comply with the hazard communication programs required by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) of the Department of Labor [29 CFR 1910.120] or the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) [40 CFR 311.1] may be used to satisfy the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section, so far as the training addresses the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section.
