
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter M - Marine Pollution Financial Responsibility and Compensation
#### PART 136 - OIL SPILL LIABILITY TRUST FUND; CLAIMS PROCEDURES; DESIGNATION OF SOURCE; AND ADVERTISEMENT
##### Subpart B - General Procedure
###### ยง 136.101 Time limitations on claims.

(a) Except as provided under section 1012(h)(3) of the Act (33 U.S.C. 2712(h)(3)) (minors and incompetents), the Fund will consider a claim only if presented in writing to the Director, NPFC, within the following time limits:

(1) For damages, within three years after-

(i) The date on which the injury and its connection with the incident in question were reasonably discoverable with the exercise of due care.

(ii) In the case of natural resources damages under section 1002(b)(2)(A) of the Act (33 U.S.C. 2702(b)(2)(A)), the date under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, or within three years from the date of completion of the natural resources damage assessment under section 1006(e) of the Act (33 U.S.C. 2706(e)), whichever is later.

(2) For removal costs, within six years after the date of completion of all removal actions for the incident. As used in this paragraph, "date of completion of all removal actions" is defined as the actual date of completion of all removal actions for the incident or the date the FOSC determines that the removal actions which form the basis for the costs being claimed are completed, whichever is earlier.

(b) Unless the Director, NPFC, directs in writing that the claim be submitted elsewhere, a claim is deemed presented on the date the claim is actually received at the Director, National Pollution Funds Center, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7605, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7605. If the Director, NPFC, directs that the claim be presented elsewhere, the claim is deemed presented on the date the claim is actually received at the address in the directive.
