
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter M - Marine Pollution Financial Responsibility and Compensation
#### PART 136 - OIL SPILL LIABILITY TRUST FUND; CLAIMS PROCEDURES; DESIGNATION OF SOURCE; AND ADVERTISEMENT
##### Subpart B - General Procedure
###### ยง 136.105 General requirements for a claim.

(a) The claimant bears the burden of providing all evidence, information, and documentation deemed necessary by the Director, NPFC, to support the claim.

(b) Each claim must be in writing for a sum certain for compensation for each category of uncompensated damages or removal costs (as described in Subpart C of this part) resulting from an incident. If at any time during the pendency of a claim against the Fund the claimant receives any compensation for the claimed amounts, the claimant shall immediately amend the claim.

(c) Each claim must be signed in ink by the claimant certifying to the best of the claimant's knowledge and belief that the claim accurately reflects all material facts.

(d) In addition to the other requirements of this section, any claim presented by a legal representative of the claimant must also be signed by the legal representative and-

(1) Be presented in the name of the claimant;

(2) Show the title or legal capacity of the representative; and

(3) Provide proof of authority to act for the claimant.

(e) Each claim must include at least the following, as applicable:

(1) The full name, street and mailing addresses of residence and business, and telephone numbers of the claimant.

(2) The date, time, and place of the incident giving rise to the claim.

(3) The identity of the vessel, facility, or other entity causing or suspected to have caused the removal costs or damages claimed and the basis for such identity or belief.

(4) A general description of the nature and extent of the impact of the incident, the costs associated with removal actions, and damages claimed, by category as delineated in Subpart C of this part, including, for any property, equipment, or similar item damaged, the full name, street and mailing address, and telephone number of the actual owner, if other than the claimant.

(5) An explanation of how and when the removal costs or damages were caused by, or resulted from, an incident.

(6) Evidence to support the claim.

(7) A description of the actions taken by the claimant, or other person on the claimant's behalf, to avoid or minimize removal costs or damages claimed.

(8) The reasonable costs incurred by the claimant in assessing the damages claimed. This includes the reasonable costs of estimating the damages claimed, but not attorney's fees or other administrative costs associated with preparation of the claim.

(9) To the extent known or reasonably identifiable by the claimant, the full name, street and mailing address, and telephone number of each witness to the incident, to the discharge, or to the removal costs or damages claimed, along with a brief description of that person's knowledge.

(10) A copy of written communications and the substance of verbal communications, if any, between the claimant and the responsible party or guarantor of the source designated under ยง 136.305 and a statement indicating that the claim was presented to the responsible party or guarantor, the date it was presented, that it was denied or remains not settled and, if known, the reason why it was denied or remains not settled.

(11) If the claimant has insurance which may cover the removal costs or damages claimed, the information required under ยง 136.111.

(12) A statement by the claimant that no action has been commenced in court against the responsible party or guarantor of the source designated under ยง 136.305 or, if an action has been commenced, a statement identifying the claimant's attorney and the attorney's address and phone number, the civil action number, and the court in which the action is pending.

(13) In the discretion of the Director, NPFC, any other information deemed relevant and necessary to properly process the claim for payment.
