
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter M - Marine Pollution Financial Responsibility and Compensation
#### PART 136 - OIL SPILL LIABILITY TRUST FUND; CLAIMS PROCEDURES; DESIGNATION OF SOURCE; AND ADVERTISEMENT
##### Subpart B - General Procedure
###### ยง 136.115 Settlement and notice to claimant.

(a) Payment in full, or acceptance by the claimant of an offer of settlement by the Fund, is final and conclusive for all purposes and, upon payment, constitutes a release of the Fund for the claim. In addition, acceptance of any compensation from the Fund precludes the claimant from filing any subsequent action against any person to recover costs or damages which are the subject of the compensated claim. Acceptance of any compensation also constitutes an agreement by the claimant to assign to the Fund any rights, claims, and causes of action the claimant has against any person for the costs and damages which are the subject of the compensated claims and to cooperate reasonably with the Fund in any claim or action by the Fund against any person to recover the amounts paid by the Fund. The cooperation shall include, but is not limited to, immediately reimbursing the Fund for any compensation received from any other source for the same costs and damages and providing any documentation, evidence, testimony, and other support, as may be necessary for the Fund to recover from any person.

(b) Claimant's failure to accept an offer of settlement within 60 days after the date the offer was mailed to the claimant automatically voids the offer. The Director, NPFC, reserves the right to revoke an offer at any time.

(c) A claimant will be notified in writing sent by certified or registered mail whenever a claim against the Fund is denied. The failure of the Director, NPFC, to make final disposition of a claim within six months after it is filed shall, at the option of the claimant any time thereafter, be deemed a final denial of the claim.

(d) The Director, NPFC, upon written request of the claimant or of a person duly authorized to act on the claimant's behalf, reconsiders any claim denied. The request for reconsideration must be in writing and include the factual or legal grounds for the relief requested, providing any additional support for the claim. The request must be received by the Director, NPFC, within 60 days after the date the denial was mailed to the claimant or within 30 days after receipt of the denial by the claimant, whichever date is earlier. Reconsideration may only be requested once for each claim denied. The Director, NPFC will provide the claimant seeking reconsideration with written notification of the decision within 90 days after receipt of the request for reconsideration. This written decision is final. The failure of the Director, NPFC, to make final disposition of a reconsideration within 90 days after it is received shall, at the option of the claimant any time thereafter, be deemed a final denial of the reconsideration.
