
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter M - Marine Pollution Financial Responsibility and Compensation
#### PART 136 - OIL SPILL LIABILITY TRUST FUND; CLAIMS PROCEDURES; DESIGNATION OF SOURCE; AND ADVERTISEMENT
##### Subpart C - Procedures for Particular Claims
###### ยง 136.209 Proof.

In addition to the requirements of subparts A and B of this part, a trustee must do the following:

(a) Submit the assessment and restoration plans which form the basis of the claim.

(b) Provide documented costs and cost estimates for the claim. Final cost estimates for conducting damage assessments or implementing a restoration plan may form the basis for a claim against the Fund for an uncompensated natural resources damage claim.

(c) Identify all trustees who may be potential claimants for the same natural resources damaged.

(d) Certify the accuracy and integrity of any claim submitted to the Fund, and certify that any actions taken or proposed were or will be conducted in accordance with the Act and consistent with all applicable laws and regulations.

(e) Certify whether the assessment was conducted in accordance with applicable provisions of the natural resources damage assessment regulations promulgated under section 1006(e)(1) of the Act (33 U.S.C. 2706(e)(1)). Identify any other or additional damage assessment regulations or methodology utilized.

(f) Certify that, to the best of the trustee's knowledge and belief, no other trustee has the right to present a claim for the same natural resources damages and that payment of any subpart of the claim presented would not constitute a double recovery for the same natural resources damages.
