
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter M - Marine Pollution Financial Responsibility and Compensation
#### PART 137 - OIL SPILL LIABILITY: STANDARDS FOR CONDUCTING ALL APPROPRIATE INQUIRIES UNDER THE INNOCENT LAND-OWNER DEFENSE
##### Subpart B - Standards and Practices
###### ยง 137.30 Objectives and performance factors.
####### Objectives.

(a)This part is intended to result in the identification of conditions indicative of the presence or likely presence of oil at the facility and the real property on which the facility is located. In order to meet the objectives of this regulation, persons specified in ยง 137.1(a) and the environmental professional must seek to identify, through the conduct of the standards and practices in this subpart, the following types of information about the facility and the real property on which the facility is located:

(1) Current and past uses and occupancies of the facility and the real property on which the facility is located.

(2) Current and past uses of oil.

(3) Waste management and disposal activities that indicate presence or likely presence of oil.

(4) Current and past corrective actions and response activities that indicate presence or likely presence of oil.

(5) Engineering controls.

(6) Institutional controls, such as zoning restrictions, building permits, and easements.

(7) Properties adjoining or located nearby the facility and the real property on which the facility is located that have environmental conditions that could have resulted in conditions indicative of the presence or likely presence of oil at the facility and the real property on which the facility is located.
