
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter M - Marine Pollution Financial Responsibility and Compensation
#### PART 137 - OIL SPILL LIABILITY: STANDARDS FOR CONDUCTING ALL APPROPRIATE INQUIRIES UNDER THE INNOCENT LAND-OWNER DEFENSE
##### Subpart B - Standards and Practices
###### § 137.60 Reviews of Federal, State, tribal, and local government records.

(a) Federal, State, tribal, and local government records or databases of government records of the facility, the real property on which the facility is located, and adjoining properties must be reviewed for the purposes of achieving the objectives and performance factors of § 137.30(a) and (b).

(b) With regard to the facility and the property on which the facility is located, the review of Federal, State, and tribal government records or databases of the government records and local government records and databases of the records should include-

(1) Records of reported oil discharges present, including site investigation reports for the facility and the real property on which the facility is located;

(2) Records of activities, conditions, or incidents likely to cause or contribute to discharges or substantial threat of discharges of oil, including landfill and other disposal unit location records and permits, storage tank records and permits, hazardous waste handler and generator records and permits, Federal, tribal and State government listings of sites identified as priority cleanup sites, and spill reporting records;

(3) Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Information System (CERCLIS) records;

(4) Public health records;

(5) Emergency Response Notification System records;

(6) Registries or publicly available lists of engineering controls; and

(7) Registries or publicly available lists of institutional controls, including environmental land use restrictions, applicable to the facility and the real property on which the facility is located.

(c) With regard to nearby or adjoining properties, the review of Federal, State, tribal, and local government records or databases of government records should include the identification of the following:

(1) Properties for which there are government records of reported discharges or substantial threat of discharges of oil. Such records or databases containing such records and the associated distances from the facility and the real property on which the facility is located for which such information should be searched include the following:

(i) Records of National Priorities List (NPL) sites or tribal- and State-equivalent sites (one mile).

(ii) Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) properties subject to corrective action (one mile).

(iii) Records of Federally-registered, or State-permitted or -registered, hazardous waste sites identified for investigation or remediation, such as sites enrolled in State and tribal voluntary cleanup programs and tribal- and State-listed brownfield sites (one-half mile).

(iv) Records of leaking underground storage tanks (one-half mile).

(2) Properties that previously were identified or regulated by a government entity due to environmental concerns at the facility and the real property on which the facility is located. The records or databases containing the records and the associated distances from the facility and the real property on which the facility is located for which the information should be searched include the following:

(i) Records of delisted NPL sites (one-half mile).

(ii) Registries or publicly available lists of engineering controls (one-half mile).

(iii) Records of former CERCLIS sites with no further remedial action notices (one-half mile).

(3) Properties for which there are records of Federally-permitted, State-permitted or -registered, or tribal-permitted or -registered waste management activities. The records or databases that may contain the records include the following:

(i) Records of RCRA small quantity and large quantity generators (adjoining properties).

(ii) Records of Federally-permitted, State-permitted or -registered, or tribal-permitted landfills and solid waste management facilities (one-half mile).

(iii) Records of registered storage tanks (adjoining property).

(4) A review of additional government records with regard to sites identified under paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) of this section may be necessary in the judgment of the environmental professional for the purpose of achieving the objectives and performance factors of §§ 137.30(a) and (b).

(d) The search distance from the real property boundary for reviewing government records or databases of government records listed in paragraph (c) of this section may be modified based upon the professional judgment of the environmental professional. The rationale for the modifications must be documented by the environmental professional. The environmental professional may consider one or more of the following factors in determining an alternate appropriate search distance-

(1) The nature and extent of a discharge.

(2) Geologic, hydrogeologic, or topographic conditions of the property and surrounding environment.

(3) Land use or development densities.

(4) The property type.

(5) Existing or past uses of surrounding properties.

(6) Potential migration pathways (e.g., groundwater flow direction, prevalent wind direction).

(7) Other relevant factors.
