
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter M - Marine Pollution Financial Responsibility and Compensation
#### PART 137 - OIL SPILL LIABILITY: STANDARDS FOR CONDUCTING ALL APPROPRIATE INQUIRIES UNDER THE INNOCENT LAND-OWNER DEFENSE
##### Subpart B - Standards and Practices
###### ยง 137.65 Visual inspections of the facility, the real property on which the facility is located, and adjoining properties.

(a) For the purpose of achieving the objectives and performance factors of ยง 137.30(a) and (b), the inquiry of the environmental professional must include the following:

(1) A visual on-site inspection of the facility and the real property on which the facility is located, and the improvements at the facility and real property, including a visual inspection of the areas where oil may be or may have been used, stored, treated, handled, or disposed. Physical limitations to the visual inspection must be noted.

(2) A visual inspection of adjoining properties, from the subject real property line, public rights-of-way, or other vantage point (e.g., aerial photography), including a visual inspection of areas where oil may be or may have been stored, treated, handled or disposed. A visual on-site inspection is recommended, though not required. Physical limitations to the inspection of adjacent properties must be noted.

(b) Except as in paragraph (c) of this section, a visual on-site inspection of the facility and the real property on which the facility is located must be conducted.

(c) An on-site inspection is not required if an on-site visual inspection of the facility and the real property on which the facility is located cannot be performed because of physical limitations, remote and inaccessible location, or other inability to obtain access to the facility and the real property on which the facility is located after good faith efforts have been taken to obtain access. The mere refusal of a voluntary seller to provide access to the facility and the real property on which the facility is located is not justification for not conducting an on-site inspection. The inquiry of the environmental professional must include-

(1) Visually inspecting the facility and the real property on which the facility is located using another method, such as aerial imagery for large properties, or visually inspecting the facility and the real property on which the facility is located from the nearest accessible vantage point, such as the property line or public road for small properties;

(2) Documenting the efforts undertaken to obtain access and an explanation of why such efforts were unsuccessful; and

(3) Documenting other sources of information regarding the presence or likely presence of oil at the facility and the real property on which the facility is located that were consulted according to ยง 137.30(a). The documentation should include comments, if any, by the environmental professional on the significance of the failure to conduct a visual on-site inspection of the facility and the real property on which the facility is located with regard to the ability to identify conditions indicative of the presence or likely presence of oil at the facility and the real property.
