
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter M - Marine Pollution Financial Responsibility and Compensation
#### PART 138 - EVIDENCE OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR WATER POLLUTION (VESSELS) AND OPA 90 LIMITS OF LIABILITY (VESSELS, DEEPWATER PORTS AND ONSHORE FACILITIES)
##### Subpart A - Evidence of Financial Responsibility for Water Pollution (Vessels)
###### ยง 138.30 Definitions.
####### COFR Operator

means a responsible party who conducts, or has responsibility for, the operation of a vessel to which this subpart applies-that is, a person who is an operator as defined in OPA 90 and CERCLA, and, when there is more than one responsible party (including more than one operator), is the operator designated and authorized by all the vessel's responsible parties to act on their behalf for the purpose of complying with this subpart, including submitting (or causing to be submitted) all Applications and requests for COFR renewal, evidence of financial responsibility and reports, and payment of all fees required by ยง 138.120.

(i) If a vessel has one owner and is operated by that owner, or the owner controls and is responsible for the vessel's operation, the owner is the COFR Operator. In all other cases the person who operates, or controls and is principally responsible for the operation of, the vessel (for example, the demise charterer) is the COFR Operator.

(ii) A person who is responsible, or who agrees by contract to become responsible, for a vessel in the capacity of a builder, repairer, or scrapper, or for the purpose of holding the vessel out for sale or lease, is the COFR Operator. A person who takes possession of, or responsibility for, a newly built, modified, or repaired vessel from a builder or repairer, or who purchases and operates or becomes a demise charterer of a vessel held out for sale or lease, is the COFR Operator.

(iii) A time or voyage charterer who does not assume responsibility for the operation of a vessel is not a COFR Operator for purposes of this subpart.

(iv) The designation of an operator to act as the COFR Operator on behalf of a vessel's responsible parties for purposes of this subpart does not limit who may be determined to be an operator under OPA 90, CERCLA, or both, in the event of an incident or a release.
