
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter M - Marine Pollution Financial Responsibility and Compensation
#### PART 138 - EVIDENCE OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR WATER POLLUTION (VESSELS) AND OPA 90 LIMITS OF LIABILITY (VESSELS, DEEPWATER PORTS AND ONSHORE FACILITIES)
##### Subpart A - Evidence of Financial Responsibility for Water Pollution (Vessels)
###### ยง 138.110 How to establish and maintain evidence of financial responsibility.
####### Insurance guaranty method.

(b)The COFR Operator may establish and maintain evidence of financial responsibility using the insurance guaranty method by submitting an Insurance Guaranty Form to the Director.

(1) Each form must be executed by no more than four COFR insurance guarantors accepted by the Director. A lead underwriter is considered one of the COFR insurance guarantors.

(2) The process for establishing and maintaining the acceptability of a COFR insurance guarantor is as follows:

(i) The COFR insurance guarantor must request an initial determination by the Director of the COFR insurance guarantor's acceptability to serve as a COFR insurance guarantor under this subpart, at least 90 days before the date a COFR is required, by submitting information describing the COFR insurance guarantor's structure, business practices, history, and financial strength, and such other information as may be requested by the Director.

(ii) The Director reviews the continued acceptability of COFR insurance guarantors annually. Each COFR insurance guarantor must submit updates to the initial request submitted under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, annually, within 90 days after the close of the COFR insurance guarantor's fiscal year, describing any material changes to the COFR insurance guarantor's legal status, structure, business practices, history, and financial strength, since the previous year's submission, and providing such other information as may be requested by the Director.
