
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter M - Marine Pollution Financial Responsibility and Compensation
#### PART 138 - EVIDENCE OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR WATER POLLUTION (VESSELS) AND OPA 90 LIMITS OF LIABILITY (VESSELS, DEEPWATER PORTS AND ONSHORE FACILITIES)
##### Subpart A - Evidence of Financial Responsibility for Water Pollution (Vessels)
###### ยง 138.110 How to establish and maintain evidence of financial responsibility.
####### Other guaranty methods for establishing evidence of financial responsibility.

(f)(1) The COFR Operator may request that the Director accept a guaranty method for establishing evidence of financial responsibility that is different from one of the methods described in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section as follows:

(i) The COFR Operator must submit the request to the Director in writing, at least 90 days prior to the date the COFR is required.

(ii) The request must describe in detail: The method proposed; the reasons why the COFR Operator does not wish to (or is unable to) use one of the methods described in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section; and how the proposed guaranty method assures that the vessel's responsible parties have the financial ability to meet their potential liabilities under OPA 90 and CERCLA in the event of an incident or a release.

(iii) Each COFR Operator making a request under this paragraph must provide the Director a proposed guaranty form that includes all the elements described in paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section.

(2) The Director will not accept a self-insurance method other than the one described in paragraph (d) of this section. The Director also will not accept a guaranty method under this paragraph that merely deletes or alters a requirement or provision of one of the guaranty methods described in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section (for example, one that alters the termination clause of the Insurance Guaranty).

(3) A Director's decision to accept an alternative guaranty method of establishing evidence of financial responsibility under this paragraph is final agency action.
