
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter M - Marine Pollution Financial Responsibility and Compensation
#### PART 138 - EVIDENCE OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR WATER POLLUTION (VESSELS) AND OPA 90 LIMITS OF LIABILITY (VESSELS, DEEPWATER PORTS AND ONSHORE FACILITIES)
##### Subpart A - Evidence of Financial Responsibility for Water Pollution (Vessels)
###### § 138.120 Fees.
####### Fee payment methods.

(a)Each COFR Operator applying for a COFR, or requesting a COFR renewal, must pay the fees required by paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section as follows:

(1) All fees required by this section must be paid in United States dollars.

(2) For COFR Operators using eCOFR as provided under § 138.60(c)(1)(i), credit card payment is required.

(3) For COFR Operators submitting Applications and requests for COFR renewal under § 138.60(c)(1)(ii) through (iv) (email, fax, and mail submissions), the fees must be paid by a check, cashier's check, draft, or postal money order, made payable to the "U.S. Coast Guard". Cash payments will not be accepted.

(i) For Applications and requests for COFR renewal submitted under § 138.60(c)(1)(ii) and (iii) (email and fax submissions, respectively), all fee payments must be received by the Director no later than 21 days following submission of the Application or request for COFR renewal.

(ii) For Applications and requests for COFR renewal submitted under § 138.60(c)(1)(iv) (mail submissions), all fee payments must be enclosed with the Application or request for COFR renewal.

(4) Any failure to timely pay the fees required by this section may result in COFR denial or revocation, debt collection (see 6 CFR part 11, 44 CFR part 11, and 31 CFR parts 285, and 900 through 904), and such other enforcement under § 138.170 as may be appropriate.
