
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter M - Marine Pollution Financial Responsibility and Compensation
#### PART 138 - EVIDENCE OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR WATER POLLUTION (VESSELS) AND OPA 90 LIMITS OF LIABILITY (VESSELS, DEEPWATER PORTS AND ONSHORE FACILITIES)
##### Subpart A - Evidence of Financial Responsibility for Water Pollution (Vessels)
###### ยง 138.140 Application withdrawals, COFR denials and revocations.
####### Notice to COFR Operator of intent to deny an Application or revoke a COFR.

(d)If the Director obtains information indicating that an Application should be denied or that a COFR should be revoked for reasons that the COFR Operator may not be aware of, the Director will notify the COFR Operator, in writing, stating the reason for the intended action.

(1) A notice from the Director that an Application is incomplete will be considered a denial unless the Application is completed by the COFR Operator within the period specified in the notice. A COFR subject to revocation remains valid until the COFR is revoked as provided in ยง 138.140(d)(2) and (3).

(2) If the Director issues a notice of intent to deny an Application or revoke a COFR due to a violation under paragraph (b) of this section, the COFR Operator may demonstrate compliance to the Director in writing by no later than the date specified by the Director in the notice. If the COFR Operator demonstrates compliance by that date, the Application will remain under consideration, and any current COFR will remain in effect, unless and until the Director issues a written decision denying the Application or revoking the COFR, as applicable. Otherwise, the Application denial or COFR revocation is effective as of the date specified by the notice.

(3) The denial of an Application or revocation of a COFR does not terminate the guaranty.
