
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart 1.07 - Enforcement; Civil and Criminal Penalty Proceedings
###### ยง 1.07-11 Notice of violation.

(a) After investigation and evaluation of an alleged violation has been completed, an issuing officer may issue a Notice of Violation to the party.

(b) The Notice of Violation will contain the following information:

(1) The alleged violation and the applicable law or regulations violated;

(2) The amount of the maximum penalty that may be assessed for each violation;

(3) The amount of proposed penalty that appears to be appropriate;

(4) A statement that payment of the proposed penalty within 45 days will settle the case;

(5) The place to which, and the manner in which, payment is to be made;

(6) A statement that the party may decline the Notice of Violation and that if the Notice of Violation is declined, the party has the right to a hearing prior to a final assessment of a penalty by a Hearing Officer.

(7) A statement that failure to either pay the proposed penalty on the Notice of Violation or decline the Notice of Violation and request a hearing within 45 days will result in a finding of default and the Coast Guard will proceed with the civil penalty in the amount recommended on the Notice of Violation without processing the violation under the procedures described in 33 CFR 1.07-10(b).

(c) The Notice of Violation may be hand delivered to the party or an employee of the party, or may be mailed to the business address of the party.

(d) If a party declines the Notice of Violation within 45 days, the case file will be sent to the District Commander for processing under the procedures described in 33 CFR 1.07-10(b).

(e) If a party pays the proposed penalty on the Notice of Violation within 45 days, a finding of proved will be entered into the case file.

(f) If within 45 days of receipt a party-

(1) Fails to pay the proposed penalty on the Notice of Violation; and

(2) Fails to decline the Notice of Violation-the Coast Guard will enter a finding of default in the case file and proceed with the civil penalty in the amount recommended on the Notice of Violation without processing the violation under the procedures described in 33 CFR 1.07-10(b).
