
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter N - Outer Continental Shelf Activities
#### PART 140 - GENERAL
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 140.25 Appeals.

(a) Any person directly affected by an action or decision of an Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, under the Act or the regulations in this subchapter may request reconsideration of that action or decision. If still dissatisfied, that person may appeal the action or decision of the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, within 30 days to the District Commander of the District in which the action was taken or the decision made. The District Commander issues a decision after reviewing the appeal submitted under this paragraph.

(b) Any person not satisfied with the decision of a District Commander may appeal that decision within 30 days to the Commandant, who issues a ruling after reviewing the appeal submitted under this paragraph. Rulings of the Commandant constitute final agency action.

(c) An appeal to the District Commander or Commandant:

(1) Must be made in writing, except in an emergency when an oral appeal may be accepted;

(2) Must be submitted to the District Commander of the District in which the action was taken or the decision made;

(3) Must describe the decision or action being appealed;

(4) Must state the reasons why the action or decision should be set aside or modified; and

(5) May contain any supporting documents and evidence that the appellant wishes to have considered.

(d) Pending determination of any appeal, the action or decision appealed remains in effect, unless suspended by the District Commander to whom the appeal was made or by the Commandant.
