
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter N - Outer Continental Shelf Activities
#### PART 140 - GENERAL
##### Subpart B - Inspections
###### ยง 140.101 Inspection by Coast Guard marine inspectors or Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement inspectors.

(a) Each unit engaged in OCS activities is subject to inspection by the Coast Guard.

(b) On behalf of the Coast Guard, each fixed OCS facility engaged in OCS activities is subject to inspection by the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE).

(c) Under the direction of the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, Coast Guard marine inspectors may inspect units engaged in OCS activities, and BSEE inspectors may inspect fixed OCS facilities, to determine whether the requirements of this subchapter are met. These inspections may be conducted with or without advance notice at any time deemed necessary by the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, or BSEE.

(d) As part of an inspection, a Coast Guard marine inspector or a BSEE inspector may review records and require and observe the conduct of emergency drills and other tests and procedures as may be necessary to demonstrate to that person's satisfaction that the unit and its equipment are in full compliance with applicable Coast Guard regulations. The Coast Guard marine inspector or the BSEE inspector consults with the person in charge of the unit before requiring a drill or other test or procedure to be conducted to minimize disruption of unit activities and risk to life or property.

(e) Coast Guard inspections of foreign units recognize valid international certificates accepted by the United States, including Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS), Loadline, and Mobile Offshore Drilling Unit (MODU) Code certificates for matters covered by the certificates, unless there are clear grounds for believing that the condition of the unit or its equipment does not correspond substantially with the particulars of the certificate.

(f) Coast Guard marine inspectors conduct an initial inspection of each fixed OCS facility to determine whether the facility is in compliance with the requirements of this subchapter.
