
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter N - Outer Continental Shelf Activities
#### PART 141 - PERSONNEL
##### Subpart A - Restrictions on Employment
###### ยง 141.20 Exemptions from restrictions on employment.

(a) An employer may request an exemption from the restrictions on employment in ยง 141.15 in order to employ persons other than citizens of the United States or resident aliens as part of the regular complement of the unit under the following circumstances:

(1) When specific contractual provisions or national registry manning requirements in effect on September 18, 1978 provide that a person other than a citizen of the United States or a resident alien is to be employed on a particular unit.

(2) When there is not a sufficient number of citizens of the United States or resident aliens qualified and available for the work.

(3) When the President determines with respect to a particular unit that the employment of only citizens of the United States or resident aliens is not consistent with the national interest.

(b) The request must be in writing, identify the provision of paragraph (a) of this section relied upon, and:

(1) If involving specific contractual provisions under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, list the persons claimed exempt and contain a copy of the contract;

(2) If involving persons without an H-2 Visa under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, list the persons or positions sought to be exempted; or

(3) If under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, identify the unit involved and contain any information in support of the claim.

(c) Requests must be submitted to the Commandant (CG-CVC), Attn: Office of Commercial Vessel Compliance, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7501, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7501.

(d) Upon receipt of a request under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the Coast Guard seeks information from the Department of Labor concerning whether there are citizens of the United States or resident aliens qualified and available for work. If information is provided that citizens of the United States or resident aliens are qualified and available, the employer may be required to seek their employment before the request is approved.

(e) Upon receipt of a request under paragraph (a)(3) of this section and after consulting with other Federal agencies as appropriate, the Commandant forwards the request and the comments of the Coast Guard and other interested agencies to the President for determination.

(f) Upon approval by the President for request under paragraph (a)(3) of this section or by the Coast Guard for all other requests, the Coast Guard issues a certification of the exemption. A certification issued under paragraph (a)(2) of this section is valid for one year from the date of issuance.

(g) If, within 30 days of receipt by the Coast Guard of a request under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the Coast Guard does not make a determination or advise the employer that additional time for consideration is necessary, the request is considered approved for a period of 90 days from the end of the 30 day period.

(h) A request need not be submitted for persons who are not citizens of the United States or resident aliens and who:

(1) Are employed under the national registry manning requirements exception in paragraph (a)(1) of this section; or

(2) Have been classified and admitted to the United States as temporary workers under 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(H)(ii) for work in a position for which admitted.
