
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter N - Outer Continental Shelf Activities
#### PART 143 - DESIGN AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart E - Standby Vessels
###### ยง 143.405 Equipment.

(a) Standby vessels must have, at least, the following equipment:

(1) Multiple propellers or propulsion devices.

(2) Two searchlights.

(3) For vessels certificated under Subchapter H of 46 CFR Chapter I, a line throwing appliance that meets the requirements in 46 CFR 75.45.

(4) For vessels certificated under subchapters I or T of 46 CFR chapter I, a line throwing appliance that meets the requirements of 46 CFR 94.45.

(5) A Stokes or comparable litter.

(6) One blanket for each person on the most populated facility that the standby vessel is designated to assist.

(7) Means for safely retrieving persons, including injured or helpless persons, from the water. The means of retrieval must be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection.

(8) A scramble net that can be rigged on either side of the standby vessel.

(9) A minimum of four Coast Guard approved ring life buoys, each equipped with 15 fathoms of line.

(10) An immersion suit approved by the Coast Guard under 46 CFR 160.171, or a buoyant suit meeting Supplement A of ANSI/UL-1123-1987 and approved under 46 CFR 160.053, for each member of the standby vessel's crew when the standby vessel operates north of 32 degrees north latitude in the Atlantic Ocean or north of 35 degrees north latitude in all other waters.

(11) Two boat hooks.

(12) A fire monitor with a minimum flow rate of, at least, 500 gallons per minute.

(13) One two-way radio capable of voice communications with the OCS facility, helicopters or other rescue aircraft, rescue boats, and shore side support personnel.

(14) Floodlights to illuminate the personnel and boat retrieval area, the scramble net when deployed, and the water around the personnel retrieval and scramble net deployment areas.

(15) A copy of "The Ship's Medicine Chest and Medical Aid at Sea", DHHS Publication No. (PHS) 84-2024, available from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402.

(16) An industrial first aid kit sized for 50 percent of the number of persons on the most populated facility that the standby vessel is designated to assist.

(17) Coast Guard approved life preservers for 50 percent of the number of persons on the most populated facility that the standby vessel is designated to assist.

(b) Equipment required by paragraph (a) of this section must be to the satisfaction of the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection.
