
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter N - Outer Continental Shelf Activities
#### PART 144 - LIFESAVING APPLIANCES
##### Subpart 144.01 - Manned Platforms
###### ยง 144.01-10 Equipment for life floats.

(a) Each lifefloat shall be provided with a painter. This painter shall be a manila rope not less than 2inches in circumference and of a length not less than three times the distance from the deck where the lifefloat is stowed to the low water line. Alternatively, the painter may be of other material provided it has equal strength to the size of manila rope specified and is not less thaninch in diameter.

(b) Each life float must have a water light of an approved automatic electric type constructed in accordance with 46 CFR Subpart 161.010, except a water light constructed in accordance with former 46 CFR Subpart 161.001 that was installed before January 1, 1972, may be retained in an existing installation as long as it is maintained in good condition. The water light must be attached to the life float by a 12-thread manila or equivalent synthetic lanyard not less than 2 meters (6 feet) nor more than 4 meters (12 feet) in length. The water light must be mounted on a bracket so that when the life float is launched, the water light will pull free of the bracket.

(c) Two paddles shall be provided for each life float. The paddles shall not be less than five feet nor more than six feet long. The paddles shall be stowed in such a way that they will be readily accessible from either side of the life float when in the water.
