
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter N - Outer Continental Shelf Activities
#### PART 145 - FIRE-FIGHTING EQUIPMENT
##### ยง 145.01 Portable and semi-portable fire extinguishers.

(a) On all manned platforms and on all unmanned platforms where crews are continuously working on a 24-hour basis, Coast Guard-approved portable fire extinguishers and/or Coast Guard-approved semi-portable fire extinguishers must be installed and maintained. On all unmanned platforms where crews are not continuously working on a 24-hour basis, Coast Guard-approved portable fire extinguishers and/or Coast Guard-approved semi-portable fire extinguishers are required to be installed and maintained only when crews are working on them.

(b) Portable and semi-portable fire extinguishers must be inspected and maintained in accordance with NFPA 10 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 140.7 of this chapter) as amended here:

(1) Certification or licensing by a state or local jurisdiction as a fire extinguisher servicing agency will be accepted by the Coast Guard as meeting the personnel certification requirements of NFPA 10 for annual maintenance and recharging of extinguishers.

(2) Monthly inspections required by NFPA 10 may be conducted by the owner, operator, person-in-charge, or a designated member of the crew.

(3) Non-rechargeable or non-refillable fire extinguishers must be inspected and maintained in accordance with NFPA 10. However, the annual maintenance need not be conducted by a certified person and can be conducted by the owner, operator, person-in-charge, or a designated member of the crew.

(4) The owner or managing operator must provide satisfactory evidence of the required servicing to the marine inspector. If any of the equipment or records has not been properly maintained, a qualified servicing facility must perform the required inspections, maintenance procedures, and hydrostatic pressure tests. A tag issued by a qualified servicing organization, and attached to each extinguisher, may be accepted as evidence that the necessary maintenance procedures have been conducted.
