
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter N - Outer Continental Shelf Activities
#### PART 146 - OPERATIONS
##### Subpart B - Manned OCS Facilities
###### ยง 146.135 Markings for emergency equipment.

(a) Markings shall be provided as considered necessary for the guidance of persons on manned facilities.

(b) The general alarm bell switches shall be identified by red letters at least one inch high with a contrasting background: "General Alarm."

(c) All general alarm bells shall be identified by a sign at each bell in red letters at least one inch high with a sharp contrasting background: "General Alarm-When Bell Rings Go to Your Station.

(d) All life floats, lifeboats, life rafts, and survival capsules, together with paddles or oars, shall be conspicuously marked with a name or number of, or other inscription identifying, the facility on which placed. The number of persons allowed on each life float, lifeboat, or life raft shall be conspicuously marked thereon in letters and numbers 1inches high. These numbers shall be placed on both sides of the life float, lifeboat, or life raft. Inflatable life rafts shall be marked in accordance with Subpart 160.051 of 46 CFR Part 160 and no additional markings are required.

(e) All life preservers and ring life buoys shall be marked with the name or number of, or other inscription identifying, the facility on which placed except those which accompany mobile crews to unmanned platforms may be marked with the operator's name and field designation.
