
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart 1.07 - Enforcement; Civil and Criminal Penalty Proceedings
###### ยง 1.07-25 Preliminary matters.

(a) Within 30 days after receipt of notice of the initiation of the action, as described above, the party, or counsel for the party, may request a hearing, provide any written evidence and arguments in lieu of a hearing, or pay the amount specified in the notice as being appropriate. A hearing must be requested in writing; the request must specify the issues which are in dispute. Failure to specify a nonjurisdictional issue will preclude its consideration.

(b) The right to a hearing is waived if the party does not submit the request to the Hearing Officer within 30 days after receiving notice of the alleged violation. At the discretion of the Hearing Officer, a hearing may be granted if the party submits a late request.

(c) The Hearing Officer must promptly schedule all hearings which are requested. The Hearing Officer shall grant any delays or continuances which may be necessary or desirable in the interest of fairly resolving the case.

(d) A party who has requested a hearing may amend the specification of the issues in dispute at any time up to 10 days before the scheduled date of the hearing. Issues raised later than 10 days before the scheduled hearing may be presented only at the discretion of the Hearing Officer.
