
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 25 - CLAIMS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 25.119 Proof of amount claimed for loss of, or damage to, property.

The following evidence must be presented when appropriate:

(a) For each particular lost item, evidence of its value such as a bill of sale and a written appraisal, or two written appraisals, from separate disinterested dealers or brokers, market quotations, commercial catalogs, or other evidence of the price at which like property can be obtained in the community. The settlement authority may waive these requirements when circumstances warrant. The cost of any appraisal may be included as an element of damage if not deductible from any bill submitted to claimant.

(b) For each particular damaged item which can be economically repaired, evidence of cost of repairs such as a receipted bill and one estimate, or two estimates, from separate disinterested repairmen. The settlement authority may waive these requirements when circumstances warrant. The cost of any estimate may be included as an element of damage if not deductible from any repair bill submitted to claimant.

(c) For any claim which may result in payment in excess of $20,000.00, a survey or appraisal shall be performed as soon as practicable after the damage accrues, and, unless waived in writing, shall be performed jointly with a government representative.

(d) If the item is so severely damaged that it cannot be economically repaired or used, it shall be treated as a lost item.

(e) If a claim includes loss of earnings or use during repairs to the damaged property, the following must also be furnished and supported by competent evidence:

(1) The date the property was damaged;

(2) The name and location of the repair facility;

(3) The beginning and ending dates of repairs and an explanation of any delay between the date of damage and the beginning date;

(4) A complete description of all repairs performed, segregating any work performed for the owner's account and not attributable to the incident involved, and the costs thereof;

(5) The date and place the property was returned to service after completion of repairs, and an explanation, if applicable, of any delay;

(6) Whether or not a substitute for the damaged property was available. If a substitute was used by the claimant during the time of repair, an explanation of the necessity of using the substitute, how it was used, and for how long, and the costs involved. Any costs incurred that would have been similarly incurred by the claimant in using the damaged property must be identified;

(7) Whether or not during the course of undergoing repairs the property would have been used, and an explanation submitted showing the identity of the person who offered that use, the terms of the offer, time of prospective service, and rate of compensation; and

(8) If at the time of damage the property was under charter or hire, or was otherwise employed, or would have been employed, the claimant shall submit a statement of operating expenses that were, or would have been, incurred. This statement shall include wages and all bonuses which would have been paid, the value of fuel and the value of consumable stores, separately stated, which would have been consumed, and all other costs of operation which would have been incurred including, but not limited to, license and parking fees, personnel expenses, harbor fees, wharfage, dockage, shedding, stevedoring, towage, pilotage, inspection, tolls, lockage, anchorage and moorage, grain elevation, storage, and customs fees.

(f) For each item which is lost, actual or constructive, proof of ownership.
