
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter NN - Deepwater Ports
#### PART 148 - DEEPWATER PORTS: GENERAL
##### Subpart B - Application for a License
###### ยง 148.107 What additional information may be required?

(a) The Commandant (CG-5P), in coordination with MARAD, may require the applicant or the applicant's affiliates to file, as a supplement to the application, any analysis, explanation, or other information the Commandant (CG-5P) deems necessary.

(b) The Commandant (CG-5P) may require the applicant or the applicant's affiliates to make available for Coast Guard examination, under oath or for interview, persons having, or believed to have, necessary information.

(c) The Commandant (CG-5P) may set a deadline for receiving the information.

(1) If the applicant states that the required information is not yet available but will be at a later date, the Commandant (CG-5P) may specify a later deadline.

(2) If a requirement is not met by a deadline fixed under this paragraph, the Commandant (CG-5P), in coordination with MARAD, may determine whether compliance with the requirement is important to processing the application within the time prescribed by the Act.

(3) If the requirement is important to processing the application within the time limit set by the Act, the Commandant (CG-5P) may recommend to the Maritime Administrator that he or she either not approve the application or suspend it indefinitely. The deadline for the Administrator's review under the Act is extended for a period of time equal to the time of the suspension.
