
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter NN - Deepwater Ports
#### PART 149 - DEEPWATER PORTS: DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION, AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart C - Lifesaving Equipment
###### Manned Deepwater Port Requirements
####### ยง 149.304 What type and how many survival craft and rescue boats must a manned deepwater port have?

(a) Except as specified under ยง 149.305 of this part, each manned deepwater port must have at least the type and number of survival craft and the number of rescue boats indicated for the deepwater port in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section.

(1) For a deepwater port with 30 or fewer persons on board:

(i) One or more lifeboats with a total capacity of 100 percent of the personnel on board;

(ii) One or more liferafts with a total capacity of 100 percent of the personnel on board; and

(iii) One rescue boat, except that the rescue boat is not required for deepwater ports with eight or fewer persons on board.

(2) For a deepwater port with 31 or more persons on board:

(i) At least two lifeboats with a total capacity of 100 percent of the personnel on board;

(ii) One or more liferafts with a total capacity so that, if the survival craft at any one location are rendered unusable, there will be craft remaining with a total capacity of 100 percent of the personnel on board; and

(iii) One rescue boat.

(3) Lifeboats may be substituted for liferafts.

(4) Capacity refers to the total number of persons on the deepwater port at any one time, not including temporary personnel. Temporary personnel include: contract workers, official visitors, and any other persons who are not permanent employees. See ยง 149.305 of this part for additional survival craft requirements when temporary personnel are on board.

(5) The required lifeboats may be used as rescue boats if the lifeboats also meet the requirements for rescue boats in ยง 149.314 of this part.

(b) Deepwater ports consisting of novel structures or a combination of fixed and/or floating structures may require additional survival craft as deemed necessary by the Commandant (CG-5P). In these cases, the type and number of survival craft must be specified in the operations manual.
