
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter NN - Deepwater Ports
#### PART 149 - DEEPWATER PORTS: DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION, AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart C - Lifesaving Equipment
###### Manned Deepwater Port Requirements
####### ยง 149.315 What embarkation, launching, and recovery arrangements must rescue boats meet?

(a) Each rescue boat must be capable of being launched in a current of up to 5 knots. A painter may be used to meet this requirement.

(b) Each rescue boat embarkation and launching arrangement must permit the rescue boat to be boarded and launched in the shortest possible time.

(c) If the rescue boat is one of the deepwater port's survival craft, then the rescue boat must comply with the muster and embarkation arrangement requirements of ยง 149.310 of this part.

(d) The rescue boat must comply with the embarkation arrangement requirements of 46 CFR 108.555.

(e) If the launching arrangement uses a single fall, the rescue boat may have an automatic disengaging apparatus, approved under approval series 160.170, instead of a lifeboat release mechanism.

(f) The rescue boat must be capable of being recovered rapidly when loaded with its full complement of persons and equipment. If a lifeboat is being used as a rescue boat, rapid recovery must be possible when loaded with its lifeboat equipment and a rescue boat's complement of at least six persons.

(g) Each rescue boat launching appliance must be fitted with a powered winch motor.

(h) Each rescue boat launching appliance must be capable of hoisting the rescue boat, when loaded with its full complement of persons and equipment, at a rate of not less than 59 feet per minute.

(i) The operator may use an onboard crane to launch a rescue boat if the crane's launching system meets the requirements of this section.
