
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter NN - Deepwater Ports
#### PART 149 - DEEPWATER PORTS: DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION, AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart D - Firefighting and Fire Protection Equipment
###### Firefighting Requirements
####### ยง 149.408 What are the maintenance requirements for fire extinguishers?

(a) Portable and semi-portable extinguishers must be inspected and maintained in accordance with NFPA 10 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 149.3).

(b) Certification or licensing by a state or local jurisdiction as a fire extinguisher servicing agency will be accepted by the Coast Guard as meeting the personnel certification requirements of NFPA 10 for annual maintenance and recharging of extinguishers.

(c) Monthly inspections required by NFPA 10 may be conducted by the owner, operator, person-in-charge, or a designated member of the crew.

(d) Non-rechargeable or non-refillable extinguishers must be inspected and maintained in accordance with NFPA 10; however, the annual maintenance need not be conducted by a certified person and can be conducted by the owner, operator, person-in-charge, or a designated member of the crew.

(e) The owner or managing operator must provide satisfactory evidence of the required servicing to the marine inspector. If any of the equipment or records has not been properly maintained, a qualified servicing facility must perform the required inspections, maintenance procedures, and hydrostatic pressure tests. A tag issued by a qualified servicing organization, and attached to each extinguisher, may be accepted as evidence that the necessary maintenance procedures have been conducted.
