
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter NN - Deepwater Ports
#### PART 149 - DEEPWATER PORTS: DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION, AND EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart F - Design and Equipment
###### Means of Escape
####### ยง 149.692 Where must they be located?

(a) Each means of escape must be easily accessible to personnel for rapidly evacuating the deepwater port.

(b) When two or more means of escape are installed, at least two must be located as nearly diagonally opposite each other as practicable.

(c) When the floor area of any of the following spaces contains 300 square feet or more, the space must have at least two exits as widely separated from each other as possible:

(1) Each accommodation space; and

(2) Each space that is used on a regular basis, such as a control room, machinery room, storeroom, or other space where personnel could be trapped in an emergency.

(d) On a manned deepwater port, each structural appendage that is not occupied continuously, and that does not contain living quarters, workshops, offices, or other manned spaces must have at least one primary means of escape. The Sector Commander, or MSU Commander with COTP and OCMI authority may also determine that one or more secondary means of escape is required.

(e) When personnel are on an unmanned deepwater port, the deepwater port must have, in addition to the one primary means of escape, either:

(1) Another primary means of escape; or

(2) One or more secondary means of escape in any work space that may be temporarily occupied by 10 persons or more.

(f) Structural appendages to an unmanned deepwater port do not require a primary or a secondary means of escape, unless the Sector Commander, or MSU Commander with COTP and OCMI authority determines that one or more are necessary.

(g) Each means of escape must extend from the deepwater port's uppermost working level to each successively lower working level, and so on to the water surface.
