
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter NN - Deepwater Ports
#### PART 150 - DEEPWATER PORTS: OPERATIONS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 150.15 What must the operations manual include?
####### Tanker navigation procedures.

(i)The procedures for tanker navigation, including the information required in paragraphs (i)(1) through (i)(9) of this section.

(1) The operating limits, maneuvering capability, draft, net under keel clearance, tonnage, length, and breadth of the tanker that will be accommodated at each designated mooring.

(2) The speed limits proposed for tankers in the safety zone and area to be avoided around the deepwater port.

(3) Any special navigation or communication equipment that may be required for operating in the safety zone and area to be avoided.

(4) The measures for routing vessels, including a description of the radar navigation system to be used in operation of the deepwater port:

(i) Type of radar;

(ii) Characteristics of the radar;

(iii) Antenna location;

(iv) Procedures for surveillance of vessels approaching, departing, navigating, and transiting the safety zone and area to be avoided;

(v) Advisories to each tanker underway in the safety zone regarding the vessel's position, deepwater port conditions, and status of adjacent vessel traffic;

(vi) Notices that must be made, as outlined in ยง 150.325 of this part, by the tanker master regarding the vessel's characteristics and status; and

(vii) Rules for navigating, mooring, and anchoring in a safety zone, area to be avoided, and anchorage area.

(5) Any mooring equipment needed to make up to the single point mooring (SPM).

(6) The procedures for clearing tankers, support vessels, and other vessels and aircraft during emergency and routine conditions.

(7) Weather limits for tankers, including a detailed description of how to forecast the wind, wave, and current conditions for:

(i) Shutdown of cargo transfer operations;

(ii) Departure of the tanker from the mooring;

(iii) Prohibition on mooring at the deepwater port or SPM; and

(iv) Shutdown of all deepwater port operations and evacuation of the deepwater port.

(8) Any special illumination requirements for vessel arrival, discharge, and departure operations.

(9) Any special watchstanding requirements for vessel transiting, mooring, or anchoring.
