
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter NN - Deepwater Ports
#### PART 150 - DEEPWATER PORTS: OPERATIONS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 150.15 What must the operations manual include?
####### Cargo transfer procedures.

(l)The procedures for cargo transfer must comply with the applicable requirements of parts 154 and 156 for oil, and subpart B (Operations) to part 127 for natural gas, respectively, of this chapter, including the requirements specified in paragraphs (l)(1) through (l)(10) of this section.

(1) The requirements for oil transfers in accordance with subpart A to part 156 of this chapter regarding:

(i) Pre-transfer conference;

(ii) Inspection of transfer site and equipment such as hoses, connectors, closure devices, monitoring devices, and containment;

(iii) Connecting and disconnecting transfer equipment, including a floating hose string for a single point mooring (SPM);

(iv) Preparation of the Declaration of Inspection; and

(v) Supervision by a person in charge.

(2) The requirements for natural gas transfers in accordance with subpart B to part 127 of this chapter regarding:

(i) Pre-transfer conference;

(ii) Inspection of transfer site and equipment such as hoses, connectors, closure devices, leak monitoring devices, and containment;

(iii) Connecting and disconnecting of transfer equipment, including to a floating hose string for a SPM;

(iv) Line purging to test for leaks and to prepare for cool-down or heat-up phases as appropriate;

(v) Preparation of the Declaration of Inspection; and

(vi) Supervision by a deepwater port person in charge.

(3) The shipping name of, and Material Safety Data Sheet on, any product transferred.

(4) The duties, title, qualifications, and training of personnel of the deepwater port designated as the person in charge and responsible for managing cargo transfers, including ballasting operations if applicable to the deepwater port, in accordance with subpart D of part 154 for oil, and subpart B (Operations) of part 127 for natural gas, respectively, of this chapter.

(5) Minimum requirements for watch personnel on board the vessel during transfer operations, such as personnel necessary for checking mooring gear, monitoring communications, and maintaining propulsion and steering on standby.

(6) The start up and completion of pumping.

(7) Emergency shutdown.

(8) The maximum relief valve settings, the maximum available working pressure, and hydraulic shock to the system without relief valves, or both.

(9) Equipment necessary to discharge cargo to the port complex without harm to the environment or to persons involved in the cargo transfer, including piping, adapters, bolted flanges, and quick-disconnect coupling.

(10) A description of the method used to water and de-water the single point mooring hoses when required.

(m) Unusual arrangements that may be applicable, including:

(1) A list and description of any extraordinary equipment or assistance available to vessels with inadequate pumping capacity, small cargoes, small diameter piping, or inadequate crane capacity; and

(2) A description of special storage or delivery arrangements for unusual cargoes; for example, cool-down requirements for transfer system components prior to transfer of liquefied natural gas.
