
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter NN - Deepwater Ports
#### PART 150 - DEEPWATER PORTS: OPERATIONS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 150.15 What must the operations manual include?
####### Emergency notification procedures.

(q)Emergency internal and external notification procedures:

(1) Names and numbers of key deepwater port personnel;

(2) Names and numbers of law enforcement and response agencies;

(3) Names and numbers of persons in charge of any Outer Continental Shelf facility that, due to close proximity, could be affected by an incident at the deepwater port.

(r) Quantity, type, location, and use of safety and fire protection equipment, including the fire plan.

(s) Aerial operations such as helicopter landing pad procedures.

(t) Deepwater port response procedures for:

(1) Fire;

(2) Reportable product spill;

(3) Personnel injury, including confined space rescue; and

(4) Terrorist activity, as described in the deepwater port security plan.

(u) Emergency evacuation procedures comparable to ยง 146.140(d) of this chapter.

(v) Designation of and assignment of deepwater port personnel to response teams for specific contingencies.

(w) Individual and team training for incident response, in accordance with 46 CFR 109.213, to cover:

(1) Care and use of equipment;

(2) Emergency drills and response, to include:

(i) Type;

(ii) Frequency, which must be at least annually; and

(iii) Documentation, including records, reports and dissemination of "lessons learned".

(3) Documentation of the following minimum training requirements for response team members:

(i) Marine firefighting training;

(ii) First aid/CPR;

(iii) Water survival;

(iv) Spill response and clean up;

(v) Identification of at least one employee trained and certified at the basic level as an emergency medical technician; and

(vi) Identification of at least two employees trained and certified as offshore competent persons in prevention of inadvertent entry into hazardous confined spaces.
