
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter NN - Deepwater Ports
#### PART 150 - DEEPWATER PORTS: OPERATIONS
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 150.25 Amending the operations manual.

(a) Whenever the cognizant Sector Commander, or MSU Commander, with COTP and OCMI authority finds that the operations manual does not meet the requirements of this part, the COTP notifies the licensee, in writing, of the inadequacies in the manual.

(b) Within 45 days after the notice under paragraph (a) of this section is sent, the licensee must submit written proposed amendments to eliminate the inadequacies.

(c) The cognizant Sector Commander, or MSU Commander, with COTP and OCMI authority reviews the amendments and makes a determination as to the adequacy of the amendments and notifies the licensee of the determination.

(d) If the Sector Commander, or MSU Commander, with COTP and OCMI authority decides that an amendment is necessary, the amendment goes into effect 60 days after the Sector Commander, or MSU Commander, with COTP and OCMI authority notifies the licensee of the amendment.

(e) The licensee may petition the Commandant (CG-5P), via the appropriate district office, to review the decision of the Sector Commander, or MSU Commander, with COTP and OCMI authority. In this case, the effective date of the amendment is delayed pending the Commandant's decision. Petitions must be made in writing and presented to the Sector Commander, or MSU Commander, with COTP and OCMI authority to forward to the Commandant (CG-5P).

(f) If the Sector Commander, or MSU Commander, with COTP and OCMI authority finds that a particular situation requires immediate action to prevent a spill or discharge, or to protect the safety of life and property, the he or she may issue an amendment effective on the date that the licensee receives it. The Sector Commander, or MSU Commander, with COTP and OCMI authority must include a brief statement of the reasons for the immediate amendment. The licensee may petition the District Commander for review, but the petition does not delay the effective date of the amendment.
