
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter NN - Deepwater Ports
#### PART 150 - DEEPWATER PORTS: OPERATIONS
##### Subpart F - Emergency and Specialty Equipment
###### Lifesaving Equipment (General)
####### ยง 150.502 What are the maintenance and repair requirements for lifesaving equipment?

(a) Each deepwater port must have on board, or in the operator's principal office in the case of an unmanned port, the manufacturer's instructions for performing onboard maintenance and repair of the port's lifesaving equipment. The instructions must include the following for each item of equipment, as applicable:

(1) Instructions for maintenance and repair;

(2) A checklist for use when carrying out the monthly inspections required under ยง 150.513 of this part;

(3) A schedule of periodic maintenance;

(4) A diagram of lubrication points with the recommended lubricants;

(5) A list of replaceable parts;

(6) A list of spare parts sources; and

(7) A log for records of inspections and maintenance.

(b) In lieu of the manufacturer's instructions required under paragraph (a) of this section, the deepwater port may have its own onboard planned maintenance program for maintenance and repair that is equivalent to the procedures recommended by the equipment manufacturer.

(c) The deepwater port must designate a person in charge of ensuring that maintenance and repair is carried out in accordance with the instructions required in paragraph (a) of this section.

(d) If deficiencies in the maintenance or condition of lifesaving equipment are identified, the Sector Commander, or MSU Commander, with COTP and OCMI authority may review the instructions under paragraph (a) of this section and require appropriate changes to the instructions or operations to provide for adequate maintenance and readiness of the equipment.

(e) When lifeboats, rescue boats, and liferafts are not fully operational because of ongoing maintenance or repairs, there must be a sufficient number of fully operational lifeboats and liferafts available for use to accommodate all persons on the deepwater port.

(f) Except in an emergency, repairs or alterations affecting the performance of lifesaving equipment must not be made without notifying the Sector Commander, or MSU Commander, with COTP and OCMI authority in advance. The person in charge must report emergency repairs or alterations to lifesaving equipment to the Sector Commander, or MSU Commander, with COTP and OCMI authority, as soon as practicable.

(g) The person in charge must ensure that spare parts and repair equipment are provided for each lifesaving appliance and component subject to excessive wear or consumption.
