
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter NN - Deepwater Ports
#### PART 150 - DEEPWATER PORTS: OPERATIONS
##### Subpart I - Reports and Records
###### Reports
####### ยง 150.820 When must a written report of casualty be submitted, and what must it contain?

(a) In addition to the notice of casualty under ยง 150.815 of this part, the owner, operator, or person in charge of a deepwater port must submit a written report of the event to the nearest Sector Commander, or the nearest MSU Commander, with COTP and OCMI authority within 5 days of the casualty notice. The report may be on Form 2692, Report of Marine Accident, Injury, or Death, or in narrative form if it contains all of the applicable information requested in Form 2692. Copies of Form 2692 are available from the Sector Commander, or from the MSU Commander, with COTP and OCMI authority.

(b) The written report must also include the information relating to alcohol and drug involvement specified by 46 CFR 4.05-12. The deepwater port operator will ensure compliance with the chemical testing procedures outlined in 46 CFR part 16.

(c) If filed immediately after the event, the written report required by paragraph (a) of this section serves as the notice required under ยง 150.815 of this part.

(d) The operator will ensure that the written report is provided to the nearest Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) office when the deepwater port is co-located with a BOEM-regulated facility.
