
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 151 - VESSELS CARRYING OIL, NOXIOUS LIQUID SUBSTANCES, GARBAGE, MUNICIPAL OR COMMERCIAL WASTE, AND BALLAST WATER
##### Subpart A - Implementation of MARPOL 73/78 and the Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty as it Pertains to Pollution from Ships
###### Oil Pollution
####### ยง 151.19 International Oil Pollution Prevention (IOPP) Certificates.

(a) Each U.S. oil tanker of 150 gross tons and above and each other U.S. ship of 400 gross tons and above; that engages in voyages to ports or off-shore terminals under the jurisdiction of other parties to MARPOL 73/78 must have on board a valid International Oil Pollution Prevention (IOPP) Certificate.

(b) Each oil tanker of 150 gross tons and above and each other ship of 400 gross tons and above, operated under the authority of a country other than the United States that is party to MARPOL 73/78, must have on board a valid IOPP Certificate.

(c) An IOPP Certificate is issued by a COTP, OCMI, or a classification society authorized under 46 CFR part 8, after a satisfactory survey in accordance with the provisions of ยง 151.17.

(d) The Supplement to the IOPP Certificate is a part of the IOPP Certificate and must remain attached to that Certificate. If the Supplement to the Certificate is changed, a new IOPP Certificate will be required.

(e) The IOPP Certificate for each inspected or uninspected ship is valid for a maximum period of 5 years from the date of issue, except as follows:

(1) A Certificate ceases to be valid if significant alterations have taken place in the construction, equipment, fittings, or arrangements required by the pollution prevention requirements of parts 155 or 157 of this chapter without the approval of the COTP or the OCMI.

(2) A Certificate ceases to be valid if intermediate surveys as required by ยง 151.17 of this part are not carried out.

(3) A Certificate issued to a ship ceases to be valid upon transfer of the ship to the flag of another country.
