
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 151 - VESSELS CARRYING OIL, NOXIOUS LIQUID SUBSTANCES, GARBAGE, MUNICIPAL OR COMMERCIAL WASTE, AND BALLAST WATER
##### Subpart A - Implementation of MARPOL 73/78 and the Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty as it Pertains to Pollution from Ships
###### Oil Pollution
####### ยง 151.26 Shipboard oil pollution emergency plans.
######## Steps to control a discharge.

(4)This section of the plan must contain a discussion of procedures to address the following scenarios:

(i) Operational spills: The plan must outline procedures for safe removal of oil spilled and contained on deck. The plan must also provide guidance to ensure proper disposal of recovered oil and cleanup materials;

(ii) Spills resulting from casualties: Casualties should be treated in the plan as a separate section. The plan should include various checklists or other means that will ensure the master considers all appropriate factors when addressing the specific casualty (Reference is made here to the International Safety Management (ISM) Code, Section 8). These checklists must be tailored to the specific ship and to the specific product or product types. In addition to the checklists, specific personnel assignments for anticipated tasks must be identified. Reference to existing fire control plans and muster lists is sufficient to identify personnel responsibilities. The following are examples of casualties that must be considered-

(A) Grounding;

(B) Fire or explosion;

(C) Collision/Allision;

(D) Hull failure;

(E) Excessive list;

(F) Containment system failure;

(G) Submerged/Foundered;

(H) Wrecked/Stranded; and

(I) Hazardous vapor release.

(iii) In addition to the checklist and personnel duty assignments required by paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section, the plan must include-

(A) Priority actions to ensure the safety of personnel and the ship, assess the damage to the ship, and take appropriate further action;

(B) Stability and strength considerations: The plan should provide the master with detailed guidance to ensure that great care in casualty response must be taken to consider stability and strength when taking actions to mitigate the spillage of oil or to free the vessel if aground. Information for making damage stability and longitudinal strength assessments, or contacting classification societies to acquire such information, should be included. Where appropriate, the plan should provide a list of information for making damage stability and damage longitudinal strength assessments. The damage stability information for oil tankers and offshore oil barges in 33 CFR 155.240 is required to be provided in the SOPEP;

(C) Lightening procedures to be followed in cases of extensive structural damage: The plan must contain information on procedures to be followed for ship-to-ship transfer of cargo. Reference may be made in the plan to existing company guides. A copy of such company procedures for ship-to-ship transfer operations must be kept in the plan. The plan must address the coordination of this activity with the coastal or port state, as appropriate;

(D) Mitigating activities: The spill mitigation requirements of 33 CFR 155.1035(c) must be met for tankships, the requirements of 33 CFR 155.1040(c) must be met for unmanned vessels, and the requirements of 33 CFR 155.5035(c) must be met for nontank vessels. Additionally, the following personnel safety mitigation strategies must be addressed for all personnel involved-

(1) Assessment and monitoring activities;

(2) Personnel protection issues;

(3) Protective equipment;

(4) Threats to health and safety;

(5) Containment and other response techniques;

(6) Isolation procedures;

(7) Decontamination of personnel; and

(8) Disposal of removed oil and clean-up materials; and

(E) Drawings and ship-specific details: Supporting plans, drawings, and ship-specific details such as a layout of a general arrangement plan, midship section, lines or tables of offsets, and tank tables must be included with the plan. The plan must show where current cargo, bunker or ballast information, including quantities and specifications, is available.
