
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 151 - VESSELS CARRYING OIL, NOXIOUS LIQUID SUBSTANCES, GARBAGE, MUNICIPAL OR COMMERCIAL WASTE, AND BALLAST WATER
##### Subpart A - Implementation of MARPOL 73/78 and the Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty as it Pertains to Pollution from Ships
###### Oil Pollution
####### ยง 151.26 Shipboard oil pollution emergency plans.
######## National and Local Coordination.

(5)(i) This section of the plan must contain information to assist the master in initiating action by the coastal State, local government, or other involved parties. This information must include guidance to assist the master with organizing a response to the incident, should a response not be organized by the shore authorities. Detailed information for specific areas may be included as appendices to the plan. See 33 CFR 151.26(b)(2) (Preamble) regarding a ship owner's responsibility to comply with individual state requirements for oil spill response.

(ii) For Antarctica, a vessel owner or operator must include a plan for prompt and effective response action to such emergencies as might arise in the performance of its vessel's activities.

(iii) To comply with paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section, an agency of the United States government may promulgate a directive providing for prompt and effective response by the agency's public vessels operating in Antarctica.
