
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 151 - VESSELS CARRYING OIL, NOXIOUS LIQUID SUBSTANCES, GARBAGE, MUNICIPAL OR COMMERCIAL WASTE, AND BALLAST WATER
##### Subpart A - Implementation of MARPOL 73/78 and the Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty as it Pertains to Pollution from Ships
###### Oil Pollution
####### ยง 151.26 Shipboard oil pollution emergency plans.
######## Appendices.

(6)Appendices must include the following information:

(i) Twenty-four hour contact information and alternates to the designated contacts. These details must be routinely updated to account for personnel changes and changes in telephone, telex, and telefacsimile numbers. Clear guidance must also be provided regarding the preferred means of communication.

(ii) The following lists, each identified as a separate appendix:

(A) A list of agencies or officials of coastal state administrations responsible for receiving and processing incident reports;

(B) A list of agencies or officials in regularly visited ports. When this is not feasible, the master must obtain details concerning local reporting procedures upon arrival in port; and

(C) A list of all parties with a financial interest in the ship such as ship and cargo owners, insurers, and salvage interests.

(D) A list which specifies who will be responsible for informing the parties listed and the priority in which they must be notified.

(iii) A record of annual reviews and changes.
