
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 151 - VESSELS CARRYING OIL, NOXIOUS LIQUID SUBSTANCES, GARBAGE, MUNICIPAL OR COMMERCIAL WASTE, AND BALLAST WATER
##### Subpart A - Implementation of MARPOL 73/78 and the Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty as it Pertains to Pollution from Ships
###### Oil Pollution
####### ยง 151.28 Plan review and revision.

(a) An owner or operator of a ship to which this subpart applies must review the shipboard oil pollution emergency plan annually and submit a letter to Commandant (CG-CVC-1) certifying that the review has been completed. This review must occur within 1 month of the anniversary date of Coast Guard approval of the plan.

(b) The owner or operator shall submit any plan amendments to Commandant (CG-CVC-1) for information or approval.

(c) The entire plan must be resubmitted to Commandant (CG-CVC-1) for reapproval 6 months before the end of the Coast Guard approval period identified in ยง 151.27(e) of this subpart.

(d) A record of annual review and changes to the plan must be maintained in the last appendix of section six of the plan.

(e) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, revisions must receive prior approval by the Coast Guard before they can be incorporated into the plan.

(f) Revisions to the seventh section of the plan and the appendices do not require approval by the Coast Guard. The Coast Guard shall be advised and provided a copy of the revisions as they occur.
