
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 151 - VESSELS CARRYING OIL, NOXIOUS LIQUID SUBSTANCES, GARBAGE, MUNICIPAL OR COMMERCIAL WASTE, AND BALLAST WATER
##### Subpart A - Implementation of MARPOL 73/78 and the Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty as it Pertains to Pollution from Ships
###### Garbage Pollution and Sewage
####### § 151.63 Shipboard control of garbage.

(a) The master, operator, or person who is in charge of a ship shall ensure that all garbage is discharged ashore or in accordance with §§ 151.66-151.73.

(b) The following factors, among others, may be considered by enforcement personnel in evaluating compliance with §§ 151.51 through 151.77:

(1) Records, including receipts, of garbage discharges at port reception facilities.

(2) Records under § 151.55 or log entries of garbage discharges.

(3) The presence and operability of equipment to treat ship-generated garbage, including, but not limited to, incinerators, grinders, or comminuters.

(4) The presence of and adherence to a written shipboard garbage management plan.

(5) The absence of plastics in ship stores.

(6) Ongoing educational programs to train shipboard personnel of garbage handling procedures and the need for these.

(7) The presence of shipboard spaces used for collecting, processing, storing and discharging ship-generated garbage.

(c) The master, operator, or person who is in charge of a ship shall ensure that if garbage is transported from a ship by shipboard personnel, it is properly deposited into a port or terminal's reception facility.
