
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 151 - VESSELS CARRYING OIL, NOXIOUS LIQUID SUBSTANCES, GARBAGE, MUNICIPAL OR COMMERCIAL WASTE, AND BALLAST WATER
##### Subpart B - Transportation of Municipal and Commercial Waste
###### ยง 151.1012 Applying for a conditional permit.

(a) The owner or operator of each vessel to which this subpart applies shall apply by letter for a conditional permit required by ยง 151.1009. Applications must be submitted to Commandant (CG-CVC-1), Attn: Domestic Vessels Division, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7501, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7501 and include the following:

(1) The name, address, and telephone number of the vessel owner and operator.

(2) The vessel's name and official number, if any.

(3) The vessel's area of operation.

(4) The vessel's transport capacity.

(5) A history of the types of cargo transported by the vessel during the previous year, including identifying the type of municipal or commercial waste transported as-

(i) Municipal waste;

(ii) Commercial waste;

(iii) Medical waste; or

(iv) Waste of another character.

(6) The types of cargo to be transported by the vessel during the effective period of the conditional permit, including identifying the type of municipal or commercial waste as it is identified in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(7) A statement of whether the application for a conditional permit is for a single voyage, a short term operation or a continuing operation. If the application is for a single voyage or a short term operation, the statement must include the duration of the voyage or operation.

(8) An acknowledgment that certifies as to the truthfulness and accuracy of the information provided.

(b) The owner or operator under paragraph (a) of this section shall provide any additional information the Coast Guard may require.
