
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 151 - VESSELS CARRYING OIL, NOXIOUS LIQUID SUBSTANCES, GARBAGE, MUNICIPAL OR COMMERCIAL WASTE, AND BALLAST WATER
##### Subpart C - Ballast Water Management for Control of Nonindigenous Species in the Great Lakes and Hudson River
###### § 151.1510 Ballast water management requirements.

(a) The master of each vessel subject to this subpart shall employ one of the following ballast water management practices:

(1) Carry out an exchange of ballast water on the waters beyond the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ), from an area more than 200 nautical miles from any shore, and in waters more than 2,000 meters (6,560 feet, 1,093 fathoms) deep, such that, at the conclusion of the exchange, any tank from which ballast water will be discharged contains water with a minimum salinity level of 30 parts per thousand, unless the vessel is required to employ an approved ballast water management system (BWMS) per the schedule in § 151.1512(b) of this subpart. This exchange must occur prior to entry into the Snell Lock at Massena, NY, or navigating on the Hudson River, north of the George Washington Bridge. An alternative management system (AMS) that meets the requirements of 33 CFR 151.2026 may also be used, so long as it was installed on the vessel prior to the date that the vessel is required to comply with the ballast water discharge standard in accordance with § 151.1512(b) of this subpart. If using an AMS, the master, owner, operator, agent, or person in charge of the vessel subject to this subpart may employ the AMS for no longer than 5 years from the date they would otherwise be required to comply with the ballast water discharge standard in accordance with § 151.1512(b) of this subpart.

(2) Retain the vessel's ballast water on board the vessel. If this method of ballast water management is employed, the COTP may seal any tank or hold containing ballast water on board the vessel for the duration of the voyage within the waters of the Great Lakes or the Hudson River, north of the George Washington Bridge.

(3) Install and operate a BWMS that has been approved by the Coast Guard under 46 CFR part 162, in accordance with § 151.1512(b) of this subpart. Following installation of a BWMS, the master, owner, operator, agent, or person in charge of the vessel must maintain the BWMS in accordance with all manufacturer specifications.

(i) Requirements for approval of BWMS are found in 46 CFR part 162.060.
