
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 151 - VESSELS CARRYING OIL, NOXIOUS LIQUID SUBSTANCES, GARBAGE, MUNICIPAL OR COMMERCIAL WASTE, AND BALLAST WATER
##### Subpart C - Ballast Water Management for Control of Nonindigenous Species in the Great Lakes and Hudson River
###### ยง 151.1510 Ballast water management requirements.
####### msc@uscg.mil.

(ii) Requests for approval of BWMS must be submitted to the Commanding Officer (MSC), Attn: Marine Safety Center, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7430, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7430, or by email to

(4) Use only water from a U.S. public water system (PWS), as defined in 40 CFR 141.2 and that meets the requirements of 40 CFR parts 141 and 143, as ballast water. Vessels using water from a PWS as ballast must maintain a record of which PWS they received the water and a receipt, invoice, or other documentation from the PWS indicating that water came from that system. Furthermore, they must certify that they have met the conditions in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable. Vessels using water from a PWS must use such water exclusively for all ballast water unless the usage is in accordance with ยง 151.1515 of this subpart. Vessels using PWS water as ballast must have either-

(i) Previously cleaned the ballast tanks (including removing all residual sediments) and not subsequently introduced ambient water; or

(ii) Never introduced ambient water to those tanks and supply lines.

(b) No master of a vessel subject to this subpart shall separately discharge sediment from tanks or holds containing ballast water unless it is disposed of ashore in accordance with local requirements.
