
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 151 - VESSELS CARRYING OIL, NOXIOUS LIQUID SUBSTANCES, GARBAGE, MUNICIPAL OR COMMERCIAL WASTE, AND BALLAST WATER
##### Subpart D - Ballast Water Management for Control of Nonindigenous Species in Waters of the United States
###### § 151.2025 Ballast water management requirements.

(a) The master, owner, operator, agent, or person in charge of a vessel equipped with ballast tanks that operates in the waters of the United States must employ one of the following ballast water management methods:

(1) Install and operate a ballast water management system (BWMS) that has been approved by the Coast Guard under 46 CFR part 162. The BWMS must be installed in accordance with § 151.2035(b) of this subpart. Following installation, the master, owner, operator, agent, or person in charge of the vessel subject to this subpart must properly maintain the BWMS in accordance with all manufacturer specifications. Unless otherwise expressly provided for in this subpart, the master, owner, operator, agent, or person in charge of vessels employing a Coast Guard-approved BWMS must meet the applicable ballast water discharge standard (BWDS), found in § 151.2030 of this subpart, at all times of discharge into the waters of the United States.

(2) Use only water from a U.S. public water system (PWS), as defined in 40 CFR 141.2, that meets the requirements of 40 CFR parts 141 and 143 as ballast water. Vessels using water from a PWS as ballast must maintain a record of which PWS they received the water from as well as a receipt, invoice, or other documentation from the PWS indicating that water came from that system. Furthermore, they must certify that they have met the conditions in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable, and describe in the BWM plan the procedures to be used to ensure compliance with those conditions, and thereafter document such compliance in the BW record book. Vessels using water from a PWS must use such water exclusively unless the usage is in accordance with § 151.2040 of this subpart. Vessels using PWS water as ballast must have either-

(i) Previously cleaned the ballast tanks (including removing all residual sediments) and not subsequently introduced ambient water; or

(ii) Never introduced ambient water to those tanks and supply lines.

(3) Perform complete ballast water exchange in an area 200 nautical miles from any shore prior to discharging ballast water, unless the vessel is required to employ an approved BWMS per the schedule found in § 151.2035(b) of this subpart. An alternate management system (AMS) that meets the requirements of § 151.2026 of this subpart may also be used, so long as it was installed on the vessel prior to the date that the vessel is required to comply with the BWDS in accordance with § 151.2035(b) of this subpart. If using an AMS, the master, owner, operator, agent, or person in charge of the vessel subject to this subpart may employ the AMS for no longer than 5 years from the date they would otherwise be required to comply with the BWDS in accordance with § 151.2035(b) of this subpart;

(4) Do not discharge ballast water into waters of the United States.

(5) Discharge to a facility onshore or to another vessel for purposes of treatment. Any vessel owner/operator discharging ballast water to a facility onshore or to another vessel must ensure that all vessel piping and supporting infrastructure up to the last manifold or valve immediately before the dock manifold connection of the receiving facility or similar appurtenance on a reception vessel prevents untreated ballast water from being discharged into waters of the United States.
