
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 151 - VESSELS CARRYING OIL, NOXIOUS LIQUID SUBSTANCES, GARBAGE, MUNICIPAL OR COMMERCIAL WASTE, AND BALLAST WATER
##### Subpart D - Ballast Water Management for Control of Nonindigenous Species in Waters of the United States
###### ยง 151.2070 Recordkeeping requirements.
####### Certification of accurate information.

(2)Include the master, owner, operator, agent, person in charge, or responsible officer's printed name, title, and signature attesting to the accuracy of the information provided and that the activities were in accordance with the ballast water management plan required by ยง 151.2050(g). If exceptional circumstances required deviation from the plan, the details surrounding the need for deviation and associated actions must be explained. The signature requirement may be satisfied by affirming the certification portion of the electronic ballast water report.

(b) The master, owner, operator, agent, or person in charge of a vessel subject to this section must retain a signed copy of this information onboard the vessel for 2 years.

(c) The recordkeeping requirements in this section may be met by maintaining a copy of the reporting form completed pursuant to ยง 151.2060 of this subpart, in addition to maintaining a record of the sediment information in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. These records may be stored on digital media but must be readily viewable by the Coast Guard during an inspection.

(d) The master, owner, operator, agent, or person in charge of a vessel subject to this section must retain the monitoring records required in 46 CFR 162.060-20(b) for 2 years. These records may be stored on digital media but must be readily viewable by the Coast Guard during an inspection.
