
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 154 - FACILITIES TRANSFERRING OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL IN BULK
##### Subpart B - Operations Manual
###### ยง 154.325 Operations manual: Procedures for examination.

(a) Not less than 60 days prior to the first transfer operation, the operator of a new facility must submit, with the letter of intent, an Operations Manual in printed or electronic format to the COTP of the zone(s) in which the facility is located.

(b) After a facility is removed from caretaker status, not less than 30 days prior to the first transfer operation, the operator of that facility must submit an Operations Manual in printed or electronic format to the COTP of the zone in which the facility is located, unless the manual has been previously examined and no changes have been made since the examination.

(c) If the COTP finds that the Operations Manual meets the requirements of this part and part 156 of this chapter, the COTP will provide notice to the facility stating the manual has been examined by the Coast Guard. The notice will include the date, revision date of the manual, or other revision-specific identifying information.

(d) If the COTP finds that the Operations Manual does not meet the requirements of this part or part 156 of this subchapter, the COTP will notify the facility with an explanation of why the manual does not meet the requirements of this subchapter.

(e) No person may use any Operations Manual for transfer operations as required by this chapter unless the Operations Manual has been examined by the COTP.

(f) The Operations Manual is voided if the facility operator-

(1) Amends the Operations Manual without following the procedures in ยง 154.320 of this part;

(2) Fails to amend the Operations Manual when required by the COTP; or

(3) Notifies the COTP in writing that the facility will be placed in caretaker status.
