
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 154 - FACILITIES TRANSFERRING OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL IN BULK
##### Subpart C - Equipment Requirements
###### ยง 154.500 Hose assemblies.

Each hose assembly used for transferring oil or hazardous material must meet the following requirements:

(a) The minimum design burst pressure for each hose assembly must be at least four times the sum of the pressure of the relief valve setting (or four times the maximum pump pressure when no relief valve is installed) plus the static head pressure of the transfer system, at the point where the hose is installed.

(b) The maximum allowable working pressure (MAWP) for each hose assembly must be more than the sum of the pressure of the relief valve setting (or the maximum pump pressure when no relief valve is installed) plus the static head pressure of the transfer system, at the point where the hose is installed.

(c) Each nonmetallic hose must be usable for oil or hazardous material service.

(d) Each hose assembly must either have-

(1) Full threaded connections;

(2) Flanges that meet ANSI B16.5 or ANSI B16.24 (both incorporated by reference, see 33 CFR 154.106); or

(3) Quick-disconnect couplings that meet ASTM F1122 (incorporated by reference, see 33 CFR 154.106).

(e) Each hose must be marked with one of the following:

(1) The name of each product for which the hose may be used; or

(2) For oil products, the words "OIL SERVICE"; or

(3) For hazardous materials, the words "HAZMAT SERVICE-SEE LIST" followed immediately by a letter, number or other symbol that corresponds to a list or chart contained in the facility's operations manual or the vessel's transfer procedure documents which identifies the products that may be transferred through a hose bearing that symbol.

(f) Each hose also must be marked with the following, except that the information required by paragraphs (f)(2) and (3) of this section need not be marked on the hose if it is recorded in the hose records of the vessel or facility, and the hose is marked to identify it with that information:

(1) Maximum allowable working pressure;

(2) Date of manufacture; and

(3) Date of the latest test required by 33 CFR 156.170.

(g) The hose burst pressure and the pressure used for the test required by 33 CFR 156.170 must not be marked on the hose and must be recorded elsewhere at the facility as described in paragraph (f) of this section.

(h) Each hose used to transfer fuel to a vessel that has a fill pipe for which containment cannot practically be provided must be equipped with an automatic back pressure shutoff nozzle.
