
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 154 - FACILITIES TRANSFERRING OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL IN BULK
##### Subpart D - Facility Operations
###### ยง 154.735 Safety requirements.

Each operator of a facility to which this part applies shall ensure that the following safety requirements are met at the facility:

(a) Access to the facility by firefighting personnel, fire trucks, or other emergency personnel is not impeded.

(b) Materials which are classified as hazardous under 49 CFR parts 170 through 179 are kept only in the quantities needed for the operation or maintenance of the facility and are stored in storage compartments.

(c) Gasoline or other fuel is not stored on a pier, wharf, or other similar structure.

(d) A sufficient number of fire extinguishers approved by an independent laboratory listed in 46 CFR 162.028-5 for fighting small, localized fires are in place throughout the facility and maintained in a ready condition.

(e) The location of each hydrant, standpipe, hose station, fire extinguisher, and fire alarm box is conspicuously marked and readily accessible.

(f) Each piece of protective equipment is ready to operate.

(g) Signs indicating that smoking is prohibited are posted in areas where smoking is not permitted.

(h) Trucks and other motor vehicles are operated or parked only in designated locations.

(i) All rubbish is kept in receptacles.

(j) All equipment with internal combustion engines used on the facility-

(1) Does not constitute a fire hazard; and

(2) Has a fire extinguisher attached that is approved by an independent laboratory listed in 46 CFR 162.028-5, unless such a fire extinguisher is readily accessible nearby on the facility.

(k) Spark arresters are provided on chimneys or appliances which-

(1) Use solid fuel; or

(2) Are located where sparks constitute a hazard to nearby combustible material.
