
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 154 - FACILITIES TRANSFERRING OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL IN BULK
##### Subpart F - Response Plans for Oil Facilities
###### ยง 154.1035 Specific requirements for facilities that could reasonably be expected to cause significant and substantial harm to the environment.
####### Notification procedures.

(1)(i) This subsection must contain a prioritized list identifying the person(s), including name, telephone number, and their role in the plan, to be notified of a discharge or substantial threat of a discharge of oil. The telephone number need not be provided if it is listed separately in the list of contacts required in the plan. This Notification Procedures listing must include-

(A) Facility response personnel, the spill management team, oil spill removal organizations, and the qualified individual(s) and the designated alternate(s); and

(B) Federal, State, or local agencies, as required.

(ii) This subsection must include a form, such as that depicted in Figure 1, which contains information to be provided in the initial and follow-up notifications to Federal, State, and local agencies. The form shall include notification of the National Response Center as required in part 153 of this chapter. Copies of the form also must be placed at the location(s) from which notification may be made. The initial notification form must include space for the information contained in Figure 1. The form must contain a prominent statement that initial notification must not be delayed pending collection of all information.
