
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 154 - FACILITIES TRANSFERRING OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL IN BULK
##### Subpart F - Response Plans for Oil Facilities
###### ยง 154.1035 Specific requirements for facilities that could reasonably be expected to cause significant and substantial harm to the environment.
####### Facility's spill mitigation procedures.

(2)(i) This subsection must describe the volume(s) and oil groups that would be involved in the-

(A) Average most probable discharge from the MTR facility;

(B) Maximum most probable discharge from the MTR facility;

(C) Worst case discharge from the MTR facility; and

(D) Where applicable, the worst case discharge from the non-transportation-related facility. This must be the same volume provided in the response plan for the non-transportation-related facility.

(ii) This subsection must contain prioritized procedures for facility personnel to mitigate or prevent any discharge or substantial threat of a discharge of oil resulting from operational activities associated with internal or external facility transfers including specific procedures to shut down affected operations. Facility personnel responsible for performing specified procedures to mitigate or prevent any discharge or potential discharge shall be identified by job title. A copy of these procedures shall be maintained at the facility operations center. These procedures must address actions to be taken by facility personnel in the event of a discharge, potential discharge, or emergency involving the following equipment and scenarios:

(A) Failure of manifold, mechanical loading arm, other transfer equipment, or hoses, as appropriate;

(B) Tank overfill;

(C) Tank failure;

(D) Piping rupture;

(E) Piping leak, both under pressure and not under pressure, if applicable;

(F) Explosion or fire; and

(G) Equipment failure (e.g. pumping system failure, relief valve failure, or other general equipment relevant to operational activities associated with internal or external facility transfers.)

(iii) This subsection must contain a listing of equipment and the responsibilities of facility personnel to mitigate an average most probable discharge.
