
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 154 - FACILITIES TRANSFERRING OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL IN BULK
##### Subpart F - Response Plans for Oil Facilities
###### ยง 154.1035 Specific requirements for facilities that could reasonably be expected to cause significant and substantial harm to the environment.
####### Facility-specific information.

(1)This appendix must contain a description of the facility's principal characteristics.

(i) There must be a physical description of the facility including a plan of the facility showing the mooring areas, transfer locations, control stations, locations of safety equipment, and the location and capacities of all piping and storage tanks.

(ii) The appendix must identify the sizes, types, and number of vessels that the facility can transfer oil to or from simultaneously.

(iii) The appendix must identify the first valve(s) on facility piping separating the transportation-related portion of the facility from the non-transportation-related portion of the facility, if any. For piping leading to a manifold located on a dock serving tank vessels, this valve is the first valve inside the secondary containment required by 40 CFR part 112.

(iv) The appendix must contain information on the oil(s) and hazardous material handled, stored, or transported at the facility in bulk. A material safety data sheet meeting the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.1200, 33 CFR 154.310(a)(5) or an equivalent will meet this requirement. This information can be maintained separately providing it is readily available and the appendix identifies its location. This information must include-

(A) The generic or chemical name;

(B) A description of the appearance and odor;

(C) The physical and chemical characteristics;

(D) The hazards involved in handling the oil(s) and hazardous materials. This shall include hazards likely to be encountered if the oil(s) and hazardous materials come in contact as a result of a discharge; and

(E) A list of firefighting procedures and extinguishing agents effective with fires involving the oil(s) and hazardous materials.

(v) The appendix may contain any other information which the facility owner or operator determines to be pertinent to an oil spill response.
