
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 154 - FACILITIES TRANSFERRING OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL IN BULK
##### Subpart F - Response Plans for Oil Facilities
###### ยง 154.1035 Specific requirements for facilities that could reasonably be expected to cause significant and substantial harm to the environment.
####### Equipment list and records.

(3)This appendix must include the information specified in this paragraph.

(i) The appendix must contain a list of equipment and facility personnel required to respond to an average most probable discharge, as defined in ยง 154.1020. The appendix must also list the location of the equipment.

(ii) The appendix must contain a detailed listing of all the major equipment identified in the plan as belonging to an oil spill removal organization(s) that is available, by contract or other approved means as described in ยง 154.1028(a), to respond to a maximum most probable or worst case discharge, as defined in ยง 154.1020. The detailed listing of all major equipment may be located in a separate document referenced by the plan. Either the appendix or the separate document referenced in the plan must provide the location of the major response equipment.

(iii) It is not necessary to list response equipment from oil spill removal organization(s) when the organization has been classified by the Coast Guard and their capacity has been determined to equal or exceed the response capability needed by the facility. For oil spill removal organization(s) classified by the Coast Guard, the classification must be noted in this section of the plan. When it is necessary for the appendix to contain a listing of response equipment, it shall include all of the following items that are identified in the response plan: Skimmers; booms; dispersant application, in-situ burning, bioremediation equipment and supplies, and other equipment used to apply other chemical agents on the NCP Product Schedule (if applicable); communications, firefighting, and beach cleaning equipment; boats and motors; disposal and storage equipment; and heavy equipment. The list must include for each piece of equipment-

(A) The type, make, model, and year of manufacture listed on the nameplate of the equipment;

(B) For oil recovery devices, the effective daily recovery rate, as determined using section 6 of appendix C of this part;

(C) For containment boom, the overall boom height (draft and freeboard) and type of end connectors;

(D) The spill scenario in which the equipment will be used for or which it is contracted;

(E) The total daily capacity for storage and disposal of recovered oil;

(F) For communication equipment, the type and amount of equipment intended for use during response activities. Where applicable, the primary and secondary radio frequencies must be specified.

(G) Location of the equipment; and

(H) The date of the last inspection by the oil spill removal organization(s).
