
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 154 - FACILITIES TRANSFERRING OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL IN BULK
##### Subpart F - Response Plans for Oil Facilities
###### § 154.1045 Response plan development and evaluation criteria for facilities that handle, store, or transport Group I through Group IV petroleum oils.
####### see,http://response.restoration.noaa.gov/

(ii) The use of assessment techniques in ASTM F1779-08 (incorporated by reference,§ 154.106), and familiar with the use of other guides, such as NOAA's "Open Water Oil Identification Job Aid for Aerial Observation," and NOAA's "Characteristic Coastal Habitats" guide (available on the Internet atuse the following links in the order presented: Home|Emergency Response|Responding to Oil Spills).

(k) A response plan for a facility that handles, stores, or transports Group I through Group IV petroleum oils must identify response resources with firefighting capability. The owner or operator of a facility that does not have adequate firefighting resources located at the facility or that can not rely on sufficient local firefighting resources must identify and ensure, by contract or other approved means as described in § 154.1028(a)(1)-(4), the availability of adequate firefighting resources. The response plan must also identify an individual located at the facility to work with the fire department for petroleum oil fires. This individual shall also verify that sufficient well-trained firefighting resources are available within a reasonable time to respond to a worst case discharge. The individual may be the qualified individual as defined in § 154.1020 and identified in the response plan or another appropriate individual located at the facility.

(l) The response plan for a facility that handles, stores, or transports Groups I through IV petroleum oils must identify equipment and required personnel available, by contract or other approved means as described in § 154.1028(a) (1)-(4), to protect fish and wildlife and sensitive environments.

(1) Except as set out in paragraph (k)(2) of this section, the identified response resources must include the quantities of boom sufficient to protect fish and wildlife and sensitive environments as required by § 154.1035(b)(4).

(2) The resources and response methods identified in a facility response plan must be consistent with the required resources and response methods to be used in fish and wildlife and sensitive environments, contained in the appropriate ACP. Facility owners or operators shall ensure that their response plans are in accordance with the ACP in effect 6 months prior to initial plan submission or the annual plan review required under § 154.1065(a). Facility owners or operators are not required to, but may at their option, conform to an ACP which is less than 6 months old at the time of plan submission.

(m) The response plan for a facility that handles, stores, or transports Groups I through IV petroleum oils must identify an oil spill removal organization(s) with response resources that are available, by contract or other approved means as described in § 154.1028(a) (1)-(4), to effect a shoreline cleanup operation commensurate with the quantity of emulsified petroleum oil to be planned for in shoreline cleanup operations.

(1) Except as required in paragraph (l)(2) of this section, the shoreline cleanup response resources required must be determined as described in appendix C of this part.

(2) The resources and response methods identified in a facility response plan must be consistent with the required shoreline cleanup resources and methods contained in the appropriate ACP. Facility owners or operators shall ensure that their response plans are in accordance with the ACP in effect 6 months prior to initial plan submission or the annual plan review required under § 154.1065(a). Facility owners or operators are not required to, but may at their option, conform to an ACP which is less than 6 months old at the time of plan submission.

(n) Appendix C of this part describes the procedures to determine the maximum extent practicable quantity of response resources that must be identified and available, by contract or other approved means as described in § 154.1028(a) (1)-(4), for the maximum most probable discharge volume, and for each worst case discharge response tier.

(1) Included in appendix C of this part is a cap that recognizes the practical and technical limits of response capabilities that an individual facility owner or operator can be expected to contract for in advance.

(2) Table 5 in appendix C of this part lists the caps that apply in February 18, 1993, and February 18, 1998. Depending on the quantity and type of petroleum oil handled by the facility and the facility's geographic area of operations, the resource capability caps in this table may be reached. The owner or operator of a facility whose estimated recovery capacity exceeds the applicable contracting caps in Table 5 shall identify sources of additional equipment equal to twice the cap listed in Tiers 1, 2, and 3 or the amount necessary to reach the calculated planning volume, whichever is lower. The identified resources must be capable of arriving on scene not later than the Tier 1, 2, and 3 response times in this section. No contract is required. While general listings of available response equipment may be used to identify additional sources, a response plan must identify the specific sources, locations, and quantities of equipment that a facility owner or operator has considered in his or her planning. When listing Coast Guard classified oil spill removal organization(s) which have sufficient removal capacity to recover the volume above the response capability cap for the specific facility, as specified in Table 5 in appendix C of this part, it is not necessary to list specific quantities of equipment.

(o) The Coast Guard will continue to evaluate the environmental benefits, cost efficiency and practicality of increasing mechanical recovery capability requirements. This continuing evaluation is part of the Coast Guard's long term commitment to achieving and maintaining an optimum mix of oil spill response capability across the full spectrum of response modes. As best available technology demonstrates a need to evaluate or change mechanical recovery capacities, a review of cap increases and other requirements contained within this subpart may be performed. Any changes in the requirements of this section will occur through a public notice and comment process. During this review, the Coast Guard will determine if established caps remain practicable and if increased caps will provide any benefit to oil spill recovery operations. The review will include, at least, an evaluation of:

(1) Best available technologies for containment and recovery;

(2) Oil spill tracking technology;

(3) High rate response techniques;

(4) Other applicable response technologies; and

(5) Increases in the availability of private response resources.
