
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 154 - FACILITIES TRANSFERRING OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL IN BULK
##### Subpart F - Response Plans for Oil Facilities
###### ยง 154.1047 Response plan development and evaluation criteria for facilities that handle, store, or transport Group V petroleum oils.

(a) An owner or operator of a facility that handles, stores, or transports Group V petroleum oils must provide information in his or her response plan that identifies-

(1) Procedures and strategies for responding to a worst case discharge of Group V petroleum oils to the maximum extent practicable; and

(2) Sources of the equipment and supplies necessary to locate, recover, and mitigate such a discharge.

(b) An owner or operator of a facility that handles, stores, or transports Group V petroleum oil must ensure that any equipment identified in a response plan is capable of operating in the conditions expected in the geographic area(s) in which the facility operates using the criteria in Table 1 of appendix C of this part. When evaluating the operability of equipment, the facility owner or operator must consider limitations that are identified in the ACPs for the COTP zones in which the facility operates, including-

(1) Ice conditions;

(2) Debris;

(3) Temperature ranges; and

(4) Weather-related visibility.

(c) The owner or operator of a facility that handles, stores, or transports Group V petroleum oil must identify the response resources that are available by contract or other approved means as described in ยง 154.1028. The equipment identified in a response plan must include-

(1) Sonar, sampling equipment, or other methods for locating the petroleum oil on the bottom or suspended in the water column;

(2) Containment boom, sorbent boom, silt curtains, or other methods for containing the petroleum oil that may remain floating on the surface or to reduce spreading on the bottom;

(3) Dredges, pumps, or other equipment necessary to recover petroleum oil from the bottom and shoreline;

(4) Equipment necessary to assess the impact of such discharges; and

(5) Other appropriate equipment necessary to respond to a discharge involving the type of petroleum oil handled, stored, or transported.

(d) Response resources identified in a response plan for a facility that handles, stores, or transports Group V petroleum oils under paragraph (c) of this section must be capable of being at the spill site within 24 hours of discovery of a discharge.

(e) A response plan for a facility that handles, stores, or transports Group V petroleum oils must identify response resources with firefighting capability. The owner or operator of a facility that does not have adequate firefighting resources located at the facility or that can not rely on sufficient local firefighting resources must identity and ensure, by contract or other approved means as described in ยง 154.1028, the availability of adequate firefighting resources. The response plan must also identify an individual located at the facility to work with the fire department for petroleum oil fires. This individual shall also verify that sufficient well-trained firefighting resources are available within a reasonable response time to a worst case scenario. The individual may be the qualified individual as defined in ยง 154.1020 and identified in the response plan or another appropriate individual located at the facility.
