
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 154 - FACILITIES TRANSFERRING OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL IN BULK
##### Subpart F - Response Plans for Oil Facilities
###### ยง 154.1050 Training.

(a) A response plan submitted to meet the requirements of ยง 154.1035 or ยง 154.1040, as appropriate, must identify the training to be provided to each individual with responsibilities under the plan. A facility owner or operator must identify the method to be used for training any volunteers or casual laborers used during a response to comply with the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.120.

(b) A facility owner or operator shall ensure the maintenance of records sufficient to document training of facility personnel; and shall make them available for inspection upon request by the U.S. Coast Guard. Records for facility personnel must be maintained at the facility for 3 years.

(c) Where applicable, a facility owner or operator shall ensure that an oil spill removal organization identified in a response plan to meet the requirements of this subpart maintains records sufficient to document training for the organization's personnel and shall make them available for inspection upon request by the facility's management personnel, the qualified individual, and U.S. Coast Guard. Records must be maintained for 3 years following completion of training.

(d) The facility owner or operator remains responsible for ensuring that all private response personnel are trained to meet the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standards for emergency response operations in 29 CFR 1910.120.
