
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 154 - FACILITIES TRANSFERRING OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL IN BULK
##### Subpart F - Response Plans for Oil Facilities
###### § 154.1060 Submission and approval procedures.

(a) The owner or operator of a facility to which this subpart applies shall submit one copy of a facility response plan meeting the requirements of this subpart to the COTP for initial review and, if appropriate, approval.

(b) The owner or operator of a facility to which this subpart applies shall include a statement certifying that the plan meets the applicable requirements of subparts F, G, H, and I of this part, as appropriate.

(c) For an MTR facility that is located in the inland response zone where the EPA Regional Administrator is the predesignated Federal On-Scene Coordinator, the COTP may consult with the EPA Federal On-Scene Coordinator prior to any final approval.

(d) For an MTR facility identified in § 154.1015(c) of this subpart that is also required to prepare a response plan under 40 CFR part 112, if the COTP determines that the plan meets all applicable requirements and the EPA Regional Administrator raises no objection to the response plan contents, the COTP will notify the facility owner or operator in writing that the plan is approved.

(e) The plan will be valid for a period of up to 5 years. The facility owner or operator must resubmit an updated plan every 5 years as follows:

(1) For facilities identified in only § 154.1015(b) of this subpart, the 5-year period will commence on the date the plan is submitted to the COTP.

(2) For facilities identified in § 154.1015(c) of this subpart, the 5-year period will commence on the date the COTP approves the plan.

(3) All resubmitted response plans shall be accompanied by a cover letter containing a detailed listing of all revisions to the response plan.

(f) For an MTR facility identified in § 154.1015(c)(2) the COTP will notify the facility owner or operator in writing that the plan is approved.

(g) If a COTP determines that a plan does not meet the requirements of this subpart either upon initial submission or upon 5-year resubmission, the COTP will return the plan to the facility owner or operator along with an explanation of the response plan's deficiencies. The owner or operator must correct any deficiencies in accordance with § 154.1070 and return the plan to the COTP within the time specified by the COTP in the letter describing the deficiencies.

(h) The facility owner or operator and the qualified individual and the alternative qualified individual shall each maintain a copy of the most current response plan submitted to the COTP. One copy must be maintained at the facility in a position where the plan is readily available to persons in charge of conducting transfer operations.
