
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 154 - FACILITIES TRANSFERRING OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL IN BULK
##### Subpart F - Response Plans for Oil Facilities
###### ยง 154.1075 Appeal process.

(a) Any owner or operator of a facility who desires to appeal the classification that a facility could reasonably be expected to cause substantial harm or significant and substantial harm to the environment, shall submit a written request to the cognizant COTP requesting review and reclassification by the COTP. The facility owner or operator shall identify those factors to be considered by the COTP. The factors to be considered by the COTP regarding reclassification of a facility include, but are not limited to, those listed in ยง 154.1016(b). After considering all relevant material presented by the facility owner or operator and any additional material available to the COTP, the COTP will notify the facility owner or operator of the decision on the reclassification of the facility.

(b) Any facility owner or operator directly affected by an initial determination or action of the COTP may submit a written request to the cognizant COTP requesting review and reconsideration of the COTP's decision or action. The facility owner or operator shall identify those factors to be considered by the COTP in making his or her decision on reconsideration.

(c) Within 10 days of the COTP's decision under paragraph (b) of this section, the facility owner or operator may appeal the decision of the COTP to the District Commander. This appeal shall be made in writing via the cognizant COTP to the District Commander of the district in which the office of the COTP is located.

(d) Within 30 days of the District Commander's decision, the facility owner or operator may formally appeal the decision of the District Commander. This appeal shall be submitted in writing to Commandant (CG-535) via the District Commander.

(e) When considering an appeal, the COTP, District Commander, or Commandant may stay the effect of the decision or action being appealed pending the determination of the appeal.
