
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 154 - FACILITIES TRANSFERRING OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL IN BULK
##### Subpart G - Additional Response Plan Requirements for a Trans-Alaska Pipeline Authorization Act (TAPAA) Facility Operating in Prince William Sound, Alaska
###### § 154.1130 Requirements for prepositioned response equipment.

The owner or operator of a TAPAA facility shall provide the following prepositioned response equipment, located within Prince William Sound, in addition to that required by § 154.1035, § 154.1045, or § 154.1050:

(a) On-water recovery equipment with a minimum effective daily recovery rate of 30,000 barrels capable of being a scene within 2 hours of notification of a discharge.

(b) On-water storage capacity of 100,000 barrels for recovered oily material capable of being on scene within 2 hours of notification of a discharge.

(c) On-water recovery equipment with a minimum effective daily recovery rate of 40,000 barrels capable of being on scene within 18 hours of notification of discharge.

(d) On-water storage capacity of 300,000 barrels for recovered oily material capable of being on scene within 12 hours of notification of a discharge.

(e) On-water recovery devices and storage equipment located in communities at strategic locations.

(f) Equipment as identified below, for the locations identified in § 154.1125(a)(1)(ii) sufficient for the protection of the environment in these locations:

(1) Boom appropriate for the specific locations.

(2) Sufficient boats to deploy boom and sorbents.

(3) Sorbent materials.

(4) Personnel protective clothing and equipment.

(5) Survival equipment.

(6) First aid supplies.

(7) Buckets, shovels, and various other tools.

(8) Decontamination equipment.

(9) Shoreline cleanup equipment.

(10) Mooring equipment.

(11) Anchored buoys at appropriate locations to facilitate the positioning of defensive boom.

(12) Other appropriate removal equipment for the protection of the environment as identified by the COTP.
