
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 154 - FACILITIES TRANSFERRING OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL IN BULK
##### Subpart H - Response Plans for Animal Fats and Vegetable Oils Facilities
###### § 154.1225 Specific response plan development and evaluation criteria and other requirements for fixed facilities that handle, store, or transport animal fats or vegetable oils.

(a) The owner or operator of a fixed facility that handles, stores, or transports animal fats or vegetable oils must include information in the response plan that identifies-

(1) The procedures and strategies for responding to a worst case discharge and to an average most probable discharge of an animal fat or vegetable oil to the maximum extent practicable; and

(2) Sources of the equipment and supplies necessary to locate, recover, and mitigate such a discharge.

(b) The owner or operator of a fixed facility must ensure the equipment listed in the response plan will operate in the geographic area(s) where the facility operates. To determine if the equipment will operate, the owner or operator must-

(1) Use the criteria in Table 1 and Section 2 of appendix C of this part; and

(2) Consider the limitations in the area contingency plan for the COTP zone where the facility is located, including

(i) Ice conditions;

(ii) Debris;

(iii) Temperature ranges; and

(iv) Weather-related visibility.

(c) The owner or operator of a facility that handles, stores, or transports animal fats or vegetable oils must name the personnel and list the equipment, including those that are specified in § 154.1240, that are available by contract or by a method described in § 154.1228(a). The owner or operator is not required, but may at their option, refer to the tables in Environmental Protection Agency regulations, 40 CFR 112, Appendix E, Section 10.0, Tables 6 and 7, to determine necessary response resources.

(d) The owner or operator of a facility that handles, stores, or transports animal fats or vegetable oils must ensure that the response resources in paragraph (c) of this section are able to effectively respond to an incident within the amount of time indicated in the following table, unless otherwise specified in § 154.1240:

(e) The owner or operator of a facility that handles, stores, or transports animal fats or vegetable oils must-

(1) List in the plan the personnel and equipment that the owner or operator will use to fight fires.

(2) If there is not enough equipment or personnel located at the facility, arrange by contract or a method described in § 154.1228(a), or through a cooperative agreement with public fire-fighting resources, to have the necessary personnel and equipment available to fight fires.

(3) Identify an individual located at the facility who will work with the fire department on fires, involving an animal fat or vegetable oil. The individual-

(i) Verifies that there are enough trained personnel and operating equipment within a reasonable distance to the incident to fight fires.

(ii) Can be the qualified individual defined in § 154.1020 or an appropriate individual located at the facility.

(f) For a fixed facility, except for facilities that are part of a non-transportation-related fixed onshore facility with a storage capacity of less than 42,000 gallons, the owner or operator must also ensure and identify, through contract or a method described in § 154.1228, response resources for an average most probable discharge, including-

(1) At least 1,000 feet of containment boom or two times the length of the longest vessel that regularly conducts operations at the facility, whichever is greater, and the means of deploying and anchoring the boom within 1 hour of the discovery of an incident. Based on site-specific or facility-specific information, the COTP may require the facility owner or operator to make available additional quantities of containment boom within 1 hour of an incident;

(2) Adequate sorbent material located at the facility;

(3) Oil recovery devices and recovered oil storage capacity capable of being at the incident's site within 2 hours of the discovery of an incident; and

(4) Other appropriate equipment necessary to respond to an incident involving the type of oil handled.

(g) For a mobile facility or a fixed facility that is part of a non-transportation-related onshore facility with a storage capacity of less than 42,000 gallons, the owner or operator must meet the requirements of § 154.1041, and ensure and identify, through contract or a method described in § 154.1228, response resources for an average most probable discharge, including-

(1) At least 200 feet of containment boom and the means of deploying and anchoring the boom within 1 hour of the discovery of an incident. Based on site-specific or facility-specific information, the COTP may require the facility owner or operator to make available additional quantities of containment boom within 1 hour of the discovery of an incident;

(2) Adequate sorbent material capable of being at the site of an incident within 1 hour of its discovery;

(3) Oil recovery devices and recovered oil storage capacity capable of being at incident's site within 2 hours of the discovery of an incident; and

(4) Other equipment necessary to respond to an incident involving the type of oil handled.

(h) The response plan for a facility that is located in any environment with year-round preapproval for use of dispersants and that handles, stores, or transports animal fats and vegetables oils may request a credit for up to 25 percent of the worst case planning volume set forth by subpart F of this part. To receive this credit, the facility owner or operator must identify in the plan and ensure, by contract or other approved means as described in § 154.1228(a), the availability of specified resources to apply the dispersants and to monitor their effectiveness. The extent of the credit for dispersants will be based on the volumes of the dispersants available to sustain operations at the manufacturers' recommended dosage rates. Other spill mitigation techniques, including mechanical dispersal, may be identified in the response plan provided they are in accordance with the NCP and the applicable ACP. Resources identified for plan credit should be capable of being on scene within 12 hours of a discovery of a discharge. Identification of these resources does not imply that they will be authorized for use. Actual authorization for use during a spill response will be governed by the provisions of the NCP and the applicable ACP.
