
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 154 - FACILITIES TRANSFERRING OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL IN BULK
##### Subpart I - Response Plans for Other Non-Petroleum Oil Facilities
###### § 154.1325 Response plan development and evaluation criteria for facilities that handle, store, or transport other non-petroleum oils.

(a) An owner or operator of a facility that handles, stores, or transports other non-petroleum oils must provide information in his or her plan that identifies-

(1) Procedures and strategies for responding to a worst case discharge of other non-petroleum oils to the maximum extent practicable; and

(2) Sources of the equipment and supplies necessary to locate, recover, and mitigate such a discharge.

(b) An owner or operator of a facility that handles, stores, or transports other non-petroleum oils must ensure that any equipment identified in a response plan is capable of operating in the conditions expected in the geographic area(s) in which the facility operates using the criteria in Table 1 of appendix C of this part. When evaluating the operability of equipment, the facility owner or operator must consider limitations that are identified in the ACPs for the COTP zone in which the facility is located, including-

(1) Ice conditions;

(2) Debris;

(3) Temperature ranges; and

(4) Weather-related visibility.

(c) The owner or operator of a facility that handles, stores, or transports other non-petroleum oils must identify the response resources that are available by contract or other approved means as described in § 154.1028(a). The equipment identified in a response plan must include-

(1) Containment boom, sorbent boom, or other methods for containing oil floating on the surface or to protect shorelines from impact;

(2) Oil recovery devices appropriate for the type of other non-petroleum oils handled; and

(3) Other appropriate equipment necessary to respond to a discharge involving the type of oil handled.

(d) Response resources identified in a response plan under paragraph (c) of this section must be capable of commencing an effective on-scene response within the times specified in this paragraph for the applicable operating area:

(e) A response plan for a facility that handles, stores, or transports other non-petroleum oils must identify response resources with firefighting capability. The owner or operator of a facility that does not have adequate firefighting resources located at the facility or that cannot rely on sufficient local firefighting resources must identify and ensure, by contract or other approved means as described in § 154.1028(a), the availability of adequate firefighting resources. The response plan must also identify an individual located at the facility to work with the fire department on other non-petroleum oil fires. This individual shall also verify that sufficient well-trained firefighting resources are available within a reasonable response time to a worst case scenario. The individual may be the qualified individual as defined in § 154.1020 and identified in the response plan or another appropriate individual located at the facility.

(f) The response plan for a facility that is located in any environment with year-round preapproval for use of dispersants and that handles, stores, or transports other non-petroleum oils may request a credit for up to 25 percent of the worst case planning volume set forth by subpart F of this part. To receive this credit, the facility owner or operator must identify in the plan and ensure, by contract or other approved means as described in § 154.1028(a), the availability of specified resources to apply the dispersants and to monitor their effectiveness. The extent of the credit will be based on the volumes of the dispersant available to sustain operations at the manufacturers' recommended dosage rates. Identification of these resources does not imply that they will be authorized for use. Actual authorization for use during a spill response will be governed by the provisions of the NCP and the applicable ACP.
