
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 154 - FACILITIES TRANSFERRING OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL IN BULK
##### Subpart P - Marine Vapor Control Systems
###### General
####### ยง 154.2000 Applicability.

(a) Except as specified by paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section, this subpart applies to-

(1) Each facility that controls vapors emitted to or from vessel cargo tanks;

(2) A vessel, other than a tank vessel, that has a vapor processing unit located onboard for recovery, destruction, or dispersion of vapors from a tank vessel's cargo tanks;

(3) Certifying entities that review, inspect, test, and certificate facility vapor control systems (VCSs); or

(4) A facility VCS that receives cargo vapor from a vessel when the VCS is connected to a facility's main VCS that serves plant processing areas, such as tank storage areas or tank truck or railcar loading areas, unrelated to tank vessel operations. The requirements of this subpart apply between the vessel vapor connection and the point where the VCS connects to the facility's main VCS.

(b) Each facility VCS that began operating on or after July 23, 1990, and that is certified as in compliance with 33 CFR part 154, subpart E on August 15, 2013, or each existing tank barge cleaning facility VCS that meets the safety Standards of Navigation and Vessel Inspection Circular No. 1-96, must comply with 33 CFR part 154, subpart P by August 15, 2016. Certifications, approvals of alternatives, and grants of exemption in effect on August 15, 2013, remain in effect after that date and as specified in the certification, approval, or grant.

(c) A facility with a Coast Guard-approved VCS operating prior to July 23, 1990, must comply with 33 CFR 154.2150 but otherwise need not comply with this subpart so long as it does not have any design or configuration alterations after its approval and receives cargo vapor only from the specific vessels for which it was originally approved.

(d) A facility that uses a vapor balancing system to transfer vapor from a railcar or a tank truck to a vessel cargo tank while offloading the vessel must obtain approval in writing from the Commandant and make that approval available for Coast Guard inspection upon request.

(e) A facility that transfers vapor from a facility tank to a cargo tank of a vessel which is not offloading cargo must obtain approval in writing from the Commandant and make that approval available for Coast Guard inspection upon request.

(f) A tank vessel that has a permanent or portable vapor processing unit located onboard must comply with applicable requirements of this subpart and 46 CFR part 39.

(g) This subpart does not apply to the collection of vapors of liquefied flammable gases as defined in 46 CFR 30.10-39.

(h) This subpart does not require a facility or a vessel to control vapor, or a vessel to take away vapor from facilities; however, if a facility operates a VCS to control vapor to or from vessels, the facility must comply with the requirements of this subpart.

(i) In this subpart, regulatory measurements, whether in the metric or English system, are sometimes followed by approximate equivalent measurements in parentheses, which are given solely for the reader's convenience. Regulatory compliance with the regulatory measurement is required.
