
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 154 - FACILITIES TRANSFERRING OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL IN BULK
##### Subpart P - Marine Vapor Control Systems
###### Certifying Entities
####### ยง 154.2011 Application for acceptance as a certifying entity.
######## http://homeport.uscg.mil.

(c) The Commandant reviews each application and either issues a letter of acceptance as a certifying entity to the applicant, or notifies the applicant that it is not accepted, and maintains a list of currently accepted certifying entities that is available to the public at

(d) The acceptance of a certifying entity may be terminated by the Commandant for failure to review, inspect, or test a system properly in accordance with this subpart.

(e) A certifying entity may not certify a facility VCS if that certifying entity was involved in the design or installation of the system. "Design or installation" includes, but is not limited to-

(1) Performing system design calculations;

(2) Providing chemical data;

(3) Developing plans, specifications, and drawings;

(4) Conducting failure analysis; and

(5) Installing systems or components.

(f) A certifying entity may not recertify a VCS design, configuration, or operational change if it was involved in that change, and may not conduct an operational review of a VCS if it has been involved in the design, installation, or operation of the VCS.

(g) A certifying entity may not conduct the failure analysis of a facility VCS it is certifying. The certifying entity may only point out shortcomings shown by the failure analysis and may not propose changes to correct the shortcomings.

(h) A certifying entity may not certify the VCS of any vessel or facility owner or operator that owns or has a controlling interest in the certifying entity.
