
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 154 - FACILITIES TRANSFERRING OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL IN BULK
##### Subpart P - Marine Vapor Control Systems
###### Certification, Recertification, and Operational Review
####### ยง 154.2024 Operational review - certifying entity responsibilities, generally.

In conducting an operational review the certifying entity must ensure that the vapor control system (VCS) is properly operating and maintained by performing the tasks specified in this section.

(a) Ensure the completeness, currency, and accuracy of the facility operations manual, training plans, and VCS test procedures.

(b) Confirm through training records that the current listed available facility persons in charge have been trained in compliance with 33 CFR 154.2030 or 154.2031.

(c) Confirm that recordkeeping and testing and inspection comply with 33 CFR 154.740 and 156.170.

(d) Verify that there has been no change to the VCS equipment or instrumentation since the last certification, recertification, or operational review to ensure that the certification letter is current.

(e) Verify proper marking, labeling, maintenance, and operation of VCS components, through visual inspection.

(f) Confirm that the originally certified liquid cargo transfer rate can still be attained in compliance with 33 CFR 154.2103 and 154.2107.

(g) Ensure that cargo transfer or tank-cleaning barge operational procedures are properly followed and the VCS operates properly, through observation of the initial stages of transfer or cleaning, including 24-hour pre-transfer tests required by 33 CFR 154.2150(b) or 33 CFR 154.2250(b), the pre-transfer conference, and initial system startup procedures.
