
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 154 - FACILITIES TRANSFERRING OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL IN BULK
##### Subpart P - Marine Vapor Control Systems
###### Transfer Facilities - VCS Design and Installation
####### ยง 154.2101 Requirements for facility vapor connections.

(a) A remotely operated cargo vapor shutoff valve must be installed in the vapor collection line between the facility vapor connection and the nearest point where any inerting, enriching, or diluting gas is introduced into the vapor collection line, or where a detonation arrester is fitted. The valve must-

(1) Close within 30 seconds after detection of a shutdown condition of any component required by this subpart;

(2) Close automatically if the control signal or electrical power to the system is interrupted;

(3) Activate an alarm meeting 33 CFR 154.2100(e) when a signal to shut down is received from a component;

(4) Be capable of manual operation or manual activation;

(5) Have a local valve position indicator, or be designed so that the valve position can be readily determined from the valve handle or valve stem position; and

(6) If the valve seat is fitted with resilient material, be a Category A valve as defined by 46 CFR 56.20-15 and not allow appreciable leakage when the resilient material is damaged or destroyed.

(b) Except when a vapor collection arm is used, the first 1 meter (3.3 feet) of vapor piping downstream of the facility vapor connection must be-

(1) Painted in the sequence of red/yellow/red. The width of the red bands must be 0.1 meter (0.33 foot) and the width of the middle yellow band must be 0.8 meter (2.64 feet); and

(2) Labeled with the word "VAPOR" painted in black letters at least 50.8 millimeters (2 inches) high.

(c) Each facility vapor connection flange face must have a permanent stud projecting outward that is 12.7 millimeters (0.5 inch) in diameter and is at least 25.4 millimeters (1 inch) long. The stud must be located at the top of the flange face, midway between boltholes, and in line with the bolthole pattern.

(d) Each hose that transfers vapors must-

(1) Have a design burst pressure of at least 25 pounds per square inch gauge (psig);

(2) Have a maximum allowable working pressure no less than 5 psig;

(3) Be capable of withstanding at least a 2 pounds per square inch (psi) vacuum without collapsing or constricting;

(4) Be electrically continuous with a maximum resistance of 10,000 ohms;

(5) Have flanges with-

(i) A bolthole arrangement complying with the requirements for 150 pound class flanges, ANSI B16.5 (incorporated by reference, see 33 CFR 154.106); and

(ii) One or more 15.9 millimeter (0.625 inch) diameter holes in the flange face, located midway between boltholes, and in line with the bolthole pattern;

(6) Be resistant to abrasion and kinking;

(7) Be compatible with vapors being controlled; and

(8) Have the last 1 meter (3.3 feet) of each end of the vapor hose marked in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.

(e) Vapor hoses must be adequately supported to prevent kinking, collapse, or contact with any metal of the vessel or facility to prevent unintentional electrical bypassing of the insulating flange or the single length of non-conducting hose required by paragraph (g) of this section.

(f) Fixed vapor collection arms must-

(1) Meet the requirements of paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section; and

(2) Have the last 1 meter (3.3 feet) of the arm marked in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.

(g) The facility vapor connection must be electrically insulated from the vessel vapor connection in accordance with OCIMF ISGOTT section 17.5 (incorporated by reference, see 33 CFR 154.106). In order to prevent electrical arcing during connection and disconnection of the transfer hose/arm, the transfer hose/arm must be fitted with an insulating flange or a single length of non-conducting hose to ensure electrical discontinuity between the vessel and facility. The insulating flange/hose should be inserted at the jetty end and must not be electrically bypassed. The installation, inspection, and testing of the insulating flange/hose must be in accordance with 46 CFR 35.35-4. For each vapor hose, only one insulting flange or non-conductive hose must be provided. See 46 CFR 35.35-4.

(h) A vapor collection system, fitted with a gas injection system that operates at a positive gauge pressure at the facility vapor connection, must be fitted with a means to prevent backflow of vapor to the vessel's vapor collection system during loading.

(i) Electrical bonding between vessel and shore must be in accordance with 46 CFR 35.35-.5.
