
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 154 - FACILITIES TRANSFERRING OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL IN BULK
##### Subpart P - Marine Vapor Control Systems
###### Alternative Analyzer and Pressure Sensor Reliability Testing
####### ยง 154.2180 Alternative testing program - Generally.
######## Sampling system bias,SSB

(4)ormeans the difference between the gas concentrations indicated by the measurement system when a known cylinder gas is introduced at or near the sampling probe and when the same gas is introduced directly to the analyzer.

(c) All analyzers used in a VCS must be tested for safety system functions, CE, CD, RT, and SSB, in accordance with 33 CFR 154.2181.

(d) All pressure sensors/switches used in a VCS must be tested for safety system functions, CE and CD, in accordance with 33 CFR 154.2181.

(e) The facility person in charge must ensure the following:

(1) Calibration of instrumentation using standard procedures provided by the manufacturer or service provider;

(2) Monitoring of all interlocks, alarms, and recording devices for proper operation while instrumentation is being calibrated;

(3) Use of a certified gas standard that is within plus or minus two (2) percent of its certified concentration to calibrate the analyzers; and

(4) Use of a certified secondary standard that is standardized against a primary standard to calibrate the pressure sensors/switches.

(f) Upon failing any test under 33 CFR 154.2181, the facility person in charge must ensure that all monthly and quarterly tests, including CE, CD, RT, and SSB, are conducted; and until all quarterly tests are completed, the person in charge must ensure that the vapor control alarms and automatic shutdown system are tested no more than 24 hours prior to any transfer or tank barge cleaning operation.

(g) Analyzers required by 33 CFR 154.2105(a) and (j) and 154.2107(d) and (e) must be checked for calibration using a zero gas and a span gas.

(h) The facility operator must maintain and make available upon the request of the Commandant and the certifying entity that certifies the VCS the following reliability assurance test program documents for two years:

(1) All test procedures;

(2) The dates of all tests, type of tests made, and who conducted the tests;

(3) Results of the tests, including the "as found" and "as left" conditions; and

(4) A record of the date and time of repairs made.
