
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 154 - FACILITIES TRANSFERRING OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL IN BULK
##### Subpart P - Marine Vapor Control Systems
###### Tank Barge Cleaning Facilities - VCS Design and Installation
####### ยง 154.2201 Vapor control system - general requirements.

(a) Vapor control system (VCS) design and installation must eliminate potential overpressure and vacuum hazards, sources of ignition, and mechanical damage to the maximum practicable extent. Each remaining hazard source that is not eliminated must be specifically addressed in the protection system design and system operational requirements.

(b) Any pressure, flow, or concentration indication required by this part must provide a remote indicator on the facility where the VCS is controlled, unless the local indicator is clearly visible and readable from the operator's normal position at the VCS control station.

(c) Any condition requiring an alarm as specified in this part must activate an audible and visible alarm where the VCS is controlled.

(d) A mechanism must be developed and used to eliminate any liquid from the VCS.

(e) A liquid knockout vessel must be installed between the facility vapor connection and any vapor-moving device in systems that have the potential for two-phase (vapor/liquid) flow from the barge or the potential for liquid condensate to form as a result of the enrichment process. The liquid knockout vessel must have-

(1) A means to indicate the level of liquid in the device;

(2) A high liquid level sensor that activates an alarm that satisfies the requirements of 33 CFR 154.2100(e); and

(3) A high-high liquid level sensor that closes the remotely operated cargo vapor shutoff valve required by 33 CFR 154.2101(a) and shuts down any vapor-moving device before liquid is carried over to the vapor-moving device. One sensor with two stages may be used to meet this requirement as well as paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
