
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 154 - FACILITIES TRANSFERRING OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL IN BULK
##### Subpart P - Marine Vapor Control Systems
###### Tank Barge Cleaning Facilities - VCS Design and Installation
####### ยง 154.2204 Fire, explosion, and detonation protection.

This section applies to tank barge cleaning facilities (TBCFs) collecting vapors of flammable, combustible, or non-high flash point liquid cargoes.

(a) A vapor control system (VCS) with a single facility vapor connection that processes vapor with a vapor recovery unit must-

(1) Have a detonation arrester located as close as practicable to the facility vapor connection. The total pipe length between the detonation arrester and the facility vapor connection must not exceed 18 meters (59.1 feet) and the vapor piping between the detonation arrester and the facility vapor connection must be protected from any potential internal or external ignition source; or

(2) Have an inerting, enriching, or diluting system that meets the requirements of 33 CFR 154.2107.

(b) A VCS with a single facility vapor connection that processes vapor with a vapor destruction unit must-

(1) Have a detonation arrester located as close as practicable to the facility vapor connection. The total pipe length between the detonation arrester and the facility vapor connection must not exceed 18 meters (59.1 feet) and the vapor piping between the detonation arrester and the facility vapor connection must be protected from any potential internal or external ignition source; and

(2) Have an inerting, enriching, or diluting system that meets the requirements of 33 CFR 154.2107.

(c) A VCS with multiple facility vapor connections that processes vapor with a vapor recovery unit must have a detonation arrester located as close as practicable to each facility vapor connection. The total pipe length between the detonation arrester and each facility vapor connection must not exceed 18 meters (59.1 feet) and the vapor piping between the detonation arrester and the facility vapor connection must be protected from any potential internal or external ignition source.

(d) A VCS with multiple facility vapor connections that processes vapor with a vapor destruction unit must-

(1) Have a detonation arrester located as close as practicable to each facility vapor connection. The total pipe length between the detonation arrester and each facility vapor connection must not exceed 18 meters (59.1 feet) and the vapor piping between the detonation arrester and the facility vapor connection must be protected from any potential internal or external ignition source; and

(2) Have an inerting, enriching, or diluting system that meets the requirements of 33 CFR 154.2107.

(e) 33 CFR 154.2105(j) applies to a TBCF's VCS.
