
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 154 - FACILITIES TRANSFERRING OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL IN BULK
##### Appendix A to Part 154 - Guidelines for Detonation Flame Arresters
###### Materials

7.

7.1 The detonation flame arrester housing, and other parts or bolting used for pressure retention, shall be constructed of materials listed in ASTM F 1155 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 154.106), or section VIII, Division 1 of the ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code. Cast and malleable iron shall not be used; however, ductile cast iron in accordance with ASTM A395 may be used.

7.1.1 Arresters, elements, gaskets, and seals must be made of materials resistant to attack by seawater and the liquids and vapors contained in the system being protected (see section 6.1.3).

7.2 Nonmetallic materials, other than gaskets and seals, shall not be used in the construction of pressure retaining components of the detonation flame arrester.

7.2.1 Nonmetallic gaskets and seals shall be non-combustible and suitable for the service intended.

7.3 Bolting materials, other than that of section 7.1, shall be at least equal to those listed in Table 1 of ANSI B16.5 (incorporated by reference, see 33 CFR 154.106).

7.4 The possibility of galvanic corrosion shall be considered in the selection of materials.

7.5 All other parts shall be constructed of materials suitable for the service intended.
