
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 154 - FACILITIES TRANSFERRING OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL IN BULK
##### Appendix A to Part 154 - Guidelines for Detonation Flame Arresters
###### Other Requirements

8.

8.1 Detonation flame arrester housings shall be gas tight to prevent the escape of vapors.

8.2 Detonation flame arrester elements shall fit in the housing in a manner that will insure tightness of metal-to-metal contacts in such a way that flame cannot pass between the element and the housing.

8.2.1 The net free area through detonation flame arrester elements shall be at least 1.5 times the cross-sectional area of the arrester inlet.

8.3 Housings, elements, and seal gasket materials shall be capable of withstanding the maximum and minimum pressures and temperatures to which the device may be exposed under both normal and the specified fire test conditions in section 14, and shall be capable of withstanding the hydrostatic pressure test of section 9.2.3.

8.4 Threaded or flanged pipe connections shall comply with the applicable B16 standards in ASTM F 1155 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 154.106). Welded joints shall comply with ASTM F 722 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 154.106).

8.5 All flat joints of the housing shall be machined true and shall provide for a joint having adequate metal-to-metal contact.

8.6 Where welded construction is used for pressure retaining components, welded joint design details, welding and non-destructive testing shall be in accordance with Section VIII, Division 1, of the ASME Code and ASTM F 722 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 154.106). Welders and weld procedures shall be qualified in accordance with section IX of the ASME Code.

8.7 The design of detonation flame arresters shall allow for ease of inspection and removal of internal elements for replacement, cleaning or repair without removal of the entire device from the system.

8.8 Detonation flame arresters shall allow for efficient drainage of condensate without impairing their efficiency to prevent the passage of flame. The housing may be fitted with one or more drain plugs for this purpose. The design of a drain plug should be such so that by cursory visual inspection it is obvious whether the drain has been left open.

8.9 All fastenings shall be protected against loosening.

8.10 Detonation flame arresters shall be designed and constructed to minimize the effect of fouling under normal operating conditions.

8.11 Detonation flame arresters shall be capable of operating over the full range of ambient air temperatures anticipated.

8.12 Detonation flame arresters shall be of first class workmanship and free from imperfections which may affect their intended purpose.

8.13 Detonation flame arresters shall be tested in accordance with section 9.
