
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 154 - FACILITIES TRANSFERRING OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL IN BULK
##### Appendix A to Part 154 - Guidelines for Detonation Flame Arresters
###### Tests

9.

9.1 Tests shall be conducted by an independent laboratory capable of performing the tests. The manufacturer, in choosing a laboratory, accepts that it is a qualified independent laboratory by determining that it has (or has access to) the apparatus, facilities, personnel, and calibrated instruments that are necessary to test detonation flame arresters in accordance with this standard.

9.1.1 A test report shall be prepared by the laboratory which shall include:

9.1.1.1 Detailed drawings of the detonation flame arrester and its components (including a parts list identifying the materials of construction).

9.1.1.2 Types of tests conducted and results obtained. This shall include the maximum temperature reached and the length of testing time in section 14.2 in the case of Type II detonation flame arresters.

9.1.1.3 Description of approved attachments (reference 9.2.6).

9.1.1.4 Types of gases or vapors for which the detonation flame arrester is approved.

9.1.1.5 Drawings of the test rig.

9.1.1.6 Record of all markings found on the tested detonation flame arrester.

9.1.1.7 A report number.

9.2 One of each model Type I and Type II detonation flame arrester shall be tested. Where approval of more than one size of a detonation flame arrester model is desired, only the largest and smallest sizes need be tested provided it is demonstrated by calculation and/or other testing that intermediate size devices have equal or greater strength to withstand the force of a detonation and have equivalent detonation arresting characteristics. A change of design, material, or construction which may affect the corrosion resistance, or ability to resist endurance burning, deflagrations or detonations shall be considered a change of model for the purpose of this paragraph.

9.2.1 The detonation flame arrester shall have the same dimensions, configuration, and most unfavorable clearances expected in production units.

9.2.2 A corrosion test shall be conducted. In this test, a complete detonation flame arrester, including a section of pipe similar to that to which it will be fitted, shall be exposed to a 20% sodium chloride solution spray at a temperature of 25 &#xB0;C for a period of 240 hours, and allowed to dry for 48 hours. Following this exposure, all movable parts shall operate properly and there shall be no corrosion deposits which cannot be washed off.

9.2.3 The detonation flame arrester shall be subjected to a hydrostatic pressure test of at least 350 psig for ten minutes without rupturing, leaking, or showing permanent distortion.

9.2.4 Flow characteristics as declared by the manufacturer, shall be demonstrated by appropriate tests.

9.2.5 Detonation flame arresters shall be tested for endurance burn and deflagration/detonation in accordance with the test procedures in section 14. Type I detonation flame arresters shall show no flame passage when subjected to both tests. Type II detonation flame arresters shall show no evidence of flame passage during the detonation/deflagration tests in section 14.3. Type II detonation flame arresters shall be tested for endurance burn in accordance with section 14.2. From the endurance burn test of a Type II detonation flame arresters, the maximum temperature reached and the test duration shall be recorded and provided as part of the laboratory test report.

9.2.6 Where a detonation flame arrester is provided with cowls, weather hoods and deflectors, etc., it shall be tested in each configuration in which it is provided.

9.2.7 Detonation flame arresters which are provided with a heating arrangement designed to maintain the surface temperature of the device above 85 &#xB0;C shall pass the required tests at the maximum heated operating temperature.

9.2.8 Each finished detonation arrester shall be pneumatically tested at 10 psig to ensure there are no defects or leakage.
