
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 154 - FACILITIES TRANSFERRING OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL IN BULK
##### Appendix A to Part 154 - Guidelines for Detonation Flame Arresters
###### Endurance Burn Test Procedure

14.2

14.2.1 An endurance burning test shall be carried out as follows:

14.2.1.1 The test rig shall consist of an apparatus producing an explosive mixture, a small tank with a diaphragm, a prototype of the detonation flame arrester and a firing source in close proximity to the test device (see Figure 1). The detonation flame arrester shall be installed so that the mixture emission is vertically upwards, or installed in the position for which it is designed and which will cause the most severe heating of the device under the prescribed endurance burn conditions. In this position the mixture shall be ignited.

14.2.1.2 Endurance burn test shall start by using the most easily ignitable test vapor/air mixture with the aid of a pilot flame or a spark igniter at the outlet. The flammable mixture may be reignited as necessary in the course of the endurance burn.

14.2.1.3 Temperature measurement will be performed on the surface of the arrester element half way between the center and its edge.

14.2.1.4 By varying the proportions of the flammable mixture and the flow rate, the detonation flame arrester shall be heated by a stable flame on the surface of the arrester until the highest obtainable temperature is reached on the ignited side or until the temperature on the side which was not ignited (protected side) rises 100 &#xB0;C.

14.2.1.5 The flammable mixture proportions will then be varied again until the conditions which result in the highest temperature on the protected side are achieved. This temperature shall be maintained for a period of ten minutes, after which the flow shall be stopped and the conditions observed. The highest attainable temperature is considered to have been reached when any subsequent rise of temperature does not exceed 0.5 &#xB0;C per minute over a ten minute period.

14.2.1.6 If difficulty arises in establishing the highest attainable temperature on the protected side, the following criteria shall apply. When the increase in temperature on the protected side occurs so slowly that its temperature does not rise 100 &#xB0;C, the conditions which produced the highest temperature on the ignited side of the arrester will be maintained for two hours. For the condition in which the temperature on the protected side continues to rise at a rate in excess of 0.5 &#xB0;C per minute for a 10 minute period, endurance burning shall be continued, using the most severe conditions of flammable mixtures and flow rate, for a period of two hours. In either of these cases, at the end of the two hour period, the flow shall be stopped and the conditions observed. The two hour interval shall be measured commencing with the setting of the conditions which produced the most severe conditions of mixture and flow rate. For Type I detonation flame arresters, flame passage shall not occur during this test. For Type II detonation flame arresters, the maximum temperature obtained, and the time elapsed from the time when the most severe conditions are set to when flame passage occurs, shall be recorded. However, for Type II detonation flame arresters the test may be terminated 15 minutes after setting the most severe conditions on the protected side.
