
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 154 - FACILITIES TRANSFERRING OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL IN BULK
##### Appendix A to Part 154 - Guidelines for Detonation Flame Arresters
###### Deflagration/Detonation Test Procedure

14.3

14.3.1 A detonation flame arrester shall be installed at one end of a pipe of the same diameter as the inlet of the detonation flame arrester (see Figure 2). The length and configuration of the test pipe shall develop a stable detonationat the device and shall be capable, by change in its length or configuration, of developing deflagrations and unstable (overdriven) detonations as measured on the side of the pipe where ignition occurs (run-up side). For deflagration testing, two test piping arrangements shall be used on the outlet side of the detonation flame arrester (the side which is not ignited). In both of the following end arrangements, the outlet side pipe diameter shall be equal to that on the run-up side. In one arrangement, the outlet side pipe shall be at least 10 pipe diameters long with a plastic bag over the free end. (Alternate end of pipe closures are also acceptable provided they easily give way during the course of the test, and the closure allows the required gas concentration to be maintained throughout the test piping arrangement.) In the other arrangement the outlet side pipe shall be fitted with a restriction located 0.6 meters from the outlet side arrester flange. The size of the restriction for each nominal size detonation flame arrester shall be as follows:

14.3.2 Flame speeds shall be measured by optical devices capable of providing accuracy of +/-5%. These devices shall be situated no more than a distance equal to 3% of the length of the run-up pipe apart with one device no more than 8 inches from the end of the test pipe to which the detonation flame arrester is attached. In addition, each outlet arrangement described in paragraph 14.3.1 shall be fitted with an optical device located no more than 8 inches from the detonation flame arrester outlet.

14.3.3 Explosion pressures within the pipe shall be measured by a high frequency transducer situated in the test pipe no more than 8 inches from the run-up side of the housing of the detonation flame arrester.

14.3.4 Using the first end arrangement (10 pipe diameter outlet) described in paragraph 14.3.1, a series of tests shall be conducted to determine the test pipe length and configuration that results in the maximum unstable (overdriven) detonation having the maximum measured flame speed at the detonation flame arrester. (These tests may also be carried out using a single length of pipe with igniters spaced at varying distances from the arrester.) The flame speeds, explosion pressures and test pipe configurations shall be recorded for each of these tests. The piping configuration that resulted in the highest recorded unstable (overdriven) detonation flame speed shall be used, and the device shall be subjected to at least four additional unstable (overdriven) detonations. In the course of testing, the device shall also demonstrate its ability to withstand five stable detonations, five deflagrations (as determined by flame speed) where Δ P/Pwas less than 1 and five deflagrations (as determined by flame speed) where Δ P/Pwas greater than 1 but less than 10. Initiation of deflagrations shall be at several locations to generate a range for Δ P/P. Deflagration tests using the restricted outlet arrangement described in paragraph 14.3.1 shall then be conducted. In these tests the device shall demonstrate its ability to stop five deflagrations (as determined by flame speed) generated by the same configurations which resulted in Δ P/Pbeing less than 1 during the deflagration tests which were conducted without the restricted end arrangements, and five deflagrations (as determined by flame speed) generated by the same configurations which resulted in Δ P/Pbeing greater than 1 but less than 10 during the deflagration tests which were conducted without the restricted end arrangements. No evidence of flame passage shall occur during these tests. The flame speeds and explosion pressures for each of these tests shall be recorded.

14.3.5 A device that successfully passes the tests of 14.3.4 shall be considered to be directional (suitable for arresting a detonation advancing only from the direction as tested) except;

14.3.5.1 A device may be tested according to 14.3.4 for detonations approaching from either direction, or

14.3.5.2 The design of the device is symmetrical where each end may be considered to be identical when approached by a detonation from either direction.

Available from the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), 100 Barr Harbor Dr., West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959.

Available from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers International, Three Park Avenue, New York, NY 10016-5990.

Available from the International Maritime Organization, 4 Albert Embankment, London SE1 7SR, England.

Available from the International Electrotechnical Commission, 1 rue de Varembe, Geneva, Switzerland.

See IEC Publication 79-1.

Some data are available for the estimation of flame speeds in horizontal pipes without detonation flame arresters. Some data indicate that the presence of small obstacles, fittings or bends in the test pipe can accelerate the flame speeds appreciably.

Other pressure and/or flame speed measuring techniques may be used if effective.
