
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter B - Personnel
#### PART 51 - COAST GUARD DISCHARGE REVIEW BOARD
##### ยง 51.11 Records.

(a) The record of the discharge review will include-

(1) The application for review;

(2) A summarized record of the testimony and a summary of evidence considered by the DRB other than information contained in the service records;

(3) Briefs or written arguments submitted by or on behalf of the applicant;

(4) The decision of the DRB;

(5) Advisory opinions relief upon for the final action; and

(6) The final action on the DRB decision by the Commandant or Secretary.

(b) The record of the discharge review is incorporated into the service record of the applicant.

(c) A copy of the decision of the DRB and the final action thereon is made available for public inspection and copying promptly after a notice of the final decision is sent to the applicant. However, to the extent required for the protection of privacy rights, identifying details of the applicant and other persons are deleted from the public record.

(1) DRB documents made available for public inspection and copying are located in the Armed Forces Discharge Review/Correction Board Reading Room. The documents are indexed so as to enable the public to determine why relief was granted or denied. The index includes the case number, the date, character of, reason for, and authority for the discharge and is maintained at Coast Guard Headquarters and the Armed Forces Reading Room. The Armed Forces Discharge Review/Correction Board Reading Room publishes indexes quarterly for all boards.

(2) Correspondence relating to matters under the cognizance of the Reading Room (including requests for purchase of indexes) should be addressed to: Armed Forces Discharge Review/Correction Board Reading Room, The Pentagon Concourse, Washington, DC 20310.
