
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 154 - FACILITIES TRANSFERRING OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL IN BULK
##### Appendix C to Part 154 - Guidelines for Determining and Evaluating Required Response Resources for Facility Response Plans
###### http://www.response.restoration.noaa.gov/spilltools.

8.2.3(i) EDAC can also be calculated using the Dispersant Mission Planner 2 (EDSP). The EDSP is a downloadable application that calculates EDAC for different dispersant response systems. It is located on the Internet at:

(ii) The DMP2 contains operating information for the vast majority of dispersant application platforms, including aircraft, both rotary and fixed wing, and vessels. The DMP2 produces EDAC estimates by performing calculations based on performance parameters of dispersant application platforms, locations of primary dispersant staging sites, home-based airport or port locations, and the facility location (for the spill site).

8.2.4 For each Captain of the Port zone where a dispersant response capability is required, the response plan must identify:

8.2.4.1 The type, number, and location of each dispersant-application platform intended for use to meet dispersant delivery requirements specified in ยง 154.1045(i)(3) of this chapter;

8.2.4.2 The amount and location of available dispersant stockpiles to support each platform; and,

8.2.4.3 A primary staging site for each platform that will serve as its base of operations for the duration of the response.

8.3 In addition to the equipment and supplies required, a facility owner or operator must identify a source of support to conduct the monitoring and post-use effectiveness evaluation required by applicable regional plans and ACPs.

8.4 Identification of the resources for dispersant application does not imply that the use of this technique will be authorized. Actual authorization for use during a spill response will be governed by the provisions of the National Oil and Hazardous Substances Contingency Plan (40 CFR part 300) and the applicable Local or Area Contingency Plan.

9.1 A facility owner or operator is responsible for ensuring that sufficient numbers of trained personnel and boats, aerial spotting aircraft, containment boom, sorbent materials, boom anchoring materials, and other supplies are available to sustain response operations to completion. All such equipment must be suitable for use with the primary equipment identified in the response plan. A facility owner or operator is not required to list these response resources, but shall certify their availability.

9.2 A facility owner or operator shall evaluate the availability of adequate temporary storage capacity to sustain the effective daily recovery capacities from equipment identified in the plan. Because of the inefficiencies of oil spill recovery devices, response plans must identify daily storage capacity equivalent to twice the effective daily recovery rate required on scene. This temporary storage capacity may be reduced if a facility owner or operator can demonstrate by waste stream analysis that the efficiencies of the oil recovery devices, ability to decant waste, or the availability of alternative temporary storage or disposal locations will reduce the overall volume of oily material storage requirement.

9.3 A facility owner or operator shall ensure that his or her planning includes the capability to arrange for disposal of recovered oil products. Specific disposal procedures will be addressed in the applicable ACP.
