
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 155 - OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL POLLUTION PREVENTION REGULATIONS FOR VESSELS
##### Subpart B - Vessel Equipment
###### ยง 155.230 Emergency control systems for tank barges.
####### Application.

(a)This section does not apply to foreign vessels engaged in innocent passage (that is, neither entering nor leaving a U.S. port); it applies to tank barges and vessels towing them on the following waters:

(1) On the territorial sea of the U.S. [as defined in Presidential Proclamation 5928 of December 27, 1988, it is the belt of waters 12 nautical miles wide with its shoreward boundary the baseline of the territorial sea], unless-

(i) The barge is being pushed ahead of, or towed alongside, the towing vessel; and

(ii) The barge's coastwise route is restricted, on its certificate of inspection (COI), so the barge may operate "in fair weather only, within 20 miles of shore," or with words to that effect. The Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, may define "fair weather" on the COI.

(2) In Great Lakes service unless-

(i) The barge is being pushed ahead of, or towed alongside, the towing vessel; and

(ii) The barge's route is restricted, on its certificate of inspection (COI), so the barge may operate "in fair weather only, within 5 miles of a harbor," or with words to that effect. The Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, may define "fair weather" on the COI.

(3) On Long Island Sound. For the purposes of this section, Long Island Sound comprises the waters between the baseline of the territorial sea on the eastern end (from Watch Hill Point, Rhode Island, to Montauk Point, Long Island) and a line drawn north and south from Premium Point, New York (about 40&#xB0;54.5&#x2032; N, 73&#xB0;45.5&#x2032; W), to Hewlett Point, Long Island (about 40&#xB0;50.5&#x2032; N, 73&#xB0;45.3&#x2032; W), on the western end.

(4) In the Strait of Juan de Fuca.

(5) On the waters of Admiralty Inlet north of Marrowstone Point (approximately 48&#xB0;06&#x2032; N, 122&#xB0;41&#x2032; W).
