
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart 1.07 - Enforcement; Civil and Criminal Penalty Proceedings
###### ยง 1.07-80 Reopening of hearings.

(a) At any time prior to final agency action in a civil penalty case, a party may petition to reopen the hearing on the basis of newly discovered evidence.

(b) Petitions to reopen must be in writing describing the newly found evidence and must state why the evidence would probably produce a different result favorable to the petitioner, whether the evidence was known to the petitioner at the time of the hearing and, if not, why the newly found evidence could not have been discovered in the exercise of due diligence. The party must submit the petition to the Hearing Officer.

(c) The District Commander may file comments in opposition to the petition. If comments are filed, a copy is provided the party.

(d) A petition to reopen is considered by the Hearing Officer unless an appeal has been filed, in which case the petition is considered by the Commandant.

(e) The decision on the petition is decided on the basis of the record, the petition, and the comments in opposition, if any. The petition is granted only when newly found evidence is described which has a direct and material bearing on the issues and when a valid explanation is provided as to why the evidence was not and could not have been, in the exercise of due diligence, produced at the hearing. The decision is rendered in writing.

(f) Following a denial of a petition to reopen, the party is given 30 days to file an appeal if one has not already been filed, or to amend an appeal which has already been filed.
