
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 155 - OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL POLLUTION PREVENTION REGULATIONS FOR VESSELS
##### Subpart B - Vessel Equipment
###### ยง 155.430 Standard discharge connections for oceangoing ships of 400 gross tons and above.

(a) All oceangoing ships of 400 gross tons and above must have a standard shore connection for reception facilities to discharge oily mixtures from machinery space bilges or ballast water containing an oily mixture from fuel oil tanks. The discharge connection must have the following dimensions:

(1) Outside diameter = 215 millimeters (mm).

(2) Inner diameter = according to pipe outside diameter.

(3) Bolt circle diameter = 183 mm.

(4) Slots in flange = 6 holes 22 mm in diameter equidistantly placed on a bolt circle of the above diameter, slotted to the flange periphery. The slot width to be 22 mm.

(5) Flange thickness = 20 mm.

(6) Bolts and nuts, quantity and number = 6 each of 20 mm in diameter and of suitable length.

(b) A portable adapter that meets the specifications of paragraph (a) of this section and that fits the discharge shore connection, for the discharge of oily wastes from machinery space bilges may be substituted for the standard discharge connection requirement of paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) The flange must be designed to accept pipes up to a maximum internal diameter of 125 mm and shall be of steel or other equivalent material having a flat face. This flange, together with a gasket of oilproof material, must be suitable for a service pressure of 6 kilograms/square centimeters (kg/cm).
