
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 155 - OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL POLLUTION PREVENTION REGULATIONS FOR VESSELS
##### Subpart B - Vessel Equipment
###### ยง 155.480 Overfill devices.

(a) For the purposes of this section, "oil" has the same definition as provided in ยง 151.05 of this chapter.

(b) Each tank vessel with a cargo capacity of 1,000 or more cubic meters (approximately 6,290 barrels), loading oil or oil residue as cargo, must have one overfill device that is permanently installed on each cargo tank and meets the requirements of this section.

(1) On a tankship, each cargo tank must be equipped with an overfill device (including an independent audible alarm or visible indicator for that tank) that meets the requirements for tank overfill alarms under 46 CFR 39.20-7(b)(2) and (3), and (d)(1) through (d)(4).

(2) On a tank barge, each cargo tank must be equipped with an overfill device that-

(i) Meets the requirements of 46 CFR 39.2007(b)(2) through (b)(4), (d)(1) through (d)(4), and 46 CFR 39.2009(a)(1) ;

(ii) Is an installed automatic shutdown system that meets the requirements of 46 CFR 39.2009(a)(2); or

(iii) Is an installed high-level indicating device that meets the requirements of 46 CFR 39.2003(b)(1), (2), and (3).

(c) Each cargo tank of a U.S. flag tank vessel must have installed on it an overfill device meeting the requirements of this section at the next scheduled cargo tank internal examination performed on the vessel under 46 CFR 31.10-21.

(d) Each cargo tank of a foreign flag tank vessel must have installed on it an overfill device-

(1) At the first survey that includes dry docking, as required by the vessel's flag administration, to meet the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS), 1974, as amended, or the International Load Line Convention of 1966; or

(2) At the first cargo tank internal examination performed on the tank vessel under 46 CFR 31.10-21.

(e) This section does not apply to a tank vessel that does not meet the double hull requirements of ยง 157.10d of this chapter and, under 46 U.S.C. 3703a(c), may not operate in the navigable waters or Exclusive Economic Zone of the United States after January 1, 2000.

(f) This section does not apply to tank vessels that carry asphalt, animal fat, or vegetable oil as their only cargo.
