
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 155 - OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL POLLUTION PREVENTION REGULATIONS FOR VESSELS
##### Subpart D - Tank Vessel Response Plans for Oil
###### ยง 155.1035 Response plan requirements for manned vessels carrying oil as a primary cargo.
####### Notification procedures.

(b)This section of the response plan must include the following notification information:

(1) A checklist with all notifications, including telephone or other contact numbers, in order of priority to be made by shipboard or shore-based personnel and the information required for those notifications. Notifications must include those required by-

(i) MARPOL 73/78 and 33 CFR part 153; and

(ii) Any applicable State.

(2) Identification of the person(s) to be notified of a discharge or substantial threat of a discharge of oil. If the notifications vary due to vessel location, the persons to be notified also must be identified in a geographic-specific appendix. This section must separately identify-

(i) The individual(s) or organization(s) to be notified by shipboard personnel; and

(ii) The individual(s) or organization(s) to be notified by shore-based personnel.

(3) The procedures for notifying the qualified individual(s) designated by the vessel's owner or operator.

(4) Descriptions of the primary and, if available, secondary communications methods by which the notifications will be made that should be consistent with the regulations in ยง 155.1035(b)(1).

(5) The information that is to be provided in the initial and any follow up notifications required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(i) The initial notification may be submitted in accordance with IMO Resolution A648(16) "General Principles for Ship Reporting Systems and Ship Reporting Requirements" which is available at Coast Guard Headquarters. Contact Commandant (CG-OES), Attn: Office of Operating and Environmental Standards, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7509, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7509. It must include at least the following information:

(A) Vessel name, country of registry, call sign, and official number (if any);

(B) Date and time of the incident;

(C) Location of the incident;

(D) Course, speed, and intended track of vessel;

(E) Radio station(s) and frequencies guarded;

(F) Date and time of next report;

(G) Type and quantity of oil on board;

(H) Nature and detail of defects, deficiencies, and damage (e.g. grounding, collision, hull failure, etc.);

(I) Details of pollution, including estimate of oil discharged or threat of discharge;

(J) Weather and sea conditions on scene;

(K) Ship size and type;

(L) Actions taken or planned by persons on scene;

(M) Current conditions of the vessel; and

(N) Number of crew and details of injuries, if any.

(ii) After the transmission of the initial notification, as much as possible of the information essential for the protection of the marine environment as is appropriate to the incident must be reported to the appropriate on-scene coordinator in a follow-up report. This information must include-

(A) Additional details on the type of cargo on board;

(B) Additional details on the condition of the vessel and ability to transfer cargo, ballast, and fuel;

(C) Additional details on the quantity, extent and movement of the pollution and whether the discharge is continuing;

(D) Any changes in the on-scene weather or sea conditions; and

(E) Actions being taken with regard to the discharge and the movement of the ship.

(6) Identification of the person(s) to be notified of a vessel casualty potentially affecting the seaworthiness of a vessel and the information to be provided by the vessel's crew to shore-based personnel to facilitate the assessment of damage stability and stress.
