
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 155 - OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL POLLUTION PREVENTION REGULATIONS FOR VESSELS
##### Subpart D - Tank Vessel Response Plans for Oil
###### ยง 155.1035 Response plan requirements for manned vessels carrying oil as a primary cargo.
####### Shipboard spill mitigation procedures.

(c)This section of the response plan must include-

(1) Procedures for the crew to mitigate or prevent any discharge or a substantial threat of such discharge of oil resulting from shipboard operational activities associated with internal or external cargo transfers. Responsibilities of vessel personnel should be identified by job title. These procedures must address personnel actions in the event of a-

(i) Transfer system leak;

(ii) Tank overflow; or

(iii) Suspected cargo tank or hull leak;

(2) Procedures in the order of priority for the crew to mitigate or prevent any discharge or a substantial threat of such a discharge in the event of the following casualties or emergencies:

(i) Grounding or stranding.

(ii) Collision.

(iii) Explosion or fire, or both.

(iv) Hull failure.

(v) Excessive list.

(vi) Equipment failure (e.g. main propulsion, steering gear, etc.);

(3) Procedures for the crew to deploy discharge removal equipment as required under subpart B of this part;

(4) The procedures for internal transfers of cargo in an emergency;

(5) The procedures for ship-to-ship transfers of cargo in an emergency:

(i) The format and content of the ship-to-ship transfer procedures must be consistent with the Ship to Ship Transfer Guide (Petroleum) (incorporated by reference; see ยง 155.140) published jointly by the International Chamber of Shipping and the Oil Companies International Marine Forum (OCIMF).

(ii) The procedures must identify the response resources necessary to carry out the transfers, including-

(A) Fendering equipment (ship-to-ship only);

(B) Transfer hoses and connection equipment;

(C) Portable pumps and ancillary equipment;

(D) Lightering and mooring masters (ship-to-ship only); and

(E) Vessel and barge brokers (ship-to-ship only).

(iii) Reference can be made to a separate oil transfer procedure and lightering plan carried aboard the vessel, provided that safety considerations are summarized in the response plan.

(iv) The location of all equipment and fittings, if any, carried aboard the vessel to perform such transfers must be identified;

(6) The procedures and arrangements for emergency towing, including the rigging and operation of any emergency towing equipment, including that required by subpart B of this part, aboard the vessel;

(7) The location, crew responsibilities, and procedures for use of shipboard equipment which may be carried to mitigate an oil discharge;

(8) The crew responsibilities, if any, for recordkeeping and sampling of spilled oil. Any requirements for sampling must address safety procedures to be followed by the crew;

(9) The crew's responsibilities, if any, to initiate a response and supervise shore-based response resources;

(10) Damage stability and hull stress considerations when performing shipboard mitigation measures. This section must identify and describe-

(i) Activities in which the crew is trained and qualified to execute absent shore-based support or advice; and

(ii) The information to be collected by the vessel's crew to facilitate shore-based assistance; and

(11)(i) Location of vessel plans necessary to perform salvage, stability, and hull stress assessments. A copy of these plans must be maintained ashore by either the vessel owner or operator or the vessel's recognized classification society unless the vessel has prearranged for a shore-based damage stability and residual strength calculation program with the vessel's baseline strength and stability characteristics pre-entered. The response plan must indicate the shore location and 24-hour access procedures of the calculation program or the following plans:

(A) General arrangement plan.

(B) Midship section plan.

(C) Lines plan or table of offsets.

(D) Tank tables.

(E) Load line assignment.

(F) Light ship characteristics.

(ii) The plan must identify the shore location and 24-hour access procedures for the computerized, shore-based damage stability and residual structural strength calculation programs required by ยง 155.240.
