
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 155 - OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL POLLUTION PREVENTION REGULATIONS FOR VESSELS
##### Subpart D - Tank Vessel Response Plans for Oil
###### § 155.1035 Response plan requirements for manned vessels carrying oil as a primary cargo.
####### List of contacts.

(e)The name, location, and 24-hour contact information for the following key individuals and organizations must be included in this section of the response plan or, if more appropriate, in a geographic-specific appendix and referenced in this section of the response plan:

(1) Vessel owner or operator.

(2) Qualified individual and alternate qualified individual for the vessel's area of operation.

(3) Applicable insurance provider, representative, or surveyor for the vessel's area of operation.

(4) The vessel's local agent(s) for the vessel's area of operation or a reference to the 24-hour point of contact as listed on the vessel's notice of arrival.

(5) Person(s) within the oil spill removal organization to notify for activation of that oil spill removal organization for the three spill scenarios identified in paragraph (i)(5) of this section for the vessel's area of operation.

(6) Person(s) within the identified response organization to notify for activating that organization to provide:

(i) The required emergency lightering required by § 155.1050(j), § 155.1052(g), § 155.1230(g), or § 155.2230(g), as applicable to the type of service of the vessel; and

(ii) The required salvage and firefighting required by § 155.1050(j), § 155.1052(e), § 155.1230(e), and § 155.2230(e), as applicable to the type of service of the vessel.

(7) Person(s) to notify for activation of the spill management team for the spill response scenarios identified in paragraph (i)(5) of this section for the vessel's area of operation.
