
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 155 - OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL POLLUTION PREVENTION REGULATIONS FOR VESSELS
##### Subpart D - Tank Vessel Response Plans for Oil
###### ยง 155.1035 Response plan requirements for manned vessels carrying oil as a primary cargo.
####### Appendices for vessel-specific information.

(j)This section must include for each vessel covered by the plan the following information:

(1) List of the vessel's principal characteristics.

(2) Capacities of all cargo, fuel, lube oil, ballast, and fresh water tanks.

(3) The total volume and cargo groups of oil cargo that would be involved in the-

(i) Maximum most probable discharge; and

(ii) Worst case discharge.

(4) Diagrams showing location of all tanks.

(5) General arrangement plan (can be maintained separately aboard the vessel providing the response plan identifies the location).

(6) Midships section plan (can be maintained separately aboard the vessel providing the response plan identifies the location).

(7) Cargo and fuel piping diagrams and pumping plan, as applicable (can be maintained separately aboard the vessel providing the response plan identifies the location).

(8) Damage stability data (can be maintained separately providing the response plan identifies the location).

(9) Location of cargo and fuel stowage plan for vessel (normally maintained separately aboard the vessel).

(10) Location of information on the name, description, physical and chemical characteristics, health and safety hazards, and spill and firefighting procedures for the oil cargo aboard the vessel. A material safety data sheet meeting the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.1200, SOLAS 74 regulation VI/5-1, cargo information required by 33 CFR 154.310, or equivalent will meet this requirement. This information can be maintained separately.
