
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 155 - OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL POLLUTION PREVENTION REGULATIONS FOR VESSELS
##### Subpart D - Tank Vessel Response Plans for Oil
###### ยง 155.1040 Response plan requirements for unmanned tank barges carrying oil as a primary cargo.
####### Notification procedures.

(b)This section of the response plan must include the following notification information:

(1) A checklist with all notifications. The checklist must include notifications required by MARPOL 73/78, 33 CFR part 153, and any applicable State, including telephone or other contact numbers, in the order of priority and the information required for those notifications to be made by the-

(i) Towing vessel;

(ii) Vessel owner or operator; or

(iii) Qualified individual.

(2) Identification of the person(s) to be notified of a discharge or substantial threat of a discharge of oil. If the notifications vary due to the location of the barge, the persons to be notified also must be identified in a geographic-specific appendix. This section must separately identify-

(i) The individual(s) or organization(s) to be notified by the towing vessel; and

(ii) The individual(s) or organization(s) to be notified by shore-based personnel.

(3) The procedures for notifying the qualified individuals designated by the barge's owner or operator.

(4) Identification of the primary and, if available, secondary communications methods by which the notifications will be made, consistent with the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(5) The information that is to be provided in the initial and any follow-up notifications required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(i) The initial notification information must include at least the following information:

(A) Towing vessel name (if applicable);

(B) Tank barge name, country of registry, and official number;

(C) Date and time of the incident;

(D) Location of the incident;

(E) Course, speed, and intended track of towing vessel (if applicable);

(F) Radio station(s) frequencies guarded by towing vessel (if applicable);

(G) Date and time of next report;

(H) Type and quantity of oil on board;

(I) Nature and details of defects, deficiencies, and damage (e.g., grounding, collision, hull failure, etc.);

(J) Details of pollution, including estimate of oil discharged or threat of discharge;

(K) Weather and sea conditions on scene;

(L) Barge size and type;

(M) Actions taken or planned by persons on scene;

(N) Current condition of the barge; and

(O) Details of injuries, if any.

(ii) After the transmission of the initial notification, as much as possible of the information essential for the protection of the marine environment as is appropriate to the incident must be reported to the appropriate on-scene coordinator in a follow-up report. This information must include-

(A) Additional detail on the type of cargo on board;

(B) Additional details on the condition of the barge and ability to transfer cargo, ballast, and fuel;

(C) Additional details on the quantity, extent and movement of the pollution and whether the discharge is continuing;

(D) Any changes in the on-scene weather or sea conditions; and

(E) Actions being taken with regard to the discharge and the movement of the vessel.

(6) Identification of the person(s) to be notified of a vessel casualty potentially affecting the seaworthiness of a vessel and the information to be provided by the towing vessel personnel or tankermen, as applicable, to shore-based personnel to facilitate the assessment of damage stability and stress.
