
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 155 - OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL POLLUTION PREVENTION REGULATIONS FOR VESSELS
##### Subpart D - Tank Vessel Response Plans for Oil
###### ยง 155.1040 Response plan requirements for unmanned tank barges carrying oil as a primary cargo.
####### Shipboard spill mitigation procedures.

(c)This section of the response plan must include-

(1) Procedures to be followed by the tankerman, as defined in 46 CFR 35.35-1, to mitigate or prevent any discharge or a substantial threat of such a discharge of oil resulting from operational activities and casualties. These procedures must address personnel actions in the event of a-

(i) Transfer system leak;

(ii) Tank overflow; or

(iii) Suspected cargo tank or hull leak;

(2) Procedures in the order of priority for the towing vessel or barge owner or operator to mitigate or prevent any discharge or a substantial threat of such a discharge of oil in the event of the following casualties or emergencies:

(i) Grounding or stranding;

(ii) Collision;

(iii) Explosion or fire, or both;

(iv) Hull failure;

(v) Excessive list; and

(3) Procedures for tankermen or towing vessel crew to employ discharge removal equipment required by subpart B of this part;

(4) The procedures for the internal transfer of cargo in an emergency;

(5) The procedures for ship-to-ship transfers of cargo in an emergency:

(i) The procedures must identify the response resources necessary to carry out the transfers, including-

(A) Fendering equipment (ship-to-ship only);

(B) Transfer hoses and connection equipment;

(C) Portable pumps and ancillary equipment; and

(D) Lightering vessels (ship-to-ship only).

(ii) Reference can be made to separate oil transfer procedures or a lightering plan provided that safety considerations are summarized in the response plan.

(iii) The location of all equipment and fittings, if any, to perform such transfers must be identified;

(6) The procedures and arrangements for emergency towing, including the rigging and operation of any emergency towing equipment, including that required by subpart B of this part aboard the barge;

(7) The location and procedures for use of equipment stowed aboard either the barge or towing vessel to mitigate an oil discharge;

(8) The responsibilities of the towing vessel crew and facility or fleeting area personnel, if any, to initiate a response and supervise shore-based response resources;

(9) Damage stability, if applicable, and hull stress considerations when performing on board mitigation measures. This section must identify and describe-

(i) Activities in which the towing vessel crew or tankerman is trained and qualified to execute absent shore-based support or advice;

(ii) The individuals who shall be notified of a casualty potentially affecting the seaworthiness of the barge; and

(iii) The information that must be provided by the towing vessel to facilitate the assessment of damage stability and stress; and

(10)(i) Location of barge plans necessary to perform salvage, stability, and hull stress assessments. A copy of these barge plans must be maintained ashore by either the barge owner or operator or the vessel's recognized classification society. The response plan must indicate the shore location and 24-hour access procedures of the following plans:

(A) General arrangement plan.

(B) Midship section plan.

(C) Lines plan or table of offsets, as available.

(D) Tank tables; and

(ii) Plans for offshore oil barges must identify the shore location and 24-hour access procedures for the computerized shore-based damage stability and residual structural strength calculation programs required by ยง 155.240.
