
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 155 - OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL POLLUTION PREVENTION REGULATIONS FOR VESSELS
##### Subpart D - Tank Vessel Response Plans for Oil
###### ยง 155.1040 Response plan requirements for unmanned tank barges carrying oil as a primary cargo.
####### Shore-based response activities.

(d)This section of the response plan must include the following information:

(1) The qualified individual's responsibilities and authority, including immediate communication with the Federal on-scene coordinator and notification of the oil spill removal organization(s) identified in the plan.

(2) If applicable, procedures for transferring responsibility for direction of response activities from towing vessel personnel or tankermen to the shore-based spill management team.

(3) The procedures for coordinating the actions of the barge owner or operator of qualified individual with the action of the predesignated Federal on-scene coordinator responsible for overseeing or directing those actions.

(4) The organizational structure that will manage the barge owner or operator's response actions. This structure must include the following functional areas and must further include information for key components within each functional area:

(i) Command and control;

(ii) Public information;

(iii) Safety;

(iv) Liaison with government agencies;

(v) Spill response operations;

(vi) Planning;

(vii) Logistics support; and

(viii) Finance.

(5) The responsibilities of, duties of, and functional job descriptions for each oil spill management team position within the organizational structure identified in paragraph (d)(4) of this section.
