
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 155 - OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL POLLUTION PREVENTION REGULATIONS FOR VESSELS
##### Subpart D - Tank Vessel Response Plans for Oil
###### § 155.1040 Response plan requirements for unmanned tank barges carrying oil as a primary cargo.
####### List of contacts.

(e)The name, location, and 24-hour contact information for the following key individuals and organizations must be included in this section or, if more appropriate, in a geographic-specific appendix and referenced in this section:

(1) Barge owner or operator.

(2) Qualified individual and alternate qualified individual for the tank barge's area of operation.

(3) Applicable insurance representatives or surveyors for the barge's area(s) of operation.

(4) Person(s) within the oil spill removal organization to notify for activation of that oil spill removal organization for the spill scenarios identified in paragraph (j)(5) of this section for the barges's area(s) of operation.

(5) Person(s) within the identified response organization to notify for activating that organization to provide:

(i) The required emergency lightering required by §§ 155.1050(j), 155.1052(g), 155.1230(g), and 155.2230(g), as applicable to the type of service of the barge(s); and

(ii) The required salvage and fire fighting required by §§ 155.1050(j), 155.1052(e), 155.1230(e), and 155.2230(e), as applicable to the type of service of the barge(s).

(6) Person(s) to notify for activation of the spill management team for the spill response scenarios identified in paragraph (j)(5) of this section for the vessel's area of operation.
