
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 155 - OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL POLLUTION PREVENTION REGULATIONS FOR VESSELS
##### Subpart D - Tank Vessel Response Plans for Oil
###### § 155.1040 Response plan requirements for unmanned tank barges carrying oil as a primary cargo.
####### Geographic-specific appendices for each COTP zone in which a tank barge operates.

(j)A geographic-specific appendix must be included for each COTP zone identified. The appendices must include the following information or identify the location of such information within the plan:

(1) A list of the geographic areas (port areas, rivers and canals, Great Lakes, inland, nearshore, offshore, and open ocean areas) in which the barge intends to handle, store, or transport oil within the applicable COTP zone.

(2) The volume and group of oil on which the required level of response resources are calculated.

(3) Required Federal or State notifications applicable to the geographic areas in which the barge operates.

(4) Identification of the qualified individuals.

(5) Identification of the oil spill removal organization(s) that are identified and ensured available, through contract or other approved means and the spill management team to provide the response resources necessary to respond to the following spill scenarios:

(i) An average most probable discharge.

(ii) A maximum most probable discharge.

(iii) A worst case discharge to the maximum extent practicable.

(6) The organization(s) identified to meet the provisions of paragraph (j)(5) of this section must be capable of providing the equipment and supplies necessary to meet the provisions of §§ 155.1050, 155.1052, 155.1230, and 155.2230, as appropriate, and sources of trained personnel to continue operation of the equipment and staff the oil spill removal organization(s) and spill management team identified for the first seven days of the response.

(7) The appendix must list the response resources and related information required under §§ 155.1050, 155.1052, 155.1230, 155.2230, and Appendix B of this part, as appropriate.

(8) If the oil spill removal organization(s) providing the necessary response resources has been evaluated by the Coast Guard and their capability has been determined to equal or exceed the response capability needed by the vessel, the appendix may identify only the organization and their applicable classification and not the information required in paragraph (j)(7) of this section.

(9) The appendix must include a separate listing of the resource providers identified to provide the salvage, vessel firefighting, and lightering capabilities required in this subpart.

(10) The appendix must include a separate listing of the resource providers and specific resources necessary to provide, if appropriate, the dispersant capabilities required in this subpart. The dispersant resources to be listed within this section must include:

(i) Identification of a primary dispersant-staging site or sites to be used by each dispersant-application platform that is ensured available, through contract or other approved means, to meet the requirements of § 155.1050(k);

(ii) Identification of the type, resource provider, location, and dispersant payload for each dispersant-application platform identified and ensured available. Location data must identify the distance between the platform's home base and the identified primary dispersant staging sites for this section; and,

(iii) For each unit of dispersant stockpile required to support the effective daily application capacity (EDAC) of each dispersant-application platform necessary to sustain each intended response tier of operation, identification of the dispersant product resource provider, location, and volume. Location data must include the stockpile's distance to the primary staging sites where it will be loaded onto the corresponding platforms. If an oil spill removal organization has been evaluated by the Coast Guard and its capability has been determined to equal or exceed the response capability needed by the owner or operator, the appendix may identify only the oil spill removal organization, and not the information required in paragraphs (j)(10)(i) through (j)(10)(iii) of this section.

(11) The appendix must include a separate listing of the resource providers and specific resources necessary to provide oil-tracking capabilities required in this subpart. The oil tracking resources listed within this section must include:

(i) The identification of a resource provider; and,

(ii) The type and location of aerial surveillance aircraft that have been ensured available, through contract or other approved means, to meet the oil tracking requirements of § 155.1050(l) of this chapter.
