
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 155 - OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL POLLUTION PREVENTION REGULATIONS FOR VESSELS
##### Subpart D - Tank Vessel Response Plans for Oil
###### ยง 155.1040 Response plan requirements for unmanned tank barges carrying oil as a primary cargo.
####### Appendices for barge-specific information.

(k)Because many of the tank barges covered by a response plan may be of the same design, this information does not need to be repeated provided the plan identifies the tank barges to which the same information would apply. The information must be part of the response plan unless specifically noted. This section must include for each barge covered by the plan the following information:

(1) List of the principal characteristics of the vessel.

(2) Capacities of all cargo, fuel, lube oil, and ballast tanks.

(3) The total volumes and cargo group(s) of oil cargo that would be involved in the-

(i) Maximum most probable discharge; and

(ii) Worst case discharge.

(4) Diagrams showing location of all tanks aboard the barge.

(5) General arrangement plan (can be maintained separately providing that the location is identified).

(6) Midships section plan (can be maintained separately providing that the location is identified).

(7) Cargo and fuel piping diagrams and pumping plan, as applicable (can be maintained separately providing that the location is identified).

(8) Damage stability data, if applicable.

(9) Location of cargo and fuel stowage plan for barge(s) (normally maintained separately).

(10) Location of information on the name, description, physical and chemical characteristics, health and safety hazards, and spill and firefighting procedures for the oil cargo aboard the barge. A material safety data sheet meeting the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.1200, SOLAS 74 regulation VI/5-1, cargo information required by 33 CFR 154.310, or equivalent will meet this requirement. This information can be maintained separately.
