
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 155 - OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL POLLUTION PREVENTION REGULATIONS FOR VESSELS
##### Subpart D - Tank Vessel Response Plans for Oil
###### ยง 155.1050 Response plan development and evaluation criteria for vessels carrying groups I through IV petroleum oil as a primary cargo.

(a) The following criteria must be used to evaluate the operability of response resources identified in the response plan for the specified operating environment:

(1) Table 1 of appendix B of this part.

(i) The criteria in table 1 of appendix B of this part are to be used solely for identification of appropriate equipment in a response plan.

(ii) These criteria reflect conditions used for planning purposes to select mechanical response equipment and are not conditions that would limit response actions or affect normal vessel operations.

(2) Limitations that are identified in the Area Contingency Plans for the COTP zones in which the vessel operates, including-

(i) Ice conditions;

(ii) Debris;

(iii) Temperature ranges; and

(iv) Weather-related visibility.

(b) The COTP may reclassify a specific body of water or location within the COTP zone. Any reclassifications will be identified in the applicable Area Contingency Plan. Reclassifications may be to-

(1) A more stringent operating environment if the prevailing wave conditions exceed the significant wave height criteria during more than 35 percent of the year; or

(2) A less stringent operating environment if the prevailing wave conditions do not exceed the significant wave height criteria for the less stringent operating environment during more than 35 percent of the year.

(c) Response equipment must-

(1) Meet or exceed the criteria listed in table 1 of appendix B of this part;

(2) Be capable of functioning in the applicable operating environment; and

(3) Be appropriate for the petroleum oil carried.

(d) The owner or operator of a vessel that carries groups I through IV petroleum oil as a primary cargo shall identify in the response plan and ensure the availability of, through contract or other approved means, the response resources that will respond to a discharge up to the vessel's average most probable discharge.

(1) For a vessel that carries groups I through IV petroleum oil as its primary cargo, the response resources must include-

(i) Containment boom in a quantity equal to twice the length of the largest vessel involved in the transfer and capable of being deployed at the site of oil transfer operations-

(A) Within 1 hour of detection of a spill, when the transfer is conducted between 0 and 12 miles from the nearest shoreline; or

(B) Within 1 hour plus travel time from the nearest shoreline, based on an on-water speed of 5 knots, when the transfer is conducted over 12 miles up to 200 miles from the nearest shoreline; and

(ii) Oil recovery devices and recovered oil storage capacity capable of being at the transfer site-

(A) Within 2 hours of the detection of a spill during transfer operations, when the transfer is conducted between 0 and 12 miles from the nearest shoreline; or

(B) Within 1 hour plus travel time from the nearest shoreline, based on an on-water speed of 5 knots, when the transfer is conducted over 12 miles up to 200 miles from the nearest shoreline.

(2) For locations of multiple vessel transfer operations, a vessel may identify the same equipment as identified by other vessels, provided that each vessel has ensured access to the equipment through contract or other approved means. Under these circumstances, prior approval by the Coast Guard is not required for temporary changes in the contracted oil spill removal organization under ยง 155.1070(c)(5).

(3) The owner or operator of a vessel conducting transfer operations at a facility required to submit a response plan under 33 CFR 154.1017 is required to plan for and identify the response resources required in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. However, the owner or operator is not required to ensure by contract or other means the availability of such resources.

(e) The owner or operator of a vessel carrying groups I through IV petroleum oil as a primary cargo must identify in the response plan and ensure the availability of, through contract or other approved means, the response resources necessary to respond to a discharge up to the vessel's maximum most probable discharge volume.

(1) These resources must be positioned such that they can arrive at the scene of a discharge within-

(i) 12 hours of the discovery of a discharge in higher volume port areas and the Great Lakes;

(ii) 24 hours of the discovery of a discharge in all rivers and canals, inland, nearshore and offshore areas; and

(iii) 24 hours of the discovery of a discharge plus travel time from shore for open ocean areas.

(2) The necessary response resources include sufficient containment boom, oil recovery devices, and storage capacity for any recovery of up to the maximum most probable discharge planning volume.

(3) The response plan must identify the storage location, make, model, and effective daily recovery capacity of each oil recovery device that is identified for plan credit.

(4) The response resources identified for responding to a maximum most probable discharge must be positioned to be capable of meeting the planned arrival times in this paragraph. The COTP with jurisdiction over the area in which the vessel is operating must be notified whenever the identified response resources are not capable of meeting the planned arrival times.

(f) The owner or operator of a vessel carrying groups I through IV petroleum oil as a primary cargo must identify in the response plan and ensure the availability of, through contract or other approved means, the response resources necessary to respond to discharges up to the worst case discharge volume of the oil cargo to the maximum extent practicable.

(1) The location of these resources must be suitable to meet the response times identified for the applicable geographic area(s) of operation and response tier.

(2) The response resources must be appropriate for-

(i) The capacity of the vessel;

(ii) Group(s) of petroleum oil carried as cargo; and

(iii) The geographic area(s) of vessel operation.

(3) The resources must include sufficient boom, oil recovery devices, and storage capacity to recover the planning volumes.

(4) The response plan must identify the storage location, make, model, and effective daily recovery capacity of each oil recovery device that is identified for plan credit.

(5) The guidelines in appendix B of this part must be used for calculating the quantity of response resources required to respond at each tier to the worst case discharge to the maximum extent practicable.

(6) When determining response resources necessary to meet the requirements of this paragraph (f)(6), a portion of those resources must be capable of use in close-to-shore response activities in shallow water. The following percentages of the response equipment identified for the applicable geographic area must be capable of operating in waters of 6 feet or less depth:

(i) Open ocean-none.

(ii) Offshore-10 percent.

(iii) Nearshore, inland, Great Lakes, and rivers and canals-20 percent.

(7) Response resources identified to meet the requirements of paragraph (f)(6) of this section are exempt from the significant wave height planning requirements of table 1 of appendix B of this part.

(g) Response equipment identified to respond to a worst case discharge must be capable of arriving on scene within the times specified in this paragraph for the applicable response tier in a higher volume port area, Great Lakes, and in other areas. Response times for these tiers from the time of discovery of a discharge are-

(h) For the purposes of arranging for response resources through contract or other approved means, response equipment identified for Tier 1 plan credit must be capable of being mobilized and enroute to the scene of a discharge within 2 hours of notification. The notification procedures identified in the plan must provide for notification and authorization for mobilization of identified Tier 1 response resources-

(1) Either directly or through the qualified individual; and

(2) Within 30 minutes of a discovery of a discharge or substantial threat of discharge.

(i) Response resources identified for Tier 2 and Tier 3 plan credit must be capable of arriving on scene within the time listed for the applicable tier.
