
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 155 - OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL POLLUTION PREVENTION REGULATIONS FOR VESSELS
##### Subpart E - Additional Response Plan Requirements for Tankers Loading Cargo at a Facility Permitted Under the Trans-Alaska Pipeline Authorization Act
###### ยง 155.1130 Requirements for prepositioned response equipment.

The owner or operator of a tanker subject to this subpart shall provide the following prepositioned response equipment, located within Prince William Sound, in addition to that required by ยง 155.1035:

(a) On-water recovery equipment with a minimum effective daily recovery capacity of 30,000 barrels, capable of being on scene within 6 hours of notification of a discharge.

(b) On-water storage capacity of 100,000 barrels, capable of being on scene within 6 hours of notification of a discharge.

(c) Additional on-water recovery equipment with a minimum effective daily recovery capacity of 40,000 barrels capable of being on scene within 18 hours of notification of a discharge.

(d) On-water storage capacity of 300,000 barrels for recovered oily material, capable of being on scene within 24 hours of notification of a discharge.

(e) On-water oil recovery devices and storage equipment located in communities and at strategic locations.

(f) For sufficient protection of the environment in the locations identified in ยง 155.1125(a)(1)(ii)-

(1) Boom appropriate for the specific locations;

(2) Sufficient boats to deploy boom and sorbents;

(3) Sorbents including booms, sweeps, pads, blankets, drums and plastic bags;

(4) Personnel protective clothing and equipment;

(5) Survival equipment;

(6) First aid supplies;

(7) Buckets, shovels, and various other tools;

(8) Decontamination equipment;

(9) Shoreline cleanup equipment;

(10) Mooring equipment;

(11) Anchored buoys at appropriate locations to facilitate the positioning of defensive boom; and

(12) Other appropriate removal equipment for the protection of the environment as identified by the COTP.

(g) For each oil-laden tanker, an escorting response vessel which is fitted with skimming and on board storage capabilities practicable for the initial oil recovery planned for a cleanup operation, as identified by the oil spill removal organization.

(h) Lightering resources required in subpart I of this part capable of arriving on scene within 6 hours of notification of a discharge.
