
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 155 - OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL POLLUTION PREVENTION REGULATIONS FOR VESSELS
##### Subpart G - Response Plan Requirements for Vessels Carrying Other Non-Petroleum Oils as a Primary Cargo
###### ยง 155.2230 Response plan development and evaluation criteria.

(a) Owners and operators of vessels that carry other non-petroleum oil as a primary cargo must provide information in their plan that identifies-

(1) Procedures and strategies for responding to a worst case discharge of other non-petroleum oils to the maximum extent practicable; and

(2) Sources of the equipment and supplies necessary to contain, recover, and mitigate such a discharge.

(b) An owner or operator of a vessel carrying other non-petroleum oil as a primary cargo must ensure that any equipment identified in a response plan is capable of operating in the conditions expected in the geographic area(s) in which the vessel operates using the criteria in Table 1 of Appendix B of this part. When evaluating the operability of equipment, the vessel owner or operator must consider limitations that are identified in the Area Contingency Plans for the COTP zones in which the vessel operates, including-

(1) Ice conditions;

(2) Debris;

(3) Temperature ranges; and

(4) Weather-related visibility.

(c) The owner or operator of a vessel carrying other non-petroleum oil as a primary cargo must identify in the response plan and ensure, through contract or other approved means, the availability of required equipment including-

(1) Containment boom, sorbent boom, or other methods for containing oil floating on the surface or to protect shorelines from impact;

(2) Oil recovery devices appropriate for the type of other non-petroleum oil carried; and

(3) Other appropriate equipment necessary to respond to a discharge involving the type of other non-petroleum oil carried.

(d) Response resources identified in a response plan under paragraph (c) of this section must be capable of arriving on-scene within the applicable Tier 1 response times specified in this paragraph. An oil spill removal organization may not be listed in the plan unless the organization has provided written consent to be listed in the plan as an available resource. Response times from the time of discovery of a discharge are as follow:

(e) The owner or operator of a vessel carrying other non-petroleum oil as a primary cargo must identify in the response plan and ensure the availability of the following resources through contract or other approved means:

(1) A salvage company with appropriate expertise and equipment.

(2) A company with vessel firefighting capability that will respond to casualties in the area(s) in which the vessel is operating.

(f) Vessel owners or operators must identify intended sources of the resources required under paragraph (e) of this section capable of being deployed to the areas in which the vessel will operate. A company may not be listed in the plan unless the company has provided written consent to be listed in the plan as an available resource. To meet this requirement in a response plan submitted for approval or reapproval on or after February 18, 1998, the vessel owner or operator must identify both the intended sources of this capability and demonstrate that the resources are capable of being deployed to the port nearest to the area where the vessel operates within 24 hours of discovery of a discharge.

(g) The owner or operator of a vessel carrying other non-petroleum oil as a primary cargo must identify in the response plan, and ensure the availability of, through contract or other approved means, certain resources required by subpart D of this part, ยง 155.1035(c)(5)(ii) and ยง 155.1040(c)(5)(i) of this part, as applicable.

(1) Resources must include-

(i) Fendering equipment;

(ii) Transfer hoses and connection equipment; and

(iii) Portable pumps and ancillary equipment necessary to offload the vessel's largest cargo tank in 24 hours of continuous operation.

(2) Resources must be capable of reaching the locations in which the vessel operates within the stated times following notification:

(i) Inland, nearshore, and Great Lakes waters-12 hours.

(ii) Offshore waters and rivers and canals-18 hours.

(iii) Open ocean waters-36 hours.

(3) For barges operating in rivers and canals as defined in this subpart, the requirements of this paragraph (g)(3) may be met by listing resources capable of being deployed in an area within the response times in paragraph (g)(2) of this section. A vessel owner or operator may not identify such resources in a plan unless the response organization has provided written consent to be identified in a plan as an available resource.

(h) The response plan for a vessel that is located in any environment with year-round preapproval for use of dispersants and that handles, stores, or transports other non-petroleum oils may request a credit for up to 25 percent of the worst case planning volume set forth by subpart D of this part. To receive this credit, the vessel owner or operator must identify in the plan and ensure, by contract or other approved means, the availability of specified resources to apply the dispersants and to monitor their effectiveness. The extent of the credit will be based on the volumes of the dispersant available to sustain operations at the manufacturers' recommended dosage rates. Identification of these resources does not imply that they will be authorized for use. Actual authorization for use during a spill response will be governed by the provisions of the NCP and the applicable ACP.
