
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 155 - OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL POLLUTION PREVENTION REGULATIONS FOR VESSELS
##### Subpart I - Salvage and Marine Firefighting
###### ยง 155.4025 Definitions.
####### Contract or other approved means

is any one of the following:

(1)(i) A written contractual agreement between a vessel owner or operator and resource provider. This agreement must expressly provide that the resource provider is capable of, and intends to commit to, meeting the plan requirements.

(ii) A written certification that the personnel, equipment, and capabilities required by this subpart are available and under the vessel owner or operator's direct control. If the planholder has personnel, equipment and capabilities under their direct control, they need not contract those items with a resource provider.

(iii) An alternative approved by the Coast Guard (Assistant Commandant for Response Policy (CG-5R)) and submitted in accordance with 33 CFR 155.1065(f) and 155.5067(a).

(2) As part of the contract or other approved means you must develop and sign, with your resource provider, a written funding agreement. This funding agreement is to ensure that salvage and marine firefighting responses are not delayed due to funding negotiations. The funding agreement must include a statement of how long the agreement remains in effect, and must be provided to the Coast Guard for VRP approval. In addition any written agreement with a public resource provider must be included in the planholder's Vessel Response Plan (VRP).
