
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 155 - OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL POLLUTION PREVENTION REGULATIONS FOR VESSELS
##### Subpart J - Nontank Vessel Response Plans
###### § 155.5035 Nontank vessel response plan requirements: Specific content.
####### GSAs for each COTP zone in which a vessel operates section.

(i)A GSA must be included for each COTP zone identified.

(1) The appendices must include the following information or identify the location of such information within the VRP-

(i) A list of the geographic areas (port areas, rivers and canals, Great Lakes, inland, nearshore, offshore, and open ocean areas) in which the vessel intends to handle, store, or transport oil as fuel or cargo within the applicable COTP zone;

(ii) The volume and group of oil on which the required level of response resources are calculated;

(iii) Required Federal or State notifications applicable to the geographic areas in which a vessel operates;

(iv) Identification of the QI; and

(v) Identification of the oil spill removal organization(s) (OSRO) that are identified and ensured available, through contract or other approved means, and the spill management team to respond to the following spill scenarios, as applicable-

(A) Average most probable discharge;

(B) Maximum most probable discharge; and

(C) Worst case discharge.

(2) Nontank vessels with a capacity less than 250 barrels must plan for and identify maximum most probable discharge response resources in the VRP but do not have to ensure these resources are available by contract. Submission of a written consent for plan listing from the recognized response resource provider must accompany the VRP for approval or revision. This is considered an acceptable "other approved means." See 33 CFR 155.5020, paragraph (5) of the definition of "Contract or other approved means."

(3) The organization(s) identified to meet the requirements of paragraph (i)(1)(v) of this section must be capable of providing the equipment and supplies necessary to meet the requirements of §§ 155.5050 and 155.5052, as appropriate, and sources of trained personnel to continue operation of the equipment and staff the OSRO(s) and spill management team identified for the first 7 days of the response.

(4) The GSA must list the response resources and related information required under §§ 155.5050, 155.5052, and appendix B of this part, as appropriate.

(5) If the Coast Guard has evaluated an OSRO and has determined the OSROs capability is equal to or exceeds the response capability needed by the vessel, the GSA may identify only the OSRO and their applicable classification and not the information required in paragraph (i)(4) of this section. This information is subject to Coast Guard verification at any time during the validity of the VRP.

(6) The GSA must also separately list the companies identified to provide the salvage, emergency lightering, and marine firefighting resources required in this subpart. The GSA must list the response resources and related information required in paragraph (i)(4) of this section. This information is subject to Coast Guard verification at any time during the validity of the VRP.

(i) Nontank vessels with a capacity less than 2,500 barrels, but greater than or equal to 250 barrels, need only plan for and identify salvage, emergency lightering, and marine firefighting response resources, as required by subpart I, in the VRP but do not have to ensure these resources are available by contract. Submission of a written consent for plan listing from the recognized response resource provider must accompany the VRP for approval or revision. This is considered an acceptable "other approved means." See 33 CFR 155.5020, paragraph (5) of the definition of "Contract or other approved means."

(ii) Nontank vessels with a capacity less than 250 barrels need only plan for and identify salvage response resources in the VRP but do not have to ensure these resources are available by contract. Submission of a written consent for plan listing from the recognized response resource provider must accompany the VRP for approval or revision. This is considered an acceptable "other approved means." See 33 CFR 155.5020, paragraph (5) of the definition of "Contract or other approved means."

(7) For nontank vessels with a capacity of 2,500 barrels or greater that carry group II through group IV petroleum oils as fuel or cargo and that operate in waters where dispersant use pre-authorization agreements exist, the GSA must also separately list the resource providers and specific resources, including appropriately trained dispersant-application personnel, necessary to provide, if appropriate, the dispersant capabilities required in this subpart. All resource providers and resources must be available by contract or other approved means. The dispersant resources to be listed within this section must include the following-

(i) Identification of each primary dispersant staging site to be used by each dispersant-application platform to meet the requirements of § 155.5050(j) of this chapter; and

(ii) Identification of the platform type, resource provider, location, and dispersant payload for each dispersant-application platform identified. Location data must identify the distance between the platform's home base and the identified primary dispersant-staging site(s) for this section.

(8) For each unit of dispersant stockpile required to support the effective daily application capacity of each dispersant-application platform necessary to sustain each intended response tier of operation, identify the dispersant product resource provider, location, and volume. Location data must include the distance from the stockpile to the primary staging sites where the stockpile would be loaded on to the corresponding platforms. If the Coast Guard has evaluated an OSRO and has determined its capability meets the response capability needed by the vessel owner or operator, the section may identify the OSRO only, and not the information required in paragraphs (i)(7)(i), (i)(7)(ii), and (i)(8) of this section.

(9) Nontank vessels with an oil capacity of 250 barrels or greater, but less than 2,500 barrels, that carry group II through group IV petroleum oils as fuel or cargo and that operate in waters where dispersant use pre-authorization agreements exist, need only plan for and identify dispersant response resources but not ensure their availability by contract. Submission of a written consent from the dispersant response resource provider must accompany the VRP for approval or revision. This is considered an acceptable "other approved means." See 33 CFR 155.5020, paragraph (5) of the definition of "Contract or other approved means."

(10) For nontank vessels with a fuel and cargo capacity of 2,500 barrels or greater not operating exclusively on the inland areas of the United States, the GSA must also separately list the resource providers and specific resources necessary to provide oil spill tracking capabilities required in this subpart. The oil spill tracking resources to be listed within this section must include the following-

(i) The identification of a resource provider; and

(ii) The type and location of aerial surveillance aircraft that have been ensured available, through contract or other approved means, to meet the oil spill tracking requirements of § 155.1050(k) of this part.

(11) Nontank vessels with a capacity of 250 barrels or greater, but less than 2,500 barrels, need only plan for and identify aerial oil spill tracking response resources in the VRP, but do not have to ensure these resources are available by contract. Submission of a written consent for plan listing from the recognized response resource provider must accompany the VRP for approval or revision. This is considered an acceptable "other approved means." See 33 CFR 155.5020, "Contract or other approved means", paragraph (5).
