
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 155 - OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL POLLUTION PREVENTION REGULATIONS FOR VESSELS
##### Subpart J - Nontank Vessel Response Plans
###### ยง 155.5035 Nontank vessel response plan requirements: Specific content.
####### Required appendices for MARPOL 73/78 Annex I, Regulation 37, Shipboard Oil Pollution Emergency Plan (SOPEP) information.

(k)U.S.-flag vessels not certificated for coastwise or oceans operating routes and foreign-flag vessels that are in compliance with Regulation 37 of MARPOL 73/78 Annex I are not required to comply with this paragraph. A vessel owner or operator of a U.S.-flag vessel constructed or certificated for coastwise or oceans operating routes, but that does not engage in international voyages, may request to be exempted from compliance with this paragraph through submission of a certified statement, attesting same, to Commandant (CG-MER), Office of Marine Environmental Response Policy, which must accompany the new nontank vessel response submission or resubmission. U.S.-flag vessels that must comply with this paragraph must label the cover of their VRP as a MARPOL 73/78 Annex I, Regulation 37 Shipboard Oil Pollution Emergency Plan (SOPEP) and Coast Guard Nontank Vessel Response Plan. The following information must be submitted consistent with Regulation 37 of MARPOL 73/78 Annex I as set forth in 33 CFR 151.26-

(1) The introductory text required by 33 CFR 151.26(b)(1);

(2) The preamble statement regarding the purpose of the plans and how the plan relates to other shore-related plans as required by 33 CFR 151.26(b)(2);

(3) The information on authorities or persons to be contacted in the event of an oil pollution incident as required 33 CFR 151.26(b)(3)(iii). This information must also clearly specify who will be responsible for informing the necessary parties from the coastal State contacts, the port contacts, and the ship interest contacts. This information must include-

(i) An appendix containing coastal State contacts for those coastal States in which the vessel regularly transits the exclusive economic zone. The appendix should list those agencies or officials of administrations responsible for receiving and processing pollution incident reports;

(ii) An appendix of port contacts for those ports at which the vessel regularly calls; and

(iii) For Antarctica, reports must also be directed to any Antarctic station that may be affected in accordance with 33 CFR 151.26(b)(3)(iii)(C);

(4) Include the procedures and point of contact on the ship for coordinating shipboard activities with national and local authorities in combating an oil spill incident in accordance with 33 CFR 151.26(b)(5). The plan should address the need to contact the coastal State to advise them of action(s) being implemented and determine what authorization(s), if any, are needed; and

(5) Required information lists in separate appendices per 33 CFR 151.26(b)(6)(ii).
