
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 155 - OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL POLLUTION PREVENTION REGULATIONS FOR VESSELS
##### Subpart J - Nontank Vessel Response Plans
###### ยง 155.5050 Response plan development and evaluation criteria for nontank vessels carrying groups I through IV petroleum oil.
####### Salvage, emergency lightering, and marine firefighting requirements.

(i)The owner or operator of a nontank vessel carrying groups I through IV petroleum oil as fuel or cargo must plan for salvage, emergency lightering, and marine firefighting response resources, as applicable.

(1) Nontank vessels with a capacity of 2,500 barrels or greater must meet the salvage, emergency lightering, and marine firefighting requirements found in subpart I of this part.

(2) Nontank vessels with a capacity less than 2,500 barrels, but greater than or equal to 250 barrels, need to plan for and identify salvage, emergency lightering, and marine firefighting response resources found in subpart I in the VRP but do not have to ensure these resources are available by contract. Submission of a written consent for plan listing from the recognized response resource provider must accompany the VRP for approval or revision. This is considered an acceptable "other approved means." See 33 CFR 155.5020, paragraph (5) of the definition of "Contract or other approved means."

(3) Nontank vessels with a capacity less than 250 barrels need to plan for and identify salvage response resources found in subpart I in the VRP but do not have to ensure these resources are available by contract. Submission of a written consent for plan listing from the recognized response resource provider must accompany the VRP for approval or revision. This is considered an acceptable "other approved means." See 33 CFR 155.5020, paragraph (5) of the definition of "Contract or other approved means."
