
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 155 - OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL POLLUTION PREVENTION REGULATIONS FOR VESSELS
##### Subpart J - Nontank Vessel Response Plans
###### ยง 155.5050 Response plan development and evaluation criteria for nontank vessels carrying groups I through IV petroleum oil.
####### Aerial oil spill tracking and observation response resources.

(k)(1) The owner or operator of a nontank vessel carrying groups I through IV petroleum oil as fuel or cargo with a capacity of-

(i) 2,500 barrels or greater must identify in the VRP, and ensure availability of, through contract or other approved means, the response resources necessary to provide aerial oil spill tracking to support oil spill assessment and cleanup activities. Vessel owners or operators of these vessels must meet 33 CFR 155.1050(l).

(ii) Less than 2,500 barrels, but greater than 250 barrels, need to plan for and identify aerial oil tracking response resources in the VRP but do not have to ensure these resources are available by contract. Submission of a written consent for plan listing from the recognized response resource provider must accompany the VRP for approval or revision. This is considered an acceptable "other approved means." See 33 CFR 155.5020, "Contract or other approved means", paragraph (5).

(2) Nontank vessels operating exclusively on the inland areas of the United States are not required to comply with paragraph (k) of this section.
