
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 155 - OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL POLLUTION PREVENTION REGULATIONS FOR VESSELS
##### Subpart J - Nontank Vessel Response Plans
###### ยง 155.5050 Response plan development and evaluation criteria for nontank vessels carrying groups I through IV petroleum oil.
####### Practical and technical limits of response capabilities.

(n)Appendix B of this part sets out response capability capacities (caps) that recognize the practical and technical limits of response capabilities for which an individual vessel owner or operator can contract in advance. Table 6 in appendix B lists the contracting caps that are applicable. The owner or operator of a nontank vessel carrying groups I through IV petroleum oil as fuel or cargo, with a capacity of 2,500 barrels or greater, whose required daily recovery capacity exceeds the applicable contracting caps in Table 6, must identify commercial sources of additional equipment equal to twice the cap listed for each tier or the amount necessary to reach the calculated planning volume, whichever is lower, to the extent that this equipment is available. The equipment so identified must be capable of arriving on scene no later than the applicable tier response times contained in ยง 155.5050(g) or as quickly as the nearest available resource permits. A VRP must identify the specific sources, locations, and quantities of this additional equipment. No contract is required.
