
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 155 - OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL POLLUTION PREVENTION REGULATIONS FOR VESSELS
##### Appendix B to Part 155 - Determining and Evaluating Required Response Resources for Vessel Response Plans

1.1 The purpose of this appendix is to describe the procedures for identifying response resources to meet the requirements of subparts D, E, F, G, and J of this part. These guidelines will be used by the vessel owner or operator in preparing the response plan and by the Coast Guard to review vessel response plans. Response plans submitted under subparts F and G of this part will be evaluated under the guidelines in section 2 and Table 1 of this appendix.

2.1 All equipment identified in a response plan must be capable of operating in the conditions expected in the geographic area in which a vessel operates. These conditions vary widely based on the location and season. Therefore, it is difficult to identify a single stockpile of response equipment that will function effectively in every geographic location.

2.2 Vessels storing, handling, or transporting oil in more than one operating environment as indicated in Table 1 must identify equipment capable of successfully functioning in each operating environment. For example, vessels moving from the ocean to a river port must identify appropriate equipment designed to meet the criteria for transiting oceans, inland waterways, rivers, and canals. This equipment may be designed to operate in all of these environments or, more likely, different equipment may be designed for use in each area.

2.3 When identifying equipment for response plan credit, a vessel owner or operator must consider the inherent limitations in the operability of equipment components and response systems. The criteria in Table 1 of this appendix must be used for evaluating the operability in a given environment. These criteria reflect the general conditions in certain operating areas.

2.4 Table 1 of this appendix lists criteria for oil recovery devices and boom. All other equipment necessary to sustain or support response operations in a geographic area must be designed to function in the same conditions. For example, boats which deploy or support skimmers or boom must be capable of being safely operated in the significant wave heights listed for the applicable operating environment. The Coast Guard may require documentation that the boom identified in a response plan meets the criteria in Table 1 of this appendix. Absent acceptable documentation, the Coast Guard may require that the boom be tested to demonstrate that it meets the criteria in Table 1 of this appendix. Testing must be in accordance with certain American Society for Testing Materials (ASTM) standards [ASTM F 715 (incorporated by reference, see § 155.140) Standard Methods of Testing Spill Control Barrier Membrane Materials], or other tests approved by the Coast Guard.

2.5 A vessel owner or operator must refer to the applicable Area Contingency Plan to determine if ice, debris, and weather-related visibility are significant factors in evaluating the operability of equipment. The Area Contingency Plan will also identify the average temperature ranges expected in a geographic area in which a vessel operates. All equipment identified in a response plan must be designed to operate within those conditions or ranges.

2.6 The requirements of subparts D, E, F, G, and J of this part establish response resource mobilization and response times. The location where the vessel operates farthest from the storage location of the response resources must be used to determine whether the resources are capable of arriving on scene within the time required. A vessel owner or operator must include the time for notification, mobilization, and travel time of resources identified to meet the maximum most probable discharge and Tier 1 worst case discharge requirements. For subparts D and E of this part, Tier 2 and 3 resources must be notified and mobilized as necessary to meet the requirements for arrival on scene. An on-water speed of 5 knots and a land speed of 35 miles per hour is assumed, unless the vessel owner or operator can demonstrate otherwise.

2.7 For subparts D, E, and J of this part, in identifying equipment, the vessel owner or operator must list the storage location, quantity, and manufacturer's make and model, unless the oil spill removal organization(s) providing the necessary response resources have been evaluated by the Coast Guard, and their capability has been determined to equal or exceed the response capability needed by the vessel. For oil recovery devices, the effective daily recovery capacity, as determined using section 6 of this appendix, must be included. For boom, the overall boom height (draft plus freeboard) must be included. A vessel owner or operator must ensure that identified boom has compatible connectors.

2.8 For subparts F and G of this part, in identifying equipment, the vessel owner or operator shall list the storage location, quantity, and manufacturer's make and model, unless the oil spill removal organization(s) providing the necessary response resources have been evaluated by the Coast Guard, and their capability has been determined to equal or exceed the response capability needed by the vessel. For boom, the overall boom height (draft plus freeboard) must be included. A vessel owner of operator is responsible for ensuring that identified boom has compatible connectors.

3.1 A vessel owner or operator must identify and ensure, by contract or other approved means, that sufficient response resources are available to respond to the 50-barrel average most probable discharge at the point of an oil transfer involving a vessel that carries oil as a primary cargo or a nontank vessel carrying oil as cargo. The equipment must be designed to function in the operating environment at the point of oil transfer. These resources must include-

3.1.1 Containment boom in a quantity equal to twice the length of the largest vessel involved in the transfer capable of being deployed within 1 hour of the detection of a spill at the site of oil transfer operations. If the transfer operation is more than 12 miles from shore, the containment boom must be deployed within 1 hour plus the travel time from the nearest shoreline at a speed of 5 knots.

3.1.2 Oil recovery devices with an effective daily recovery capacity of 50 barrels or greater available at the transfer site within 2 hours of the detection of an oil discharge.

3.1.3 Oil storage capacity for recovered oily material indicated in section 9.2 of this appendix.

4.1 A vessel owner or operator shall identify and ensure, by contract or other approved means, that sufficient response resources are available to respond to discharges up to the maximum most probable discharge volume for that vessel. The resources should be capable of containing and collecting up to 2,500 barrels of oil. All equipment identified must be designed to operate in the applicable operating environment specified in table 1 of this appendix.

4.2 To determine the maximum most probable discharge volume to be used for planning, use the lesser of-

4.2.1 2500 barrels; or

4.2.2 Ten percent of the total oil capacity.

4.3 Oil recovery devices necessary to meet the applicable maximum most probable discharge volume planning criteria must be located such that they arrive on scene within 12 hours of the discovery of a discharge in higher volume port areas and the Great Lakes, 24 hours in all other rivers and canals, inland, nearshore, and offshore areas, and 24 hours plus travel time from shore in all open ocean areas.

4.3.1 Because rapid control, containment, and removal of oil is critical to reduce spill impact, the effective daily recovery capacity for oil recovery devices must equal 50% of the planning volume applicable for the vessel as determined in section 4.2 of this appendix. The effective daily recovery capacity for oil recovery devices identified in the plan must be determined using the criteria in section 6 of this appendix.

4.4 In addition to oil recovery capacity, the vessel owner or operator must identify in the response plan and ensure the availability of, through contract or other approved means, sufficient boom available within the required response times for oil connection and containment, and for protection of shoreline areas. While the regulation does not set required quantities of boom for oil collection and containment, the owner or operator of a vessel must still identify in a response plan and ensure, through contract or other approved means, the availability of the boom identified in the plan for this purpose.

4.5 The plan must indicate the availability of temporary storage capacity to meet the requirements of section 9.2 of this appendix. If available storage capacity is insufficient to meet this requirement, the effective daily recovery capacity must be downgraded to the limits of the available storage capacity.

4.6 The following is an example of a maximum most probable discharge volume planning calculation for equipment identification in a higher volume port area:

The vessel's cargo capacity is 10,000 barrels, thus the planning volume is 10 percent or 1,000 barrels. The effective daily recovery capacity must be 50 percent of the planning volume, for 500 barrels per day. The ability of oil recovery devices to meet this capacity will be calculated using the procedures in section 6 of this appendix. Temporary storage capacity available on scene must equal twice the daily recovery capacity as indicated in section 9 of this appendix, or 1000 barrels per day. This figure would represent the information the vessel owner or operator would use to identify and ensure the availability of, through contract or other approved means, the required response resources. The vessel owner would also need to identify how much boom was available for use.

5.1 A vessel owner or operator, as applicable under the regulations prescribed in this part, must identify and ensure, by contract or other approved means, that sufficient response resources are available to respond to the worst case discharge of oil to the maximum extent practicable. Section 7 of this appendix describes the method to determine the required response resources.

5.2 Oil spill recovery devices identified to meet the applicable worst case discharge planning volume must be located such that they can arrive at the scene of a discharge within the time specified for the applicable response tier listed in §§ 155.1050(g) and 155.5050(g).

5.3 The effective daily recovery capacity for oil recovery devices identified in a response plan must be determined using the criteria in section 6 of this appendix. A vessel owner or operator, as applicable under the regulations prescribed in this part, must identify the storage locations of all equipment that must be used to fulfill the requirements for each tier.

5.4 A vessel owner or operator, as applicable under the regulations prescribed in this part, must identify the availability of temporary storage capacity to meet the requirements of section 9.2 of this appendix. If available storage capacity is insufficient to meet this requirement, then the effective daily recovery capacity must be downgraded to the limits of the available storage capacity.

5.5 When selecting response resources necessary to meet the response plan requirements, the vessel owner or operator, as applicable under the regulations prescribed in this part, must ensure that a portion of those resources are capable of being used in close-to-shore response activities in shallow water. The following percentages of the on-water response equipment identified for the applicable geographic area must be capable of operating in waters of 6 feet or less depth:

(i) Open ocean-none.

(ii) Offshore-10 percent.

(iii) Nearshore, inland, Great Lakes, and rivers and canals-20 percent.

5.6 In addition to oil spill recovery devices and temporary storage capacity, a vessel owner or operator, as applicable under the regulations prescribed in this part, must identify in the response plan and ensure the availability of, through contract or other approved means, sufficient boom that can arrive on scene within the required response times for oil containment and collection. The specific quantity of boom required for collection and containment will depend on the specific recovery equipment and strategies employed. Table 2 of this appendix lists the minimum quantities of additional boom required for shoreline protection that a vessel owner or operator must identify in the response plan and ensure the availability of, through contract or other approved means.

5.7 A vessel owner or operator, as applicable under the regulations prescribed in this part, must also identify in the response plan and ensure, by contract or other approved means, the availability of an oil spill removal organization capable of responding to a shoreline cleanup operation involving the calculated volume of emulsified oil that might impact the affected shoreline. The volume of oil for which a vessel owner or operator should plan for should be calculated through the application of factors contained in Tables 3 and 4 of this appendix. The volume calculated from these tables is intended to assist the vessel owner or operator in identifying a contractor with sufficient resources. This planning volume is not used explicitly to determine a required amount of equipment and personnel.

6.1 Oil recovery devices identified by a vessel owner or operator must be identified by manufacturer, model, and effective daily recovery capacity. These capacities must be to meet the applicable planning criteria for the average most probable discharge; maximum most probable discharge; and worst case discharge to the maximum extent practicable.

6.2 For the purposes of determining the effective daily recovery capacity of oil recovery devices, the following method will be used. This method considers potential limitations due to available daylight, weather, sea state, and percentage of emulsified oil in the recovered material. The Coast Guard may assign a lower efficiency factor to equipment listed in a response plan if it determines that such a reduction is warranted.

6.2.1 The following formula must be used to calculate the effective daily recovery capacity:

6.2.2 For those devices in which the pump limits the throughput of liquid, throughput rate will be calculated using the pump capacity.

6.2.3 For belt or mop type devices, the throughput rate will be calculated using data provided by the manufacturer on the nameplate rated capacity for the device.

6.2.4 Vessel owners or operators including in the response plan oil recovery devices whose throughput is not measurable using a pump capacity or belt or mop capacity may provide information to support an alternative method of calculation. This information must be submitted following the procedures in section 6.5 of this appendix.

6.3 As an alternative to section 6.2 of this appendix, a vessel owner or operator may submit adequate evidence that a different effective daily recovery capacity should be applied for a specific oil recovery device. Adequate evidence is actual verified performance data in spill conditions or test using certain ASTM standards [ASTM F 631 (incorporated by reference, see § 155.140) Standard Method for Testing Full Scale Advancing Spill Removal Devices], or an equivalent test approved by the Coast Guard.

6.3.1 The following formula must be used to calculate the effective daily recovery capacity under this alternative:

6.4 A vessel owner or operator submitting a response plan shall provide data that supports the effective daily recovery capacities for the oil recovery devices listed. The following is an example of these calculations:

A weir skimmer identified in a response plan has a manufacturer's rated throughput at the pump of 267 gallons per minute (gpm).

After testing using ASTM procedures, the skimmer's oil recovery rate is determined to be 220 gpm. The vessel owner or operator identifies sufficient resources available to support operations 12 hours per day.

A vessel owner or operator will be able to use the higher capacity if sufficient temporary oil storage capacity is available.
