
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 155 - OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL POLLUTION PREVENTION REGULATIONS FOR VESSELS
##### Appendix B to Part 155 - Determining and Evaluating Required Response Resources for Vessel Response Plans
###### vrp@uscg.mil.

6.5 Determinations of alternative efficiency factors under section 6.2 or alternative effective daily recovery capacities under section 6.3 of this appendix will be made by Commandant (CG-MER), Attn: Vessel Response Plans, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7516, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7516 orOil spill removal organizations or equipment manufacturers may submit required information on behalf of multiple vessel owners or operators.

7.1 A vessel owner or operator, as applicable under the regulations prescribed in this part, must plan for a response to a vessel's worst case discharge oil planning volume. The planning for on-water recovery must take into account a loss of some oil to the environment due to evaporation and natural dissipation, potential increases in volume due to emulsification, and the potential for deposit of some oil on the shoreline.

7.2 The following procedures must be used to calculate the planning volume used by a vessel owner or operator, as applicable under the regulations prescribed in this part, for determining required on-water recovery capacity:

7.2.1 The following must be determined: the total volume of oil cargo carried; the appropriate cargo group for the type of petroleum oil carried [persistent (groups II, III, and IV) or non-persistent (group I)]; and the geographic area(s) in which the vessel operates. For vessels carrying mixed cargoes from different petroleum oil groups, each group must be calculated separately. This information is to be used with Table 3 of this appendix to determine the percentages of the total cargo volume to be used for removal capacity planning. This table divides the cargo volume into three categories: oil lost to the environment; oil deposited on the shoreline; and oil available for on-water recovery.

7.2.2 The on-water oil recovery volume must be adjusted using the appropriate emulsification factor found in Table 4 of this appendix.

7.2.3 The adjusted volume is multiplied by the on-water oil recovery resource mobilization factor found in Table 5 of this appendix from the appropriate operating area and response tier to determine the total on-water oil recovery capacity in barrels per day that must be identified or contracted for to arrive on scene within the applicable time for each response tier. Table 5 specifies three tiers. For higher volume port areas, the contracted tiers of resources must be located such that they can arrive on scene within 12, 36, and 60 hours of the discovery of an oil discharge. For the Great Lakes, these tiers are 18, 42, and 66 hours. For rivers and canals, inland, nearshore, and offshore, these tiers are 24, 48, and 72 hours. For the open ocean area, these tiers are 24, 48, and 72 hours with an additional travel time allowance of 1 hour for every additional 5 nautical miles from shore. For nontank vessels, only Tier 1 is specified.

7.2.4 The resulting on-water recovery capacity in barrels per day for each tier is used to identify response resources necessary to sustain operations in the applicable geographic area. The equipment must be capable of sustaining operations for the time period specified in Table 3 of this appendix. A vessel owner or operator, as applicable under the regulations prescribed in this part, must identify and ensure the availability of, through contract or other approved means, sufficient oil spill recovery devices to provide the effective daily oil recovery capacity required. If the required capacity exceeds the applicable cap described in Table 6 of this appendix, then a vessel owner or operator must contract only for the quantity of resources required to meet the cap, but must identify sources of additional resources as indicated in § 155.1050(p). For a vessel that carries multiple groups of oil, the required effective daily recovery capacity for each group is calculated and summed before applying the cap.

7.3 The following procedures must be used to calculate the planning volume for identifying shoreline cleanup capacity:

7.3.1 The following must be determined: The total volume of oil carried; the appropriate group for the type of petroleum oil carried [persistent (groups II, III, and IV) or non-persistent (group I)]; and the geographic area(s) in which the vessel operates. For a vessel carrying different oil groups, each group must be calculated separately. Using this information, Table 3 of this appendix must be used to determine the percentages of the total oil volume to be used for shoreline cleanup resource planning.

7.3.2 The shoreline cleanup planning volume must be adjusted to reflect an emulsification factor using the same procedure as described in section 7.2.2 of this appendix.

7.3.3 The resulting volume will be used to identify an oil spill removal organization with the appropriate shoreline cleanup capability.

7.4 The following is an example of the procedure described above:

A vessel with a 100,000 barrel capacity for #6 oil (specific gravity .96) will move from a higher volume port area to another area. The vessel's route will be 70 miles from shore.

Determining required resources for on-water recovery for each tier using mobilization factors: (barrel per day on-water recovery requirements) = (on-water planning volume as calculated above) x (mobilization factor from Table 5 of this appendix).

Since the requirements for Tier 1 for inland and nearshore exceed the caps, the vessel owner would only need to contract for 10,000 barrels per day for Tier 1. No additional equipment would be required to be identified because the required Tier 3 resources are below the Tier 3 caps.

10% of the on-water recovery capability for offshore, and 20% of the capability for inland/nearshore, for all tiers, must be capable of operating in water with a depth of 6 feet or less.

The vessel owner or operator would also be required to identify or contract for quantities of boom identified in Table 2 of this appendix for the areas in which the vessel operates.

8.1 Calculate cumulative dispersant application capacity requirements as follows:

8.1.1 A vessel owner or operator, as applicable under the regulations prescribed in this part, must plan either for a dispersant capacity to respond to a vessel's worst case discharge of oil, or for the amount of the dispersant resource capability as required by § 155.1050(k)(3) of this subchapter, whichever is the lesser amount. When planning for the cumulative application capacity that is required, the calculations should account for the loss of some oil to the environment due to natural dissipation causes (primarily evaporation). The following procedure should be used to determine the cumulative application requirements:

8.1.2 Determine the WCD volume of oil carried in gallons, and the appropriate oil group for the type of petroleum oil carried (Groups II, III, IV). For vessels carrying different oil groups, assume a WCD using the oil group that constitutes the largest portion of the oil being carried, or the oil group with the smallest natural dissipation factor;

8.1.3 Multiply the WCD in gallons by the natural dissipation factor for the appropriate oil group as follows: Group II factor is 0.50; Group III factor is 0.30; and Group IV factor is 0.10. This represents the amount of oil that can be expected to be lost to natural dissipation. Subtract the WCD lost to natural dissipation from the total oil amount carried to determine the remaining oil available for treatment by dispersant-application; and

8.1.4 Multiply the oil available for dispersant treatment by the dispersant to oil planning application ratio of 1 part dispersant to 20 parts oil (0.05). The resulting number represents the cumulative total dispersant-application capability that must be ensured available within the first 60 hours.

8.1.5(i) The following is an example of the procedure described in paragraphs 8.1.1 through 8.1.4 above: A vessel with a 1,000,000 gallons capacity of crude oil (specific gravity 0.87) will transit through an area with pre-authorization for dispersant use in the nearshore environment on the U.S. East Coast.

WCD: 1,000,000 gallons, Group III oil.

Natural Dissipation Factor for Group III: 30 percent.

General formula to determine oil available for dispersant treatment: ((WCD)-[(WCD) x (natural dissipation factor)] = available oil.

E.g., 1,000,000 gal-(1,000,000 gal x 0.30) = 700,000 gallons of available oil.

Cumulative application capacity = Available oil x planning application ratio (1 gal dispersant/20 gals oil = 0.05).

E.g., 700,000 gal oil x (0.05) = 35,000 gallons cumulative dispersant-application capacity.

(ii) The requirements for cumulative dispersant-application capacity (35,000) for this vessel's WCD is less than the overall dispersant capability cap for non-Gulf Coast waters required by § 155.1050(k) of this chapter. Because paragraph 8.1.1 of this appendix requires owners and operators to ensure the availability of the lesser of a vessel's dispersant requirements for WCD or the amount of the dispersant cap provided for in § 155.1050(k)(3), the vessel in this example would be required to ensure the availability of 35,000 gallons of dispersant. More specifically, this vessel would be required to meet the following tier requirements in § 155.1050(k), which total 35,000 gallons application:

Tier-1 4,125 gallons-Completed in 12 hours.

Tier-2 23,375 gallons-Completed in 36 hours.

Tier-3 7,500 gallons-Completed in 60 hours.

8.2 Determining Effective Daily Application Capacities "EDACs" for dispersant response systems as follows:

8.2.1 EDAC planning estimates for compliance with the dispersant application requirements in § 155.1050(k)(3) are to be based on:

8.2.1.1 The spill occurring at sites 50 nautical miles off shore furthest from the primary dispersant staging site(s);

8.2.1.2 Specific dispersant application platform operational characteristics identified in the EDSP or as demonstrated by operational tests;

8.2.1.3 Locations of primary dispersant staging sites; and

8.2.1.4 Locations and quantities of dispersant stockpiles.

8.2.2 EDAC calculations with supporting documentation must be submitted to the NSFCC for classification as a Dispersant Oil Spill Removal Organization.
