
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 155 - OIL OR HAZARDOUS MATERIAL POLLUTION PREVENTION REGULATIONS FOR VESSELS
##### Appendix B to Part 155 - Determining and Evaluating Required Response Resources for Vessel Response Plans
###### http://www.response.restoration.noaa.gov/spilltools

8.2.3(i) EDAC can also be calculated using the EDSP (EDSP). The EDSP is a downloadable application that calculates EDAC for different dispersant response systems. It is located on the Internet at:

(ii) The DMP2 contains operating information for the vast majority of dispersant application platforms, to include aircraft, both rotary and fixed wing, and vessels. The DMP2 produces EDAC estimates by performing calculations that are based on performance parameters of dispersant application platforms, locations of primary dispersant staging sites, home based airport or port locations, and for planning purposes, a 50 mile from shore dispersant application site. The 50 mile offshore site used in the DMP2 would be the location furthest from the primary dispersant staging site identified in the vessel response plan.

8.2.4 For each Captain of the Port Zone where a dispersant response capability is required, the response plan must identify the following:

8.2.4.1 The type, number, and location of each dispersant application platform intended for use in meeting dispersant delivery requirements specified in ยง 155.1050(k)(3) of this chapter;

8.2.4.2 The amount and location of available dispersant stockpiles to support each platform; and

8.2.4.3 A primary staging site for each platform that will serve as its base of operations for the duration of the response.

8.3 In addition to the equipment and supplies required, a vessel owner or operator must identify a source of support to conduct the monitoring and post-use effectiveness evaluation required by applicable Local and Area Contingency Plans.

8.4 Identification of the resources for dispersant application does not imply that the use of this technique will be authorized. Actual authorization for use during a spill response will be governed by the provisions of the National Oil and Hazardous Substances Contingency Plan (40 CFR part 300) and the applicable Local or Area Contingency Plan.

9.1 A vessel owner or operator is responsible for ensuring that sufficient numbers of trained personnel, boats, aerial spotting aircraft, sorbent materials, boom anchoring materials, and other resources are available to sustain response operations to completion. All such equipment must be suitable for use with the primary equipment identified in the response plan. A vessel owner or operator is not required to list these resources in the response plan, but shall certify their availability.

9.2 A vessel owner or operator shall evaluate the availability of adequate temporary storage capacity to sustain the effective daily recovery capacities from equipment identified in the plan. Because of the inefficiencies of oil spill recovery devices, response plans must identify daily storage capacity equivalent to twice the effective daily recovery capacity required on scene. This temporary storage capacity may be reduced if a vessel owner or operator can demonstrate by waste stream analysis that the efficiencies of the oil recovery devices, ability to decant water, or the availability of alternative temporary storage or disposal locations in the area(s) the vessel will operate will reduce the overall volume of oily material storage requirements.

9.3 A vessel owner or operator shall ensure that their planning includes the capability to arrange for disposal of recovered oil products. Specific disposal procedures will be addressed in the applicable Area Contingency Plan.
