
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 157 - RULES FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE MARINE ENVIRONMENT RELATING TO TANK VESSELS CARRYING OIL IN BULK
##### Subpart A - General
###### § 157.02 Incorporation by reference: Where can I get a copy of the publications mentioned in this part?
####### International Maritime Organization (IMO)

(b)-4 Albert Embankment, London SE1 7SR, United Kingdom.

(1) IMCO Assembly Resolution A.393(X), adopted on 14 November 1977, Recommendation on International Performance and Test Specifications For Oily Water Separating Equipment and Oil Content Meters ("A.393(x)"), incorporation by reference approved for § 157.12.

(2) IMO Assembly Resolution A.496(XII), Adopted on 19 November 1981, Agenda Item 11, Guidelines and Specifications for Oil Discharge Monitoring and Control Systems for Oil Tankers ("A.496(XII)"), incorporation by reference approved for § 157.12.

(3) IMO Assembly Resolution A.586(14), Adopted on 20 November 1985, Agenda item 12, Revised Guidelines and Specifications for Oil Discharge Monitoring and Control Systems for Oil Tankers ("A.586(14)"), incorporation by reference approved for § 157.12.

(4) IMO Marine Environment Protection Committee Resolution MEPC.13 (19), adopted on 9 December 1983, Guidelines for Plan Approval and Installation Survey of Oil Discharge Monitoring and Control Systems for Oil Tankers and Environmental Testing of Control Sections Thereof ("MEPC.13(19)"), incorporation by reference approved for § 157.12.

(5) IMO Marine Environment Protection Committee Resolution MEPC.108(49), Adopted on 18 July 2003, Revised Guidelines and Specifications for Oil Discharge Monitoring and Control Systems for Oil Tankers ("MEPC.108(49)"), incorporation by reference approved for § 157.12.

(6) IMO Assembly Resolution A.601(15), Provision and Display of Manoeuvring Information on Board Ships, Annex sections 1.1, 2.3, 3.1, and 3.2 with appendices, adopted on 19 November 1987 ("A.601(15)"), incorporation by reference approved for § 157.450.

(7) IMO Assembly Resolution A.744(18), Guidelines on the Enhanced Programme of Inspections During Surveys of Bulk Carriers and Oil Tankers, Annex B sections 1.1.3-1.1.4, 1.2-1.3, 2.1, 2.3-2.6, 3-8, and Annexes 1-10 with appendices, adopted 4 November 1993 ("A.744(18)"), incorporation by reference approved for § 157.430.

(8) IMO Assembly Resolution A.751(18), Interim Standards for Ship Manoeuvrability, Annex sections 1.2, 2.3-2.4, 3-4.2, and 5, adopted 4 November 1993 with Explanatory Notes in MSC/Circ. 644 dated 6 June 1994 ("A.751(18)"), incorporation by reference approved for § 157.445.

(9) MARPOL Consolidated Edition 2011, Annex I, Regulations for the prevention of pollution by oil, Chapter 4-Requirements for the cargo area of oil tankers, Part A-Construction, Regulation 22, "Pump-room bottom protection," (Annex I, Regulation 22) incorporation by reference approved for § 157.14.

(10) MARPOL Consolidated Edition 2011, Annex I, Regulations for the prevention of pollution by oil, Chapter 4-Requirements for the cargo area of oil tankers, Part A-Construction, Regulation 23, "Accidental oil outflow performance," (Annex I, Regulation 23) incorporation by reference approved for § 157.20.
