
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 157 - RULES FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE MARINE ENVIRONMENT RELATING TO TANK VESSELS CARRYING OIL IN BULK
##### Subpart A - General
###### § 157.04 Authorization of classification societies.

(a) The Coast Guard may authorize any classification society (CS) to perform certain plan reviews, certifications, and inspections required by this part on vessels classed by that CS, except that only U.S. classification societies may be authorized to perform those plan reviews, inspections, and certifications for U.S. vessels.

(b) If a CS desires authorization to perform the plan reviews, certifications, and inspections required under this part, it must submit to the Commandant (CG-CVC), Attn: Office of Commercial Vessel Compliance, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7501, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7501, evidence from the governments concerned showing that they have authorized the CS to inspect and certify vessels on their behalf under the MARPOL 73/78.

(c) The Coast Guard notifies the CS in writing whether or not it is accepted as an authorized CS. If authorization is refused, reasons for the refusal are included.

(d) Acceptance as an authorized CS terminates unless the following are met:

(1) The authorized CS must have each Coast Guard regulation that is applicable to foreign vessels on the navigable waters of the United States.

(2) Each issue concerning equivalents to the regulations in this part must be referred to the Coast Guard for determination.

(3) Copies of any plans, calculations, records of inspections, or other documents relating to any plan review, inspection, or certification performed to meet this part must be made available to the Coast Guard.

(4) Each document certified under §§ 157.116(a)(2), 157.118(b)(1)(ii), and 157.216(b)(1)(ii) must be marked with the name or seal of the authorized CS.

(5) A copy of the final documentation that is issued to each vessel that is certified under this part must be referred to the Commandant (CG-CVC), Attn: Office of Commercial Vessel Compliance, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7501, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7501.
