
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 157 - RULES FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE MARINE ENVIRONMENT RELATING TO TANK VESSELS CARRYING OIL IN BULK
##### Subpart B - Design, Equipment, and Installation
###### ยง 157.08 Applicability of subpart B.

(a) Sections 157.10d and 157.11(g) apply to each vessel to which this part applies.

(b) Sections 157.11 (a) through (f), 157.12, 157.15, 157.19(b)(3), 157.33, and 157.37 apply to each vessel to which this part applies that carries 200 cubic meters or more of crude oil or products in bulk as cargo, as well as to each oceangoing oil tanker to which this part applies of 150 gross tons or more. These sections do not apply to a foreign vessel which remains beyond the navigable waters of the United States and does not transfer oil cargo at a port or place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.

(c) Section 157.21 applies to each oil tanker to which this part applies of 150 gross tons or more that is oceangoing or that operates on the Great Lakes. This section does not apply to a foreign vessel which remains beyond the navigable waters of the United States and does not transfer oil cargo at a port or place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.

(d) Sections in subpart B of 33 CFR part 157 that are not specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section apply to each oceangoing oil tanker to which this part applies of 150 gross tons or more, unless otherwise indicated in paragraphs (e) through (m) of this section. These sections do not apply to a foreign vessel which remains beyond the navigable waters of the United States and does not transfer oil cargo at a port or place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.

(e) Sections 157.11 (a) through (f), 157.12, and 157.15 do not apply to a vessel, except an oil tanker, that carries less than 1,000 cubic meters of crude oil or products in bulk as cargo and which retains oily mixtures on board and discharges them to a reception facility.

(f) Sections 157.11 (a) through (f), 157.12, 157.13, and 157.15 do not apply to a tank vessel that carries only asphalt, carbon black feedstock, or other products with similar physical properties, such as specific gravity and cohesive and adhesive characteristics, that inhibit effective product/water separation and monitoring.

(g) Sections 157.11 (a) through (f), 157.12, 157.13, 157.15, and 157.23 do not apply to a tank barge that cannot ballast cargo tanks or wash cargo tanks while underway.

(h) Sections 157.19 and 157.21 do not apply to a tank barge that is certificated by the Coast Guard for limited short protected coastwise routes if the barge is otherwise constructed and certificated for service exclusively on inland routes.

(i) Section 157.09(d) does not apply to any:

(1) U.S. vessel in domestic trade that is constructed under a contract awarded before January 8, 1976;

(2) U.S. vessel in foreign trade that is constructed under a contract awarded before April 1, 1977; or

(3) Foreign vessel that is constructed under a contract awarded before April 1, 1977.

(j) Sections 157.09 and 157.10a do not apply to a new vessel that:

(1) Is constructed under a building contract awarded after June 1, 1979;

(2) In the absence of a building contract, has the keel laid or is at a similar stage of construction after January 1, 1980;

(3) Is delivered after June 1, 1982; or

(4) Has undergone a major conversion for which:

(i) The contract is awarded after June 1, 1979;

(ii) In the absence of a contract, conversion is begun after January 1, 1980; or

(iii) Conversion is completed after June 1, 1982.

(k) Sections 157.09(b)(3), 157.10(c)(3), 157.10a(d)(3), and 157.10b(b)(3) do not apply to tank barges.

(l) Section 157.10b does not apply to tank barges if they do not carry ballast while they are engaged in trade involving the transfer of crude oil from an offshore oil exploitation or production facility on the Outer Continental Shelf of the United States.

(m) Section 157.12 does not apply to a U.S. vessel that:

(1) Is granted an exemption under Subpart F of this part; or

(2) Is engaged solely in voyages that are:

(i) Between ports or places within the United States, its territories or possessions;

(ii) Of less than 72 hours in length; and

(iii) At all times within 50 nautical miles of the nearest land.

(n) Section 157.10d does not apply to:

(1) A vessel that operates exclusively beyond the navigable waters of the United States and the United States Exclusive Economic Zone, as defined in 33 U.S.C. 2701(8);

(2) An oil spill response vessel;

(3) Before January 1, 2015-
