
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 157 - RULES FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE MARINE ENVIRONMENT RELATING TO TANK VESSELS CARRYING OIL IN BULK
##### Subpart B - Design, Equipment, and Installation
###### § 157.10 Segregated ballast tanks and crude oil washing systems for certain new vessels.

(a) This section applies to a new vessel that:

(1) Is constructed under a building contract awarded after June 1, 1979;

(2) In the absence of a building contract, has the keel laid or is at a similar stage of construction after January 1, 1980;

(3) Is delivered after June 1, 1982; or

(4) Has undergone a major conversion for which:

(i) The contract is awarded after June 1, 1979;

(ii) In the absence of a contract, conversion is begun after January 1, 1980; or

(iii) Conversion is completed after June 1, 1982.

(b) Each tank vessel under this section of 20,000 DWT or more that carries crude oil and of 30,000 DWT or more that carries products must have segregated ballast tanks that have a total capacity to allow the vessel to meet the draft and trim requirements in paragraph (c) of this section without recourse to the use of cargo tanks for water ballast.

(c) In any ballast condition during any part of a voyage, including that of lightweight with only segregated ballast, each tank vessel under paragraph (b) of this section must have the capability of meeting each of the following:

(1) The molded draft amidship (dm) in meters, without taking into account vessel deformation, must not be less than dm in the following mathematical relationship:

(2) The drafts at the forward and after perpendiculars must correspond to those determined by the draft amidship under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, in association with a trim by the stern of no more than 0.015L.

(3) The minimum draft at the after perpendicular is that which is necessary to obtain full immersion of the propeller.

(d) Segregated ballast tanks required in paragraph (b) of this section, voids, and other spaces that do not carry cargo must be distributed:

(1) For a vessel to which § 157.10d applies, in accordance with § 157.10d(c)(4); or,

(2) For a vessel to which § 157.10d does not apply, in accordance with the procedure contained in appendix C to this part.

(e) Each tank vessel under this section of 20,000 DWT or more that carries crude oil must have a crude oil washing system that meets the design, equipment, and installation requirements in subpart D of this part.

(f) Each tank vessel under this section may be designed to carry ballast water in cargo tanks as allowed under § 157.35.
