
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 157 - RULES FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE MARINE ENVIRONMENT RELATING TO TANK VESSELS CARRYING OIL IN BULK
##### Subpart B - Design, Equipment, and Installation
###### § 157.10d Double hulls on tank vessels.
####### h,h,w,

(ii) For a vessel of less than 5,000 DWT: Not less than the distanceabove the line of the mid-ship flat bottom, as shown in Figure 157.10d(c)(3)(ii) and specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. At levels greater thanabove the line of the mid-ship flat bottom, not less than the distanceas shown in Figure 157.10d(c)(3)(ii) and specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(4) For a vessel to which § 157.10(b) applies that is built under a contract awarded after September 11, 1992.

(i) The aggregate volume of the double sides, double bottom, forepeak tanks, and afterpeak tanks must not be less than the capacity of segregated ballast tanks required under § 157.10(b). Segregated ballast tanks that may be provided in addition to those required under § 157.10(b) may be located anywhere within the vessel.

(ii) Double side and double bottom tanks used to meet the requirements of § 157.10(b) must be located as uniformly as practicable along the cargo tank length. Large inboard extensions of individual double side and double bottom tanks, which result in a reduction of overall side or bottom protection, must be avoided.

(d) A vessel of less than 10,000 DWT that is constructed and certificated for service exclusively on inland or limited short protected coastwise routes must be fitted with double sides and a double bottom as follows:

(1) A minimum of 61 cm. (2 ft.) from the inboard side of the side shell plate, extending the full depth of the side or from the main deck to the top of the double bottom, measured at right angles to the side shell; and

(2) A minimum of 61 cm. (2 ft.) from the top of the bottom shell plating, along the full breadth of the vessel's bottom, measured at right angles to the bottom shell.

(3) For a vessel to which paragraph (a)(4) of this section applies, the width of the double sides and the depth of the double bottom may be 38 cm. (15 in.), in lieu of the dimensions specified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section, provided that the double side and double bottom tanks were fitted under a construction or conversion contract awarded prior to June 30, 1990.

(4) For a vessel built under a contract awarded after September 11, 1992, a minimum 46 cm. (18 in.) clearance for passage between framing must be maintained throughout the double sides and double bottom.

(e) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, a vessel must not carry any oil in any tank extending forward of:

(1) The collision bulkhead; or

(2) In the absence of a collision bulkhead, the transverse plane perpendicular to the centerline through a point located:

(i) The lesser of 10 meters (32.8 ft.) or 5 percent of the vessel length, but in no case less than 1 meter (39 in.), aft of the forward perpendicular;

(ii) On a vessel of less than 10,000 DWT tons that is constructed and certificated for service exclusively on inland or limited short protected coastwise routes, the lesser of 7.62 meters (25 ft.) or 5 percent of the vessel length, but in no case less than 61 cm. (2 ft.), aft of the headlog or stem at the freeboard deck; or

(iii) On each vessel which operates exclusively as a box or trail barge, 61 cm. (2 ft.) aft of the headlog.

(3) This paragraph does not apply to independent fuel oil tanks that must be located on or above the main deck within the areas described in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section to serve adjacent deck equipment that cannot be located further aft. Such tanks must be as small and as far aft as is practicable.

(f) On each vessel, the cargo tank length must not extend aft to any point closer to the stern than the distance equal to the required width of the double side, as prescribed in § 157.10d(c)(1) or § 157.10d(d)(1).
