
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 157 - RULES FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE MARINE ENVIRONMENT RELATING TO TANK VESSELS CARRYING OIL IN BULK
##### Subpart B - Design, Equipment, and Installation
###### ยง 157.12c Construction, maintenance, security, calibration, and training.

(a) The oil discharge monitoring and control system must be designed to ensure that user access is restricted to essential controls. Access beyond these controls must be available for emergency maintenance and temporary repair but must require the breaking of security seals or activation of another device, which indicates an entry to the equipment.

(b) The seals must be of a design that only the manufacturer or the manufacturer's agent can replace the seals or reset the system following inspection and permanent repairs to the equipment.

(c) The accuracy of the monitoring system must be verified during International Oil Pollution Prevention certificate renewal surveys. The calibration certificate certifying date of last calibration check must be retained on board for inspection purposes.

(d) The monitoring system may have several scales as appropriate for its intended use. The recording device fitted to a meter which has more than one scale must indicate the scale which is in use.

(e) Simple means must be provided aboard ship to check on instrument drift, repeatability of the instrument reading, and the ability to re-zero the instrument.

(f) Ship staff training must include familiarization in the operation and the maintenance of the equipment.

(g) The routine maintenance of the monitoring system and troubleshooting procedures must be clearly defined in the Operating and Maintenance Manual. All routine maintenance and repairs must be recorded.
