
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 157 - RULES FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE MARINE ENVIRONMENT RELATING TO TANK VESSELS CARRYING OIL IN BULK
##### Subpart B - Design, Equipment, and Installation
###### ยง 157.12d Technical specifications.
####### Sampling system.

(b)(1) Sampling points must be located so relevant samples can be obtained from those outlets used for operational discharges in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. The sampling probes located in the overboard discharge lines and the piping system connecting the sampling probes to the oil content meter must meet the requirements of this paragraph.

(2) The piping and probes must be-

(i) Of a material resistant to fire, corrosion, and oil; and

(ii) Of adequate strength and properly jointed and supported.

(3) The system must have a stop-valve fitted adjacent to each probe, except that, where the probe is mounted in a cargo line, two stop-valves must be fitted, in series, in the sample line. One of these may be the remote controlled sample selector valve.

(4) Sampling probes must be arranged for easy withdrawal and must, as far as practicable, be mounted at an accessible location in a vertical section of the discharge line. Should it be necessary to fit sampling probes in a horizontal section of the discharge line it must be ascertained, during the installation survey, that the pipe runs full of liquid at all times during the discharge of the effluent. Sampling probes must normally penetrate inside the discharge pipe to a distance of one quarter the diameter of that pipe.

(5) Means must be provided for cleaning the probes and piping system by the provision of permanent clean water flushing arrangements or an equivalent method. The design of the probes and piping must be such as to minimize their clogging by oil, oily residue, and other matter.

(6) The velocity of the fluid in the piping must be such that, taking into consideration the length of the piping, the overall response time must be as short as possible between an alteration in the mixture being pumped and the alteration in the oil content meter reading. In no case should the response time, including the response time of the oil content meter, be more than 40 seconds.

(7) The location of sampling probes in relation to any point of flow diversion to a slop tank must be selected with regard to the need for sampling the oily water in the recirculation mode.

(8) The arrangements for driving the sampling pump or any other pumps used in the system must account for the safety requirements of the space in which the pump is located. Any bulkhead penetration between a hazardous and a non-hazardous area must be of a design meeting the requirements of 46 CFR 32.60-20 and 46 CFR subpart 111.105.

(9) The flushing arrangement must be such that where necessary it can be utilized for test-running and stabilizing the oil content meter and correcting for zero setting.

(10) Sample water returning to the slop tank must not be allowed to free-fall into the tank. In tankers equipped with an inert gas system, a water seal meeting the requirements of 46 CFR 32.53-10(b) must be arranged in the piping leading to a slop tank.

(11) A valve must be provided for the manual collection of samples from the inlet piping to the oil content meter at a point downstream of any sampling pump.
