
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 157 - RULES FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE MARINE ENVIRONMENT RELATING TO TANK VESSELS CARRYING OIL IN BULK
##### Subpart B - Design, Equipment, and Installation
###### ยง 157.12d Technical specifications.
####### Flow rate indicating system.

(c)(1) A flow meter for measuring the rate of discharge must be installed in a vertical section of a discharge line or in any other section of a discharge line as appropriate, so as to be always filled with the liquid being discharged.

(2) A flow meter must employ an operating principle which is suitable for shipboard use and, where relevant, can be used in large diameter pipes.

(3) A flow meter must be suitable for the full range of flow rates that may be encountered during normal operation. Alternatively, arrangements such as the use of two flow meters of different ranges or a restriction of the operational flow rate range may be employed if necessary to meet this requirement.

(4) The flow meter, as installed, must have an accuracy of +/-10 percent, or better, of the instantaneous rate of discharge throughout the operating range for discharging the effluent.

(5) Any component part of the flow meter in contact with the effluent should be of corrosion-resistant and oil-resistant material of adequate strength.

(6) The design of the flow metering arrangements must account for the safety requirements of the space in which such metering arrangements are located.
