
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 157 - RULES FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE MARINE ENVIRONMENT RELATING TO TANK VESSELS CARRYING OIL IN BULK
##### Subpart B - Design, Equipment, and Installation
###### ยง 157.12d Technical specifications.
####### Processor and transmitting device.

(g)(1) The processor of a control section must receive signals from the oil content meter, the flow rate indicating system and the ship's speed indicating system at time intervals not exceeding 5 seconds and must automatically compute the following:

(i) Instantaneous rate of discharge of oil in liters per nautical mile; and

(ii) Total quantity of oil discharged during the voyage in cubic meters or liters.

(2) When the limits imposed by ยง 157.37(a)(3) and (4) are exceeded, the processor must provide alarms and provide command signals to the overboard discharge control arrangement, which will cause the discharge of effluent into the sea to stop.

(3) The processor must normally include a device for the continuous generation of time and date information. Alternative arrangements that ensure the automatic and continuous reception of time and date information from an external source may be approved by the Marine Safety Center.

(4) In the event of power failure the processor must retain its memory in respect to computation of the total quantity of oil discharged, time, and date. A printout of data must be obtained when the monitoring system is operating with manual override, but the printout of data is not required if, when the power fails, the monitoring system activates the overboard discharge control to stop the discharge of effluent.
