
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 157 - RULES FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE MARINE ENVIRONMENT RELATING TO TANK VESSELS CARRYING OIL IN BULK
##### Subpart B - Design, Equipment, and Installation
###### ยง 157.12d Technical specifications.
####### Recording devices.

(h)(1) The recording device of a control section must include a digital printer, which may be formatted electronically. The recorded parameters must be explicitly identified on the printout. The printout must be legible and must remain so once removed from the recording device and must be retained for at least 3 years.

(2) The data to be automatically recorded must include at least the following:

(i) Instantaneous rate of discharge of oil (liters per nautical mile);

(ii) Instantaneous oil content (ppm);

(iii) The total quantity of oil discharged (cubic meters or liters);

(iv) Time and date (GMT, Greenwich Mean Time);

(v) Ship's speed in knots;

(vi) Ship's position-latitude and longitude;

(vii) Effluent flow rate;

(viii) Status of the overboard discharge control or arrangement;

(ix) Oil type selector setting, where applicable;

(x) Alarm condition;

(xi) Failure, including, but not limited to, fault or no flow; and

(xii) Override action, including, but not limited to, manual override, flushing, and calibration. Any information inserted manually as a result of an override action must be identified as such on the printout.

(3) Data required in paragraph (h)(2) of this section must be printed out or may be stored electronically with printout capability, with the following minimum frequency:

(i) When the discharge is started;

(ii) When the discharge is stopped;

(iii) At intervals of not more than 10 minutes (except when the system is in stand-by mode);

(iv) When an alarm condition develops;

(v) When normal conditions are restored;

(vi) Whenever the computed rate of discharge varies by 10 liters per nautical mile;

(vii) When zero-setting or calibration modes are selected; and

(viii) On manual command.

(4) The recording device must be located in a position easily accessible to the person in charge of the overboard discharge operation.
