
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 157 - RULES FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE MARINE ENVIRONMENT RELATING TO TANK VESSELS CARRYING OIL IN BULK
##### Subpart B - Design, Equipment, and Installation
###### ยง 157.12g Plan approval requirements.
####### A description of the monitoring system.

(a)The description must include a diagram of the pumping and piping arrangements identifying the operational outlets for dirty ballast and oil-contaminated water from the cargo-tank area and compatible with the operational requirements set out in the oil tanker's cargo and ballast handling manuals. Special considerations will be given to installations in oil tankers, which have unusual pumping and piping arrangements.

(b) Equipment manuals, supplied by manufacturers, which must contain details of the major components of the monitoring system.

(c) An operations and technical manual for the complete monitoring system which is proposed to be installed in the oil tanker. This manual must cover the arrangements and operation of the system as a whole and must specifically describe parts of the system, which are not covered by the manufacturer's equipment manuals.

(d) The operations section of the manual must include normal operational procedures and procedures for the discharge of oily water in the event of malfunction of the equipment.

(e) The technical section of the manual must include adequate information (description and diagram of the pumping and piping arrangements of the monitoring system and electrical/electronic wiring diagrams) to enable fault finding and must include instructions for keeping a maintenance record.

(f) A technical installation specification defining, among other things, the location and mounting of components, arrangements for maintaining the integrity of the boundary between safe and hazardous spaces, and the arrangement of the sample piping, including calculation of the sample response time referred to in ยง 157.12d(b)(6). The installation must comply with manufacturer's specific installation criteria.

(g) A copy of the certificate of type approval for the oil content meter.

(h) Technical documentation relevant to other main components of the monitoring system. This documentation must include the vibration report for the control section of the monitoring section.

(i) A recommended test and checkout procedure specific to the monitoring system installed. This procedure must specify all the checks to be carried out in a functional test by the installation contractor and must provide guidance for the surveyor when carrying out the onboard survey of the monitoring system and confirming the installation reflects the manufacturer's specific installation criteria.
