
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 157 - RULES FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE MARINE ENVIRONMENT RELATING TO TANK VESSELS CARRYING OIL IN BULK
##### Subpart D - Crude Oil Washing (COW) System on Tank Vessels
###### Design, Equipment, and Installation
####### § 157.128 Stripping system.

(a) Each tank vessel having a COW system under § 157.10(e), § 157.10a(a)(2), or § 157.10c(b)(2) must have a stripping system that is designed to remove crude oil from-

(1) Each cargo tank at 1.25 times the rate at which all the COW machines that are designed to simultaneously wash the bottom of the tank, are operating; and

(2) The bottom of each tank to allow the tank vessel to pass the inspection under § 157.140(a)(2).

(b) Each cargo tank must be designed to allow the level of crude oil in the tank to be determined by:

(1) Hand dipping at the aftermost portion of the tank and three other locations; or

(2) Any other means accepted by the Commandant.

(c) Each stripping system must have at least one of the following devices for stripping oil from each cargo tank:

(1) A positive displacement pump.

(2) A self-priming centrifugal pump.

(3) An eductor

(4) Any other device accepted by the Commandant.

(d) There must be a means in the stripping system piping between the device under paragraph (c) of this section and each cargo tank to isolate each tank from the device.

(e) If the stripping system has a positive displacement pump or a self-priming centrifugal pump, the stripping system must have the following:

(1) In the stripping system piping:

(i) A pressure gauge at the inlet connection to the pump; and

(ii) A pressure gauge at the discharge connection to the pump.

(2) At least one of the following monitoring devices to indicate operation of the pump.

(i) Flow indicator.

(ii) Stroke counter.

(iii) Revolution counter.

(f) If the stripping system has an eductor, the stripping system must have:

(1) A pressure gauge at each driving fluid intake and at each discharge; and

(2) A pressure/vacuum gauge at each suction intake.

(g) The equipment required under paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section must have indicating devices in the cargo control room or another location that is accepted by the Commandant.
