
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 157 - RULES FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE MARINE ENVIRONMENT RELATING TO TANK VESSELS CARRYING OIL IN BULK
##### Subpart F - Exemption From ยง 157.10a or ยง 157.10c
###### ยง 157.302 Applying for an exemption or requesting modification of an exemption.

(a) Each application for an exemption or modification must be in writing and submitted to the Commandant (CG-CVC), Attn: Office of Commercial Vessel Compliance, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7501, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7501.

(b) Each application for exemption must include the following: (1) The name and official number of the vessel for which the exemption is requested.

(2) A list of each port or place where the vessel would load cargo.

(3) The name, address, and telephone number for each shore-based reception facility at each port listed under paragraph (b)(2) of this section where the vessel would discharge its ballast water and oil cargo residues, including:

(i) The name or title of the person at each facility who should be contacted for information concerning the operation of the reception facility; and

(ii) A statement from the facility owner disclosing whether or not, based on current operating conditions, the facility has the capability of processing the anticipated volume and type of discharges from the vessel without adversely affecting the service of the facility to current users.

(4) The number of the permit under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES permit) issued to each listed shore-based reception facility.

(5) A list of each type of oil cargo that the vessel would load.

(6) A description of the method by which the vessel would discharge ballast water and oil cargo residues to each listed shore based reception facility.

(c) Each request for modification to an exemption must include the following:

(1) The name and official number of the vessel for which the modification to the exemption is requested.

(2) The reason for requesting modification of the exemption.

(3) Any additional information which is pertinent to the modification.
