
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 157 - RULES FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE MARINE ENVIRONMENT RELATING TO TANK VESSELS CARRYING OIL IN BULK
##### Appendix B to Part 157 - Subdivision and Stability Assumptions
###### Damage Assumptions.

3.

(a) Damage is applied to all conceivable locations along the length of the vessel as follows:

(1) For a vessel of more than 225 meters in length, anywhere in the vessel's length.

(2) For a vessel of more than 150 meters, but not exceeding 225 meters in length, anywhere in the vessel's length except where the after or forward bulkhead bounding a machinery space located aft is involved in the damage assumption. The machinery space is calculated as a single floodable compartment.

(3) For a vessel 150 meters or less in length, anywhere in the vessel's length between adjacent transverse bulkheads except the machinery space.

(b) The extent and the character of the assumed side or bottom damage, as defined in section 2 of Appendix A of this part, must be applied except longitudinal bottom damage within 0.3L from the forward perpendicular must be assumed to be the same as that for side damage. If any damage of lesser extent results in a more severe condition, such damage must be assumed.

(c) If damage involves transverse bulkheads as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, transverse watertight bulkheads must be spaced at least at a distance equal to the longitudinal extent of the assumed damage specified in paragraph (b) of this section in order to be considered effective. Where transverse bulkheads are spaced at a lesser distance, one or more of these bulkheads within such extent of damage must be assumed as nonexistent for the purpose of determining flooded compartments.

(d) If the damages between adjacent transverse watertight bulkheads is within the definition contained in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, no main transverse bulkhead or a transverse bulkhead bounding side tanks or double bottom tanks is to be assumed damaged, unless:

(1) the spacing of the adjacent bulkheads is less than the longitudinal extent of assumed damage defined in paragraph (b) of this section; or

(2) there is a step or a recess in a transverse bulkhead of more than 3.05 meters in length, located within the extent of penetrations of assumed damage. The step formed by the after peak bulkhead and after peak tank top is not regarded as a step for these calculations.

(e) If pipes, ducts, or tunnels are situated within the assumed extent of damage, there must be arrangements so that progressive flooding may not thereby extend to compartments other than those assumed to be floodable for each case of damage.

(f) For oil tankers of 20,000 DWT and above, the damage assumptions must be supplemented by the following assumed bottom raking damage:

(1) Longitudinal extent:

(i) For ships of 75,000 DWT and above, 0.6L measured from the forward perpendicular.

(ii) For ships of less than 75,000 DWT, 0.4L measured from the forward perpendicular.

(2) Transverse extent: B/3 anywhere in the bottom.

(3) Vertical extent: Breach of the outer hull.
