
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 157 - RULES FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE MARINE ENVIRONMENT RELATING TO TANK VESSELS CARRYING OIL IN BULK
##### Appendix C to Part 157 - Procedure for Determining Distribution of Segregated Ballast Tanks To Provide Protection Against Oil Outflow in the Event of Grounding, Ramming, or Collision
###### Criteria for determining the segregated ballast tanks, voids, and other spaces that do not carry cargo.

(b) PAand PA:

The following criteria are to be met for a segregated ballast tank, void, or space that does not carry cargo, to be used in determining PAand PA:

(1) The minimum width of each wing tank or space, either of which extends for the full depth of the vessel's side or from the main deck to the top of the double bottoms is 2 meters or more. The width is measured inboard from the vessel's side shell plating at right angles to the vessel's center line. If a wing tank or space has a width anywhere within it that is less than 2 meters, that wing tank or space is not used when calculating PA.

(2) The minimum vertical depth of each double bottom tank or space is B/15 or 2 meters, whichever is smaller. If a double bottom tank or space has a depth less than B/15 or 2 meters, whichever is smaller, anywhere within it, the double bottom or space is not to be used when calculating PA.

(3) The minimum width of a wing tank or space is not measured in the way of-

(i) the turn of the bilge area; or

(ii) a rounded gunwale area.

(4) The minimum depth of a double bottom tank or space is not measured in the way of the turn of the bilge area.
