
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 157 - RULES FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE MARINE ENVIRONMENT RELATING TO TANK VESSELS CARRYING OIL IN BULK
##### Appendix D to Part 157 - Example of a Procedure for Dedicated Clean Ballast Tanks Operations
###### Example Procedure.

2.Dedicated clean ballast tanks operational procedure:

(a) Before arrival at the loading port:

(1) Transfer all remaining oily mixtures to a cargo tank.

(2) Ensure that the pumping and piping designated for clean ballast operation have been properly cleaned to accommodate simultaneous discharge of clean ballast while loading.

(3) Ensure that all valves to the slop tank and the cargo tanks are closed.

(4) Perform visual inspection of all dedicated clean ballast tanks and their contents, if any, for signs of contamination.

(5) Discharge a sufficient amount of clean ballast water to ensure that remaining ballast water and cargo to be loaded will not exceed the permissible deadweight or draft. Leave a sufficient amount of water for flushing the piping, and as a minimum, a quantity equal to 10 times the volume of the affected piping.

(6) Ensure that all valves to the dedicated clean ballast tanks are closed.

(7) If no further ballast discharge is anticipated, drain the clean ballast piping.

(b) In the loading port:

(1) Perform normal loading operations of cargo tanks.

(2) Ensure sufficient slop tank capacity is available for subsequent reception of cargo pump and piping flushings.

(3) When applicable, discharge remaining clean ballast before entire piping system is used for loading. Leave the required minimum quantity of flushing water in ballast tanks.

(4) Ensure that all valves to the dedicated clean ballast tanks are closed.

(5) Ensure that all valves to the cargo tank are closed upon completion of loading.

(c) After departure from the loading port:

(1) Flush appropriate pumping and piping with sufficient water from dedicated clean ballast tanks into a slop tank.

(2) Ensure that valves to the slop tank are closed before pumping the remaining clean water overboard and monitoring oil content of the water.

(3) Ensure that all valves in the dedicated clean ballast tanks are closed.

(d) Before arrival at the unloading port:

(1) Ensure that all valves to the slop tank and cargo tanks are closed.

(2) Recheck that the pumping and piping designated for clean ballast operation have been properly cleaned.

(3) Ballast through clean cargo pumps and piping, considering the port's draft requirements.

(4) Ensure that all valves in the dedicated clean ballast tanks are closed.

(e) In the unloading port:

(1) Allocate pumping and piping intended for clean ballast operation.

(2) Perform normal unloading operations.

(3) As soon as draft conditions permit, complete ballasting to departure conditions.

(4) Ensure that all valves to the dedicated clean ballast tanks are closed.

(5) Complete unloading.

(f) After departure from the unloading port:

(1) Flush pumps and piping servicing the dedicated clean ballast tanks into the slop tank.

(2) Top up dedicated clean ballast tanks.

(3) Process the slop tank content in accordance with load on top (LOT) procedures.
