
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 158 - RECEPTION FACILITIES FOR OIL, NOXIOUS LIQUID SUBSTANCES, AND GARBAGE
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 158.160 Issuance and termination of a Certificate of Adequacy.

(a) After reviewing an application made under ยง 158.140(a)(1), the COTP determines by inspection the following:

(1) When the application is made on Form A, whether or not the reception facility meets Subpart B of this part.

(2) When the application is made on Form B, whether or not the reception facility and the port, or the reception facility and the terminal, meet Subpart C of this part.

(b) After the inspections under paragraph (a) are conducted, and after consulting with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or his or her designee, the COTP.

(1) Issues a Certificate of Adequacy to the person in charge for the port or terminal; or

(2) Denies the application and informs the person in charge in writing of the reasons for the denial.

(c) After reviewing an application made under ยง 158.140(a)(2), the COTP-

(1) Issues a Certificate of Adequacy to the person in charge for the port or terminal; or

(2) Denies the application and informs the person in charge in writing of the reasons for the denial.

(d) In order to remain valid, the Certificate of Adequacy must have attached to it any waivers that are granted under ยง 158.150 when the Certificate of Adequacy is issued.

(e) Each Certificate of Adequacy remains valid for a period of five years or until-

(1) Suspended;

(2) Revoked; or

(3) This part no longer applies to the port or terminal.
