
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 159 - MARINE SANITATION DEVICES
##### Subpart B - Certification Procedures
###### § 159.15 Certification.

(a) The recognized facility must evaluate the information that is submitted by the manufacturer in accordance with § 159.14(b) (1), (2), and (3), evaluate the device for compliance with §§ 159.53 through 159.95, test the device in accordance with § 159.101 and submit to the Commanding Officer (MSC), Attn: Marine Safety Center, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7430, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7430 the following:

(1) The information that is required under § 159.14(b);

(2) A report on compliance evaluation;

(3) A description of each test;

(4) Test results; and

(5) A statement, that is signed by the person in charge of testing, that the test results are accurate and complete.

(b) The Coast Guard certifies a test device, on the design of the device, if it determines, after consideration of the information that is required under paragraph (a) of this section, that the device meets the requirements in Subpart C of this part.

(c) The Coast Guard notifies the manufacturer and recognized facility of its determination under paragraph (b) of this section. If the device is certified, the Coast Guard includes a certification number for the device. If certification is denied, the Coast Guard notifies the manufacturer and recognized facility of the requirements of this part that are not met. The manufacturer may appeal a denial to the Commanding Officer (MSC), Attn: Marine Safety Center, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7430, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7430.

(d) If upon re-examination of the test device, the Coast Guard determines that the device does not in fact comply with the requirements of Subpart C of this part, it may terminate the certification.
