
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 159 - MARINE SANITATION DEVICES
##### Subpart C - Design, Construction, and Testing
###### ยง 159.129 Safety: Ignition prevention test.

(a) Components of a device that are a potential ignition source in an explosive atmosphere must pass the test in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section or meet the requirements of paragraph (d) or have a specific warning in the instruction manual required by ยง 159.57 that the device should not be installed in an explosive atmosphere.

(b) Components protected by vapor exclusion must be placed in a chamber filled with a rich mixture of gasoline or propane in air with the pressure being varied from 0 to 2 psig once an hour for 8 hours. Vapor readings must be taken in the void being protected and must indicate a leakage less than 20 percent of the lower explosive limit of the mixture in the chamber.

(c) Components providing ignition protection by means other than vapor exclusion must be fitted with an ignition source, such as a spark plug, and a means of injecting an explosive mixture of gasoline or propane and air into the void that protects the component. Connections must be made so as to minimize any additional volume added to the protected void by the apparatus delivering the explosive mixture. The component must be placed in a chamber filled with an explosive mixture and there must be no ignition of the explosive mixture surrounding the component when the following tests are conducted:

(1) Using any overload protection that is part of the device, the potential ignition source must be operated for one half hour at 110 percent of its rated voltage, one half hour at 50 percent of its rated voltage and one half hour at 100 percent of its rated voltage with the motor or armature locked, if the potential ignition source is a motor or part of a motor's electrical circuit.

(2) With the explosive mixture in the protected void, the test installed ignition source must be activated 50 times.

(3) The tests paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of this section must be repeated with any plugs removed.

(d) Components that are certified as being intrinsically safe in accordance with the Instrument Society of America (RP 12.2) or explosion proof in accordance with the Underwriters Laboratories STD 698 in Class I, Group D hazardous locations (46 CFR 111.80-5(a)) need not be subjected to this testing.
