
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter O - Pollution
#### PART 159 - MARINE SANITATION DEVICES
##### Subpart E - Discharge of Effluents in Certain Alaskan Waters by Cruise Vessel Operations
###### ยง 159.315 Sewage and graywater discharge record book.

(a) While operating in the applicable waters of Alaska each cruise vessel shall maintain, in English, a legible Sewage and Graywater Discharge Record Book with the vessel's name and official number listed on the front cover and at the top of each page.

(b) Entries shall be made in the Sewage and Graywater Discharge Record Book whenever any of the following is released into the applicable waters of Alaska:

(1) Treated or untreated sewage;

(2) Graywater; or

(3) Sewage and graywater mixture.

(c) Each entry in the Sewage and Graywater Discharge Record Book shall, at a minimum, contain the following information:

(1) Name and location of each discharge port within the ship;

(2) Date the start of discharge occurred;

(3) Whether the effluent is treated or untreated sewage, graywater, or a sewage and graywater mixture and type of treatment used;

(4) Time discharge port is opened;

(5) Vessel's latitude and longitude at the time the discharge port is opened;

(6) Volume discharged in cubic meters;

(7) Flow rate of discharge in liters per minute;

(8) Time discharge port is secured;

(9) Vessel's latitude and longitude at the time the discharge port is secured; and

(10) Vessel's minimum speed during discharge.

(d) In the event of an emergency, accidental or other exceptional discharge of sewage or graywater, a statement shall be made in the Sewage and Graywater Discharge Record Book of the circumstances and reasons for the discharge and an immediate notification of the discharge shall be made to the COTP.

(e) Each entry of a discharge shall be recorded without delay and signed and dated by the person or persons in charge of the discharge concerned and each completed page shall be signed and dated by the master or other person having charge of the ship.

(f) The Sewage and Graywater Discharge Record Book shall be kept in such a place as to be readily available for inspection at all reasonable times and shall be kept on board the ship.

(g) The master or other person having charge of a ship required to keep a Sewage and Graywater Discharge Record Book shall be responsible for the maintenance of such record.

(h) The Sewage and Graywater Discharge Record Book shall be maintained on board for not less than three years.
