
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 160 - PORTS AND WATERWAYS SAFETY - GENERAL
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 160.7 Appeals.

(a) Any person directly affected by a safety zone or an order or direction issued under this subchapter may request reconsideration by the official who issued it or in whose name it was issued. This request may be made orally or in writing, and the decision of the official receiving the request may be rendered orally or in writing.

(b) Any person directly affected by the establishment of a safety zone or by an order or direction issued by, or on behalf of, a Captain of the Port may appeal to the District Commander through the Captain of the Port. The appeal must be in writing, except as allowed under paragraph (e) of this section, and shall contain complete supporting documentation and evidence which the appellant wishes to have considered. Upon receipt of the appeal, the District Commander may direct a representative to gather and submit documentation or other evidence which would be necessary or helpful to a resolution of the appeal. A copy of this documentation and evidence is made available to the appellant. The appellant is afforded five working days from the date of receipt to submit rebuttal materials. Following submission of all materials, the District Commander issues a ruling, in writing, on the appeal. Prior to issuing the ruling, the District Commander may, as a matter of discretion, allow oral presentation on the issues.

(c) Any person directly affected by the establishment of a safety zone or by an order or direction issued by, or on behalf of, a District Commander, or who receives an unfavorable ruling on an appeal taken under paragraph (b) of this section may appeal to the Area Commander through the District Commander. The appeal must be in writing, except as allowed under paragraph (e) of this section, and shall contain complete supporting documentation and evidence which the appellant wishes to have considered. Upon receipt of the appeal, the Area Commander may direct a representative to gather and submit documentation or other evidence which would be necessary or helpful to a resolution of the appeal. A copy of this documentation and evidence is made available to the appellant. The appellant is afforded five working days from the date of receipt to submit rebuttal materials. Following submission of all materials, the Area Commander issues a ruling, in writing, on the appeal. Prior to issuing the ruling, the Area Commander may, as a matter of discretion, allow oral presentation on the issues.

(d) Any person who receives an unfavorable ruling on an appeal taken under paragraph (c) of this section, may appeal to the Commandant (CG-5P), Attn: Assistant Commandant for Prevention, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7501, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7501. The appeal must be in writing, except as allowed under paragraph (e) of this section. The Area Commander forwards the appeal, all the documents and evidence which formed the record upon which the order or direction was issued or the ruling under paragraph (c) of this section was made, and any comments which might be relevant, to the Assistant Commandant for Prevention. A copy of this documentation and evidence is made available to the appellant. The appellant is afforded 5 working days from the date of receipt to submit rebuttal materials to the Assistant Commandant for Prevention. The decision of the Assistant Commandant for Prevention is based upon the materials submitted, without oral argument or presentation. The decision of the Assistant Commandant for Prevention is issued in writing and constitutes final agency action.

(e) If the delay in presenting a written appeal would have significant adverse impact on the appellant, the appeal under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section may initially be presented orally. If an initial presentation of the appeal is made orally, the appellant must submit the appeal in writing within five days of the oral presentation to the Coast Guard official to whom the presentation was made. The written appeal must contain, at a minimum, the basis for the appeal and a summary of the material presented orally. If requested, the official to whom the appeal is directed may stay the effect of the action while the ruling is being appealed.
