
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 160 - PORTS AND WATERWAYS SAFETY - GENERAL
##### Subpart C - Notification of Arrival, Hazardous Conditions, and Certain Dangerous Cargoes
###### ยง 160.202 Definitions.
####### Certain dangerous cargo

(CDC) includes any of the following:

(1) Division 1.1 or 1.2 explosives as defined in 49 CFR 173.50.

(2) Division 1.5D blasting agents for which a permit is required under 49 CFR 176.415 or, for which a permit is required as a condition of a Research and Special Programs Administration exemption.

(3) Division 2.3 "poisonous gas", as listed in 49 CFR 172.101 that is also a "material poisonous by inhalation" as defined in 49 CFR 171.8, and that is in a quantity in excess of 1 metric ton per vessel.

(4) Division 5.1 oxidizing materials for which a permit is required under 49 CFR 176.415 or for which a permit is required as a condition of a Research and Special Programs Administration exemption.

(5) A liquid material that has a primary or subsidiary classification of Division 6.1 "poisonous material" as listed in 49 CFR 172.101 that is also a "material poisonous by inhalation," as defined in 49 CFR 171.8 and that is in a bulk packaging, or that is in a quantity in excess of 20 metric tons per vessel when not in a bulk packaging.

(6) Class 7, "highway route controlled quantity" radioactive material or "fissile material, controlled shipment," as defined in 49 CFR 173.403.

(7) All bulk liquefied gas cargo carried under 46 CFR 151.50-31 or listed in 46 CFR 154.7 that is flammable and/or toxic and that is not carried as certain dangerous cargo residue (CDC residue).

(8) The following bulk liquids except when carried as CDC residue:

(i) Acetone cyanohydrin;

(ii) Allyl alcohol;

(iii) Chlorosulfonic acid;

(iv) Crotonaldehyde;

(v) Ethylene chlorohydrin;

(vi) Ethylene dibromide;

(vii) Methacrylonitrile;

(viii) Oleum (fuming sulfuric acid); and

(ix) Propylene oxide, alone or mixed with ethylene oxide.

(9) The following bulk solids:

(i) Ammonium nitrate listed as a Division 5.1 (oxidizing) material in 49 CFR 172.101 except when carried as CDC residue; and

(ii) Ammonium nitrate based fertilizer listed as a Division 5.1 (oxidizing) material in 49 CFR 172.101 except when carried as CDC residue.
