
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 160 - PORTS AND WATERWAYS SAFETY - GENERAL
##### Subpart C - Notification of Arrival, Hazardous Conditions, and Certain Dangerous Cargoes
###### ยง 160.204 Exemptions and exceptions.

(a) Except for reporting notice of hazardous conditions, the following vessels are exempt from requirements in this subpart:

(1) A passenger or offshore supply vessel when employed in the exploration for or in the removal of oil, gas, or mineral resources on the continental shelf.

(2) An oil spill response vessel (OSRV) when engaged in actual spill response operations or during spill response exercises.

(3) After December 31, 2015, a vessel required by 33 CFR 165.830 or 165.921 to report its movements, its cargo, or the cargo in barges it is towing.

(4) A United States or Canadian vessel engaged in the salving operations of any property wrecked, or rendering aid and assistance to any vessels wrecked, disabled, or in distress, in waters specified in Article II of the 1908 Treaty of Extradition, Wrecking and Salvage (35 Stat. 2035; Treaty Series 502).

(5) The following vessels neither carrying certain dangerous cargo nor controlling another vessel carrying certain dangerous cargo:

(i) A foreign vessel 300 gross tons or less not engaged in commercial service.

(ii) A vessel operating exclusively within a single Captain of the Port zone. Captain of the Port zones are defined in 33 CFR part 3.

(iii) A U.S. towing vessel and a U.S. barge operating solely between ports or places of the contiguous 48 states, Alaska, and the District of Columbia.

(iv) A public vessel.

(v) Except for a tank vessel, a U.S. vessel operating solely between ports or places of the United States on the Great Lakes.

(vi) A U.S. vessel 300 gross tons or less, engaged in commercial service not coming from a foreign port or place.

(vii) Each ferry on a fixed route that is described in an accurate schedule that is submitted by the ferry operator, along with information in paragraphs (a)(5)(vii)(A) through (J) of this section, to the Captain of the Port for each port or place of destination listed in the schedule at least 24 hours in advance of the first date and time of arrival listed on the schedule. At least 24 hours before the first date and time of arrival listed on the ferry schedule, each ferry operator who submits a schedule under paragraph (a)(5)(vii) of this section must also provide the following information to the Captain of the Port for each port or place of destination listed in the schedule for the ferry, and if the schedule or the following submitted information changes, the ferry operator must submit an updated schedule at least 24 hours in advance of the first date and time of arrival listed on the new schedule and updates on the following items whenever the submitted information is no longer accurate:

(A) Name of the vessel;

(B) Country of registry of the vessel;

(C) Call sign of the vessel;

(D) International Maritime Organization (IMO) international number or, if the vessel does not have an assigned IMO international number, the official number of the vessel;

(E) Name of the registered owner of the vessel;

(F) Name of the operator of the vessel;

(G) Name of the vessel's classification society or recognized organization, if applicable;

(H) Each port or place of destination;

(I) Estimated dates and times of arrivals at and departures from these ports or places; and

(J) Name and telephone number of a 24-hour point of contact.

(b) A vessel less than 500 gross tons is not required to submit the International Safety Management (ISM) Code Notice (Entry 7 in Table 160.206 of ยง 160.206).

(c) A U.S. vessel is not required to submit the International Ship and Port Facility Security (ISPS) Code Notice information (Entry 8 in Table 160.206 of ยง 160.206).
