
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 162 - INLAND WATERWAYS NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
##### ยง 162.65 All waterways tributary to the Atlantic Ocean south of Chesapeake Bay and all waterways tributary to the Gulf of Mexico east and south of St. Marks, Fla.
###### Stoppage in waterway, anchorage or mooring.

(2)(i) No vessels or rafts shall anchor or moor in any of the land cuts or other narrow parts of the waterway, except in case of an emergency. Whenever it becomes necessary for a vessel or raft to stop in any such portions of the waterway it shall be securely fastened to one bank and as close to the bank as possible. This shall be done only at such a place and under such conditions as will not obstruct or prevent the passage of other vessels or craft. Stoppages shall be only for such periods as may be necessary.

(ii) No vessel or raft will be allowed to use any portion of the fairway as a mooring place except temporarily as authorized above without the written permission from the District Commander.

(iii) When tied up, all vessels must be moored by bow and stern lines. Rafts and tows shall be secured at sufficiently close intervals to insure their not being drawn away from the bank by winds, currents or the suction of passing vessels. Tow lines shall be shortened so that the different parts of the tow shall be as close together as possible. In narrow sections, no vessel or raft shall be tied abreast of another.

(iv) Lights shall be displayed in accordance with provisions of the Navigation Rules (33 CFR Subchapter E).

(v) No vessel, even if fastened to the bank as prescribed in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, shall be left without a sufficient crew to care for it properly.

(vi) Vessels will not be permitted to load or unload in any of the land cuts except as a regular established landing or wharf without written permission secured in advance from the District Commander.

(vii) No vessel, regardless of size, shall anchor in a dredged channel or narrow portion of a waterway for the purpose of fishing, if navigation is obstructed, thereby.

(viii) Except in cases of emergency the dropping of anchors, weights, or other ground tackle, within areas occupied by submarine cable or pipe crossings, is prohibited. Such crossings will ordinarily be marked by signboards on each bank of the shore or indicated on coast charts.
