
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 162 - INLAND WATERWAYS NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
##### ยง 162.65 All waterways tributary to the Atlantic Ocean south of Chesapeake Bay and all waterways tributary to the Gulf of Mexico east and south of St. Marks, Fla.
###### Assembly and handling of tows.

(4)(i) All vessels drawing tows and equipped with rudders shall use two tow lines or a bridle and shorten them to the greatest possible extent so as to have full control at all times. The various parts of a tow shall be securely assembled with the individual units connected by lines as short as practicable. If necessary, as in the case of lengthy or cumbersome tows or tows in restricted channels, the District Commander may require that tows be broken up and may require the installation of a rudder, drag or other approved steering device on the tow in order to avoid obstructing navigation or damaging the property of others, including aids to navigation maintained by the United States or under its authorization, by collision or otherwise.

(ii) No tow shall be drawn by a vessel that has insufficient power or crew to permit ready maneuverability and safe handling.

(iii) Tows desiring to pass a bridge shall approach the opening along the axis of the channel so as to pass through without danger of striking the bridge or its fenders. No vessel or tow shall navigate through a drawbridge until the movable span is fully opened.

(iv) In the event that it is evident to the master of a towing vessel that a tow cannot be safely handled through a bridge, it will be brought to anchor and the towed vessels will be taken through the bridge in small units, or singly if necessary, or the tow will wait until navigation conditions have improved to such an extent that the tow can pass through the bridge without damage.
