
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 162 - INLAND WATERWAYS NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
##### ยง 162.90 White River, Arkansas Post Canal, Arkansas River, and Verdigris River between Mississippi River, Ark., and Catoosa, Okla.; use, administration, and navigation.
###### Anchoring or mooring in waterway.

(2)(i) No vessels or rafts shall anchor or moor in any of the land cuts or other narrow parts of the waterway, except in an emergency. Whenever it becomes necessary for a vessel or raft to stop in any such portions of the waterway, it shall be securely fastened to one bank and as close to the bank as possible. This shall be done only at such a place and under such conditions as will not obstruct or prevent the passage of other vessels or rafts. Stoppages shall be only for such periods as may be necessary.

(ii) Except temporarily, as authorized in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, no vessel or raft will be allowed to use any portion of the fairway as a mooring place without written permission from the District Commander.

(iii) When tied up individually, all vessels shall be moored by bow and stern lines. Rafts and tows shall be secured at sufficiently close intervals to insure their not being drawn away from the bank by winds, currents, or the suction of passing vessels. Towlines shall be shortened so that the different parts of the tow will be as close together as possible. In narrow sections, no vessel or raft shall be tied abreast of another if the combined width of vessels or rafts is greater than 70 feet.

(iv) When a vessel is moored under an emergency condition, as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, at least one crew member shall remain in attendance to display proper lights and signals and tend the mooring lines. The crew member shall be provided with an adequate means of communication or signalling a warning in the event that, for any reason, the vessel or tow should go adrift. Immediately after completion of the emergency mooring, the lockmaster of the first lock downstream shall be notified of the character and cargo of the vessel and the location of such mooring.

(v) Vessels will not be permitted to load or unload in any of the land cuts, except at a regular established landing or wharf, without written permission secured in advance from the District Commander.

(vi) Except in an emergency, no vessel or raft shall anchor over revetted banks of the waterway, nor shall any type vessel except launches and other small craft land against banks protected by revetment except at regular commercial landings.
