
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 162 - INLAND WATERWAYS NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
##### ยง 162.90 White River, Arkansas Post Canal, Arkansas River, and Verdigris River between Mississippi River, Ark., and Catoosa, Okla.; use, administration, and navigation.
###### Assembly and handling of tows.

(4)(i) All vessels drawing tows not equipped with rudders in restricted channels and land cuts shall use two towlines, or a bridle on one towline, shortened to the greatest possible extent so as to have maximum control at all times. The various parts of a tow shall be securely assembled with the individual units connected by lines as short as practicable. In open water, the towlines and fastenings between barges may be lengthened so as to accommodate the wave surge. In the case of length or cumbersome tows, or tows in restricted channels, the District Commander may require that tows be broken up, and may require the installation of a rudder or other approved steering device on the tow in order to avoid obstructing navigation or damaging the property of others. Pushing barges with towing vessel astern, towing barges with towing vessel alongside, or pushing and pulling barges with units of the tow made up both ahead and astern of the towing vessel is permissible provided that adequate power is employed to keep the tow under full control at all times.

(ii) No tow shall be drawn by a vessel that has insufficient power or crew to permit ready maneuverability and safe handling.

(iii) No vessel or tow shall navigate through a drawbridge until the movable span is fully opened.
