
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 162 - INLAND WATERWAYS NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
##### ยง 162.117 St. Marys River, Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan.
###### Two-way traffic

means that traffic flow is permitted in opposing directions, but a vessel may not meet, cross, nor overtake any other vessel in such a manner that it would be abreast of more than one other vessel within the defined limits of a waterway.

(c) Anchoring Rules.

(1) A vessel must not anchor:

(i) within the waters between Brush Point and the waterworks intake crib off Big Point southward of the Point Aux Pins range; or

(ii) within 0.2 nautical miles of the intake crib off Big Point.

(2) In an emergency, vessels may anchor in a dredged channel. Vessels shall anchor as near to the edge of the channel as possible and shall get underway as soon as the emergency ceases, unless otherwise directed. Vessel Traffic Services St. Marys River must be advised of any emergency anchoring as soon as is practicable.

(3) Vessels collected in any part of the VTS Area by reason of temporary closure of a channel or an impediment to navigation shall get underway and depart in the order in which they arrived, unless otherwise directed by Vessel Traffic Service St. Marys River. Vessel Traffic Service St. Marys River may advance any vessel in the order of departure to expedite the movement of mails, passengers, cargo of a perishable nature, to facilitate passage of vessels through any channel by reason of special circumstance, or to facilitate passage through the St. Marys Falls Canal.
