
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 162 - INLAND WATERWAYS NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
##### ยง 162.117 St. Marys River, Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan.
###### Traffic Rules.

(d)(1) A vessel must proceed only in the established direction of traffic flow in the following waters:

(i) West Neebish Channel from Buoy "53" to Buoy "1"-downbound traffic only;

(ii) Pipe Island Course from Sweets Point to Watson Reefs Light-downbound traffic only.

(iii) Middle Neebish Channel from Buoy "2" to Buoy "76"-upbound traffic only; and

(iv) Pipe Island Passage to the east of Pipe Island Shoal and north of Pipe Island Twins from Watson Reefs Light to Sweets Point-upbound traffic only.

(2) A vessel 350 feet or more in length must not overtake or approach within .2 nautical miles of another vessel proceeding in the same direction in the following waterways:

(i) West Neebish Channel between Nine Mile Point and Munuscong Lake Junction Lighted Bell Buoy;

(ii) Middle Neebish Channel between Munuscong Lake Junction Lighted Bell Buoy and Nine Mile Point; and

(iii) Little Rapids Cut from Six Mile Point to Buoy "102".

(3) When two-way traffic is authorized in Middle Neebish Channel, a vessel 350 feet or more in length must not meet, cross, or overtake another vessel at:

(i) Johnson Point from Buoy "18" to Buoy "22";

(ii) Mirre Point from Buoy "26" to Buoy "28"; or

(iii) Stribling Point from Buoy "39" to Buoy "43".

(4) Paragraph (d)(2) of this section does not apply to a vessel navigating through an ice field.
