
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 162 - INLAND WATERWAYS NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
##### ยง 162.205 Suisun Bay, San Joaquin River, Sacramento River, and connecting waters, CA.
###### Right of way.

(3)(i) United States dredges, tugs, launches, derrick boats, and similar plant of contractors executing river and harbor improvement work for the United States, and displaying the signals prescribed by the regulations contained in part 83 of this chapter shall have the right of way and other craft shall exercise special caution to avoid interference with the work on which the plant is engaged. Dredges, whether Federal or contractors' plant, working the channel must however, take special care to give ocean-going vessels sufficient room for passing, and must lift both spuds and the ladder, and pull clear, if an adequate width of clear channelway cannot otherwise be provided. Ocean-going vessels may show at the masthead a black ball not more than 20 inches in diameter as a signal to the dredge, and may also blow five long blasts of the whistle when within reasonable hearing distance of the dredge, such signal to be followed at the proper time by the passing signal described in the local pilot rules. The dredge shall promptly acknowledge both signals in the usual manner.

(ii) Light-draft vessels when meeting or being overtaken by ocean-going vessels, shall give the right of way to such vessels by making use of the shallower portions of the waterway.

(iii) Rafts and tows must promptly give the channel side demanded upon proper signal by a vessel, and must be handled in such a manner as not to obstruct or interfere with the free use of the waterway by other craft.
