
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 162 - INLAND WATERWAYS NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
##### ยง 162.205 Suisun Bay, San Joaquin River, Sacramento River, and connecting waters, CA.
###### Right of way.

(2)(i) Dredges, tugs, launches, derrick boats and other similar equipment, executing river and harbor improvement work for the United States, and displaying the signals prescribed by the regulations contained in part 83 of this chapter, shall have the right-of-way and other craft shall exercise special caution to avoid interference with the work on which the plant is engaged. Dredges, whether Federal or contractor's plant, working the channel must however, take special care to give ocean-going vessels sufficient room for passing, and must lift both spuds and the ladder, and pull clear, if an adequate width of clear channelway cannot otherwise be provided.

(ii) Vessels intending to pass dredges or other types of floating plant working in navigable channels, when within a reasonable distance therefrom and not in any case over a mile, shall indicate such intention by one long blast of the whistle, and shall be directed to the proper side for passage by the sounding, by the dredge or other floating plant, of the signal prescribed in the inland pilot rules for vessels underway and approaching each other from opposite directions, which shall be answered in the usual manner by the approaching vessel. If the channel is not clear, the floating plant shall sound the alarm or danger signal and the approaching vessel shall slow down or stop and await further signal from the plant.

(iii) When the pipeline from a dredge crosses the channel in such a way that an approaching vessel cannot pass safely around the pipeline or dredge, there shall be sounded immediately from the dredge the alarm or danger signal and the approaching vessel shall slow down or stop and await further signal from the dredge. The pipeline shall then be opened and the channel cleared as soon as practicable; when the channel is clear for passage the dredge shall so indicate by sounding the usual passing signal as prescribed in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section. The approaching vessel shall answer with a corresponding signal and pass promptly.

(iv) When any pipeline or swinging dredge shall have given an approaching vessel or tow the signal that the channel is clear, the dredge shall straighten out within the cut for the passage of the vessel or tow.

(v) Shallow draft vessels when meeting or being overtaken by ocean-going vessels, shall give the right-of-way to such vessels by making use of the shallower portions of the waterway, wherever possible.

(vi) Tows should promptly give the channel side requested by proper signal from a vessel, and should be handled in such a manner as not to obstruct or interfere with the free use of the waterway by other craft.
