
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 164 - NAVIGATION SAFETY REGULATIONS
##### § 164.01 Applicability.

(a) This part (except as specifically limited by this section) applies to each self-propelled vessel of 1600 or more gross tons (except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, or for foreign vessels described in § 164.02) when it is operating in the navigable waters of the United States except the St. Lawrence Seaway.

(b) Sections 164.70 through 164.82 of this part apply to each towing vessel of 12 meters (39.4 feet) or more in length operating in the navigable waters of the United States other than the St. Lawrence Seaway; except that a towing vessel is exempt from the requirements of § 164.72 if it is-

(1) Used solely within a limited geographic area, such as a fleeting-area for barges or a commercial facility, and used solely for restricted service, such as making up or breaking up larger tows;

(2) Used solely for assistance towing as defined by 46 CFR 10.103;

(3) Used solely for pollution response; or

(4) Any other vessel exempted by the Captain of the Port (COTP). The COTP, upon written request, may, in writing, exempt a vessel from § 164.72 for a specified route if he or she decides that exempting it would not allow its unsafe navigation under anticipated conditions.

(c) Provisions of §§ 164.11(a)(2) and (c), 164.30, 164.33, and 164.46 do not apply to warships or other vessels owned, leased, or operated by the United States Government and used only in government noncommercial service when these vessels are equipped with electronic navigation systems that have met the applicable agency regulations regarding navigation safety.

(d) Provisions of § 164.46 apply to some self-propelled vessels of less than 1600 gross tonnage.
