
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### First Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.T01-0682 Safety Zone - North Hero-Grand Isle Bridge, Lake Champlain, VT.
######## Regulations.

(d)When this safety zone is enforced, the following regulations, along with those contained in ยง 165.23 apply:

(1) No person or vessel may enter or remain in this safety zone without the permission of the Captain of the Port (COTP) Northern New England or the COTP's designated representative. However, any vessel that is granted permission to enter or remain in this zone by the COTP or the COTP's designated representative must proceed through the zone with caution and operate at a speed no faster than that speed necessary to maintain a safe course, unless otherwise required by the Navigation Rules.

(2) Any person or vessel permitted to enter the safety zone shall comply with the directions and orders of the COTP or the COTP's designated representative. Upon being hailed by a U.S. Coast Guard vessel by siren, radio, flashing lights, or other means, the operator of a vessel within the zone shall proceed as directed. Any person or vessel within the safety zone shall exit the zone when directed by the COTP or the COTP's designated representative.

(3) To obtain permission required by this regulation, individuals may reach the COTP or the COTP's designated representative via Channel 16 (VHF-FM) or (207)741-5465 (Sector Northern New England Command Center).
