
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### First Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.100 Regulated Navigation Area: Navigable waters within the First Coast Guard District.
######## Enhanced communications.

(2)Each vessel engaged in towing a tank barge must communicate by radio on marine band or Very High Frequency (VHF) channel 13 or 16, and issue security calls on marine band or VHF channel 13 or 16, upon approach to the following places:

(i) Execution Rocks Light (USCG Light List No. [LLNR] 21440).

(ii) Matinecock Point Shoal Lighted Gong Buoy 21 (LLNR 21420).

(iii) 32A Buoy (LLNR 21380).

(iv) Cable and Anchor Reef Lighted Bell Buoy 28C (LLNR 21330).

(v) Stratford Shoal (Middle Ground) Light (LLNR 21260).

(vi) Old Field Point Light (LLNR 21275).

(vii) Approach to Stratford Point from the south (NOAA Chart 12370).

(viii) Falkner Island Light (LLNR 21170).

(ix) TE Buoy (LLNR 21160).

(x) PI Buoy (LLNR 21080).

(xi) Race Rock Light (LLNR 19815).

(xii) Valiant Rock Lighted Whistle Buoy 11 (LLNR 19825).

(xiii) Approach to Point Judith in vicinity of Block Island ferry route.

(xiv) Buzzards Bay Entrance Light (LLNR 630).

(xv) Buzzards Bay Midchannel Lighted Buoy BB (LLNR 16055)

(xvi) Cleveland East Ledge Light (LLNR 016080).

(xvii) Hog Island Channel Lighted Buoys 1 (LLNR 16130) and 2 (LLNR 16135).

(xviii) Approach to the Bourne Bridge.

(xix) Approach to the Sagamore Bridge.

(xx) Approach to the eastern entrance of Cape Cod Canal.
