
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### First Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.100 Regulated Navigation Area: Navigable waters within the First Coast Guard District.
######## Voyage planning.

(3)(i) Each owner or operator of a towing vessel employed to tow a tank barge shall prepare a written voyage plan for each transit of the tank barge.

(ii) The watch officer is authorized to make modifications to the plan and validate it as necessary.

(iii) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(3)(iv) of this section, each voyage plan must contain:

(A) A description of the type, volume, and grade of cargo.

(B) Applicable information from nautical charts and publications, including Coast Pilot, Coast Guard Light List, and Coast Guard Local Notice to Mariners, for the destination(s).

(C) Current and forecasted weather, including visibility, wind, and sea state for the destination(s).

(D) Data on tides and tidal currents for the destination(s).

(E) Forward and after drafts of the tank barge, and under-keel and vertical clearances for each port and berthing area.

(F) Pre-departure checklists.

(G) Calculated speed and estimated times of arrival at proposed waypoints.

(H) Communication contacts at Vessel Traffic Service (VTS) (if applicable), bridges, and facilities, and port-specific requirements for VHF radio.

(I) The master's standing orders detailing closest points of approach, special conditions, and critical maneuvers.

(iv) Each owner or operator of a tank barge on an intra-port transit of not more than four hours may prepare a voyage plan that contains:

(A) The information described in paragraphs (d)(3)(iii)(D) and (E) of this section.

(B) Current weather conditions including visibility, wind, and sea state. This information may be entered in either the voyage plan or towing vessel's log book.

(C) The channels of VHF radio to monitor.

(D) Other considerations such as availability of pilot, assist tug, berth, and line-handlers, depth of berth at mean low water, danger areas, and security calls.
