
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter C - Aids to Navigation
#### PART 66 - PRIVATE AIDS TO NAVIGATION
##### Subpart 66.01 - Aids to Navigation Other Than Federal or State
###### ยง 66.01-5 Application procedure.
####### http://www.uscg.mil/forms/form_public_use.asp.

To establish and maintain, discontinue, change, or transfer ownership of a private aid to navigation, you must apply to the Commander of the Coast Guard District in which the aid is or will be located. You can find application form CG-2554 atYou must complete all parts of the form applicable to the aid concerned, and must forward the application to the District Commander. You must include the following information:

(a) The proposed position of the aid to navigation by two or more horizontal angles, bearings and distance from charted landmarks, or the latitude and longitude as determined by GPS or differential GPS. Attach a section of chart or sketch showing the proposed position.

(b) The name and address of the person at whose expense the aid will be maintained.

(c) The name and address of the person who will maintain the aid to navigation.

(d) The time and dates during which it is proposed to operate the aid.

(e) The necessity for the aid.

(f) For lights: The color, characteristic, range, effective intensity, height above water, and description of illuminating apparatus. Attach a copy of the manufacturer's data sheet to the application.

(g) For sound signals: Type (whistle, horn, bell, etc.) and characteristic.

(h) For buoys or daybeacons: Shape, color, number, or letter, depth of water in which located or height above water.

(i) For AIS AtoN and racons: Manufacturer and model number of AIS AtoN and racon, position and height above water of desired installation, and requested MORSE coding or AIS AtoN message characteristics. Equipment must have FCC authorization.
