
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### First Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.119 Safety Zone; Captain of the Port Boston Fireworks display zones, Boston Harbor, Boston, MA.
######## Definitions.

(d)For purposes of this section "Designated representative" is any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer who has been designated by the Captain of the Port Boston (COTP) to act on the COTP's behalf. The designated representative may be on an Official Patrol Vessel; Official Patrol Vessel may consist of any Coast Guard, Coast Guard Auxiliary, state, or local law enforcement vessels assigned or approved by the COTP or the designated representative may be on shore and will communicate with vessels via VHF-FM radio or loudhailer. In addition, members of the Coast Guard Auxiliary may be present to inform vessel operators of this regulation.

(e) No vessels, except for fireworks barges and accompanying vessels, will be allowed to enter into, transit through, or anchor within one of the aforementioned safety zones during an enforcement period without the permission of the COTP or the designated representative.

(f) All persons and vessels permitted to enter one of these safety zones during an enforcement period shall comply with the instructions of the COTP or the designated on-scene representative. Upon being hailed by a U.S. Coast Guard vessel by siren, radio, flashing light, or other means, the operator of a vessel shall proceed as directed.

(g) Vessel operators desiring to enter or operate within a safety zone during a period of enforcement shall contact the COTP or the designated on-scene representative via VHF channel 16 or 617-223-5757 (Sector Boston Command Center) to obtain permission.
