
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter C - Aids to Navigation
#### PART 66 - PRIVATE AIDS TO NAVIGATION
##### Subpart 66.01 - Aids to Navigation Other Than Federal or State
###### ยง 66.01-11 Lights.

(a) Except for range and sector lights, each light approved as a private aid to navigation must:

(1) Have at least the effective intensity required by this subpart omnidirectionally in the horizontal plane, except at the seams of its lens-mold.

(2) Have at least 50% of the effective intensity required by this subpart within +/-2&#xB0; of the horizontal plane.

(3) Have a minimum effective intensity of at least 1 candela for a range of 1 nautical mile, 3 candelas for one of 2 nautical miles, 10 candelas for one of 3 nautical miles, and 54 candelas for one of 5 nautical miles. The District Commander may change the requirements for minimum intensity to account for local environmental conditions. For a flashing light this intensity is determined by the following formula:

(4) Unless the light is a prefocused lantern, have a means of verifying that the source of the light is at the focal point of the lens.

(5) Emit a color within the angle of 50% effective intensity with color coordinates lying within the boundaries defined by the corner coordinates in Table 66.01-11(5) of this part when plotted on the Standard Observer Diagram of the International Commission on Illumination (CIE).

(6) Have a recommended interval for replacement of the source of light that ensures that the lantern meets the minimal required intensity stated in paragraph (a)(3) of this section in case of degradation of either the source of light or the lens.

(7) Have autonomy of at least 10 days if the light has a self-contained power system. Power production for the prospective position should exceed the load during the worst average month of insolation. The literature concerning the light must clearly state the operating limits and service intervals. Low-voltage disconnects used to protect the battery must operate so as to prevent sporadic operation at night.

(b) The manufacturer of each light approved as a private aid to navigation must certify compliance by means of an indelible plate or label affixed to the aid that meets the requirements of ยง 66.01-14.
