
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### First Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.123 Cruise Ships, Sector Southeastern New England Captain of the Port (COTP) Zone.
######## Regulations.

(d)(1) In accordance with the general regulations in 33 CFR part 165, subpart D, no person or vessel may enter or move within the security zones created by this section unless granted permission to do so by the COTP Southeastern New England or the designated representative.

(2) All persons and vessels granted permission to enter a security zone must comply with the instructions of the COTP or the designated representative. Emergency response vessels are authorized to move within the zone, but must abide by the restrictions imposed by the COTP or the designated representative.

(3) No person may swim upon or below the surface of the water within the boundaries of these security zones unless previously authorized by the COTP or his designated representative.

(4) Upon being hailed by a U.S. Coast Guard vessel or the designated representative, by siren, radio, flashing light or other means, the operator of the vessel shall proceed as directed.

(5) Vessel operators desiring to enter or operate within the security zone shall contact the COTP or the designated representative via VHF channel 16 or 508-457-3211 (Sector Southeastern New England command center) to obtain permission to do so.
