
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### First Coast Guard District
####### § 165.151 Safety Zones; Fireworks Displays, Air Shows and Swim Events in the Captain of the Port Long Island Sound Zone.
######## http://www.navcen.uscg.gov/.

(2) These regulations will be enforced for the duration of each event. Notifications will be made to the local maritime community through all appropriate means such as Local Notice to Mariners or Broadcast Notice to Mariners well in advance of the events. If the event does not have a date listed, then exact dates and times of the enforcement period will be announced through a Notice of Enforcement in theMariners should consult theor their Local Notice to Mariners to remain apprised of schedule or event changes. First Coast Guard District Local Notice to Mariners can be found at

(3) Although listed in the Code of Federal Regulations, sponsors of events listed in Tables 1 and 2 to § 165.151 are still required to submit marine event applications in accordance with 33 CFR 100.15. Each application must:

(i) Be submitted no less than 60 days before the date of the proposed event.

(ii) If the proposed event does not have a specified date the sponsor shall hold the event during the month it is listed in Tables 1 or 2 to § 165.151.

(iii) For those proposed events listed in Table 1 to § 165.151 to be held during the month of July, the event may take place during the final seven days of June.

(iv) Any proposed event not being held on the specified date or within the month listed in Tables 1 or 2 to § 165.151 shall be considered a new marine event and the sponsor shall submit a new marine event application in accordance with 33 CFR 100.15 no less than 135 days before the start of the event.
