
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### First Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.153 Regulated Navigation Area: Long Island Sound Marine Inspection and Captain of the Port Zone.
######## Enhanced communications.

(2)Vessels of 300 gross tons or more and all vessels engaged in towing barges must issue securit&#xE9; calls on marine band or Very High Frequency (VHF) radio channel 16 upon approach to the following locations:

(i) Inbound approach to Cerberus Shoal; and

(ii) Outbound approach to Race Rock Light (USCG Light List No. 19815).

(3) All vessels operating within the RNA that are bound for a port or place located in the United States or that must transit the internal waters of the United States, must be inspected to the satisfaction of the U. S. Coast Guard, before entering waters within three nautical miles from the territorial sea baseline. Vessels awaiting inspection will be required to anchor in the manner directed by the COTP. This section does not apply to vessels operating exclusively within the Long Island Sound Marine Inspection and COTP Zone, vessels on a single voyage which depart from and return to the same port or place within the RNA, all towing vessels engaged in coastwise trade, vessels in innocent passage not bound for a port or place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, and all vessels not engaged in commercial service whose last port of call was in the United States. Vessels requiring inspection by the COTP may contact the COTP via marine band or Very High Frequency (VHF) channel 16, telephone at (203) 468-4401, facsimile at (203) 468-4418, or letter addressed to Captain of the Port, Long Island Sound, 120 Woodward Ave., New Haven, CT 06512.

(4) All vessels operating within the RNA that are bound for a port or place located in the United States or that must transit the internal waters of the United States, must obtain authorization from the Captain of the Port (COTP) before entering waters within three nautical miles from the territorial sea baseline. Vessels awaiting COTP authorization to enter waters within three nautical miles from the territorial sea baseline will be required to anchor in the manner directed by the COTP. This section does not apply to vessels operating exclusively within the Long Island Sound Marine Inspection and COTP Zone, vessels on a single voyage which depart from and return to the same port or place within the RNA, all towing vessels engaged in coastwise trade, vessels in innocent passage not bound for a port or place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, and all vessels not engaged in commercial service whose last port of call was in the United States. Vessels may request authorization from the COTP by contacting the COTP via marine band or Very High Frequency (VHF) channel 16, telephone at (203) 468-4401, facsimile at (203) 468-4418, or letter addressed to Captain of the Port, Long Island Sound, 120 Woodward Ave., New Haven, CT 06512.

(5) Vessels over 1,600 gross tons operating in the RNA within three nautical miles from the territorial sea baseline that are bound for a port or place located in the United States or that must transit the internal waters of the United States must receive authorization from the COTP prior to transiting or any intentional vessel movements, including, but not limited to, shifting berths, departing anchorage, or getting underway from a mooring. This section does not apply to vessels in innocent passage not bound for a port or place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.
