
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### First Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.154 Safety and Security Zones; Captain of the Port Long Island Sound Zone Safety and Security Zones.
######## Regulations.

(c)(1) The general regulations contained in ยง 165.23 and ยง 165.33 of this part apply. Entering into, remaining within or cause an article or thing to enter into or remain within these safety and security zones is prohibited unless authorized by the Captain of the Port or a designated representative.

(2) These safety and security zones are closed to all vessel traffic, except as may be permitted by the Captain of the Port (COTP) or a designated representative. Vessel operators given permission to enter or operate in the security zones must comply with all directions given to them by the COTP or the designated representative.

(3) The "designated representative" is any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant or petty officer who has been designated by the Captain of the Port to act on his/her behalf. The on-scene representative may be on a Coast Guard vessel, a state or local law enforcement vessel, or other designated craft, or may be on shore and will communicate with vessels via VHF-FM radio or loudhailer. In addition, members of the Coast Guard Auxiliary may be present to inform vessel operators of this regulation.

(4) Vessel operators desiring to enter or operate within the security zones shall request permission to do so by contacting the Captain of the Port Sector Long Island Sound at 203-468-4401, or via VHF Channel 16.
