
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### First Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.156 Regulated Navigation Area: East Rockaway Inlet to Atlantic Beach Bridge, Nassau County, Long Island, New York.
######## Regulations.

(b)(1) The general regulations contained in 33 CFR 165.10, 165.11, and 165.13 apply.

(2) In accordance with the general regulations, the following regulations apply to vessels carrying petroleum products in excess of 250 barrels:

(i) The vessel must have plans in place to maintain a minimum of two feet under keel clearance at all times.

(ii) A vessel requiring a nighttime transit through East Rockaway Inlet may only do so only after receiving approval from the Captain of the Port Long Island Sound.

(iii) Vessels are prohibited from transiting East Rockaway Inlet if a small craft advisory or greater has been issued for the area unless specific approval is received from the Captain of the Port Long Island Sound.

(iv) In an emergency, any vessel may deviate from the regulations in this section to the extent necessary to avoid endangering the safety of persons, the environment, and or property. If deviation from the regulations is necessary, the master or their designee shall inform the Coast Guard as soon as it is practicable to do so.
