
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### First Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.169 Safety and Security Zones: New York Marine Inspection Zone and Captain of the Port Zone.
######## Enforcement period.

(iii)The zone described in paragraph (a)(15) of this section will be activated upon entry of any Designated Vessel into the navigable waters of the United States (see 33 CFR 2.36(a) to include the 12 NM territorial sea) in the New York Captain of the Port Zone (33 CFR 3.05-30). This zone will remain activated at all times while the Designated Vessel is within the navigable waters of the United States in the New York Captain of the Port Zone. The Designated Vessels, including ships and barges carrying petroleum products, chemicals, or other hazardous cargo will be recognized by the requirement to fly the Bravo flag (red international signal flag under Pub 102, International Code of Signals from the outermost halyard (above the pilot house) where it can most easily be seen. Vessels that are constrained by their draft from leaving the channel may transit through the zone for the sole purpose of direct and expeditious transit so long as they remain within the navigable channel, maintain the maximum possible safe distance from the Designated Vessel, and do not stop or loiter within the zone. Designated Vessels carrying government officials, dignitaries, or other passengers requiring protection, and passenger vessels authorized to carry more than 400 passengers and are less than 200 feet in length will be recognizable by their being escorted by a federal, state or local law enforcement or security vessel. The law enforcement or security vessel will be identifiable by flashing light, siren, flags, markings and/or through other means that clearly identify the vessel as engaged in law enforcement or security operations.
