
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### First Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.171 Safety Zones for fireworks displays and swim events held in Coast Guard Sector Northern New England Captain of the Port Zone.
######## Spectators.

(3)All persons and vessels not registered with the event sponsor as participants or official patrol vessels.

(c) Spectators or other vessels shall not anchor, block, loiter, or impede the transit of event participants or official patrol vessels in the regulated areas during the effective dates and times, or dates and times as modified through the Local Notice to Mariners, unless authorized by COTP or Designated Representative.

(d) Vessel operators desiring to enter or operate within the regulated areas shall contact the COTP or the Designated Representative via VHF channel 16 or (207) 741-5465 (Coast Guard Sector Northern New England Command Center) to obtain permission to do so.

(e) Upon being hailed by a U.S. Coast Guard vessel or the Designated Representative, by siren, radio, flashing light or other means, the operator of the vessel shall proceed as directed. Failure to comply with a lawful direction may result in expulsion from the area, citation for failure to comply, or both.

(f) The COTP or Designated Representative may delay or terminate any marine event in this section at any time it is deemed necessary to ensure the safety of life or property.
