
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Fifth Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.501 Chesapeake Bay entrance and Hampton Roads, VA and adjacent waters - Regulated Navigation Area.
######## Port security requirements.

(9)Vessels in excess of 300 gross tons, including tug and barge combinations in excess of 300 gross tons (combined), shall not enter the Regulated Navigation Area, move within the Regulated Navigation Area, or be present within the Regulated Navigation Area, unless they comply with the following requirements:

(i) Obtain authorization to enter the Regulated Navigation Area from the designated representative of the Captain of the Port prior to entry. All vessels entering or remaining in the Regulated Navigation Area may be subject to a Coast Guard boarding.

(ii) Ensure that no person who is not a permanent member of the vessel's crew, or a member of a Coast Guard boarding team, boards the vessel without a valid purpose and photo identification.

(iii) Report any departure from or movement within the Regulated Navigation Area to the designated representative of the Captain of the Port prior to getting underway.

(iv) The designated representative of the Captain of the Port is the Sector Command Center (SCC)-Joint Harbor Operations Center (JHOC) which shall be contacted on VHF-FM channel 12, or by calling (757) 668-5555.

(v) In addition to the authorities listed in this part, this paragraph is promulgated under the authority under 46 U.S.C. 70116.
