
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Fifth Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.503 Security Zone; Captain of the Port Hampton Roads Zone.
######## Regulations.

(c)(1) No vessel may approach within 500 yards of a passenger vessel or vessel carrying a CDC within the Captain of the Port Virginia zone, unless traveling at the minimum speed necessary to navigate safely.

(2) Under ยง 165.33, no vessel or person may approach within 100 yards of a passenger vessel or vessel carrying a CDC within the Captain of the Port Virginia zone, unless authorized by the COTP Virginia or his or her designated representative.

(3) The COTP Virginia may notify the maritime and general public by marine information broadcast of the periods during which individual security zones have been activated by providing notice in accordance with 33 CFR 165.7.

(4) A security zone in effect around a moving or anchored vessel will be enforced by a law enforcement vessel. A security zone in effect around a moored vessel will be enforced by a law enforcement agent shoreside, a law enforcement vessel waterside, or both.

(5) Persons desiring to transit the area of the security zone within 100 yards of a passenger vessel or vessel carrying a CDC must contact the COTP Virginia on VHF-FM channel 16 (156.8 MHz) or telephone number (757) 668-5555 or (757) 484-8192 to seek permission to transit the area. All persons and vessels must comply with the instructions of the COTP or the COTP's designated representative.
