
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Fifth Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.504 Newport News Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Company Shipyard, James River, Newport News, Va.
######## Special regulations.

(c)(1) Section 165.33 (a), (e), and (f) do not apply to the following vessels or individuals on board those vessels:

(i) Public vessels of the United States.

(ii) Public vessels owned or operated by the Commonwealth of Virginia or its subdivisions for law enforcement or firefighting purposes.

(iii) Vessels owned by, operated by, or under charter to Newport News Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Co.

(iv) Vessels that are performing work at Newport News Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Co., including the vessels of subcontractors and other vendors of Newport News Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Co. or other persons that have a contractual relationship with Newport News Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Co.

(v) Vessels that are being built, rebuilt, repaired, or otherwise worked on at or by Newport News Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Co. or another person authorized to perform work at the shipyard.

(vi) Vessels that are authorized by Newport News Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Company to moor at and use its facilities.

(vii) Commercial shellfish harvesting vessels taking clams from the shellfish beds within the zone, if

(A) The owner of the vessel has previously provided the Captain of the Port, Virginia, information about the vessel, including:
