
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Fifth Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.506 Safety Zones; Fireworks Displays in the Fifth Coast Guard District.
######## Enforcement periods and COTP notification to the public.

(c)The COTP for the area where an event will be held will annually notify the public of each enforcement of a safety zone in paragraph (h) of this section by all appropriate means to affect the widest publicity among the affected public, including by Local Notices to Mariners and by Broadcast Notice to Mariners over VHF-FM marine band radio. The announcement will contain the details of the fireworks display, including the date(s) and time(s) of the enforcement period of the regulation with respect to that safety zone and the affected geographical area. Broadcasts may be made for these events beginning 24 to 48 hours before the event is scheduled to begin. The enforcement period(s) for each safety zone in paragraph (h) of this section is subject to change, but the duration of enforcement will remain the same, or nearly the same, total amount of time as stated in its table. An event may be conducted on the day following the date listed in paragraph (h) of this section in the case of inclement weather. Unless the COTP notifies the public otherwise, the safety zones in paragraph (h) of this section will be enforced from 5:30 p.m. on the date listed in paragraph (h) to 1 a.m. the date following the last date listed in paragraph (h) for an event.
