
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Fifth Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.508 Security Zone; Potomac River and Anacostia River, and adjacent waters; Washington, DC.
######## Regulations.

(b)The general security zone regulations found in 33 CFR 165.33 apply to the security zones created by this section, ยง 165.508.

(1) Entry into or remaining in a zone listed in paragraph (a) in this section is prohibited unless authorized by the Coast Guard Captain of the Port Maryland-National Capital Region. Public vessels and vessels already at berth at the time the security zone is implemented do not have to depart the security zone. All vessels underway within the security zone at the time it is implemented are to depart the zone at the time the security zone is implemented.

(2) Persons desiring to transit the area of the security zone must first obtain authorization from the Captain of the Port Maryland-National Capital Region or his or her designated representative. To seek permission to transit the area, the Captain of the Port Maryland-National Capital Region and his or her designated representatives can be contacted at telephone number 410-576-2693 or on Marine Band Radio, VHF-FM channel 16 (156.8 MHz). The Coast Guard vessels enforcing this section can be contacted on Marine Band Radio, VHF-FM channel 16 (156.8 MHz). Upon being hailed by a U.S. Coast Guard vessel, or other Federal, State, or local agency vessel, by siren, radio, flashing light, or other means, the operator of a vessel shall proceed as directed. If permission is granted, all persons and vessels must comply with the instructions of the Captain of the Port Maryland-National Capital Region or his designated representative and proceed at the minimum speed necessary to maintain a safe course while within the zone.

(3) The U.S. Coast Guard may be assisted in the patrol and enforcement of the security zones listed in paragraph (a) in this section by Federal, State, and local agencies.
