
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Fifth Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.508 Security Zone; Potomac River and Anacostia River, and adjacent waters; Washington, DC.
######## Enforcement.

(d)(1) In addition to the specified times in paragraphs (d)(2) through (4) of this section, the security zones created by this section will be enforced only upon issuance of a notice of enforcement by the Captain of the Port Maryland-National Capital Region. The Captain of the Port Maryland-National Capital Region will cause notice of enforcement of these security zones to be made by all appropriate means to the affected segments of the public of the enforcement dates and times of the security zones including publication in thein accordance with 33 CFR 165.7(a). Such means of notification may also include, but are not limited to Broadcast Notice to Mariners or Local Notice to Mariners.

(2) Security Zone 4, established in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, will be enforced annually, from 12:01 a.m. to 11:59 p.m. on July 4.

(3) Security Zone 5, established in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, will be enforced annually on three dates: Memorial Day (observed), September 11, and November 11. Security Zone 5 will be enforced from 10 a.m. until 1 p.m. on Memorial Day (observed); from 8 a.m. until 11:59 a.m. on September 11; and from 10 a.m. until 1 p.m. on November 11.

(4) Security Zone 6, established in paragraph (a)(6) of this section, will be enforced annually on the day the State of the Union Address is delivered. Security Zone 6 will be enforced from 9 a.m. on the day of the State of the Union Address until 2 a.m. on the following day.
