
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Fifth Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.511 Security Zone; Atlantic Ocean, Chesapeake & Delaware Canal, Delaware Bay, Delaware River and its tributaries.
######## Regulations.

(b)(1) All persons are required to comply with the general regulations governing security zones in ยง 165.33 of this part.

(2) All persons or vessels operating at the minimum safe speed necessary to maintain navigation may transit within 500 yards of an escorted passenger vessel without the permission of the Captain of the Port Delaware Bay, PA or designated representative while the escorted passenger vessel is in the Captain of the Port Delaware Bay zone.

(3) No person or vessel may transit or remain within 100 yards of an escorted passenger vessel without the permission of the Captain of the Port Delaware Bay or designated representative while the passenger vessel is in the Captain of the Port Philadelphia zone.

(4) Any person or vessel authorized to enter the security zone must operate in strict conformance with any directions given by the Captain of the Port Delaware Bay or designated representative and leave the security zone immediately if the Captain of the Port Delaware Bay or designated representative so orders.

(5) When an escorted passenger vessel approaches within 100 yards of any vessel that is moored or anchored, the stationary vessel must stay moored or anchored while it remains within 100 yards of the passenger vessel unless it is either ordered by or given permission by the Captain of the Port, Delaware Bay or designated representative to do otherwise.

(6) The Coast Guard designated representative enforcing this section can be contacted on VHF Marine Band Radio, channels 13 and 16. The Captain of the Port can be contacted at (215) 271-4807.
