
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Fifth Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.512 Safety Zone; Patapsco River, Northwest and Inner Harbors, Baltimore, MD.
######## Regulations.

(c)(1) The general regulations governing safety zones, found in ยง 165.23, apply to the safety zone described in paragraph (b) of this section.

(2) With the exception of USS CONSTELLATION "turn-around" participants, entry into or remaining in this zone is prohibited, unless authorized by the Captain of the Port, Maryland-National Capital Region.

(3) Persons or vessels requiring entry into or passage through the moving safety zone must first request authorization from the Captain of the Port, Maryland-National Capital Region to seek permission to transit the area. The Captain of the Port, Maryland-National Capital Region can be contacted at telephone number (410) 576-2693. The Coast Guard vessels enforcing this section can be contacted on Marine Band Radio VHF Channel 16 (156.8 MHz). Upon being hailed by a U.S. Coast Guard vessel by siren, radio, flashing light, or other means, the person or vessel shall proceed as directed. If permission is granted, all persons or vessels must comply with the instructions of the Captain of the Port, Maryland-National Capital Region, and proceed at the minimum speed necessary to maintain a safe course while within the zone.
