
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Fifth Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.513 Safety Zone; Magothy River, Sillery Bay, MD.
######## Regulations.

(c)(1) All persons are required to comply with the general regulations governing safety zones found in 33 CFR 165.23.

(2) All vessels and persons are prohibited from entering and accessing this safety zone, except as authorized by the Captain of the Port, Maryland-National Capital Region or his or her designated representative.

(3) Persons or vessels requiring entry into or passage within the safety zone must request authorization from the Captain of the Port, Maryland-National Capital Region or his or her designated representative, by telephone at (410) 576-2693 or by marine band radio on VHF-FM Channel 16 (156.8 MHz), from 8 a.m. until 10 p.m. on the fourth Saturday in July annually. All Coast Guard vessels enforcing this safety zone can be contacted on marine band radio VHF-FM Channel 16 (156.8 MHz).

(4) All vessels and persons must comply with instructions of the Captain of the Port, Maryland-National Capital Region or his or her designated representative.

(5) The operator of any vessel entering or located within this safety zone shall:

(i) Travel at no-wake speed,

(ii) Stop the vessel immediately upon being directed to do so by any commissioned, warrant or petty officer on board a vessel displaying a Coast Guard Ensign, and

(iii) Proceed as directed by any commissioned, warrant or petty officer on board a vessel displaying a Coast Guard Ensign.
