
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Fifth Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.559 Safety Zone, Schuylkill River; Philadelphia, PA
######## Regulations.

(c)(1) All persons are required to comply with the general regulations governing safety zones in 33 CFR 165.23.

(2) All persons and vessels transiting through the Safety Zone must be authorized by the Captain of the Port or his representative.

(3) All persons or vessels wishing to transit through the Safety Zone must request authorization to do so from the Captain of the Port or his representative 30 minutes prior to the intended time of transit.

(4) Vessels granted permission to transit must do so in accordance with the directions provided by the Captain of the Port or his representative to the vessel.

(5) To seek permission to transit the Safety Zone, the Captain of the Port or his representative can be contacted via Sector Delaware Bay Command Center (215) 271-4940.

(6) This section applies to all vessels wishing to transit through the Safety Zone except vessels that are engaged in the following operations:

(i) Enforcing laws;

(ii) Servicing aids to navigation; and

(iii) Emergency response vessels.

(7) No person or vessel may enter or remain in a safety zone without the permission of the Captain of the Port;

(8) Each person and vessel in a safety zone shall obey any direction or order of the Captain of the Port;

(9) No person may board, or take or place any article or thing on board, any vessel in a safety zone without the permission of the Captain of the Port; and

(10) No person may take or place any article or thing upon any waterfront facility in a safety zone without the permission of the Captain of the Port.
