
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Seventh Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.703 Security Zones; Tampa Bay: Big Bend, Boca Grande, Crystal River, East Bay, Hillsborough Bay, MacDill Air Force Base, Manbirtee Key, Old Port Tampa, Port Manatee, Port Tampa, Port St. Petersburg, Port Sutton, Rattlesnake, and Weedon Island, FL.
######## Vessel specific security zones,Moving security zones for Cruise Ships and vessels carrying Especially Hazardous Cargos.

(2)-(i)The following security zones and procedures are established for all waters, from surface to bottom, within a 500-yard radius, as outlined below:

(A) For inbound vessels commencing at Egmont Channel Lighted Buoys "9" (LLNR 22270) and "10" (LLNR 22275) through to berth.

(B) For shifting vessels from their departure berth to destination berth.

(C) For outbound vessels commencing at berth through to Egmont Channel Lighted Buoys "9" (LLNR 22270) and "10" (LLNR 22275).

(D) All subject vessels operating in the Captain of the Port St. Petersburg Zone shall follow the reporting requirements in 33 CFR part 160, subpart C.

(E) Any vessel desiring to enter or transit the security zone shall obtain permission from the Captain of the Port St. Petersburg or a designated representative. If permission is granted, all persons and vessels must comply with any given instructions.
