
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Seventh Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.756 Regulated Navigation Area; Savannah River, Georgia.
######## Regulations,Requirements for vessel operations while a LNG tankship, carrying LNG in excess of heel, is underway within the RNA.

(d)-(1)(i) Except for a vessel that is moored at a marina, wharf, or pier, and remains moored, no vessel 1,600 gross tons or greater may come within two nautical miles of a LNG tankship, carrying LNG in excess of heel, which is underway within the Savannah River shipping channel without the permission of the Captain of the Port (COTP).

(ii) All vessels less than 1,600 gross tons shall keep clear of transiting LNG tankships.

(iii) The owner, master, or operator of a vessel carrying liquefied natural gas (LNG) shall:

(A) Comply with the notice requirements of 33 CFR part 160. The COTP may delay the vessel's entry into the RNA to accommodate other commercial traffic.

(B) Obtain permission from the COTP before commencing the transit into the RNA.

(C) Not enter or get underway within the RNA if visibility during the transit is not sufficient to safely navigate the channel, and/or wind speed is, or is expected to be, greater than 25 knots.

(D) While transiting the RNA, LNG Tankships of cargo capacity over 120,000 m, carrying LNG in excess of heel, shall have a minimum of two escort towing vessels with a minimum of 100,000 pounds of bollard pull, 4,000 horsepower, and capable of safely operating in the indirect mode. At least one of the towing vessels shall be FiFi Class 1 equipped.
