
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Seventh Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.760 Security Zones; Port of Palm Beach, Port Everglades, and Port of Miami, Florida.
######## Fixed and moving security zones around vessels in the Port of Palm Beach, Port Everglades, and Port of Miami, Florida.

(1)Moving security zones are established 100 yards around all passenger vessels, vessels carrying cargoes of particular hazard, or vessels carrying liquefied hazardous gas (LHG) during transits entering or departing the Port of Palm Beach, Port Everglades, or Port of Miami. These moving security zones are activated when the subject vessel passes: Lake Worth Lighted Buoy LW, at approximate position 26&#xB0;46&#x2032;22&#x2033; N, 80&#xB0;00&#x2032;37&#x2033; W, when entering the Port of Palm Beach; passes Port Everglades Lighted Buoy PE, at approximate position 26&#xB0;05&#x2032;30&#x2033; N, 080&#xB0;04&#x2032;46&#x2033; W, when entering Port Everglades; and passes Miami Lighted Buoy M, at approximate position 25&#xB0;46&#x2032;05&#x2033; N, 080&#xB0;05&#x2032;01&#x2033; W, when entering Port of Miami. These moving security zones remain active whenever a passenger vessel, vessels carrying cargoes of particular hazard, or vessels carrying LHG is underway westward of the above mentioned buoys. Fixed security zones are established 100 yards around all passenger vessels, vessels carrying cargoes of particular hazard, or vessels carrying LHG, while the vessel is moored in the Port of Palm Beach, Port Everglades, or Port of Miami, Florida. Persons and vessels may pass within 100 yards of a moored passenger vessel, vessel carrying cargoes of particular hazard, or vessel carrying LHG that is moored within or alongside a Federal channel as long as the passage occurs outside of the on scene law enforcement vessel. Persons and vessels shall pass north of the on scene law enforcement vessel when north of the Port of Miami, south of the on scene law enforcement vessel when south of the Port of Miami and east of the on scene law enforcement vessel in Port Everglades.
