
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Seventh Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.761 Security Zones; Port of Key West, Florida.
######## Regulations.

(c)(1) Prior to commencing any movement, the person directing the movement of a passenger vessel, a vessel carrying cargoes of particular hazard, or a vessel carrying LHG, is encouraged to make a security broadcast on VHF Marine Band Radio, Channel 16 (156.8 MHz) to advise mariners of the moving security zone activation and intended transit.

(2) In accordance with the general regulations ยง 165.33, entry into these zones is prohibited except as authorized by the Captain of the Port of Key West or a designated representative. Vessels such as pilot boats, tug boats, and contracted security vessels may assist the Coast Guard Captain of the Port by monitoring these zones strictly to advise mariners of the restrictions. The Captain of the Port will notify the public of the security zone via signs or by Marine Safety Radio Broadcasts on VHF Marine Band Radio, Channel 16 (156.8 MHz) when applicable.

(3) Persons and vessels desiring to enter in, transit through, anchor in, or remain within the fixed or moving security zones may contact the Captain of the Port Key West at (305) 292-8727 or on VHF Marine Band Radio Channel 16 (156.8 MHz) to seek permission to transit the area. If permission is granted, all persons and vessels must comply with the instructions of the Captain of the Port or the designated representative.

(4) The Captain of the Port Key West may waive any of the requirements of this section for any vessel upon finding that the vessel or class of vessel, operational conditions, or other circumstances are such that application of this section is unnecessary or impractical for the purpose of port security, safety, or environmental safety.
