
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Seventh Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.780 Safety Zone; Marine Safety Unit Savannah Safety Zone for Heavy Weather and other Natural Disasters, Savannah Captain of the Port Zone, Savannah, GA.
######## Emergency Waterway Restriction for Other Disasters.

(3)Any natural or other disasters that are anticipated to affect the COTP Savannah AOR will result in the prohibition of commercial vessel traffic transiting or remaining in any of the two regulated areas predicted to be affected as designated by the COTP Savannah.

(4) Persons and vessels desiring to enter, transit through, anchor in, or remain in the regulated area may contact the Captain of the Port Savannah via telephone at (912)-247-0073, or a designated representative via VHF radio on channel 16, to request authorization. If authorization to enter, transit through, anchor in, or remain in the regulated area is granted by the Captain of the Port Savannah or a designated representative, all persons and vessels receiving such authorization must comply with the instructions of the Captain of the Port Savannah or a designated representative.

(5) Coast Guard Marine Safety Unit Savannah will attempt to notify the maritime community of periods during which these safety zones will be in effect via Broadcast Notice to Mariners or by on-scene designated representatives.

(6) The Coast Guard will provide notice of the regulated area via Broadcast Notice to Mariners or by on-scene designated representatives.

(7) This regulation does not apply to authorized law enforcement agencies operating within the regulated area.
