
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Seventh Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.781 Safety Zone; hurricanes and other disasters in Western Florida.
######## Hurricane Port Condition YANKEE.

(3)Affected ports are closed to inbound vessel traffic. All oceangoing commercial vessels greater than 500-gross tons must have departed Tampa Bay. Appropriate container stacking protocol must be completed. Terminal operators must terminate all cargo operations not associated with storm preparations: cargo operations associated with storm preparations include moving cargo within or off the port for s ecuring purposes, crane and other port/facility equipment preparations, and similar activities, but do not include moving cargo onto the port or vessel loading/discharging operations unless specifically authorized by the COTP. All facilities shall continue to operate in accordance with approved Facility Security Plans and comply with the requirements of the Maritime Transportation Security Act (MTSA). Drawbridges may be closed to vessel traffic as early as eight hours prior to the arrival of tropical storm force winds. Coast Guard Port Assessment Teams will conduct Port Condition YANKEE validation. The COTP will convene the Port Heavy Weather Advisory Group (PHWAG), as deemed necessary.
