
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Seventh Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.783 Safety Zone; firework displays in Captain of the Port Zone St. Petersburg, Florida.
######## Regulated area.

(a)The following area is established as a safety zone during the specified conditions: All waters within the Sector St. Petersburg COTP Zone up to a 500-yard radius of all firework platforms, structures or barges during the storage, preparation, and launching of fireworks. Designated representatives may reduce the 500-yard zone based on prevailing conditions and enforcement needs.

(1) The Coast Guard realizes that some large scale events, such as those with many participants or spectators, or those that could severely restrict navigation or pose a significant hazard, may still require separate special local regulations or safety zones that address the specific peculiarities of the event. In those situations, the Coast Guard will create special local regulations or safety zones specifically for the event. Those regulations will supersede the regulations in this section.

(2) All firework platforms, structures or barges will also have a sign on their port and starboard side labeled "FIREWORKS-STAY AWAY". This sign will consist of 10-inch high by 1.5-inch wide red lettering on a white background. Shore fireworks site that affect navigable waterways will display a sign with the aforementioned specifications.
