
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Seventh Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.783 Safety Zone; firework displays in Captain of the Port Zone St. Petersburg, Florida.
######## Regulations.

(c)(1) All persons and vessels are prohibited from entering, transiting through, anchoring in, or remaining within the regulated area unless authorized by the Coast Guard Captain of the Port St. Petersburg or a designated representative.

(2) Persons and vessels desiring to enter, transit through, anchor in, or remain in the regulated area may contact the Captain of the Port St. Petersburg via telephone at (727)-824-7506, or a designated representative via VHF radio on channel 16, to request authorization. If authorization to enter, transit through, anchor in, or remain in the regulated area is granted by the Captain of the Port St. Petersburg or a designated representative, all persons and vessels receiving such authorization must comply with the instructions of the Captain of the Port St. Petersburg or a designated representative.

(3) The Coast Guard will provide notice of the regulated area via Broadcast Notice to Mariners or by on-scene designated representatives. Fireworks platforms, piers, and structures will also have signs to notify the public of the danger and to keep away.

(4) This section does not apply to authorized law enforcement agencies operating within the regulated area.
