
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Seventh Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.786 Safety Zone; recurring marine events, Sector Key West, Florida.
######## Regulations.

(a)(1) In accordance with 33 CFR 165.23, entering, transiting through, anchoring in, or remaining within the safety zones listed in the Table to ยง 165.786 during periods of enforcement is prohibited unless authorized by the Captain of the Port (COTP) Sector Key West or a designated representative.

(2) These regulations will be enforced for the duration of each event. Notifications of exacts dates and times of the enforcement period will be made to the local maritime community through the Local Notice to Mariners and Broadcast Notice to Mariners and through a Notice of Enforcement in thewell in advance of the events. Mariners should consult theor their Local Notice to Mariners to remain apprised of schedule their Local Notice to Mariners to remain apprised of schedule or event changes.

(3) During periods of enforcement, upon being hailed by a Coast Guard vessel by siren, radio, flashing light or other means, the operator must proceed as directed.

(4) Vessel operators desiring to enter, transit through, anchor in, or remain within the regulated area during the enforcement period shall contact the COTP Sector Key West or the designated on-scene representative via VHF channel 16 or call the Sector Key West Command Center at (305) 292-8727 to obtain permission.
