
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Eighth Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.803 Mississippi River - regulated navigation area.
######## Mooring to a mooring device.

(e)(1) A barge may be moored to mooring devices if the upstream end of that barge is secured to at least one mooring device and the downstream end is secured to at least one other mooring device, except that from mile 127 to mile 240 a barge may be moored to mooring devices if the upstream end of that barge is secured to at least one mooring device.

(2) Barges moored in tiers may be shifted to mooring devices if the shoreward barge at the upstream end of the tier is secured to at least one mooring device, and the shoreward barge at the downstream end of the tier is secured to at least one other mooring device, except that from mile 127 to mile 240 barges moored in tiers may be shifted to mooring devices if the shoreward barge at the upstream end of the tier is secured to at least one mooring device.

(3) Each wire rope used between the upstream end of a barge and a mooring device must have at least a diameter of 1inch. Chain or line used between the upstream end of a barge and a mooring device must be at least equivalent in strength to 1inch diameter wire rope.

(4) Each wire rope used between the downstream end of a barge and a mooring device must have at least a diameter ofinch. Chain or line used between the downstream end of a barge and a mooring device must be of at least equivalent strength ofinch diameter wire rope.

(f) Moorings: Barge-to-barge; barge-to-vessel; barge-to-wharf or pier. The person in charge shall ensure that a barge moored to another barge, a mooring or spar barge, a vessel, a wharf, or a pier, is secured as near as practicable to each abutting corner of the barge being moored by:

(1) Three parts of wire rope of at leastinch diameter with an eye at each end of the rope passed around the timberhead, caval, or button;

(2) A mooring of natural or synthetic fiber rope that has at least 75 percent of the breaking strength of three parts ofinch diameter wire rope; or

(3) Fixed rigging that is at least equivalent to three parts ofinch diameter wire rope.
