
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Eighth Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.810 Mississippi River, LA-regulated navigation area.
######## Towing.

(3)Towing in any formation by a vessel with insufficient power to permit ready maneuverability and safe handling is prohibited.

(c) [Reserved]

(d) Navigation of South and Southwest Passes.

(1) No vessel, except small craft and towboats and tugs without tows, shall enter either South Pass or Southwest Pass from the Gulf until after any descending vessel which has approached within two and one-half (2) miles of the outer end of the jetties and visible to the ascending vessel shall have passed to sea.

(2) No vessel having a speed of less than ten mph shall enter South Pass from the Gulf when the stage of the Mississippi River exceeds 15 feet on the Carrollton Gage at New Orleans. This paragraph does not apply when Southwest Pass is closed to navigation.

(3) No vessel, except small craft and towboats and tugs without tows, ascending South Pass shall pass Franks Crossing Light until after a descending vessel shall have passed Depot Point Light.

(4) No vessel, except small craft and towboats and tugs without tows, shall enter the channel at the head of South Pass until after an ascending vessel which has reached Franks Crossing Light shall have passed through into the river.

(5) When navigating South Pass during periods of darkness no tow shall consist of more than one towed vessel other than small craft, and during daylight hours no tow shall consist of more than two towed vessels other than small craft. Tows may be in any formation. When towing on a hawser, the hawser shall be as short as practicable to provide full control at all times.

(6) When towing in Southwest Pass during periods of darkness no tow shall consist of more than two towed vessels other than small craft, and during daylight hours no tow shall consist of more than three towed vessels other than small craft.

(e) Watch requirements for anchored and moored passenger vessels.
