
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Eighth Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.810 Mississippi River, LA-regulated navigation area.
######## Passenger vessels.

(1)Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, each passenger vessel with one or more passengers on board, must-

(i) Keep a continuously manned pilothouse; and

(ii) Monitor river activities and marine VHF, emergency and working frequencies of the port, so as to be immediately available to take necessary action to protect the vessel, crew, and passengers if an emergency radio broadcast, danger signal, or visual or other indication of a problem is received or detected.

(2) Each ferryboat, and each small passenger vessel to which 46 CFR 175.110 applies, may monitor river activities using a portable radio from a vantage point other than the pilothouse.

(f) Each self-propelled vessel of 1,600 or more gross tons subject to 33 CFR part 164 shall also comply with the following:

(1) While under way in the RNA, each vessel must have an engineering watch capable of monitoring the propulsion system, communicating with the bridge, and implementing manual-control measures immediately when necessary. The watch must be physically present in the machinery spaces or in the machinery-control spaces and must consist of at least an appropriately licensed or credentialed engineer officer.

(2) Before embarking a pilot when entering or getting under way in the RNA, the master of each vessel shall ensure that the vessel is in compliance with 33 CFR part 164.

(3) The master shall ensure that the chief engineer has certified that the following additional operating conditions will be satisfied so long as the vessel is under way within the RNA:

(i) The main propulsion plant is in all respects ready for operations including the main-propulsion air-start systems, fuel systems, lubricating systems, cooling systems, and automation systems;

(ii) Cooling, lubricating, and fuel-oil systems are at proper operating temperatures;

(iii) Main propulsion machinery is available to immediately respond to the full range of maneuvering commands any load-limiting programs or automatic acceleration-limiting programs that would limit the speed of response to engine orders beyond that needed to prevent immediate damage to the propulsion machinery are capable of being overridden immediately.

(iv) Main-propulsion standby systems are ready to be immediately placed in service.

(g) [Reserved]
