
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Eighth Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.814 Security Zones; Captain of the Port Houston-Galveston Zone.
######## Regulations.

(b)(1) Entry of into these zones is prohibited except for the following:

(i) Commercial vessels operating at waterfront facilities within these zones;

(ii) Commercial vessels transiting directly to or from waterfront facilities within these zones;

(iii) Vessels providing direct operational/logistic support to commercial vessels within these zones;

(iv) Vessels operated by the appropriate port authority or by facilities located within these zones; and

(v) Vessels operated by federal, state, county, or municipal agencies.

(2) Other persons or vessels requiring entry into a zone described in this section must request express permission to enter from the Captain of the Port Houston-Galveston, or designated representative. The Captain of the Port Houston-Galveston's designated representatives are any personnel granted authority by the Captain of the Port Houston-Galveston to receive, evaluate, and issue written security zone entry permits, or the designated on-scene U.S. Coast Guard patrol personnel described in paragraph (b)(4).

(3) To request permission as required by these regulations contact "Houston Traffic" via VHF Channels 11/12 or by phone at 281-464-4837.

(4) All persons and vessels shall comply with the instructions of the Captain of the Port Houston-Galveston and designated on-scene U.S. Coast Guard patrol personnel. On-scene U.S. Coast Guard patrol personnel include commissioned, warrant, and petty officers of the U.S. Coast Guard.
