
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Eighth Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.817 Arkansas River, Mile 118.2 to 125.4, Little Rock Arkansas - regulated navigation area.

(a) Location. The following is a regulated navigation area (RNA): The waters of the Arkansas River between mile 118.2 and mile 125.4.

(b) Regulations. Transit of the RNA is limited during periods of high velocity flow, defined as the flow rate of 70,000 cubic feet per second or more at the Murray Lock and Dam at mile 125.4. The flow rate at this location is calculated by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers on a regular and routine basis. This information will be distributed by announcements by Coast Guard Marine Information Broadcasts, publication in Coast Guard Local Notice to Mariners, and telephone or radio contact with the Lockmaster at Murray Lock and Dam.

(c) Transit of the RNA during periods of high velocity flow may only occur under the following conditions:

(1) Vessels may not meet or pass in the RNA.

(2) No vessel shall anchor, stop, remain or drift without power at any time in the RNA.

(3) All vessels shall continually monitor VHF-FM channel 13 on their radiotelephone while in or approaching the RNA.

(4) Prior to entering the RNA, downbound vessels shall make a broadcast in the blind on VHF-FM channel 13 announcing their estimated time of departure from Murray Lock and Dam or from the mooring cells at mile 121.5 to ensure there are no upbound vessels within the RNA. If there is upbound traffic within the RNA, the downbound vessel shall not depart until the upbound vessel has passed through the RNA. After departing, vessels will proceed through the RNA, including all drawbridges located therein, without delay.

(5) When upbound vessels reach mile 116, they shall make a broadcast in the blind on VHF-FM channel 13 announcing their estimated arrival time at the Rock Island Railroad Bridge at mile 118.2.

(6) When a downbound vessel is already in the RNA, an upbound vessel shall adjust its speed so as to avoid a meeting situation in the RNA.

(d) Refer to 33 CFR 117.123 for drawbridge operation regulations.
