
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Eighth Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.818 Moving Security Zones, for certain vessels in Freeport Entrance Channel, Freeport, Texas.
######## Regulations.

(b)Entry into or remaining in the zones described in paragraph (a) of this section is prohibited unless authorized as follows:

(1) Moored vessels or vessels anchored in a designated anchorage area are permitted to remain moored or anchored if they come within a security zone described in paragraph (a) of this section. A moored or an anchored vessel in a security zone must remain moored or anchored unless it obtains permission from the Captain of the Port to do otherwise.

(2) Commercial vessels operating at the waterfront facilities within these zones.

(3) Commercial vessel transiting directly to or from waterfront facilities within these zones.

(4) Vessels providing direct operational/logistic support to commercial vessels within these zones.

(5) Vessels operated by the port authority or by facilities located within these zones.

(6) Vessels operated by Federal, State, county, or municipal agencies.

(7) All persons and vessels within the moving security zone must comply with the instructions of the Captain of the Port Houston-Galveston and designated on-scene U.S. Coast Guard patrol personnel. On-scene U.S. Coast Guard patrol personnel include commissioned, warrant, and petty officers of the U.S. Coast Guard.

(8) To request permission as required by these regulations, contact the Sector Houston-Galveston Command Center by telephone at (713) 671-5113. In Freeport, vessels should contact the Captain of the Port's designated on-scene representative for the moving security zone on VHF Channel 16, or by telephone at (979) 233-7551.
