
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Eighth Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.825 Security Zones; Captain of the Port St. Louis, Missouri.
######## Regulations.

(b)(1) Entry into these security zones is prohibited unless authorized by the Coast Guard Captain of the Port, Upper Mississippi or designated representative.

(2) The Ft. Calhoun and Cooper security zones include a portion of the navigable channel of the Missouri River. All vessels that may safely navigate outside of the channel are prohibited from entering the security zone without the express permission of the Captain of the Port, Upper Mississippi or designated representative. Vessels that are required to use the channel for safe navigation are authorized entry into the zone but must remain within the channel unless expressly authorized by the Captain of the Port Upper Mississippi or designated representative.

(3) Persons or vessels requiring the permission of the Captain of the Port, Upper Mississippi to enter the security zones must contact the Coast Guard Sector Upper Mississippi River at telephone number 319 524-7511 or on VHF marine channel 16 or Marine Safety Detachment Quad Cities at telephone number 309 782-0627 or the Captain of the Port, Upper Mississippi at telephone number 314 539-3091, ext. 3500 in order to seek permission to enter the security zones. If permission is granted, all persons and vessels must comply with the instructions of the Captain of the Port, Upper Mississippi or designated representative.

(4) Designated representatives are commissioned, warrant, and petty officers of the U.S. Coast Guard.
