
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Eighth Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.835 Security Zone; Port of Mobile, Mobile Ship Channel, Mobile, AL.
######## Regulations.

(d)(1) Under ยง 165.33 of this part, entry into a security zone is prohibited unless authorized by the Captain of the Port Mobile or a designated representative.

(2) While a cruise ship is transiting on the Mobile Ship Channel shoreward of the Mobile Sea Buoy, and while transiting in the Port of Mobile, all persons and vessels are prohibited from entering within 100 yards of a cruise ship.

(3) While a cruise ship is moored in the Port of Mobile, all persons and vessels are prohibited from entering within 25 yards of a cruise ship.

(4) Persons or vessels that desire to enter into the security zone for the purpose of passing or overtaking a cruise ship that is in transit on the Mobile Ship Channel or in the Port of Mobile must contact the on-scene Coast Guard representative, request permission to conduct such action, and receive authorization from the on-scene Coast Guard representative prior to initiating such action. The on-scene Coast Guard representative may be contacted on VHF-FM channel 16.

(5) All persons and vessels authorized to enter into this security zone must obey any direction or order of the Captain of the Port or designated representative. The Captain of the Port Mobile may be contacted by telephone at (251) 441-5976. The on-scene Coast Guard representative may be contacted on VHF-FM channel 16.

(6) All persons and vessels shall comply with the instructions of the Captain of the Port Mobile and designated on-scene U.S. Coast Guard patrol personnel. On-scene Coast Guard patrol personnel include commissioned, warrant, and petty officers of the U.S. Coast Guard.
