
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Eighth Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.837 Safety Zone; Invista Inc Facility Docks, Victoria Barge Canal, Victoria, Texas.
######## Regulations.

(d)(1) Persons desiring to transit the area of the safety zone may contact the Captain of the Port at telephone number 1-361-939-6393, or the barge on VHF Channel 16 (156.800MHz) to seek permission to transit the area. If permission is granted, all persons and vessels must comply with the instructions of the Captain of the Port or his or her designated representative.

(2) All persons and vessels must comply with the instructions of the Coast Guard Captain of the Port or the designated representative.

(3) Upon being hailed by U.S. Coast Guard patrol personnel by siren, radio, flashing light, or other means the operator of a vessel must proceed as directed.

(4) The Coast Guard may be assisted by other Federal, State, or local agencies.

(5) In accordance with the general regulations in 33 CFR part 165.23, no person or vessel may enter or remain in the zone described in paragraph (a) of this section except for support vessels/aircraft and support personnel, or other vessels authorized by the Captain of the Port Corpus Christi or his designated representative.
