
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Eighth Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.838 Regulated Navigation Area; Gulf Intracoastal Waterway, Inner Harbor Navigation Canal, New Orleans, LA.
######## Storm Specific Verification Report.,http://homeport.uscg.mil/nola.

(2)72 hrs prior to predicted closure of the navigational structures, those facilities which have vessels that intend to remain within the RNA shall submit a Storm Specific Verification Report to the COTP New Orleans. The requirements for this Storm Specific Verification Report are located in the Canal Hurricane Operations Plan, which is Enclosure Six to the Sector New Orleans Maritime Hurricane Contingency Port Plan,The report shall include:

(i) Updated contact information, including names of manned towboat(s) and individuals remaining on the towboat(s).

(ii) Number of vessels currently moored and mooring configurations if less than stated in Annual Hurricane Operations Plan.

(iii) If the number of vessels exceeds the amount listed in the Annual Hurricane Operations Plan, describe process and timeframe for evacuating vessels to bring total number of vessels into alignment with the Annual Hurricane Operations Plan.

(3) The person in charge of a facility shall inspect each mooring wire, chain, line and connecting gear between mooring devices and each wire, line and connecting equipment used to moor each vessel, and each mooring device. Inspections shall be performed according to the following timelines and guidance:

(i) Annually between May 1 and June 1 of each calendar year; and

(ii) After vessels are added to, withdrawn from, or moved at a facility, each mooring wire, line, and connecting equipment of each barge within each tier affected by that operation; and

(iii) At least weekly between June 1 and November 30; and

(iv) 72 hrs prior to predicted closure of the navigation structures within this RNA; or within 6 hrs of the predicted closure, if the notice of predicted closure is less than 72 hrs.

(4) The person who inspects moorings shall take immediate action to correct any deficiency.
