
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Eighth Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.838 Regulated Navigation Area; Gulf Intracoastal Waterway, Inner Harbor Navigation Canal, New Orleans, LA.
######## Mooring requirements.

(f)Facility owners shall consider all requirements within this section as minimum standards. Title 33 CFR 165.803, United Facilities Criteria (UFC) 4-159 and American Society of the Civil Engineers (ASCE)7 should be utilized by Professional Engineers in the certification of the Annual Hurricane Operations Plan.

(1) No person may secure a vessel to trees or to other vegetation.

(2) No person may allow a vessel to be moored with unraveled or frayed lines or other defective or worn mooring.

(3) No person may moor barges side to side unless they are secured to each other from fittings as close to each corner of abutting sides as practicable.

(4) No person may moor barges end to end unless they are secured to each other from fittings as close to each corner of abutting ends as practicable.

(5) A vessel may be moored to mooring devices if both ends of that vessel are secured to mooring devices.

(6) Barges may be moored in tiers if each shoreward barge is secured to mooring devices at each end.

(7) A vessel must be secured as near as practicable to each abutting corner by:

(i) Three parts of wire rope of at least 1inch diameter with an eye at each end of the rope passed around the timberhead, caval, or button;

(ii) A mooring of natural or synthetic fiber rope that has at least the breaking strength of three parts of 1inch diameter wire rope; or

(iii) Fixed rigging that is at least equivalent to three parts of 1inch diameter wire rope.

(8) The person in charge shall ensure that all mooring devices, wires, chains, lines and connecting gear are of sufficient strength and in sufficient number to withstand forces that may be exerted on them by moored vessels/barges.
