
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Ninth Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.T09-0082 Safety Zone; Cleveland Dragon Boat Festival and Head of the Cuyahoga, Cuyahoga River, Cleveland, OH.
######## Regulations.

(d)(1) In accordance with the general regulations in ยง 165.23 of this part, entry into, transiting, or anchoring within this safety zone identified in paragraph (a) of this section is prohibited unless authorized by the Captain of the Port Buffalo or his designated on-scene representative.

(2) The safety zone identified in paragraph (a) of this section is closed to all vessel traffic, except as may be permitted by the Captain of the Port Buffalo or his designated on-scene representative.

(3) Vessel operators desiring to enter or operate within the safety zone must contact the Captain of the Port Buffalo or his on-scene representative to obtain permission to do so. The Captain of the Port Buffalo or his on-scene representative may be contacted via VHF Channel 16. Vessel operators given permission to enter or operate in the safety zone must comply with all directions given to them by the Captain of the Port Buffalo, or his on-scene representative.

(4) Additionally, all vessels over 65 feet intending to transit, moor or conduct operations to include loading or discharging of cargo or passengers in the Cuyahoga River while the safety zone is being enforced should request permission from the COTP or his/her designated representative at least 12 hours before the zone is established.
