
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Ninth Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.910 Security Zones; Captain of the Port Lake Michigan.
######## Regulations.

(b)(1) Under ยง 165.33, entry into these zones is prohibited unless authorized by the Coast Guard Captain of the Port Lake Michigan. Section 165.33 also contains other general requirements.

(2) All persons and vessels shall comply with the instruction of the Captain of the Port Lake Michigan or the designated on-scene U.S. Coast Guard patrol personnel. On-scene patrol personnel include commissioned, warrant, and petty officers of the U.S. Coast Guard on board Coast Guard, Coast Guard Auxiliary, local, state, and federal law enforcement vessels. Emergency response vessels are authorized to move within the zone but must abide by the restrictions imposed by the Captain of the Port.

(3) Persons who would like to transit through a security zone in this section must contact the Captain of the Port Lake Michigan at telephone number (414) 747-7182 or on VHF channel 16 (156.8 MHz) to seek permission to transit the area. If permission is granted, all persons and vessels shall comply with the instructions of the Captain of the Port Lake Michigan or his or her designated representative.
