
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart 1.26 - Charges for Duplicate Medals, and Sales of Personal Property, Equipment or Services and Rentals
###### ยง 1.26-15 Sales of nonexcess personal property and services.
####### Sales to vessels and other watercraft.

(c)(1) The charges imposed for services are intended to permit repayment of costs involved in those instances where supplies and services are furnished to meet the necessities of the circumstances, and such vessels or watercraft are not within the scope of those distress services performed by the Coast Guard.

(2) Charges for sales of supplies and/or furnishing of services are considered appropriate when the furnishing of food, fuel, general stores, or repairs to the vessel or its equipage are primarily for the convenience of the owner, master, or crew, and furnished at his or their request. It is not intended and the Coast Guard does not procure and stock equipment and supplies except as provided for in current instructions issued by competent authority.

(3) Supplies provided and services performed will be of a limited nature consistent with the situation and within the capabilities of the Coast Guard unit concerned; provided this will not be in competition with commercial enterprise when such facilities are available and deemed adequate. It is not intended to permit the operators of vessels or watercraft to take advantage of the Government by demanding free supplies or services. Determination as to whether charges will be made is dependent upon the circumstances involved in each instance. The responsibility to make this determination rests with the District Commander who may delegate it to his subordinates.

(4) The minimum charge for any supplies or services furnished to a vessel or other watercraft shall be $10. The prices for fuels and materials which may be sold will be at Coast Guard cost plus 20 percent or, if readily determinable, at the commercial price in the immediate operating area, whichever is higher. The charges for services furnished a vessel or watercraft will be an average cost equal to the full price, plus taxes, that a boat owner would pay a local commercial concern for such services.

(5) The sales of supplies and services will be documented and will set forth the name, type, and identifying number of the vessel or watercraft receiving supplies or services; name and address of vessel's owner; and conditions under which it was determined to make a sale to the vessel or watercraft. Wherever possible, payment shall be obtained at the time supplies and services are furnished.
