
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter C - Aids to Navigation
#### PART 67 - AIDS TO NAVIGATION ON ARTIFICIAL ISLANDS AND FIXED STRUCTURES
##### Subpart 67.50 - District Regulations
###### ยง 67.50-25 Eighth Coast Guard District.
####### Spoil marking.

(d)(1) All submerged spoil resulting from the dredging of channels, laying of pipelines, or any other operation, which constitutes an obstruction to navigation, shall be properly marked. The spoil banks should be examined at frequent intervals in order that the changing conditions may be kept under control. As markers are no longer required due to settling of banks, the Coast Guard will authorize their removal upon application.

(2) All openings in such submerged spoil shall be marked by daybeacons on each side of the openings. When spoil is located on each side of a channel or pipe line, each bank will be considered separately. The daybeacons shall be equipped with arrows designating the safe water through the opening. These daybeacons may also be used as channel markers for the dredged channels providing they are also equipped with arrows designating the spoil bank openings.

(3) When spoil banks constituting an obstruction to navigation abut an established traveled waterway, the outboard spoil bank markers shall be equipped with quick flashing lights described in Subpart 67.30 of this part, except that the color shall be in accordance with the provisions of Subpart 62.25 of Part 62 of this subchapter.
