
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Ninth Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.921 Regulated Navigation Area; Reporting Requirements for Barges Loaded with Certain Dangerous Cargoes, Illinois Waterway System located within the Ninth Coast Guard District.
######## Certain Dangerous Cargo,CDC

or () includes any of the following:

(1) Division 1.1 or 1.2 explosives as defined in 49 CFR 173.50.

(2) Division 1.5D blasting agents for which a permit is required under 49 CFR 176.415 or, for which a permit is required as a condition of a Research and Special Programs Administration exemption.

(3) Division 2.3 "poisonous gas", as listed in 49 CFR 172.101 that is also a "material poisonous by inhalation" as defined in 49 CFR 171.8, and that is in a quantity in excess of 1 metric ton per barge.

(4) Division 5.1 oxidizing materials for which a permit is required under 49 CFR 176.415 or, for which a permit is required as a condition of a Research and Special Programs Administration exemption.

(5) A liquid material that has a primary or subsidiary classification of Division 6.1 "poisonous material" as listed in 49 CFR 172.101 that is also a "material poisonous by inhalation", as defined in 49 CFR 171.8 and that is in a bulk packaging, or that is in a quantity in excess of 20 metric tons per barge when not in a bulk packaging.

(6) Class 7, "highway route controlled quantity" radioactive material or "fissile material, controlled shipment", as defined in 49 CFR 173.403.

(7) Bulk liquefied chlorine gas and bulk liquefied gas cargo that is flammable and/or toxic and carried under 46 CFR 154.7.

(8) The following bulk liquids-

(i) Acetone cyanohydrin,

(ii) Allyl alcohol,

(iii) Chlorosulfonic acid,

(iv) Crotonaldehyde,

(v) Ethylene chlorohydrin,

(vi) Ethylene dibromide,

(vii) Methacrylonitrile,

(viii) Oleum (fuming sulfuric acid), and

(ix) Propylene Oxide.
