
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Ninth Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.923 Regulated Navigation Area, Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal, Romeoville, IL.
######## i.e.,

(B) Vessels must not be a personal or human powered watercraft (jet skis, waver runners, kayaks, row boats, etc.).

(C) Vessels engaged in commercial service, as defined in 46 U.S.C. 2101(5), may not pass (meet or overtake) in the RNA and must make a SECURIT&#xC9; call when approaching the RNA to announce intentions and work out passing arrangements.

(D) Commercial tows transiting the RNA must use wire rope or appropriate alternatives to ensure electrical connectivity between all segments of the tow.

(E) All vessels are prohibited from loitering in the RNA.

(F) Vessels may enter the RNA for the sole purpose of transiting to the other side and must maintain headway throughout the transit. All vessels and persons are prohibited from dredging, laying cable, dragging, fishing, conducting salvage operations, or any other activity, which could disturb the bottom of the RNA.

(G) Except for law enforcement and emergency response personnel, all personnel on vessels transiting the RNA should remain inside the cabin, or as inboard as practicable. If personnel must be on open decks, they must wear a Coast Guard approved personal flotation device.

(H) Vessels may not moor or lay up on the right or left descending banks of the RNA.

(I) Towboats may not make or break tows if any portion of the towboat or tow is located in the RNA.

(J) Persons onboard any vessel transiting the RNA in accordance with this rule or otherwise are advised they do so at their own risk.

(K) All vessels transiting the RNA are required to transit at a no wake speed but still maintain bare steerageway.
