
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Ninth Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.929 Safety Zones; annual events requiring safety zones in the Captain of the Port Lake Michigan Zone.
######## Regulations.

(a)The following regulations apply to the safety zones listed in Tables 1 through 4 of this section.

(1) The general regulations in ยง 165.23.

(2) All vessels must obtain permission from the Captain of the Port (COTP) Lake Michigan or his or her designated representative to enter, move within, or exit a safety zone established in this section when the safety zone is enforced. Vessels and persons granted permission to enter one of the safety zones listed in this section must obey all lawful orders or directions of the COTP Lake Michigan or his or her designated representative. Upon being hailed by the U.S. Coast Guard by siren, radio, flashing light or other means, the operator of a vessel must proceed as directed.

(3) The enforcement dates and times for each of the safety zones listed in Tables 1 through 4 of this section are subject to change, but the duration of enforcement would remain the same, or nearly the same, as stated in Tables 1 through 4 of this section. In the event of a change, the COTP Lake Michigan will provide notice to the public by publishing a Notice of Enforcement in theas well as, issuing a Broadcast Notice to Mariners.
