
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Ninth Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.930 Safety Zone, Brandon Road Lock and Dam to Lake Michigan including Des Plaines River, Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal, Chicago River, and Calumet-Saganashkee Channel, Chicago, IL.
######## Enforcement.

(c)(1) The Captain of the Port, Sector Lake Michigan, may enforce this safety zone in whole, in segments, or by any combination of segments. The Captain of the Port, Sector Lake Michigan, may suspend the enforcement of any segment of this safety zone for which notice of enforcement had been given.

(2) The safety zone established by this section will be enforced, pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, only upon notice by the Captain of the Port, Sector Lake Michigan. Suspension of any previously announced period of enforcement will also be provided by the Captain of the Port, Sector Lake Michigan. All notices of enforcement and notices of suspension of enforcement will clearly describe any segments of the safety zone affected by the notice. At a minimum, notices of enforcement and notices of suspension of enforcement will identify any affected segments by reference to mile markers. When possible, the Captain of the Port, Sector Lake Michigan, will also identify enforced segments of this safety zone by referencing readily identifiable geographical points. In addition to providing the geographical bounds of any enforced segment of this safety zone, notices of enforcement will also provide the date(s) and time(s) at which enforcement will commence or suspend.

(3) The Captain of the Port, Sector Lake Michigan, will publish notices of enforcement and notices of suspension of enforcement in accordance with 33 CFR 165.7(a) and in a manner that provides as much notice to the public as possible. The primary method of notification will be through publication in theThe Captain of the Port, Sector Lake Michigan, will also provide notice through other means, such as Broadcast Notice to Mariners, local Notice to Mariners, local news media, distribution in leaflet form, and on-scene oral notice. Additionally, the Captain of the Port, Sector Lake Michigan, may notify representatives from the maritime industry through telephonic and email notifications.
