
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Ninth Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.930 Safety Zone, Brandon Road Lock and Dam to Lake Michigan including Des Plaines River, Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal, Chicago River, and Calumet-Saganashkee Channel, Chicago, IL.
######## Regulations.

(d)(1) In accordance with the general regulations in ยง 165.23 of this part, entry into, transiting, mooring, laying up, or anchoring within any enforced segment of the safety zone is prohibited unless authorized by the Captain of the Port, Sector Lake Michigan, or his or her designated representative.

(2) The "designated representative" of the Captain of the Port, Sector Lake Michigan, is any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant or petty officer who has been designated by the Captain of the Port, Sector Lake Michigan, to act on his or her behalf. The designated representative of the Captain of the Port, Sector Lake Michigan, will be aboard a Coast Guard, Coast Guard Auxiliary, or other designated vessel or will be on shore and will communicate with vessels via VHF radio, loudhailer, or by phone. The Captain of the Port, Sector Lake Michigan, or his or her designated representative may be contacted via VHF radio Channel 16 or the Coast Guard Sector Lake Michigan Command Center at 414-747-7182.

(3) To obtain permission to enter or operate within an enforced segment of the safety zone established by this section, Vessel operators must contact the Captain of the Port, Sector Lake Michigan, or his or her designated representative. Vessel operators given permission to operate in an enforced segment of the safety zone must comply with all directions given to them by the Captain of the Port, Sector Lake Michigan, or his or her designated representative.

(4) When a segment of the safety zone is being enforced, it will be closed to all vessel traffic, except as may be permitted by the Captain of the Port, Sector Lake Michigan, or his or her designated representative. As soon as operations permit, the Captain of the Port, Sector Lake Michigan, will issue a notice of suspension of enforcement as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.

(5) All persons entering any enforced segment of the safety zone established in this section are advised that they do so at their own risk.
