
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Eleventh Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.1122 San Diego Bay, Mission Bay and their Approaches - Regulated navigation area.
######## Regulations.

(d)(1) No vessel to which this rule applies may enter, depart or move within San Diego Bay or Mission Bay unless it complies with the following requirements:

(i) Obtain permission to enter San Diego Bay or Mission Bay from the Captain of the Port or designated representative immediately upon entering the RNA. However, to avoid potential delays, we recommend seeking permission 30 minutes prior to entering the RNA.

(ii) Follow all instructions issued by the Captain of the Port or designated representative.

(iii) Obtain permission for any departure from or movement within the RNA from the Captain of the Port or designated representative prior to getting underway.

(iv) Follow all instructions issued by the Captain of the Port or designated representative.

(v) Requests may be made by telephone at 619-278-7033 (select option 2) or via VHF-FM radiotelephone on channel 16 (156.800 Mhz). The call sign for radiotelephone requests to the Captain of the Port or designated representative is "Coast Guard Sector San Diego."

(2) For purposes of the requirements in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the Captain of the Port or designated representative means any official designated by the Captain of the Port, including but not limited to commissioned, warrant, and petty officers of the U.S. Coast Guard, and any U.S. Coast Guard patrol vessel. Upon being hailed by a U.S. Coast Guard vessel by siren, radio, flashing light, or other means, the operator of a vessel shall proceed as directed.
