
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Eleventh Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.1141 Safety Zone; San Clemente 3 NM Safety Zone, San Clemente Island, CA.
######## Regulations.

(d)(1) The general regulations governing safety zones found in 33 CFR 165.23 apply to the safety zone described in paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) Mariners requesting permission to transit through any section of the zone may request authorization to do so from the Fleet Area Control and Surveillance Facility (FACSFAC) San Diego by either calling 619-545-4742 or establishing a VHF bridge to bridge radio connection on Channel 16. Immediately upon completing transit, the vessel operator must promptly notify the FACSFAC of safe passage through the safety zone. Failure to expeditiously notify FACSFAC of passage through the safety zone will result in a determination by the Navy that the vessel is still in the safety zone, thereby restricting the use of the area for naval operations. If the Navy determines that facilitating safe transit through the zone negatively impacts range operations, the Navy will cease this practice and enforce the safety zones in these two areas without exception.

(3) All persons and vessels must comply with the instructions of the U.S. Navy, Coast Guard Captain of the Port or the designated representative.

(4) Upon being hailed by U.S. Navy or U.S. Coast Guard patrol personnel by siren, radio, flashing light, or other means, the operator of a vessel must proceed as directed.

(5) The U.S. Coast Guard may be assisted in the patrol and enforcement of the safety zone described in paragraph (a) of this section by the U.S. Navy and local law enforcement agencies.
