
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS
##### Subpart 1.26 - Charges for Duplicate Medals, and Sales of Personal Property, Equipment or Services and Rentals
###### ยง 1.26-15 Sales of nonexcess personal property and services.
####### Sales to and storage of non-Federal aircraft.

(e)(1) Activities having the necessary supplies and facilities are authorized to furnish fuel, oil, equipment, supplies, mechanical services, temporary storage, or other assistance to any aircraft operated by State, municipal, or private enterprise in emergency cases. Complete engines, airplane wings, or other major items of equipment shall not be furnished without prior authority from the Commandant.

(2) Aircraft damaged to the extent that major repairs are required may be given emergency storage at the request of the pilot, provided the necessary facilities are available. No such aircraft will be given a major or minor overhaul. Damaged aircraft may be stored in its original damaged condition. If aircraft requires extensive repairs, such as would include the replacing of major parts and such major parts cannot be made available or supplied within a reasonable length of time by the operator of such aircraft, then the aircraft must be removed from the Coast Guard reservation by the operator without delay.

(3) The Government will not assume any responsibility for any loss or damage incurred by such aircraft while on a Coast Guard reservation and the owner shall be required to remove the aircraft from the reservation at the earliest practicable date.

(4) Storage charges for such aircraft on a Coast Guard reservation shall be as follows:

(i) For the first 6 working days, no charge;

(ii) For each calendar day thereafter, $3 for a single motor plane and $5 for a dual or multiengine plane.

(5) In the absence of any information to the contrary regarding a particular item or material, the price at which the item is carried in stock, or on the Plant Property Record (book price) will be regarded as the fair market value.

(6) When materials or services or both materials and services are furnished an aircraft, a deposit equal to the estimated value of such services and materials as will be required shall be obtained in advance of the rendition of the services and issuance of the materials.

(7) The charges for mechanical services rendered (other than in connection with the arrival, refueling, and departure of airplanes) shall be an hourly charge for labor, with a minimum of 1 hour, which shall be the equivalent to the schedule of wage rates for civilian personnel for the district (i.e., machinists, helpers, etc.), regardless of whether the services are performed by enlisted or civilian personnel.
