
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Eleventh Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.1171 Copper Canyon, Lake Havasu, Colorado River - Regulated Navigation Area.
######## Regulations.

(c)(1) Vessels, with the exception of patrol vessels, shall not anchor, moor, loiter in, or otherwise impede the transit of any other vessel within the regulated navigation area. Furthermore, all vessels, with the exception of patrol vessels, shall expeditiously and continuously transit the regulated navigation area via the most direct route consistent with navigational safety.

(2) During periods of vessels congestion within the Copper Canyon area, as determined by the Captain of the Port or his or her designated on-scene representative, the regulated navigation area will be closed to all vessels, with the exception of patrol vessels. During designated closure periods, no vessel may enter, remain in, or transit through the regulated navigation area, with the exception of patrol vessels. Designation of periods of vessel congestion and announcement of the closure of the regulated navigation area will be conducted by broadcast notices to mariners on VHF-FM Channel 16 no less frequently than every hour for the duration of the closure period.

(3) Each person in the regulated navigation area shall comply with the directions of the Captain of the Port or his or her designated on-scene representative regarding vessel operation.
