
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Eleventh Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.1195 Regulated Navigation Area; Humboldt Bay Bar Channel and Humboldt Bay Entrance Channel, Humboldt Bay, California.
######## Regulations.

(d)(1) In addition to the arrival and departure notification requirements listed in title 33 CFR, part 160, Ports and Waterways Safety-General, subpart C-Notifications of "Arrivals, Departures, Hazardous Conditions, and Certain Dangerous Cargoes", the owner, master, agent or person in charge of a vessel to which this notice applies shall obtain permission to cross within four hours of crossing the Humboldt Bay Bar. Between 6:30 a.m. and 10 p.m., notification/requests for permission can be made to Station Humboldt Bay on VHF-FM Channel 16, or at (707) 443-2213. If between 10 p.m. and 6:30 a.m., or if unable to reach the Station, notification/requests for permission can be made directly to Sector/Air Station Humboldt Bay on VHF-FM Channel 16 or at (707) 839-6113.

(2) Permission for a bar crossing by vessels or towing vessels and their tows to which this regulation applies is dependent on environmental and safety factors, including but not limited to: Sea state, winds, visibility, size and type of vessel or tow, wave period, time of day/night, and tidal currents. The final decision to close the bar rests with Humboldt Bay Sector Commander or his designated representative. At a minimum, Humboldt Bay Bar Channel crossings by vessels subject to this advisory will generally not be permitted unless all of the following conditions exist: Proper permission to cross has been received, sea conditions at the bar are less than 6 feet, winds at the bar are less than 30 knots, the transit will take place during daylight hours, the vessel has only a single tow or no tow, the visibility at the bar is greater than 1,000 yards, and the vessel and tow are in proper operating condition.

(3) If the bar is closed to vessels to which this regulation applies, waiver requests will be accepted within four hours of crossing the entrance channel. If the waiver request is made between 6:30 a.m. and 10 p.m., the request should be made to Station Humboldt Bay on VHF-FM Channel 16, or at (707) 443-2213. If between 10 p.m. and 6:30 a.m., or if unable to reach the Station, the request can be made directly to Sector/Air Station Humboldt Bay on VHF-FM Channel 16 or at (707) 839-6113. Waiver requests must be made by the vessel master and must provide the following: A description of the proposed operation, the conditions for which the waiver is requested, the reasons for requesting the waiver, the reasons that the requester believes the proposed operation can be accomplished safely, and a callback phone number. The Station or Sector Watchstander receiving the request will brief the Officer in Charge of the Station who will then brief the Sector Commander. The authority to grant waivers rests with the Sector Commander or his designated representative.

(4) In addition to the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1)-(3) of this section, vessels transporting liquefied hazardous gases or compressed hazardous gases in bulk as cargo into or out of Humboldt Bay are required to be aided by two assist tugs. If the vessel carrying the gases is towed, the assist tug requirement is in addition to the towing tug. The assist tugs shall escort the vessel through its transit and must be stationed so as to provide immediate assistance in response to the loss of power or steering of the cargo vessel, its towing tug, or loss of control over the tow.

(5) Vessels to which this regulation applies may be required by the Sector Commander or his designated representative to be escorted by a Coast Guard vessel during their transit. In addition, if a vessel master, agent, or pilot has concerns about the safety of a vessel's transit through the Humboldt Bay Entrance Channel, a Coast Guard escort may be requested. Requests for an escort should be directed to Station on VHF-FM channel 16 or at (707) 443-2213 between 6:30 a.m. and 10 p.m., or to Sector on VHF-FM channel 16 or at (707) 839-6113 if between 10 p.m. and 6:30 a.m.
