
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter C - Aids to Navigation
#### PART 72 - MARINE INFORMATION
##### Subpart 72.05 - Light Lists
###### ยง 72.05-1 Purpose.

(a) The Coast Guard publishes the following Light Lists annually, covering the waters of the United States, its territories and possessions:

(1) Volume I, Atlantic Coast, from St. Croix River, Maine, to Shrewsbury River, New Jersey.

(2) Volume II, Atlantic Coast, from Shrewsbury River, New Jersey, to Little River, South Carolina.

(3) Volume III, Atlantic and Gulf Coasts, from Little River, South Carolina, to Econfina River, Florida, including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.

(4) Volume IV, Gulf of Mexico, from Econfina River, Florida to Rio Grande, Texas.

(5) Volume V, Mississippi River System.

(6) Volume VI, Pacific Coast and Pacific Islands.

(7) Volume VII, Great Lakes.

(b) The Light Lists contain the official name, location, characteristics, and general description of federal, state, and private aids to navigation maintained by or under authority of the U.S. Coast Guard, which are placed in navigable waters used by general navigation. The Light Lists do not contain information concerning private aids to navigation maintained under the authority of the U.S. Coast Guard, which are placed in navigable waters not used by general navigation; nor do they contain information concerning mooring buoys and some special marks having no lateral significance such as fish net, dredging, and racing buoys.
