
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Thirteenth Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.1313 Security zone regulations, tank ship protection, Puget Sound and adjacent waters, Washington
######## Compliance:

(d)The tank ship security zone established by this section remains in effect around tank ships at all times, whether the tank ship is underway, anchored, or moored. Upon notice of enforcement by the Captain of the Port Puget Sound, the Coast Guard will enforce the tank ship security zone in accordance with rules set out in this section. Upon notice of suspension of enforcement by the Captain of the Port Puget Sound, all persons and vessels are authorized to enter, transit, and exit the tank ship security zone, consistent with the Navigation Rules.

(e) The Navigation Rules shall apply at all times within a tank ship security zone.

(f) When within a tank ship security zone all vessels shall operate at the minimum speed necessary to maintain a safe course and shall proceed as directed by the on-scene official patrol or tank ship master. No vessel or person is allowed within 100 yards of a tank ship, unless authorized by the on-scene official patrol or tank ship master.

(g) To request authorization to operate within 100 yards of a tank ship, contact the on-scene official patrol or tank ship master on VHF-FM channel 16 or 13.

(h) When conditions permit, the on-scene official patrol or tank ship master should:

(1) Permit vessels constrained by their navigational draft or restricted in their ability to maneuver to pass within 100 yards of a tank ship in order to ensure a safe passage in accordance with the Navigation Rules;

(2) Permit commercial vessels anchored in a designated anchorage area to remain at anchor when within 100 yards of a passing tank ship; and

(3) Permit vessels that must transit via a navigable channel or waterway to pass within 100 yards of a moored or anchored tank ship with minimal delay consistent with security.
