
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Thirteenth Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.1343 Regulated navigation area; NW Natural PGM Site, Willamette River, Portland, OR.
######## Regulations.

(b)In addition to the general RNA regulations in ยง 165.13, the following regulations apply to the RNA described in paragraph (a) of this section.

(1) Sediment disturbance activities including dredging, spudding, and vessel anchoring require advance consultation with the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality and obtain prior approval from the Coast Guard Captain of the Port Sector Columbia River (COTP) to prevent exposure of buried contamination and/or damage to the remedial cap. Contact Oregon DEQ at 503-229-5245, or alternatively, call 811 prior to any sediment disturbance activity. Any work within 10 feet of the seawall is prohibited unless there is advance consultation and approval by the City of Portland, DEQ and the COTP. All vessels and persons are prohibited from anchoring, dredging, laying cable, dragging, seining, bottom fishing, conducting salvage operations, or any other activity which could potentially disturb the riverbed in the designated area. Vessels may otherwise transit or navigate within this area.

(2) The regulations described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section do not apply to vessels or persons engaged in activities associated with remediation efforts in the NW Natural PGM Site, provided that the COTP is given advance notice of those activities by Oregon DEQ.
