
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Fourteenth Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.1405 Regulated Navigation Areas and Security Zones: Designated Escorted Vessels-Philippine Sea and Apra Harbor Guam, and Tanapag Harbor, Saipan, Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI).
######## Regulations.

(d)(1) No person or vessel may enter into the security zones under this section unless authorized by the COTP U.S. Coast Guard Forces Micronesia/Sector Guam or a designated representative.

(2) A vessel in the RNA established under paragraph (a) of this section operating within 500 yards of an escorted vessel must proceed at a minimum speed necessary to maintain a safe course, unless required to maintain speed by the navigation rules.

(3) When an escorted vessel in the RNA approaches within 100 yards of a vessel that is moored, or anchored in a designated anchorage area, the stationary vessel must stay moored or anchored while it remains within the escorted vessel's security zone unless it is either ordered by, or given permission from the COTP U.S. Coast Guard Forces Micronesia/Sector Guam or a designated representative to do otherwise.

(4) The COTP will inform the public of the existence or status of the security zones around escorted vessels in the RNA periodically by Broadcast Notice to Mariners.

(5) Persons or vessels that must enter a security zone or exceed speed limits established in this section may contact the COTP at command center telephone number (671) 339-6100 or on VHF channel 16 (156.8 Mhz) to request permission.

(6) All persons and vessels within 500 yards of an escorted vessel in the RNA must comply with the orders of the COTP U.S. Coast Guard Forces Micronesia/Sector Guam or his designated representatives.
