
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter P - Ports and Waterways Safety
#### PART 165 - REGULATED NAVIGATION AREAS AND LIMITED ACCESS AREAS
##### Subpart F - Specific Regulated Navigation Areas and Limited Access Areas
###### Fourteenth Coast Guard District
####### ยง 165.1408 Security Zones; Maui, HI.
######## Regulations.

(c)(1) Under 33 CFR 165.33, entry into the security zones created by this section is prohibited unless authorized by the Coast Guard Captain of the Port, Honolulu or his or her designated representatives. When authorized passage through a large passenger vessel security zone, all vessels must operate at the minimum speed necessary to maintain a safe course and must proceed as directed by the Captain of the Port or his or her designated representatives. No person is allowed within 100 yards of an LPV that is underway, moored, position-keeping, or at anchor, unless authorized by the Captain of the Port or his or her designated representative.

(2) When conditions permit, the Captain of the Port, or his or her designated representative, may permit vessels that are at anchor, restricted in their ability to maneuver, or constrained by draft to remain within an LPV security zone in order to ensure navigational safety.

(3) Persons desiring to transit the areas of the security zones in this section may contact the Captain of the Port at Command Center telephone number (808) 842-2600 or on VHF channel 16 (156.8 Mhz) to seek permission to transit the area. Written requests may be submitted to the Captain of Port, U.S. Coast Guard Sector Honolulu, Sand Island Access Road, Honolulu, Hawaii 96819, or faxed to (808) 842-2622. If permission is granted, all persons and vessels must comply with the instructions of the Captain of the Port or his or her designated representatives. For all seaplane traffic entering or transiting the security zones, compliance with all Federal Aviation Administration regulations (14 CFR parts 91 and 99) regarding flight-plan approval is deemed adequate permission to transit the waterway security zones described in this section.
