
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - International Navigation Rules
#### PART 80 - COLREGS DEMARCATION LINES
##### seventh district
###### ยง 80.717 Tybee Island, GA to St. Simons Island, GA.

(a) A line drawn from the southernmost extremity of Savannah Beach on Tybee Island 255&#xB0; true across Tybee Inlet to the shore of Little Tybee Island south of the entrance to Buck Hammock Creek.

(b) A straight line drawn from the northeasternmost extremity of Wassaw Island 031&#xB0; true through Tybee River Daybeacon 1 to the shore of Little Tybee Island.

(c) A line drawn approximately parallel with the general trend of the highwater shorelines from the seaward tangent of Wassaw Island to the seaward tangent of Bradley Point on Ossabaw Island.

(d) A north-south line (longitude 81&#xB0;08.4&#x2032; W.) drawn from the southernmost extremity of Ossabaw Island to St. Catherines Island.

(e) A north-south line (longitude 81&#xB0;10.6&#x2032; W.) drawn from the southernmost extremity of St. Catherines Island to Northeast Point on Blackbeard Island.

(f) A line following the general trend of the seaward highwater shoreline across Cabretta Inlet.

(g) A north-south line (longitude 81&#xB0;16.9&#x2032; W.) drawn from the south-westernmost point on Sapelo Island to Wolf Island.

(h) A north-south line (longitude 81&#xB0;17.1&#x2032; W.) drawn from the south-easternmost point of Wolf Island to the northeasternmost point on Little St. Simons Island.

(i) A line drawn from the northeasternmost extremity of Sea Island 045&#xB0; true to Little St. Simons Island.

(j) An east-west line from the southernmost extremity of Sea Island across Goulds Inlet to St. Simons Island.
