
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter D - International Navigation Rules
#### PART 80 - COLREGS DEMARCATION LINES
##### eighth district
###### ยง 80.830 Mississippi Passes, LA to Point Au Fer, LA.

(a) A line drawn from the seaward extremity of the Southwest Pass West Jetty located at coordinate latitude 28&#xB0;54.5&#x2032; N., longitude 89&#xB0;26.1&#x2032; W.; thence following the general trend of the seaward, highwater jetty and shoreline in a north, northeasterly direction to Old Tower latitude 28&#xB0;58.8&#x2032; N., longitude 89&#xB0;23.3&#x2032; W.; thence to westernmost point near Pass du Bois; thence to coordinate latitude 29&#xB0;05.2&#x2032; N., longitude 89&#xB0;24.3&#x2032; W.; thence a curved line following the general trend of the highwater shoreline to Point Au Fer Island except as otherwise described in this section.

(b) A line drawn across the seaward extremity of the Empire Waterway (Bayou Fontanelle) entrance jetties.

(c) An east-west line drawn from the westernmost extremity of Grand Terre Islands in the direction of 194&#xB0; true to the Grand Isle Fishing Jetty Light.

(d) A line drawn between the seaward extremity of the Belle Pass Jetties.

(e) A line drawn from the westernmost extremity of the Timbalier Island to the easternmost extremity of Isles Dernieres.

(f) A south-north line drawn from Caillou Bay Light 13 across Caillou Boca.

(g) A line drawn 107&#xB0; true from Caillou Bay Boat Landing Light across the entrances to Grand Bayou du Large and Bayou Grand Caillou.

(h) A line drawn on an axis of 103&#xB0; true through Taylors Bayou Entrance Light 2 across the entrances to Jack Stout Bayou, Taylors Bayou, Pelican Pass, and Bayou de West.
