
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter S - Boating Safety
#### PART 174 - STATE NUMBERING AND CASUALTY REPORTING SYSTEMS
##### Subpart B - Numbering System Requirements
###### ยง 174.17 Contents of application for certificate of number.

(a) An application for a certificate of number must contain the following information:

(1) Name of owner.

(2) Address of owner, including ZIP code.

(3) Owner identifier, which must be the owner's tax identification number, date of birth together with driver's license number, or date of birth together with other unique number.

(4) State of principal operation.

(5) Number previously issued by an issuing authority.

(6) Application type: Authorized terms are "new number", "renewal of number", or "transfer of ownership".

(7) Primary operation: Authorized terms are, "charter fishing", "commercial fishing", "commercial passenger carrying", "dealer or manufacturer demonstration", "other commercial operation", "pleasure", or "rent or lease".

(8) Make and model of vessel.

(9) Model year.

(10) Hull identification number, if any.

(11) Overall length of vessel.

(12) Vessel type: Authorized terms are "air boat", "auxiliary sail", "cabin motorboat", "houseboat", "inflatable boat", "open motorboat", "paddlecraft", "personal watercraft", "pontoon boat", "rowboat", "sail only", or "other".

(13) Hull material: Authorized terms are "aluminum", "fiberglass", "plastic", "rubber/vinyl/canvas", "steel", "wood", or "other".

(14) Propulsion type: Authorized terms are "air thrust", "manual", "propeller", "sail", "water jet", or "other".

(15) Engine drive type: Authorized terms are "inboard", "outboard", "pod drive", "sterndrive", or "other".

(16) Fuel: Authorized terms are "electric", "diesel", "gas", or "other".

(17) Signature of the owner.

(b)(1) An application made by a manufacturer or dealer for a number that is to be temporarily affixed to a vessel for demonstration or test purposes may omit the information under paragraphs (a)(9) through (a)(17) of this section.

(2) An application made by an owner of a vessel without propulsion machinery may omit the information under paragraphs (a)(16) and (a)(17) of this section.

(c) For an issuing authority listed in 33 CFR part 173, Appendix A on April 27, 2012, the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section apply on January 1, 2017. Between April 27, 2012 and January 1, 2017, the issuing authority may continue to accept applications containing the contents required by that reporting authority prior to April 27, 2012.
