
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter S - Boating Safety
#### PART 174 - STATE NUMBERING AND CASUALTY REPORTING SYSTEMS
##### Subpart B - Numbering System Requirements
###### ยง 174.19 Contents of a certificate of number.

(a) Except as allowed in paragraph (b) of this section, each certificate of number must contain the following information:

(1) Number issued to the vessel.

(2) Expiration date of the certificate.

(3) State of principal operation.

(4) Name of owner.

(5) Address of owner, including ZIP code.

(6) Primary operation: Authorized terms are, "charter fishing", "commercial fishing", "commercial passenger carrying", "dealer or manufacturer demonstration", "other commercial operation", "pleasure", or "rent or lease".

(7) Hull identification number, if any.

(8) Make and model of vessel.

(9) Model year.

(10) Overall length of vessel.

(11) Vessel type: Authorized terms are "air boat", "auxiliary sail", "cabin motorboat", "houseboat", "inflatable boat", "open motorboat", "paddlecraft", "personal watercraft", "pontoon boat", "rowboat", "sail only", or "other".

(12) Hull material: Authorized terms are "aluminum", "fiberglass", "plastic", "rubber/vinyl/canvas", "steel", "wood", or "other".

(13) Propulsion type: Authorized terms are "air thrust", "manual", "propeller", "sail", "water jet", or "other".

(14) Engine drive type: Authorized terms are "inboard", "outboard", "pod drive", "sterndrive", or "other".

(15) Fuel: Authorized terms are "electric", "diesel", "gas", or "other".

(b)(1) A certificate of number issued to a manufacturer or dealer for use on a vessel for test or demonstration purposes may omit the information under paragraphs (a)(7) through (a)(15) of this section if the word "manufacturer" or "dealer" is plainly marked on the certificate.

(2) A certificate of number issued for a vessel without propulsion machinery may omit paragraphs (a)(14) and (a)(15) of this section if the words "manual vessel" are plainly marked on the certificate.

(3) An issuing authority may print on the certificate of number a quotation of State boating regulations or other boating-related information, such as safety reminders, registration, or law enforcement contact information.

(c) For an issuing authority listed in Appendix A of this part on April 27, 2012, the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section apply on January 1, 2017. Between April 27, 2012 and January 1, 2017, the issuing authority may continue to issue certificates of number containing the contents in effect on April 27, 2012.
