
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter S - Boating Safety
#### PART 181 - MANUFACTURER REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart B - Manufacturer Certification of Compliance
###### ยง 181.15 Contents of labels.

(a) Each label required by ยง 181.7 must contain:

(1) The name and address of the manufacturer or private label merchandiser who certifies that the boat or item of associated equipment complies with the standards prescribed in Part 183 of this subchapter; and

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the words:

(i) "This (insert 'Boat' or 'Equipment') Complies With U.S. Coast Guard Safety Standards In Effect On (insert date of certification as prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section)"; or

(ii) If the item being certified is a boat, the label may show the words, "This Boat Complies With U.S. Coast Guard Safety Standards In Effect On The Date of Certification."

(b) Date of certification must be no earlier than the date on which construction or assembly began and no later than the date on which the boat or item of associated equipment leaves the place of manufacture or assembly or import for the purposes of sale.

(c) [Reserved]

(d) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, the manufacturer may, in addition to the information required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, display on the certification label any or all of the following information:

(1) Model name or designation.

(2) Hull identification number (if a boat) or serial number (if an item of associated equipment).

(3) Model year.

(e) Display of the hull identification number on the certification label does not satisfy the display requirements of ยง 181.29.

(f) Each boat which displays a maximum horsepower capacity determined in accordance with ยง 183.53(b) must, in addition to the information required by paragraphs (a), (b) and (d) of this section, display on the certification label, the following statement in letters no less than one-quarter of an inch in height:

THIS BOAT IS INTENDED FOR RACING AND OTHER HIGH PERFORMANCE ACTIVITIES. THE SKILL REQUIRED MAY EXCEED THE ABILITIES OF SOME OPERATORS.
