
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter S - Boating Safety
#### PART 183 - BOATS AND ASSOCIATED EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart B - Display of Capacity Information
###### ยง 183.25 Display of markings.

(a) Each marking required by ยง 183.23 must be permanently displayed in a legible manner where it is clearly visible to the operator when getting the boat underway.

(b) The information required by ยง 183.23 must be displayed in the following manner:

(1) For outboard boats:

(2) For inboard boats and inboard-outboard boats:

(3) For boats rated for motors of 2 horsepower or less:

(4) For boats rated for manual propulsion:

(c) The capacity information displays required in paragraph (b) must meet the following as illustrated in Figure 183.25:

(1) The capacity information required in ยง 183.23 must be displayed within a yellow area that-

(i) Is at least 4 inches wide; and

(ii) Is high enough that each line of print is separated by at leastinch from each other and from the borders of the yellow area;

(2) The persons capacity in whole numbers must be black print with the following dimensions:

(i) The height must not be smaller than one-half inch;

(ii) The width of the numbers must be three-fifths of the height except for the number "4", which shall be one stroke width wider, and the number "1", which shall be one stroke in width;

(iii) The stroke width shall be one-sixth of the height; and

(iv) The minimum space between the numbers shall be one stroke width.

(3) The words in the line "XX Persons or XXX Pounds" must be at least one-quarter inch in height but not larger than one-half the height of the persons capacity number and of a color contrasting with yellow. The number of pounds in this line must be at least one-eighth inch in height but no larger than one-half the height of the persons capacity number and of a color contrasting with yellow.

(4) All remaining words and numbers required to be within the yellow area required in paragraph (c)(1) must be at least one-eighth inch in height, but no larger than one-half the height of the persons capacity number.

(5) All other words and numbers on the displays must be located outside the yellow area on a background color which contrasts with yellow.

(6) The words "Maximum Capacities" must be at least one-quarter inch in height and of color contrasting with its background.

(7) The words "U.S. Coast Guard" must be at least one-eighth inch in height and of color contrasting with its background.
