
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter S - Boating Safety
#### PART 183 - BOATS AND ASSOCIATED EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart G - Flotation Requirements for Outboard Boats Rated for Engines of More Than 2 Horsepower
###### General
####### § 183.220 Preconditioning for tests.

A boat must meet the following conditions for at least 18 hours before the tests required by §§ 183.225, 183,230, and 183.235:

(a) Manufacturer supplied permanent appurtenances such as windshields and convertible tops must be installed on the boat.

(b) The boat must be loaded with a quantity of weight that, when submerged, is equal to the sum of the following:

(1) The sum of 50 percent of the first 550 pounds of the persons capacity marked on the boat and 12percent of the remainder of the persons capacity.

(2) Twenty-five percent of the result of the following calculation, but not less than zero: The maximum weight capacity marked on the boat; less the weight shown in Column 9 of Table 183.75 for maximum horsepower marked on the boat; less the persons capacity marked on the boat.

(c) The weights required by paragraph (b) of this section must be placed in the boat so that the center of gravity of each amount of weight required by paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section is within the shaded area illustrated in Figure 11. The location and dimensions of the shaded area are as follows:

(1) The shaded area is centered at the mid-length of the passenger carrying area and at the mid-breadth of the boat;

(2) The length of the shaded area, measured along the centerline of the boat, is equal to 40 percent of the length of the passenger carrying area of the boat; and

(3) The breadth of the shaded area, measured at the midlength of the passenger carrying area, is equal to 40 percent of the breadth of the passenger carrying area of the boat.

(d) Weight must be placed in the normal operating position of the motor and controls and the battery in lieu of this equipment. The required quantity of weight used for this purpose depends upon the maximum rated horsepower of the boat being tested and is specified in Columns 4 and 7 of Table 183.75 for the swamped weight of the motor and controls and for the submerged weight of the battery, respectively.

(e) Permanent fuel tanks must be filled with fuel and each external opening into the fuel tank must be sealed.

(f) The boat must be keel down in the water.

(g) The boat must be swamped, allowing water to flow between the inside and outside of the boat, either over the sides, through a hull opening, or both. Entrapped air in the flooded portion of the boat must be eliminated.

(h) Water must flood the two largest air chambers and all air chambers integral with the hull.
