
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter S - Boating Safety
#### PART 183 - BOATS AND ASSOCIATED EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart I - Electrical Systems
###### Manufacturer Requirements
####### ยง 183.455 Overcurrent protection: General.

(a) Each ungrounded current-carrying conductor must be protected by a manually reset, tripfree circuit breaker or fuse.

(b) A manually reset, trip-free circuit breaker or fuse must be placed at the source of power for each circuit or conductor except:

(1) If it is physically impractical to place the circuit breaker or fuse at the source of power, it may be placed within seven inches of the source of power for each circuit or conductor measured along the conductor.

(2) If it is physically impractical to place the circuit breaker or fuse at or within seven inches of the source of power, it may be placed within 40 inches of the source of power for each circuit or conductor, measured along the conductor, if the conductor is contained throughout its entire distance between the source of power and the required circuit breaker or fuse in a sheath or enclosure such as a junction box, control box, or enclosed panel.

(c) The current rating of each circuit breaker or fuse must not exceed:

(1) For circuits of less than 50 volts, 150% of the value of the amperage in Table 5 for the conductor size it is protecting; and

(2) For circuits of 50 volts or more, the value of the amperage in Table 5 for the conductor size it is protecting. If this value does not correspond to a standard size or rated circuit breaker or fuse the next larger size or rated circuit breaker or fuse may be used if it does not exceed 150% of the allowed current capacity of the conductor.

(d) The voltage rating of each circuit breaker or fuse must not be less than the nominal circuit voltage of the circuit it is protecting.

(e) This section does not apply to resistance conductors that control circuit amperage; conductors in secondary circuits of ignition systems; pigtails of less than seven inches of exposed length; and power supply conductors in cranking motor circuits.
