
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter S - Boating Safety
#### PART 183 - BOATS AND ASSOCIATED EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart J - Fuel Systems
###### Tests
####### ยง 183.584 Shock test.

A fuel tank is tested by performing the following procedures in the following order:

(a) Perform the static pressure test under ยง 183.580.

(b) If the tank is non-metallic, fill it to capacity with a gasoline that has at least a 50 percent aromatic content. Keep the fuel in the tank at 21 &#xB0;C or higher for 30 days prior to testing.

(c) Mount the tank to the platform of an impact test machine.

(d) Fill the tank to capacity with water.

(e) Apply one of the following accelerations within three inches of the center of the horizontal mounting surface of the tank. The duration of each vertical acceleration pulse is measured at the base of the shock envelope.

(1) If the tank is not labeled under ยง 183.514(b)(8) for installation aft of the half length of the boat, apply 1000 cycles of 25g vertical accelerations at a rate of 80 cycles or less per minute. The duration of the acceleration pulse must be between 6 and 14 milliseconds.

(2) If the tank is manufactured for installation with its center of gravity aft of the half length of the boat, apply 1000 cycles of 15g vertical accelerations at a rate of 80 cycles or less per minute. The duration of the shock pulse must be between 6 and 14 milliseconds.

(f) Perform the static pressure test under ยง 183.580.
