
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter S - Boating Safety
#### PART 183 - BOATS AND ASSOCIATED EQUIPMENT
##### Subpart J - Fuel Systems
###### Tests
####### ยง 183.590 Fire test.

(a) A piece of equipment is tested under the following conditions and procedures:

(1) Fuel stop valves, "USCG Type A1" or USCG Type A2" hoses and hose clamps are tested in a fire chamber.

(2) Fuel filters, strainers, and pumps are tested in a fire chamber or as installed on the engine in the boat.

(3) Fuel tanks must be tested filled with fuel to one-fourth the capacity marked on the tank in a fire chamber or in an actual or simulated hull section.

(b) Each fire test is conducted with free burning heptane and the component must be subjected to a flame for 2minutes.

(c) If the component is tested in a fire chamber:

(1) The temperature within one inch of the component must be at least 648 &#xB0;C sometime during the 2minute test;

(2) The surface of the heptane must be 8 to 10 inches below the component being tested; and

(3) The heptane must be in a container that is large enough to permit the perimeter of the top surface of the heptane to extend beyond the vertical projection of the perimeter of the component being tested.

(d) If the component is being tested as installed on an engine, heptane sufficient to burn 2minutes must be poured over the component and allowed to run into a flat bottomed pan under the engine. The pan must be large enough to permit the perimeter of the top surface of the heptane to extend beyond the vertical projection of the perimeter of the engine.

(e) If a fuel tank is being tested in an actual or simulated hull section, the actual or simulated hull section must be of sufficient size to contain enough heptane to burn for 2minutes in a place adjacent to the tank.
