
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter S - Boating Safety
#### PART 187 - VESSEL IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart B - Information to be Collected by Participating States
###### ยง 187.101 What information must be collected to identify a vessel owner?

(a) A participating State must collect the following information for a vessel it has numbered or titled when an individual owns the vessel and make it available to VIS:

(1) Names of all owners.

(2) Principal residence of one owner.

(3) Mailing Address, if different from the address in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(4) Owner identifier, which must be the owner's tax identification number, date of birth together with driver's license number, or date of birth together with other unique number.

(b) A participating State must collect the following information for a vessel that it has numbered or titled when the vessel's owner is not an individual, but a business or other type of organization:

(1) Names of all businesses or organizations that own the vessel.

(2) Principal address of one business or organization.

(3) Mailing address, if different from the address in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(4) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) for the principal business or organization.

(5) If the TIN for the principal business or organization is not available, one of the following unique identifiers for a corporate officer, a partner, or the individual who signed the application for numbering:

(i) Owner identifier, which must be the owner's tax identification number, date of birth together with driver's license number, or date of birth together with other unique number.

(ii) [Reserved]
