
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter S - Boating Safety
#### PART 187 - VESSEL IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart B - Information to be Collected by Participating States
###### ยง 187.107 What information must be made available to assist law enforcement officials and what information may be made available?

(a) A participating State must make the following information available to VIS for use by law enforcement officials:

(1) Vessel identifier(s), as required by ยง 187.9.

(2) Notice of law enforcement status. Authorized terms are "lost", "stolen", "destroyed", "abandoned", or "recovered".

(3) Date of notice of law enforcement status.

(4) Point of contact for the agency or official reporting the status.

(5) National Crime Information Center code for the reporting agency or official.

(b) A participating State may make the following information available to law enforcement officials:

(1) Notice that the vessel is being sought for a law enforcement purpose other than a purpose listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(2) Location of vessel when reported lost, stolen, destroyed, abandoned, or recovered.

(3) Vessel insurance policy number.

(4) Name of insurance company.

(5) Address of insurance company.

(6) Mailing address of insurance company, if different from the address in paragraph (b)(5) of this section.

(7) Telephone number of insurance company.

(8) Date the vessel was recovered.

(9) Location of the vessel when recovered.

(10) Names and telephone numbers of contacts not listed under paragraph (a)(4) of this section.

(11) Request to be notified if vessel is sighted.

(12) Purpose of sighting notification request.

(13) Date and time vessel last sighted.

(14) Location of vessel when last sighted.
