
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter S - Boating Safety
#### PART 187 - VESSEL IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart D - State Vessel Titling Systems [Docket No. USCG-2018-0160, 87 FR 34192, June 6, 2022]
###### ยง 187.309 Content of certificate of title.

(a) A certificate of title must contain-

(1) The date the certificate was created;

(2) The name of the owner of record and, if not all owners are listed, an indication that there are additional owners indicated in the files of the office;

(3) The mailing address of the owner of record;

(4) The hull identification number (HIN);

(5) The information listed in ยง 187.307(b)(6);

(6) Except as otherwise provided in ยง 187.315(b), the name and mailing address of the secured party of record, if any, and if not all secured parties are listed, an indication that there are other security interests indicated in the files of the office; and

(7) All title brands indicated in the files of the office covering the vessel, including brands indicated on a certificate created by a governmental agency of another jurisdiction and delivered to the office.

(b) This subpart does not preclude the office from noting on a certificate of title the name and mailing address of a secured party that is not a secured party of record.

(c) For each title brand indicated on a certificate of title, the certificate must identify the jurisdiction under whose law the title brand was created or the jurisdiction that created the certificate on which the title brand was indicated. If the meaning of a title brand is not easily ascertainable or cannot be accommodated on the certificate, the certificate may state: "Previously branded in (insert the jurisdiction under whose law the title brand was created or whose certificate of title previously indicated the title brand)."

(d) If the files of the office indicate that a vessel was previously registered or titled in a foreign country, the office must indicate on the certificate of title that the vessel was registered or titled in that country.

(e) A written certificate of title must contain a form that all owners indicated on the certificate may sign to evidence consent to a transfer of an ownership interest to another person. The form must include a certification, signed under penalty of perjury, that the statements made are true and correct to the best of each owner's knowledge, information, and belief.

(f) A written certificate of title must contain a form for the owner of record to indicate, in connection with a transfer of an ownership interest, that the vessel is hull damaged.
