
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter S - Boating Safety
#### PART 187 - VESSEL IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart D - State Vessel Titling Systems [Docket No. USCG-2018-0160, 87 FR 34192, June 6, 2022]
###### ยง 187.316 Termination statement.

(a) A secured party indicated in the files of the office as having a security interest in a vessel must deliver a termination statement to the office and, on the debtor's request, to the debtor, by the earlier of-

(1) Twenty days after the secured party receives a signed demand from an owner for a termination statement and there is no obligation secured by the vessel subject to the security interest and no commitment to make an advance, incur an obligation, or otherwise give value secured by the vessel; or

(2) If the vessel is consumer goods, 30 days after there is no obligation secured by the vessel and no commitment to make an advance, incur an obligation, or otherwise give value secured by the vessel.

(b) If a written certificate of title has been created and delivered to a secured party and a termination statement is required under paragraph (a) of this section, the secured party, not later than the date required by paragraph (a), must deliver the certificate to the debtor or to the office with the statement. If the certificate is lost, stolen, mutilated, destroyed, or is otherwise unavailable or illegible, the secured party must deliver with the statement, not later than the date required by paragraph (a), an application for a replacement certificate meeting the requirements of ยง 187.322.

(c) On delivery to the office of a termination statement authorized by the secured party, the security interest to which the statement relates ceases to be perfected. If the security interest to which the statement relates was indicated on the certificate of title, the office must create a new certificate and deliver the new certificate or a record evidencing an electronic certificate. The office must maintain in its files the date and time of delivery to the office of the statement.

(d) A secured party that fails to comply with this section is liable for any loss that the secured party had reason to know might result from its failure to comply and which could not reasonably have been prevented and for the cost of an application for a certificate of title under ยง 187.307 or ยง 187.322.
