
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter I - Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security
### Subchapter S - Boating Safety
#### PART 187 - VESSEL IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart D - State Vessel Titling Systems [Docket No. USCG-2018-0160, 87 FR 34192, June 6, 2022]
###### § 187.317 Transfer of ownership.

(a) On voluntary transfer of an ownership interest in a vessel covered by a certificate of title, the following rules apply:

(1) If the certificate is a written certificate of title and the transferor's interest is noted on the certificate, the transferor must promptly sign the certificate and deliver it to the transferee. If the transferor does not have possession of the certificate, the person in possession of the certificate has a duty to facilitate the transferor's compliance with this paragraph. A secured party does not have a duty to facilitate the transferor's compliance with this paragraph if the proposed transfer is prohibited by the security agreement.

(2) If the certificate of title is an electronic certificate of title, the transferor must promptly sign and deliver to the transferee a record evidencing the transfer of ownership to the transferee.

(3) The transferee has a right enforceable by specific performance to require the transferor comply with paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section.

(b) The creation of a certificate of title identifying the transferee as owner of record satisfies paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) A failure to comply with paragraph (a) or to apply for a new certificate of title does not render a transfer of ownership of a vessel ineffective between the parties. Except as otherwise provided in § 187.318, § 187.319, § 187.323(a), or § 187.324, a transfer of ownership without compliance with paragraph (a) of this section is not effective against another person claiming an interest in the vessel.

(d) A transferor that complies with paragraph (a) of this section is not liable as owner of the vessel for an event occurring after the transfer, regardless of whether the transferee applies for a new certificate of title.
