
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 203 - EMERGENCY EMPLOYMENT OF ARMY AND OTHER RESOURCES, NATURAL DISASTER PROCEDURES
#### Subpart C - Emergency Operations
##### ยง 203.32 Policy.
###### Post Flood Response.

(b)A written request from the Governor is required to receive Corps assistance. Corps assistance will be limited to major floods or coastal storm disasters resulting in life threatening situations. The Governor's request will include verification that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has been requested to make an emergency or disaster declaration; a statement that the assistance required is beyond the State's capability; specific damage locations; and the extent of Corps assistance required to supplement State and local efforts. Corps assistance is limited to 10 days following receipt of the Governor's written request, or on assumption of activities by State and local interests, whichever is earlier. After a Governor's request has triggered the 10-day period, subsequent request(s) for additional assistance resulting from the same flood or coastal storm event will not extend the 10-day period, or trigger a new 10-day period. The Corps will deny any Governor's request for Post Flood Response if it is received subsequent to a Stafford Act Presidential disaster declaration, or denial of such a declaration. Shoreline or beach erosion damage reduction/prevention actions under Post Flood Response will normally not be undertaken unless there is an immediate threat to life or critical public facilities.
