
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 203 - EMERGENCY EMPLOYMENT OF ARMY AND OTHER RESOURCES, NATURAL DISASTER PROCEDURES
#### Subpart D - Rehabilitation Assistance for Flood Control Works Damaged by Flood or Coastal Storm: The Corps Rehabilitation and Inspection Program
##### ยง 203.50 Nonstructural alternatives to rehabilitation of flood control works.
###### Policy.

(b)(1) The option of implementing an NSA project (NSAP) in lieu of a structural repair or restoration is available only to non-Federal sponsors of flood control works eligible for Rehabilitation Assistance in accordance with this regulation, and only upon the request of such non-Federal sponsors.

(2) A sponsor is required for implementation of an NSAP. The NSAP sponsor must be either a non-Federal sponsor as defined in ยง 203.15, or another Federal agency. The NSAP sponsor must demonstrate that it has the legal authority and financial capability to provide for the required items of local cooperation.

(3) The Corps shall not be responsible for the operation, maintenance, or management of any NSAP implemented in accordance with this section.

(4) The Corps may, in its sole discretion, reject any request for an NSA that would:

(i) Lead to significantly increased flood protection expenses or flood fighting expenses for public agencies, flood control works sponsors, public utilities, or the Federal Government; or,

(ii) Threaten or have a significant adverse impact on the integrity, stability, or level of protection of adjacent or nearby flood control works; or,

(iii) Lead to increased risk of loss of life or property during flood events.

(5) The principal purposes of an NSAP are for:

(i) Floodplain restoration;

(ii) Provision or restoration of floodways; and,

(iii) Reduction of future flood damages and associated flood control works repair costs.
