
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 203 - EMERGENCY EMPLOYMENT OF ARMY AND OTHER RESOURCES, NATURAL DISASTER PROCEDURES
#### Subpart E - Emergency Water Supplies: Contaminated Water Sources and Drought Assistance
##### ยง 203.61 Emergency water supplies due to contaminated water source.
###### or,see

(i) The maximum contaminant leveltreatment technique for a contaminant, as established by the Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to the Safe Drinking Water Act (40 CFR 141), is exceeded.

(ii) The water supply has been identified as a source of illness by a tribal, State, or Federal public health official. The specific contaminant does not have to be identified.

(iii) An emergency (e.g., a flood or chemical spill) has occurred that has resulted in either: one or more contaminants entering the source on a sufficient scale to endanger health; or, the emergency has made inoperable the equipment necessary to remove known contaminants.

(iv) The presence of a contaminant is indicated on the basis of other information available.

(3) Corps assistance will be directed toward the provision of the minimum amount of water required to maintain the health and welfare requirements of the affected population. The quantity of water and the means of distribution will be at the discretion of the responsible Corps official, who will consider the needs of the individual situation, the needs of the affected community, and the cost effectiveness of providing water by various methods.

(4) If a locality has multiple sources of water, assistance will be furnished only to the extent that the remaining sources, with reasonable conservation measures, cannot provide adequate supplies of drinking water.

(5) Loss of water supply is not a basis for assistance under this authority.

(6) Water will not be furnished for commercial processes, except as incidental to the use of existing distribution systems. This does not prohibit the furnishing of water for drinking by employees and on-site customers. Water for preparing retail meals and similar personal needs may be provided to the extent it would be furnished to individuals.

(7) The permanent restoration of a safe supply of drinking water is the responsibility of local interests.
