
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 203 - EMERGENCY EMPLOYMENT OF ARMY AND OTHER RESOURCES, NATURAL DISASTER PROCEDURES
#### Subpart E - Emergency Water Supplies: Contaminated Water Sources and Drought Assistance
##### ยง 203.62 Drought assistance.
###### Guidance-construction of wells.

(e)(1) Assistance to an eligible applicant for the construction of a well may be provided on a cost-reimbursable basis if:

(i) It is in response to a written request by a farmer, rancher, or political subdivision for construction of a well under Public Law 84-99.

(ii) The applicant is located within an area that the Secretary of the Army has determined to be drought-distressed.

(iii) The Secretary of the Army has made a determination that:

(A) The applicant, as a result of the drought, has an inadequate supply of water.

(B) An adequate supply of water can be made available to the applicant through the construction of a well.

(C) As a result of the drought, a private business could not construct the well within a reasonable time.

(iv) The applicant has secured the necessary funding for well construction from commercial or other sources, or has entered into a contract to pay to the United States the reasonable cost of such construction with interest over a period of years, not to exceed 30, as the Secretary of the Army deems appropriate.

(v) The applicant has obtained all necessary Federal, State and local permits.

(2) The financing of the cost of construction of a well by the Corps under this authority should be secured by the project applicant.

(3) The project applicant will provide the necessary assurances of local cooperation by signing a Cooperation Agreement (subpart G of this part) prior to the start of Corps work under this authority.

(4) Equipment owned by the United States will be utilized to the maximum extent possible in exercising the authority to drill wells, but can only be used when commercial firms cannot provide comparable service within the time needed to prevent the applicant from suffering significantly increased hardships from the effects of an inadequate water supply.
