
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 203 - EMERGENCY EMPLOYMENT OF ARMY AND OTHER RESOURCES, NATURAL DISASTER PROCEDURES
#### Subpart E - Emergency Water Supplies: Contaminated Water Sources and Drought Assistance
##### ยง 203.62 Drought assistance.
###### Guidance-transport of water.

(f)(1) Assistance to an applicant in the transportation of water may be provided if:

(i) It is in response to a written request by a political subdivision for transportation of water.

(ii) The applicant is located within an area that the Secretary of the Army has determined to be drought-distressed.

(iii) The Secretary of the Army has made a determination that, as a result of the drought, the applicant has an inadequate supply of water for human consumption, and the applicant cannot obtain water.

(2) Transportation of water by vehicles, small diameter pipe line, or other means will be at 100 percent Federal cost.

(3) Corps assistance in the transportation of emergency water supplies will be provided only in connection with water needed for human consumption. Assistance will not be provided in connection with water needed for irrigation, recreation, or other non-life supporting purposes, or livestock consumption.

(4) Corps assistance will not include the purchase of water, nor the cost of loading or discharging the water into or from any Government conveyance, to include Government-leased conveyance.

(5) Equipment owned by the United States will be utilized to the maximum extent possible in exercising the authority to transport water, consistent with lowest total Federal cost.
