
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.9 Mystic River, Mass.; dam of Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Metropolitan District Commission.
##### Navigation of the locks.

(i)(1) All barges navigating the locks whether approaching or leaving the locks are required to be assisted by one or more tugs of sufficient power to insure full control at all times. All craft approaching the locks while any other vessel going in the opposite direction is in or about to enter shall be stopped where they will not obstruct the free passage of such other vessel.

(2) All vessels over 100 gross tons including those which are accompanied by towboats must attach not less than two good and sufficient lines, cables, or hawsers to the bollards or other fixtures provided for the purpose to check the speed of the vessel and to stop it as soon as it has gone far enough to permit the lock gate behind it to be closed. Each line, cable, or hawser shall be attended on board while passing into the lock by one or more of the vessel's crew. Where vessels are so long that in order to get them wholly within the locks it is necessary to go within 100 feet of the lock gate ahead, the speed of the vessel must be slow and the vessel must be fully under control at all times by the lines, cables or hawsers. All towboats and vessels less than 100 gross tons may enter the locks without having lines out subject to the discretion of the superintendent. The master or person in charge of a vessel shall arrange to have any line, cable, or hawser handed or thrown from the lock walls by the superintendent, or his assistants, made fast on the vessel as requested or directed, so that in cases of emergency such line, cable, or hawser may also be used to check the speed of and stop the vessel.

(3) Operators of vessels less than 200 gross tons may use the floating moorings in the large lock to fasten lines or hawsers, but they shall not be used to check the way on any vessel greater than 30 gross tons.

(4) Vessels less than 30 gross tons may fasten lines to the floating moorings in the large or small locks. All persons shall keep off the floating moorings at all times.

(5) No line shall be attached to anything on or a part of the dam except the fixtures provided for this purpose.

(6) Equipment of each craft shall include a sufficient bow line and stern line.
