
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.20 Cape Cod Canal, Mass.; use, administration, and navigation.
##### Supervision.

(b)(1) The movement of ships, boats and craft of every description through the canal and the operation and maintenance of the waterway and all property of the United States pertaining thereto shall be under the supervision of the Division Engineer, U.S. Army Engineer Division, New England, Corps of Engineers, Waltham, Massachusetts, or the authorized representative of the division engineer, the Engineer-In-Charge of the Cape Cod Canal. The division engineer or the Engineer-In-Charge from time to time will prescribe rules governing the dimensions of vessels which may transit the waterway, and other special conditions and requirements which will govern the movement of vessels using the waterway.

(2) The Engineer-In-Charge, through the marine traffic controller on duty, will enforce these regulations and monitor traffic through the canal. The marine traffic controller on duty is the individual responsible for interpretation of these regulations with respect to vessels transiting the canal. Vessels transiting the canal must obey the orders of the marine traffic controller.

(3) The government has tugs stationed at the West Boat Basin for emergency use on an on-call basis. A patrol vessel is manned and operational 24-hours a day.
