
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.20 Cape Cod Canal, Mass.; use, administration, and navigation.
##### Tows.

(e)(1) Tows shall be made-up outside the canal entrances. All vessels engaged in towing other vessels not equipped with a rudder shall use two lines or a bridle and one tow line. If the vessel in tow is equipped with a rudder or a ship shaped bow, one tow line may be used. All tow lines of hawsers must be hauled as short as practicable for safe handling of the tows. No towboat will be allowed to enter the waterway with more than two barges in tow unless prior approval is granted by the Engineer-In-Charge; requests must be submitted 12 hours in advance of the passage.

(2) The maximum length of pontoon rafts using the canal will be limited to 600 feet, and the maximum width to 100 feet. Pontoon rafts exceeding 200 feet in length will be required to have an additional tug on the stern to insure that the tow is kept in line. The tugs used must have sufficient power to handle the raft safely.

(3) Dead ships are required to transit the canal during daylight hours and must be provided with the number of tugs sufficient to afford safe passage through the canal. (A dead ship will not be allowed to enter the canal unless prior approval is granted by the Engineer-In-Charge; requests must be submitted 12 hours in advance of the passage).
