
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.20 Cape Cod Canal, Mass.; use, administration, and navigation.
##### Obtaining clearance.

(g)(1) Vessels under 65 feet in length may enter the canal without obtaining clearance. All craft are required to make a complete passage through the canal except excursion craft which may operate and change direction within the canal in accordance with procedures coordinated with the marine traffic controller on duty. When the railroad bridge span is in the closed (down) position, all vessels are directed not to proceed beyond the points designated by stop signs posted east and west of the railroad bridge. Vessels proceeding with a fair tide (with the current) should turn and stem the current at the designated stop points until the railroad bridge is in the raised (open) position.

(2) Vessels 65 feet in length and over shall not enter the canal until clearance has been obtained from the marine traffic controller by radio. See paragraph (c) "Communications" for procedures. If a vessel, granted prior clearance, is delayed or stops at the mooring basins, state pier, or the Sandwich bulkhead, a second clearance must be obtained prior to continuing passage through the canal.

(3) Vessels will be given clearance in the order of arrival, except when conditions warrant one-way traffic, or for any reason an order of priority is necessary, clearance will be granted in the following order.

(i) First-To vessels owned or operated by the United States, including contractors' equipment employed on canal maintenance or improvement work.

(ii) Second-To passenger vessels.

(iii) Third-To tankers and barges docking and undocking at the Canal Electric Terminal.

(iv) Fourth-To merchant vessels, towboats, commercial fishing vessels, pleasure boats and miscellaneous craft.
