
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.20 Cape Cod Canal, Mass.; use, administration, and navigation.
##### Management of vessels.

(k)(1) Vessels within the limits of the canal shall comply with applicable navigation rules.

(2) Vessels within the limits of the canal shall comply with the applicable requirements for the use of pilots established by the Coast Guard, including but not limited to those contained in 46 CFR 157.20-40. Vessels will not be granted clearance to enter the canal until the marine traffic controller has been notified of the name of the pilot who will be handling the vessel.

(3) The master of a vessel will be responsible for notifying the marine traffic controller as soon as an emergency situation appears to be developing. When in the opinion of the marine traffic controller an emergency exists, he/she can require the master to accept the assistance of a helper vessel. Whether or not assistance is provided by a government vessel or by a private firm under contract to the government, the government reserves the right to seek compensation from the vessel owners for all costs incurred.

(4) Right-of-Way: All vessels proceeding with the current shall have the right-of-way over those proceeding against the current. All craft up to 65 feet in length shall be operated so as not to interfere with the navigation of vessels of greater length.

(5) Passing of vessels: The passing of one vessel by another when proceeding in the same direction is prohibited except when a leading low powered ship is unable to make sufficient headway. However, extreme caution must be observed to avoid collision, and consideration must be given to the size of the ship to be overtaken, velocity of current and wind, and atmospheric conditions. Masters of vessels involved shall inform the marine traffic controller on duty of developing situations to facilitate coordination of vessel movement. Meeting or passing of vessels at the easterly end of the canal between Station Minus 40 and Station 60 will not be permitted, except in cases of extreme emergency, in order to allow vessels to utilize the center line range to minimize the effects of hazardous eddies and currents. Due to bank suction and tidal set, meeting and passing of vessels at the following locations will be avoided:

(i) Sagamore Bridge.

(ii) Bourne Bridge.

(iii) Railroad Bridge.

(iv) Mass Maritime Academy.

(6) Unnecessary delay in canal: Vessels and other type crafts must not obstruct navigation by unnecessarily idling at low speed when entering or passing through the canal.

(7) Stopping in the waterway: Anchoring in the Cape Cod Canal Channel is prohibited except in emergencies. For the safety of canal operations it is mandatory that the masters of all vessels anchoring in or adjacent to the canal channel (Cape Cod Bay to Cleveland Ledge Light) for any reason, immediately notify the marine traffic controller.

(8) Utilization of mooring and boat basins and the Sandwich Bulkhead: Vessels mooring or anchoring in the mooring or boat basins at the Sandwich bulkhead must do so in a manner not to obstruct or impede vessel movements to and from facilities. These facilities are of limited capacity and permission to occupy them for periods exceeding 24 hours must be obtained in advance from the marine traffic controller. Mooring in the West Boat Basin at Buzzards Bay, near the railroad bridge, is not permitted except in an emergency. Fishing boats, yachts, cabin cruisers and other craft utilizing the East Boat Basin on the south side of the canal at Sandwich, Massachusetts are not permitted to tie up at the Corps of Engineers landing float or anchor in a manner to prevent canal floating plant from having ready access to the float. All vessels or barges left unattended must be securely tied with adequate lines or cables. The United States assumes no liability for damages which may be sustained by any craft using the bulkhead at Sandwich or the canal mooring or boat basin facilities. Vessels shall not be left unattended along the face of the government bulkhead. A responsible person with authority to authorize and/or accomplish vessel movement must remain onboard at all times.
