
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.20 Cape Cod Canal, Mass.; use, administration, and navigation.
##### Abandonment of personal property.

(12)(i) Abandonment of personal property is prohibited. Personal property shall not be left unattended upon the lands or waters of the project except in accordance with this regulation. After a period of 24 hours, abandoned or unattended personal property shall be impounded and stored at a storage point designated by the division engineer. The division engineer shall assess a reasonable impoundment fee, which shall be paid before the impounded property is returned to its owners.

(ii) The division engineer shall, by public or private sales or otherwise, dispose of all lost, abandoned, or unclaimed personal property that comes into his/her custody or control. However, efforts should be made to find the owner, the owner's heirs or next of kin, or legal representatives. If the owner, heirs or next of kin, or legal representative is determined but not found, the property may not be disposed of until the expiration of 120 days after the date when notice, giving the time and place of the intended sale or other disposition, has been sent by certified or registered mail to that person at last known address. When diligent effort to determine the owner, owner's heirs or next of kin, or legal representative is unsuccessful, the property may be disposed of without delay, except that if it has a fair market value of $25 or more the property generally may not be disposed of until three months after the date it is received at the Cape Cod Canal Administrative Office. The net proceeds from the sale of property shall be placed into the Treasury of the United States as miscellaneous receipts.
