
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.160 All waterways tributary to the Atlantic Ocean south of Chesapeake Bay and all waterways tributary to the Gulf of Mexico east and south of St. Marks, Fla.; use, administration, and navigation.
##### Lockage of vessels.

(5)(i) Vessels must enter and leave the locks carefully at slow speed, must be provided with suitable lines and fenders, must always use fenders to protect the walls and gates, and when locking at night must be provided with suitable lights and use them as directed.

(ii) Vessels which do not draw at least six inches less than the depth on miter sills or breast walls, or which have projections or sharp corners liable to damage gates or walls, shall not enter a lock or approaches.

(iii) No vessel having chains or lines either hanging over the sides or ends, or dragging on the bottom, for steering or other purposes, will be permitted to pass a lock or dam.

(iv) Power vessels must accompany tows through the locks when so directed by the lockmaster.

(v) No vessel whose cargo projects beyond its sides will be admitted to lockage.

(vi) Vessels in a sinking condition shall not enter a lock or approaches.

(vii) The passing of coal from flats or barges to steamers while in locks is prohibited.

(viii) Where special regulations for safeguarding human life and property are desirable for special situations, the same may be indicated by printed signs, and in such cases such signs will have the same force as other regulations in this section.

(ix) The lockmaster may refuse to lock vessels which, in his judgment, fail to comply with this paragraph.
