
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.160 All waterways tributary to the Atlantic Ocean south of Chesapeake Bay and all waterways tributary to the Gulf of Mexico east and south of St. Marks, Fla.; use, administration, and navigation.
##### Rafts, logging.

(g)(1) Rafts will be permitted to navigate a waterway only if properly and securely assembled. The passage of "bag" or "sack" rafts, "dog" rafts, or of loose logs over any portion of a waterway, is prohibited. Each section of a raft will be secured within itself in such a manner as to prevent the sinking of any log, and so fastened or tied with chains or wire rope that it cannot be separated or bag out so as to materially change its shape. All dogs, chains and other means used in assembling rafts shall be in good condition and of ample size and strength to accomplish their purposes.

(2) No section of a raft will be permitted to be towed over any portion of a waterway unless the logs float sufficiently high in the water to make it evident that the section will not sink en route.

(3) Frequent inspections will be made by the person in charge of each raft to insure that all fastenings remain secure, and when any one is found to have loosened, it shall be repaired at once. Should any log or section be lost from a raft, the fact must be promptly reported to the District Engineer, giving as definitely as possible the exact point at which the loss occurred. In all cases the owner of the lost log or section will take steps immediately to remove the same from the waterway.

(4) The length and width of rafts shall not exceed such maximum dimensions as may be prescribed by the District Engineer.

(5) All rafts shall carry sufficient men to enable them to be managed properly, and to keep them from being an obstruction to other craft using the waterway. To permit safe passage in a narrow channel rafts will, if necessary, stop and tie up alongside the bank. Care must be exercised both in towing and mooring rafts to avoid the possibility of damage to aids to navigation maintained by the United States or under its authorization.

(6) When rafts are left for any reason with no one in attendance, they must be securely tied at each end and at as many intermediate points as may be necessary to keep the timbers from bagging into the stream, and must be moored so as to conform to the shape of the bank. Rafts moored to the bank shall have lights at 500-foot intervals along their entire length. Rafts must not be moored at prominent projections of the bank, or at critical sections.

(7) Logs may be stored in certain tributary streams provided a clear channel at least one-half the width of the channel be left clear for navigation along the tributary. Such storage spaces must be protected by booms and, if necessary to maintain an open channel, piling should also be used. Authority for placing these booms and piling must be obtained by written permit from the District Engineer.

(8) The building, assembling, or breaking up of a raft in a waterway will be permitted only upon special authority obtained from the District Engineer, and under such conditions as he may prescribe.
