
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.160 All waterways tributary to the Atlantic Ocean south of Chesapeake Bay and all waterways tributary to the Gulf of Mexico east and south of St. Marks, Fla.; use, administration, and navigation.
##### Damage.

(i)Masters and owners of vessels using the waterways are responsible for any damage caused by their operations to canal revetments, lock piers and walls, bridges, hurricane gate chambers, spillways, or approaches thereto, or other Government structures, and for displacing or damaging of buoys, stakes, spars, range lights or other aids to navigation. Should any part of a revetment, lock, bridge, hurricane gate chamber, spillway or approach thereto, be damaged, they shall report the fact, and furnish a clear statement of how the damage occurred, to the nearest Government lockmaster or bridge tender, and by mail to the District Engineer, U.S. Engineer Office, in local charge of the waterway in which the damage occurred. Should any aid to navigation be damaged, they shall report that fact immediately to the Superintendent of Lighthouses at Norfolk, Virginia, if north of New River Inlet, North Carolina; to the Superintendent of Lighthouses at Charleston, South Carolina, if between New River Inlet, North Carolina, and St. Lucie Inlet, Florida; to the Superintendent of Lighthouses at Key West, Florida, if between St. Lucie Inlet and Suwanee River, Florida; and to the Superintendent of Lighthouses, New Orleans, Louisiana, if between Suwanee River and St. Marks, Florida.
