
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.187 Gulf Intracoastal Waterway, Tex.; special floodgate, lock and navigation regulations.
##### Navigation of the Colorado River Channel,Traffic signals.

(d)-(1)(i) Light and sound signals directed both upstream and downstream on the Colorado River are mounted on top of a galvanized skeleton steel tower 85 feet high located on the northeast point of land at the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway crossing of the river. They will be operated from the control house of the East Lock of the Colorado River Locks to direct the interchange of traffic in the Colorado River and the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway.

(ii) Vessels navigating the Colorado River and desiring passage either upstream or downstream through the crossing, or into the crossing and through a lock into the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway, shall give notice to the Lockmaster by two long and distinct blasts of a whistle or horn when within a distance of not more than one-half mile nor less than one-fourth mile from the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway crossing. When the locks and the crossing are clear of vessels, the Lockmaster shall reply by two long and distinct blasts of a whistle or horn and display a green light from the signal tower indicating that the vessel in the river may proceed across the crossing or into the main stem of the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway either eastbound or westbound. When there are vessels in the river crossing or in the locks, the Lockmaster shall reply by four or more short blasts of a whistle or horn (danger signal) and display a red light from the signal tower indicating the vessel in the river shall wait at least a quarter of a mile from the crossing for clearance. When the locks and crossing are clear of vessels, the lockmaster shall indicate to the waiting vessel by two long and distinct blasts of a whistle or horn and display of a green light from the signal tower indicating that the vessel may proceed across the crossing or into the main stem of the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway either eastbound or westbound. During periods when the red light may be obscured by fog, mist, or rain, an audible signal consisting of a long blast followed by a short blast of a whistle or horn, repeated every 30 seconds, shall be sounded from the signal tower as an adjunct to the red light.
