
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.249 Ouachita and Black Rivers, Ark. and La., Mile 0.0 to Mile 338.0 (Camden, Ark.) above the mouth of the Black River; the Red River, La., Mile 6.7 (Junction of Red, Atchafalaya and Old Rivers) to Mile 276.0 (Shreveport, La.); use, administration, and navigation.
##### Sound signals.

(2)(i) Vessels desiring passage through a lock in either direction shall give notice to the lockmaster by one long and one short distinct blast of a horn or whistle when not less than three-fourths mile from the lock. When carrying dangerous cargo, the signal will be one long and two short blasts of the horn or whistle. When the lock is ready for entrance, the lockmaster shall reply with one long blast of a horn or whistle. When the lock is not ready for entrance, the lockmaster shall reply by four or more short, distinct blasts of a horn or whistle (danger signal). Permission to leave the lock shall be indicated by the lockmaster by one short blast. A distinct blast is defined as a clearly audible blast of any length. A long blast means a blast of from 4 to 6 seconds' duration. A short blast is of about 1 second's duration.

(ii) Vessels that are not equipped with a sound signal desiring passage through a lock shall give notice to the lockmaster by one long blast of the horn located at either end of the lock wall. The horn may be activated by pulling the properly marked chain or rope hanging from the horn down to the water surface. One long blast means a blast of from 4 to 6 seconds' duration.
