
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.249 Ouachita and Black Rivers, Ark. and La., Mile 0.0 to Mile 338.0 (Camden, Ark.) above the mouth of the Black River; the Red River, La., Mile 6.7 (Junction of Red, Atchafalaya and Old Rivers) to Mile 276.0 (Shreveport, La.); use, administration, and navigation.
##### Precedence at locks.

(5)(i) The vessel arriving first at a lock will be first to lock through. In the case of vessels approaching the lock simultaneously from opposite directions, the vessel approaching at the same elevation as the water in the lock chamber will be locked through first. Precedence shall be given to vessels belonging to the United States, passenger vessels, commercial vessels, rafts, and pleasure craft, in the order named. Arrival posts or markers will be established ashore above and below the locks. Vessels arriving at or opposite such posts or markers will be considered as having arrived at the lock within the meaning of this paragraph (b)(5). The lockmaster may prescribe such departure from the normal order of precedence stated above, as in his judgment, is warranted under prevailing circumstances to achieve best lock utilization.

(ii) The lockage of pleasure boats, houseboats, or like craft may be expedited by locking them through with commercial craft (other than barges carrying dangerous cargoes). If, after the arrival of such craft, no combined lockage can be accomplished within a reasonable time, not to exceed the time required for three other lockages, then separate lockages shall be made. Dangerous cargoes are described in 46 CFR part 146.

(iii) Vessels, tows, or rafts navigating on the Ouachita and Black Rivers with overall dimensions greater than 80 feet wide, 600 feet long, and 9 feet draft, or tows or rafts requiring breaking into two or more sections to pass through the lock may transit the lock at such time as the lockmaster determines that they will neither unduly delay the transit of craft of lesser dimensions, nor endanger the lock structure and appurtenances because of wind, current, or other adverse conditions. These craft are also subject to such special handling requirements as the lockmaster finds necessary at the time of transit.

(iv) The maximum dimensions on the Red River Waterway of a vessel tow attempting to pass through the lock during normal pool stages in a single passage are 80 feet wide, 705 feet long, and 9 feet draft. Tows requiring breaking into two or more sections to pass through the lock may transit the lock at such times as the lockmaster/lock operator determines that they will neither unduly delay the transit of craft of lesser dimensions, nor endanger the lock structure and appurtenances because of wind, current, or other adverse conditions. These craft are also subject to such special handling requirements as the lockmaster/lock operator finds necessary at the time of transit.
