
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.249 Ouachita and Black Rivers, Ark. and La., Mile 0.0 to Mile 338.0 (Camden, Ark.) above the mouth of the Black River; the Red River, La., Mile 6.7 (Junction of Red, Atchafalaya and Old Rivers) to Mile 276.0 (Shreveport, La.); use, administration, and navigation.
##### Lockage and passage of vessels.

(7)(i) Vessels shall enter and leave locks under such control as to prevent any damage to the locks, gates, guide walls, guard walls, and fenders. Vessels shall be provided with suitable lines and fenders, shall always use fenders to protect the walls and gates, and when locking at night shall be provided with suitable lights and use them as directed. Fenders on vessels shall be water-soaked or otherwise fire proofed before being utilized in the lock or approaches. Vessels shall not meet or pass each other anywhere between the guide walls or fender system at the approaches to locks.

(ii) Vessels which do not have a draft of at least 2 feet less than the depth over sills, or which have projections liable to damage gates, walls, or fenders, shall not enter the approaches to or pass through locks. Information concerning depth over sills may be obtained from the lockman on duty.

(iii) Vessels having chains, lines, or drags either hanging over the sides or ends or dragging on the bottom for steering or other purposes will not be permitted to pass locks or dams.

(iv) Towing vessels shall accompany all tows or partial tows through locks.

(v) No vessel whose cargo projects beyond its sides will be admitted to lockage.

(vi) Vessels in a sinking condition shall not enter locks or approaches.

(vii) The lockmaster may refuse to lock vessels which in his judgment fail to comply with the regulations in this paragraph.

(viii) This section shall not affect the liability of the owners and operators of boats for any damage caused by their operations to locks or other structures.
