
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.260 Yazoo Diversion Canal, Vicksburg, Miss., from its mouth at Kleinston Landing to Fisher Street; navigation.
##### Mooring.

(c)At stages below 20 feet on the Vicksburg Gage, no vessel or raft shall be moored along the west bank of the canal between points Latitude 32&#xB0;21&#x2032;16&#x2033;, Longitude 90&#xB0;53&#x2032;05&#x2033; and Latitude 32&#xB0;20&#x2032;55&#x2033;, Longitude 90&#xB0;53&#x2032;18&#x2033;, which is approximately 1200 feet above and 1200 feet below the public boat launch (foot of Clay Street) at Vicksburg City Front. No vessel or raft shall be moored along the west bank of the canal at any stage from the mouth of the Yazoo Diversion Canal where it enters into the Mississippi River to Latitude 32&#xB0;20&#x2032;21&#x2033;, Longitude 90&#xB0;53&#x2032;44&#x2033;, which is approximately 1200 feet from the mouth of the canal. No vessel or raft shall be moored along the east bank of the canal at any stage from the mouth of the Yazoo Diversion Canal where it enters into the Mississippi River to Latitude 32&#xB0;20&#x2032;12&#x2033;, Longitude 90&#xB0;53&#x2032;41&#x2033;, which is approximately 750 feet from the mouth of the canal. When tied up, boats, barges, or rafts shall be moored by bow and stern lines parallel to the bank and as close in as practicable. Lines shall be secured at sufficiently close intervals to insure the vessel or raft will not be drawn away from the bank by winds, current, or other passing vessels. No vessel or raft shall be moored along the banks of the canal for a period longer than five (5) calendar days without written permission from the District Engineer, Corps of Engineers, Vicksburg District Office, 4155 E. Clay St., Vicksburg, Mississippi 39180-3435.

(d) [Reserved]
