
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.270 Tallahatchie River, Miss., between Batesville and the mouth; logging.

(a) The floating of "sack", rafts, or of loose timbers, logs, or cribs is prohibited.

(b) Rafts shall be made up of logs parallel with each other, secured, and held closely together by cross sticks, chains, or cables placed across each crib and at the joints between cribs. No raft shall be over 60 feet wide or 800 feet long.

(c) In rafting nonbuoyant timber each crib must contain self-buoyant logs in such proportion of "floaters" to "sinkers" as will safely float the whole; and in assembling such cribs, extra strong connections must be used to prevent the breaking up of a crib or the detachment of individual logs.

(d) No raft shall be moved at river stages less than that corresponding to a reading of 3feet on the U.S. Weather Bureau gage at Greenwood, Miss.

(e) A raft in transit must be accompanied by sufficient men, or by power boats of sufficient capacity to properly manage the movement of the raft and to keep it from being an obstruction to other craft navigating the river, or from forming jams at bridges.

(f) Rafts in transit must be so floated, and when not in transit be so tied to the bank, as not to interfere with the passage of boats.

(g) When rafts are left with no one in attendance they must be securely tied at each end and at as many intermediate points as will prevent them from bagging into the stream. When left at night a white light shall be exposed at each end of the raft.

(h) This section shall apply to the portion of the Tallahatchie River, Miss., between Batesville, Panola County, Miss., and the mouth.
