
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.275 McClellan-Kerr Arkansas River navigation system: use, administration, and navigation.
##### Precedence at locks.

(d)(1) Precedence shall be given to vessels owned by the United States, licensed commercial passenger vessels operating on a published schedule or regularly operating in the "for hire" trade, commercial tows, rafts, and pleasure craft, in the order named. Precedence being equal, the first vessel to arrive at a lock will normally be the first to lock through; however, the lockmaster may depart from this procedure to achieve optimum utilization of the lock or in accordance with the order of precedence stated above and in paragraphs (d)(2) and (h) of this section. Arrival points have been established ashore upstream and downstream of the locks. Vessels arriving at these markers or the mooring cells immediately upstream and downstream of the lock will be considered as having arrived at the lock within the meaning of this subparagraph.

(2) Vessels or tows, with overall dimensions greater than 105 feet wide or 595 feet long may transit the lock at such time as the lockmaster determines that they will neither unduly delay the transit of craft of lesser dimensions, nor endanger the lock structure and appurtenances because of wind, current, or other adverse conditions. These craft are also subject to such special handling requirements as the lockmaster deems necessary at the time of transit.
