
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.275 McClellan-Kerr Arkansas River navigation system: use, administration, and navigation.
##### Dangerous cargo barges.

(f)The following rules are prescribed for all tows containing dangerous cargoes as defined in Title 46, Code of Federal Regulations. These rules are applicable to both loaded barges and empty barges.

(1) All hatches on barges used to transport dangerous cargoes shall be closed before the tow enters the lock area.

(2) Prior to entering the lock area, towboat pilots shall furnish the name of product, the source of shipment, the company which made the shipment, and the consignee. If a towboat is not equipped with a radio or its radio is out of service, pilots shall furnish this information to the lockmaster while the tow is in the lock chamber. The shipping papers required by title 46, Code of Federal Regulations, shall be available for review by the lockmaster. Lockage shall be refused when this information is not furnished to the lockmaster.

(3) Fenders shall be water-soaked or otherwise spark proofed.

(4) Smoking, open flames, chipping, or other spark producing activity are prohibited in the "lock area."

(5) Simultaneous lockage of other vessels with vessels carrying dangerous cargoes or containing flammable vapors shall normally not be permitted. if significant delays are occurring at a lock, such simultaneous lockages, except with pleasure craft, may be permitted by the lockmaster, when he/she determines such action safe and appropriate, provided:

(i) The first vessel entering or the last vessel exiting shall be secured before the other enters or leaves.

(ii) All masters involved have agreed to the joint use of the lock.
