
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.275 McClellan-Kerr Arkansas River navigation system: use, administration, and navigation.
##### General locking procedures.

(g)(1) In case two or more boats or tows are to enter for the same lockage, their order of entry and exit shall be determined by the lockmaster.

(2) Tows entering a lock shall come to a complete stop at a point designated by the district engineer before proceeding to the mooring position.

(3) When entering or exiting locks, tow speeds shall not exceed 200 feet per minute (rate of slow walk) or the rate of travel whereby the tow can be stopped by checking should mechanical difficulties develop. When navigating over Norrell Dam during high water, vessels shall reduce speed to the minimum necessary to maintain steerageway. Pilots should check with the individual lockmasters concerning prevailing conditions. It is also recommended that pilots check their ability to reverse their engines prior to beginning an approach. Towboat engines shall not be turned off in the lock unless authorized by lockmaster.

(4) The sides and ends of all vessels passing through any lock shall be free from protrusions of any kind which might damage the lock structure.

(5) All vessels shall be provided with suitable fenders. When entering and exiting locks, one deckhand, or more if the lockmaster so directs, shall be stationed at the bow and stern of tows. These deckhands shall maintain their stations while tows are moving adjacent to any part of a lock. They shall protect the lock walls by the use of hand-held fenders. In all cases, two deckhands shall be stationed at the bows of tows 100 feet wide or wider when entering locks. They shall remain at their stations until the bows of such tows pass the recessed miter gates.

(6) Masters and pilots must use every precaution to prevent unnecessary delay in entering or leaving locks. Vessels failing to enter locks with reasonable promptness when signaled to do so shall lose their turn. Rearranging or switching of barges in the locks or in approaches is prohibited unless approved or directed by the lockmaster.

(7) No vessel shall enter a lock unless its draft is at least two feet less than the least depth of water over the sills. Information concerning controlling depth over sills can be obtained from the lockmaster at each lock or by inquiry at the office of the district engineer of the district in which the lock is located.

(8) Vessels awaiting their turn to lock shall be positioned so that they will not interfere with vessels leaving the lock. However, to the extent practicable under the prevailing conditions, vessels and tows shall be positioned so as to minimize approach time.
