
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.275 McClellan-Kerr Arkansas River navigation system: use, administration, and navigation.
##### Sound signals.

(2)In addition to radio communication, the following sound signals are prescribed for use during lockage. Sound signals given by vessels and locks shall be given by means of a horn. The term prolonged blast means a blast of from four to six second's duration. The term short blast means a blast of about one second's duration.

(i) Vessels desiring a single lockage shall give notice to the lockmaster by one prolonged blast of the horn followed by one short blast. If a double lockage is required, vessels shall give one prolonged blast of the horn followed by two short blasts. These signals are not required from pleasure craft not equipped with horns. Locking procedures for pleasure craft are prescribed in paragraph (h).

(ii) When the lock is ready for entrance, the lockmaster shall give one prolonged blast of the horn to signal permission to enter the lock chamber.

(iii) The lockmaster shall give permission to leave the lock chamber by one short blast of the horn.

(iv) Five or more short and rapid blasts of the lock horn will be used as a means of attracting attention, to indicate caution, or to signal danger. This signal will be used to attract the attention of the masters and crews of vessels using the lock or navigating in the lock area and to indicate that something unusual involving danger or requiring special caution is happening or is about to happen. When this signal is given by the lockmaster, the masters and crews of vessels in the vicinity shall immediately become alert to determine the reason for the signal and shall take the necessary steps to cope with the situation.
