
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.275 McClellan-Kerr Arkansas River navigation system: use, administration, and navigation.
##### Navigation lights on locks and dams.

(l)(1) The following navigation lights will be displayed at all locks except Norrell Lock and Lock No. 2 during hours of darkness and heavy fog.

(i) Three green lights visible through an arc of 360 degrees arranged in a vertical line on the end of the upstream river wall.

(ii) Two green lights visible through an arc of 360 degrees arranged in a vertical line on the end of the downstream river wall.

(iii) A single red light visible through an arc of 360 degrees on the ends of the upstream and downstream land walls.

(2) The following navigation lights will be displayed at Lock No. 2 during hours of darkness and heavy fog. They shall also be displayed at Norrell Lock during hours of darkness and heavy fog except when navigation is passing over the dam.

(i) Three green lights visible through an arc of 360 degrees arranged in a vertical line on the end of the upstream river wall.

(ii) Two green lights visible through an arc of 360 degrees arranged in a vertical line on the end of the downstream river wall.

(iii) A single red light visible through an arc of 360 degrees on the dolphin located furthest upstream in line with the land wall and on the dolphin located furthest downstream in line with the land wall.

(3) The following navigation lights will be displayed at Norrell Lock and Dam during hours of darkness and heavy fog when navigation is passing over the dam. During daylight hours a yellow and black disc will be displayed on each end (upstream and downstream) of the river wall to signal navigation over the dam.

(i) Three red lights visible through an arc of 360 degrees arranged in a vertical line on the end of the upstream river wall.

(ii) Two red lights visible through an arc of 360 degrees arranged in a vertical line on the end of the downstream river wall.

(iii) A single red light visible through an arc of 360 degrees on the dolphin located furthest upstream in line with the land wall and on the dolphin located furthest downstream in line with the land wall.

(iv) A single, flashing blue light visible through an arc of 360 degrees located on the end of the dam opposite the lock.
