
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.275 McClellan-Kerr Arkansas River navigation system: use, administration, and navigation.
##### Reporting the navigation incidents.

(p)In furtherance of maintaining navigation safety the following rules are prescribed for all navigation interests:

(1) Any incident resulting in uncontrolled barges shall immediately be reported to the nearest lock and the appropriate U.S. Coast Guard Office. The report shall include information as to the number of loose barges, their cargo, and the time and location where they broke loose. The lockmaster shall be kept informed of the progress being made in bringing the barges under control so that he/she can initiate whatever actions may be warranted.

(2) Masters, owners, or other persons using the waterways to which the regulations in this section apply shall report to the nearest lockmaster or the district engineer by the most expeditious means available all marine accidents; such as fire, collision, sinking, or grounding, where there is possible obstruction of the channel or interference with navigation; furnishing a clear statement as to the name, address, and ownership of the vessel or vessels involved; the time and place; and the action taken. In all cases, the owner of a sunken vessel shall take immediate steps to mark the wreck properly.

(i) Sunken or sinking barges shall be reported to the nearest lock both downstream and upstream of the location in order that traffic passing those points may be advised of the hazards. The appropriate U.S. Coast Guard Office shall also be notified.

(ii) Whenever it is necessary to report an incident involving uncontrolled, sunken or sinking barges, the cargo in the barges shall be precisely identified.

(iii) The owners or masters of vessels sunk in the navigable waters of the United States shall provide the appropriate district engineer with a copy of the sunken vessel report furnished to the appropriate U.S. Coast Guard Marine Inspection Office.

(q) [Reserved]
