
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.300 Ohio River, Mississippi River above Cairo, Ill., and their tributaries; use, administration, and navigation.
##### All vessels.

(2)(i) Leaking vessels may be excluded from locks until they have been repaired to the satisfaction of the lockmaster.

(ii) Smoking, open flames, and chipping or other spark-producing activities are prohibited on deck during the locking cycle.

(iii) Painting will not be permitted in the lock chamber during the locking cycle.

(iv) Tow speeds shall be reduced to a rate of travel such that the tow can be stopped by checking should mechanical difficulties develop. Pilots should check with the individual lockmasters concerning prevailing conditions. It is also recommended that pilots check their ability to reverse their engines prior to beginning an approach. Engines shall not be turned off in the lock until the tow has stopped and been made fast.

(v) U.S. Coast Guard regulations require all vessels to have on board life saving devices for prevention of drowning. All crew members of vessels required to carry work vests (life jackets) shall wear them during a lockage, except those persons in an area enclosed with a handrail or other device which would reasonably preclude the possibility of falling overboard. All deckhands handling lines during locking procedure shall wear a life jacket. Vessels not required by Coast Guard regulations to have work vests aboard shall have at least the prescribed life saving devices, located for ready access and use if needed. The lockmaster may refuse lockage to any vessel which fails to conform to the above.
