
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.300 Ohio River, Mississippi River above Cairo, Ill., and their tributaries; use, administration, and navigation.
##### Reporting of navigation incidents.

(c)In furtherance of increased safety on waterways the following safety rules are hereby prescribed for all navigation interests:

(1) Any incident resulting in uncontrolled barges shall immediately be reported to the nearest lock. The report shall include information as to the number of loose barges, their cargo, and the time and location where they broke loose. The lockmaster or locks shall be kept informed of the progress being made in bringing the barges under control so that he can initiate whatever actions may be warranted.

(2) Whenever barges are temporarily moored at other than commercial terminals or established fleeting areas, and their breaking away could endanger a lock, the nearest lock shall be so notified, preferably the downstream lock.

(3) Sunken or sinking barges shall be reported to the nearest lock both downstream and upstream of the location in order that other traffic passing those points may be advised of the hazards.

(4) In the event of an oil spill, notify the nearest lock downstream, specifying the time and location of the incident, type of oil, amount of spill, and what recovery or controlling measures are being employed.

(5) Any other activity on the waterways that could conceivably endanger navigation or a navigation structure shall be reported to the nearest lock.

(6) Whenever it is necessary to report an incident involving uncontrolled, sunken or sinking barges, the cargo in the barges shall be accurately identified.
