
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.300 Ohio River, Mississippi River above Cairo, Ill., and their tributaries; use, administration, and navigation.
##### Outside of locks.

(2)(i) No vessel or other craft shall regularly or permanently moor in any reach of a navigation channel. The approximate centerline of such channels are marked as the sailing line on Corps of Engineers' navigation charts. Nor shall any floating craft, except in an emergency, moor in any narrow or hazardous section of the waterway. Furthermore, all vessels or other craft are prohibited from regularly or permanently mooring in any section of navigable waterways which are congested with commercial facilities or traffic unless it is moored at facilities approved by the Secretary of the Army or his authorized representative. The limits of the congested areas shall be marked on Corps of Engineers' navigation charts. However, the District Engineer may authorize in writing exceptions to any of the above if, in his judgment, such mooring would not adversely affect navigation and anchorage.

(ii) No vessel or other craft shall be moored to railroad tracks, to riverbanks in the vicinity of railroad tracks when such mooring threatens the safety of equipment using such tracks, to telephone poles or power poles, or to bridges or similar structures used by the public.

(iii) Except in case of great emergency, no vessel or craft shall anchor over revetted banks of the river, and no floating plant other than launches and similar small craft shall land against banks protected by revetment except at regular commercial landings. In all cases, every precaution to avoid damage to the revetment works shall be exercised. The construction of log rafts along mattressed or paved banks or the tying up and landing of log rafts against such banks shall be performed in such a manner as to cause no damage to the mattress work or bank paving. Generally, mattress work extends out into the river 600 feet from the low water line.

(iv) Any vessel utilizing a federally constructed mooring facility (e.g., cells, buoys, anchor rings) at the points designated on the current issue of the Corps' navigation charts shall advise the lockmaster at the nearest lock from that point by the most expeditious means.
