
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.300 Ohio River, Mississippi River above Cairo, Ill., and their tributaries; use, administration, and navigation.
##### Navigation lights for use at all locks and dams except on the Kentucky River and Lock 3, Green River.

(v)(1) At locks at all fixed dams and at locks at all movable dams when the dams are up so that there is no navigable pass through the dam, the following navigation lights will be displayed during hours of darkness:

(i) Three green lights visible through an arc of 360&#xB0; arranged in a vertical line on the upstream end of the river (guard) wall unless the intermediate wall extends farther upstream. In the latter case, the lights will be placed on the upstream end of the intermediate wall.

(ii) Two green lights visible through an arc of 360&#xB0; arranged in a vertical line on the downstream end of the river (guard) wall unless the intermediate wall extends farther downstream. In the latter case, the lights will be placed on the downstream end of the intermediate wall.

(iii) A single red light, visible through an arc of 360&#xB0; on each end (upstream and downstream) of the land (guide) wall.

(2) At movable dams when the dam has been lowered or partly lowered so that there is an unobstructed navigable pass through the dam, the navigation lights indicated in the following paragraphs will be displayed during hours of darkness until lock walls and weir piers are awash.

(i) Three red lights visible through an arc of 360&#xB0; arranged in a vertical line on the upstream end of the river (guard) wall.

(ii) Two red lights visible through an arc of 360&#xB0; arranged in a vertical line on the downstream end of the river (guard) wall.

(iii) A single red light visible through an arc of 360&#xB0; on each end (upstream and downstream) of the land (guide) wall.

(3) After lock walls and weir piers are awash they will be marked as prescribed in paragraph (x) of this section.

(4) If one or more bear traps or weirs are open or partially open, and may cause a set in current conditions at the upper approach to the locks, this fact will be indicated by displaying a white circular disk 5 feet in diameter, on or near the light support on the upstream end of the land (guide) wall during the hours of daylight, and will be indicated during hours of darkness by displaying a white (amber) light vertically under and 5 feet below the red light on the upstream end of the land (guide) wall.

(5) At Locks No. 1 and 2, Green River, when the locks are not in operation because of high river stages, a single red light visible through an arc of 360&#xB0; will be displayed on each end (upstream and downstream) of the lock river (guard) will at which time the lights referred to above will not be visible.
