
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.350 St. Croix River, Wis. and Minn.
##### Power dam at Taylors Falls.,Provided,

(b)(1) That between April 1 and October 31, whenever the natural river flow exceeds 1,600 feet per second, the reduced flow shall be not less than 1,600 feet per second, and that whenever the natural flow be less than 1,600 feet per second, then the reduced flow shall not be less than such natural flow:That the District Engineer in charge of the locality may vary these requirements temporarily, as the interests of navigation, in his judgment, require, prompt report of his action in such instances to be made to the Chief of Engineers.

(2) The Northern States Power Co. shall establish automatic water-stage recorders of a type approved by the district engineer at the following localities:

(i) On the Nevers Pond near the dam.

(ii) On the St. Croix hydroplant pond near the dam.

(iii) On the St. Croix hydroplant tailrace.

(iv) On the St. Croix River near Osceola.

(v) On the St. Croix River near Marine.

(3) The gages are to be installed and maintained by the Northern States Power Co. in a manner satisfactory to the District Engineer, but their operation and inspection is to be under the sole direction of the District Engineer, who will retain the original records, furnishing the Northern States Power Co. with duplicates of the gage records.
