
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.380 Red Lake River, Minn.; logging regulations for portion of river above Thief River Falls.

(a) Parties wishing to run logs on Red Lake River must provide storage booms near the head of the river to take care of said logs.

(b) No one will be permitted to turn into the river at any time more logs than he can receive at his storage boom.

(c) Tows arriving at the head of the river shall turn their logs into the river successively in the order of their arrival, and such logs shall be at once driven to the owner's storage boom.

(d) Parties authorized to run logs on the river shall have the use of the river on successive days in rotation to run their logs from their storage boom down, but not more than 1,000,000 feet, board measure, shall be released from the storage booms on any one day. Said parties must provide a sufficient force of log drivers to keep their logs in motion throughout the section of river above mentioned, so as to avoid obstructing the general navigation of the river.

(e) When a drive is made it shall be so conducted that not more than 1,500,000 feet, board measure, of logs shall pass any point on the river in 24 hours. The decision of the agent appointed by the United States shall be final as to the quantity of logs running at any time.

(f) This section shall remain in force until modified or rescinded.
