
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.440 St. Marys Falls Canal and Locks, Mich.; use, administration, and navigation.
##### Departure.

(2)The following order of departure procedure will apply to vessels leaving the MacArthur Lock and Poe Lock simultaneously or at approximately the same time:

(i) The first vessel to leave will be the vessel in the lock which is ready for vessel release first. The vessel in the other lock will be restrained by the gates remaining closed and the wire rope fender remaining in the down position.

(A) On down bound passages, the vessel retained shall not leave the lock until such time as the bow of the vessel leaving first reaches the end of the East Center pier.

(B) On up bound passages, the vessel retained shall not leave the lock until such time as the bow of the vessel leaving first reaches the railroad bridge.

(ii) When a 1,000 foot vessel is ready to depart the Poe Lock and a vessel has left the MacArthur Lock already, the 1,000 foot vessel may start to leave once the bow of the other vessel reaches the end of the respective nose pier.

(iii) Vessels will remain in radio contact with each other and with the Chief Lockmaster at all times until clear of the lock area.

(iv) The need for a deviation from the procedures set forth in paragraph (h)(2)(i) of this section will be determined on a case by case basis by the Chief Lockmaster. If two vessels masters agree to a different departure scheme, they both shall notify the Chief Lockmaster and request a change.

(i) Unless otherwise directed, all vessels or boats approaching the locks shall stop at the points indicated by signs placed on the canal piers until ordered by the District Engineer or his authorized agents to proceed into the lock.

(j) Vessels and boats shall not proceed to enter or leave a lock until the lock gates are fully in their recesses and the lockmaster has given directions for starting.

(k) Upon each passage through the canal, the master or clerk of the vessel or craft shall report to the canal office, upon the prescribed form, a statement of passengers, freight, and registered tonnage, and such other statistical information as may be required by the blank forms provided for the purpose.

(l) No business, trading, or loading or landing of freight, baggage, or passengers will be allowed on or over the canal piers or lock walls, or over the other piers within the limits of the canal grounds, except by prior authority of the District Engineer or his authorized agents.

(m) No person shall throw material of any kind into the canal, or litter the grounds with any refuse.

(n) The releasing of vessel steam, water, or waste from side discharge openings upon the piers or lock walls, the cleaning of boiler flues in the locks or canal, or the emission of dense smoke from the stack of any vessel while passing through the locks, is forbidden.

(o) No person shall enter or navigate the canal with a boat or other craft which, when entering or while navigating the canal, shall have an iron or irons projecting from it or a rough surface or surfaces on it which would be liable to damage the lock walls or canal piers.

(p) No person shall cause or permit any vessel or boat of which he is in charge or on which he is employed to in any way obstruct the canal or delay in passing through it, except upon prior authority of the District Engineer or his authorized agents.

(q) No person shall enter upon any part of the canal grounds except as permitted, either generally or in specific instances, by the District Engineer or his authorized agents. No person shall willfully or carelessly injure, tamper with, or damage the canal or any of the Government buildings, works or structures, trees or shrubbery, or other public property pertaining to the canal or canal grounds.
