
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.440 St. Marys Falls Canal and Locks, Mich.; use, administration, and navigation.
##### Closing date.

(2)The locks will be maintained in operation only for the passage of down bound vessels departing from a Lake Superior port before midnight (2400 hours) of January 14, and of upbound vessels passing Detour before midnight (2400 hours) of January 15. Vessel owners are requested to report in advance to the Engineer in charge at Sault Ste. Marie, the name of vessel and time of departure from a Lake Superior port on January 14 before midnight, and of vessels passing Detour on January 15 before midnight, which may necessitate the continued operation of a lock to permit passage of vessel.

(v) The maximum overall dimensions of vessels that will be permitted to transit MacArthur Lock are 730 feet in length and 75 feet in width, except as provided in paragraph (v)(1) of this section. Further, any vessel of greater length than 600 feet must be equipped with deck winches adequate to safely control the vessel in the lock under all conditions including that of power failure.

(1) Whenever the Poe Lock is out of service for a period exceeding 24 hours the District Engineer may allow vessels greater than 730 feet in length, but not exceeding 767 feet in length to navigate the MacArthur Lock. Masters of vessels exceeding 730 feet in length shall be required to adhere to special handling procedures as prescribed by the District Engineer.

(w) The maximum overall dimensions of vessels that will be permitted to transit the New Poe Lock without special restrictions are 100 feet in width, including fendering, and 1,000 feet in length, including steering poles or other projections. Vessels having overall widths of over 100 feet and not over 105 feet including fendering, and overall lengths of not more than 1,100 feet, including projections, will be permitted to transit the New Poe Lock at such times as determined by the District Engineer or his authorized representative that they will not unduly delay the transit of vessels of lesser dimensions, or endanger the lock structure because of wind, ice, or other adverse conditions. These vessels also will be subject to such special handling requirements as may be found necessary by the Area Engineer at time of transit. Vessels over 1,000 feet in length will be required to be equipped with six mooring cables and winches ready for use to assist in safe transit of the lock.

(x) Masters or other persons refusing to comply with the regulations in this section or any orders given in pursuance thereof, or using profane, indecent, or abusive language, may, in the discretion of the District Engineer or his authorized agents, be denied the privileges of the locks and canal grounds.
