
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.441 St. Marys Falls Canal and Locks, Mich.; security.
##### Debarking.

(ii)The vessel master will furnish prior notification to the Chief Lockmaster at St. Marys Falls Canal Tower (Radio Call WUD-31) that he has vessel personnel, technicians, repairmen or company officials aboard for whom he requests authority to debark. If authority to debark is granted such personnel will be furnished a letter by the vessel master, addressed to the Area Engineer, St. Marys Falls Canal, Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan, giving the name and position of the individual concerned. Personnel will not debark until they have been properly identified by a licensed officer of the vessel and the letter furnished to the escort provided from the civilian guard detail who will escort personnel to the gate. In the event a person debarking for medical attention is a litter case, notification will be given sufficiently in advance to permit the Chief Lockmaster to route the vessel to the MacArthur Lock in order that the long carry over the lock gates may be avoided. The Area Engineer will make the necessary arrangements for clearance of ambulances and medical personnel into the lock area.

(3) No passengers or guest passengers will be permitted to embark or debark at St. Marys Falls Canal except in emergency when medical attention is required.

(4) Letters cited in paragraph (c)(2) of this section are valid only for a single passage through the lock area. In the event frequent access to the area is required a request for extended access with reasons therefor will be submitted to the Area Engineer, St. Marys Falls Canal, Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan, who may arrange for the necessary clearance.

(5) Emergency needs to embark or debark which develop with insufficient time to follow the procedure outlined in this paragraph will be approved or disapproved by the Area Engineer, St. Marys Falls Canal, Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan, according to the circumstances of the individual case, and requests therefor should be promptly directed to him.
