
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.460 Fox River, Wis.
##### Use of the United States drydock on Fox River at Kaukauna, Wis.

(b)(1) The drydock being a part of the Fox River improvement, its use will be governed by the general regulations for the use, administration, and navigation of that river, so far as they may be applicable.

(2) The drydock at Kaukauna, when not required for repairs or construction by the United States, may be used by private parties or corporations under certain restrictions and under the supervision and direction of the U.S. District Engineer in charge of the locality or his authorized agent.

(3) The drydock will be loaned to private parties only when no private drydock is available at the time and for the purpose desired. Applicants will be required to establish over their signature the fact that due effort has been made to secure the use of a private drydock and none can be had.

(4) Private parties desiring to use the Kaukauna drydock will give notice to the U.S. Assistant Engineer in local charge at Appleton, Wis., as long in advance as practicable, stating when use of the dock is wanted, nature of repairs required, and the dimensions and character of boat. No boat will enter the dock until the permission of the U.S. District Engineer or the Assistant Engineer above referred to has been obtained.

(5) All private parties or corporations using the Kaukauna drydock will furnish all material and labor, including blocking, when necessary, required for prompt execution of their work, and will also furnish all labor for properly operating, under the immediate personal supervision of an authorized canal employee, gates, and sluices of the drydock. No gate or sluice of the drydock will be operated, or in any way meddled with, except by permission of and under the personal supervision of such authorized canal employee.

(6) No boat will be allowed to occupy the Kaukauna drydock for a longer period than 2 days when other boats are waiting to use the dock, except in cases when, in the opinion of the U.S. District Engineer or his authorized agent, circumstances necessitate and justify a longer use than 2 days. The U.S. District Engineer or his authorized agent is authorized to remove from the drydock any boat using or occupying such dock without his authority, and the expense of such removal will be paid by the party or parties owning such boat.

(7) The wages of all mechanics and laborers, due from private parties for repairs carried on in the Kaukauna drydock, must be paid before the boat leaves the dock.

(8) Repair shop, timber shed, tools, etc., owned by the Government at and near the drydock shall not be used by parties allowed to occupy the drydock.

(9) Lumber and all material needed by parties allowed to use the drydock may be deposited in the drydock yards at such places as may be directed, but only for such time as repairs are being made, and residue must be entirely removed when the boat leaves the dock; general storage will not be permitted.

(10) All refuse and old material taken from boats under repairs must be removed or disposed of, as may be directed, by the owner of the boat or his employees without expense to the Government, and before the boat leaves the dock, and to the satisfaction of the agent in charge of the dock.

(11) The Government charges for the authorized and necessary use and occupancy of the Kaukauna drydock by private boats shall be, until further orders, as follows:

(i) Docking charges (including lay time for the calendar day on which vessel is docked): Tugs, motor boats, and dredges, 75 cents per linear foot; $25 minimum charge. Barges, dump scows, and derrick boats, 65 cents per linear foot; $20 minimum charge.

(ii) Lay-day charges (excluding Sundays and national holidays, unless repairs are made on such Sundays and holidays): For all vessels, 20 cents per linear foot per calendar day or part thereof; $7 per calendar day or part thereof, minimum charge.

(12) The charges for all use or occupancy of the Kaukauna drydock by a boat or private parties, after repairs on such boat have, in the opinion of the U.S. District Engineer or authorized agent, been so far completed as to permit safe removal from the dock, or after such removal has been ordered by the U.S. District Engineer or his authorized agent, shall be $50 per day or part of a day, in addition to any penalties incurred for violation of any of the regulations prescribed by law for the government of the dock and those using it.

(13) The dock will be considered in use by a boat from the time the dock is placed at its disposal until the boat is out of the dock.

(14) The length of all vessels shall be the over-all length measured on the main deck from stem to stern.

(15) The charges for the use of the drydock shall be paid within 10 days from date of bill, which will be submitted to the owner by the District Engineer as promptly as possible after the vessel leaves the dock. If charges are not so paid, the vessel shall be liable to the amount of the charges and the cost of collection in the manner prescribed by law, and the owner of the vessel shall be denied the use of the drydock until all charges and the cost of collection have been paid to the United States.

(16) This section supersedes the regulations for the use of this drydock approved April 10, 1906, which regulations are hereby revoked.
