
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.480 Lake Huron, Mich.; Harbor of refuge, Harbor Beach; use and navigation.

(a) All boats, barges, and vessels entering the harbor will be required to take such positions as may be assigned them by the officer in charge, who will direct their movements, either from the breakwater or from the Government tug on the harbor.

(b) In the absence of any directions as to position, boats, barges, and vessels entering the harbor will observe the following rule: The first steam vessel, or the first steam vessel with consort in tow, on entering the harbor for shelter, will proceed to the upper end of the breakwater. All steam vessels, and all steam vessels with consorts in tow, entering later, will place themselves in a compact position close to those preceding them. Sailing craft will so locate themselves that they will not lie in the way of other vessels entering the harbor. All vessels of every description will in no way place themselves so as to interfere with the work of reconstruction of piers, or repairs, that may be in progress at the time.

(c) The use of chains in making fast to the breakwater will not be permitted. Lines must be attached to the snubbing posts only, and outboard anchors taken in.

(d) Steam craft with barges or vessels in tow will, if practicable, at once place them compactly alongside the breakwater, either taking in the towlines entirely or passing them on the breakwater so as not to interfere in any way with the landing or departure of boats or vessels between them. If impracticable to place them alongside the breakwater, they will each drop anchor and at once take in all towlines extending from one to the other.

(e) Passenger boats will, in general, have the preference as to location and attention by the officer in charge. Rafts will give way to all documented craft.

(f) All classes of boats, barges, vessels, or other floating property making fast to the breakwater must at once place such fenders between themselves and the breakwater as may be thought necessary by the officer in charge to prevent chafing or other damage.

(g) The unloading of wood, coal, ballast, stone, or freight of any class upon the breakwater is expressly prohibited, except in certain cases allowed by special permission from the officer in charge.

(h) Each and every piece of floating property made fast to the breakwater, or anchored in the harbor, must keep outboard from sunset to sunrise a conspicuous white light, and must have upon it and in immediate charge of it a watchman during the entire time such floating property is in the harbor. All colored lights must be at once taken in, or covered, on dropping anchor or making fast to the breakwater.
