
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.590 Black Rock Canal and Lock at Buffalo, N.Y.; use, administration, and navigation.

(a) The term "canal" when used in this section will mean all of the Black Rock Waterway, including Black Rock Lock, and all of the lands, piers, buildings, and other appurtenances acquired by letters patent from the State of New York, or constructed for the use of the waterway; the southerly limit thereof being at the southerly end of Bird Island Pier, and the northerly limit being at the downstream end of the guide pier, Black Rock Lock, a length of 3.7 miles.

(b) The canal and all of its appurtenances and the use, administration and navigation thereof shall be in charge of the District Engineer, U.S. Army Engineer District, in charge of the locality, or his authorized agents.

(c) The movement of all vessels, boats, or other floating things in the canal shall be under the direction of the authorized agents of the District Engineer in charge, and their orders and instructions must be obeyed.

(d) For passage through the canal, vessels or boats belonging to the U.S. Government shall have precedence over all others.

(e) All registered vessels or boats must pass through the canal in order of their arrival at the canal limits, unless otherwise directed in accordance with this section.

(f) [Reserved]

(g) No vessel shall pass or approach within-mile of a vessel bound in the same direction in the Black Rock Canal south of the Ferry Street Bridge. Tugs without tows, tugs towing a single barge under 150 feet in length, and single vessels under 150 feet in length are exempt from this paragraph.

(h) No vessel or boat shall anchor in or moor along the canal except at localities specially designated by the District Engineer or his agent; and no business, trading, or landing of freight or baggage, except such articles as may be readily carried in the hand, will be allowed on or over the canal lands or structures, without the permission of the District Engineer or his agent.

(i) No person or operator of a vessel in the Black Rock Canal, lock or approaching channels shall throw or discharge or permit to be thrown or discharged any solid material of any kind or any petroleum product of any kind into the canal, lock or appurtenant waters.

(j) All vessels and tows shall be navigated with care so as not to strike or disturb the channel buoys or channel markers. If a buoy or other channel marker is accidentally struck, damaged or displaced, the fact shall be reported immediately to the Black Rock Lock, foot of Bridge Street, Buffalo, N.Y., telephone 876-5454.

(k) Ferry Street Bridge: The clearheadroom under the bridge at low water datum is 17.3 feet for a width of 86 feet from the pivot pier, thence decreasing to 12.3 feet at the left (westerly) abutment.

(1) All vessels and boats which cannot pass under the bridge shall, on approaching the bridge, reduce speed sufficiently to enable them to come to a dead stop, without touching the bridge, in case the movable span cannot be lifted. If the wind is dangerously strong, passage of the bridge shall not be attempted by large vessels without the aid of a tug or tugs.

(2) Vessels and boats bound north shall have the right-of-way and priority for passage through the bridge over those bound south.

(3) All vessels and boats desiring passage through the bridge shall signal therefor by one long and two short whistle blasts.

(4) Upon receiving the opening signal, the bridge operator shall answer by giving the same signal on the bridge whistle and he shall then proceed at once to lift the bridge.

(5) In case the bridge cannot be lifted, for any cause, the bridge operator shall answer a vessel signal by giving five short whistle blasts; and the vessel shall then be stopped until the bridge is ready to be lifted, when the bridge operator shall give the whistle signal for passage and the vessel may proceed.

(6) In case the bridge is disabled so that it cannot be lifted for one-half hour or more pending repairs, red flags will be displayed on the bridge in daytime and two red lantern lights, one above the other, at night; and when such signals are displayed no vessel or boat shall signal for or attempt passage through the bridge.
