
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.590 Black Rock Canal and Lock at Buffalo, N.Y.; use, administration, and navigation.
##### Radio control of vessel movement in Black Rock Canal.

(l)(1) The movement of vessels in the Black Rock Canal will be controlled by radio communication between the Black Rock Lock and the vessels desiring to use the canal. Vessels will not be permitted to meet or pass in the channel of restricted width between the southerly end of Bird Island (approximately 3,500 feet northerly along the canal from the North Breakwater South End Light) and the International Railway Bridge near the southerly entrance to the Black Rock Lock. Vessels less than 150 feet in length and tugs towing a single barge under 150 feet in length are not to be included in this special condition. In addition to the control of vessel movements in the restricted section of the canal, radio communications will also be utilized to facilitiate the passage of vessels through the entire canal and the Black Rock Lock.

(2) Radio communication will be the only means of control of vessel traffic in the canal in order to prevent a meeting or passing of vessels in the restricted area, and therefore it is mandatory that all vessels over 150 feet in length and tugs towing a barge or barges over 150 feet in combined length of tow be equipped with radio communication equipment operating on designated frequencies. Any vessel lacking such equipment will not be permitted to enter the canal unless arrangements are made with the Black Rock Lock by land telephone to 876-5454 or marine ship-to-shore facilities immediately before entering the canal.

(3) The Black Rock Lock radio communication equipment operates on VHF(FM) frequencies as follows: VHF-156.8 Mcs-Channel 16-Safety and Calling, VHF-156.7 Mcs-Channel 14-Working; VHF-156.6 Mcs-Channel 12 Working. A listening watch is maintained on VHF Channel 16.

(4) In order that positive control may be maintained it is mandatory that the following procedures be followed in communicating by radio with the Black Rock Lock:

(i) Vessels desiring to enter the Black Rock Canal from either the Buffalo Outer Harbor or the Buffalo River shall call the Black Rock Lock on VHF Channel 16 or by land telephone approximately 15 minutes before the estimated time of arrival at Buffalo Harbor Traffic Lighted Bell Buoy 1 located at latitude N. 42&#xB0;50.1&#x2032; and longitude W. 78&#xB0;55.4&#x2032;. Information to be furnished the Black Rock Lock Operator should include the name of the vessel, position, destination, length, draft (forward and aft) and the type of cargo. A second call shall be made to the lock when the vessel is abreast of the Buffalo Harbor Light on the southerly end of the detached West Breakwater. Information furnished the vessel by the Lock Operator will assure the vessel operator of the proper time to enter the Black Rock Canal with a view to safety and minimum delay.

(ii) Vessels desiring to enter the Black Rock Canal from either the Buffalo Outer Harbor or the Buffalo River shall call the Black Rock Lock on VHF Channel 16 or by land telephone to 876-5454 immediately before departing a dock and again when abreast of the North Breakwater South End Light on the southerly end of the North Breakwater.

(iii) In any radio communication from a vessel to the Black Rock Lock, and VHF(FM) frequencies will be utilized.

(iv) In any radio communication from a vessel to the Black Rock Lock, the VHF (FM) frequencies will be utilized if available in preference to the MF (AM) frequencies.

(v) When an initial radio contact has been made with the Black Rock Lock the vessel entering the canal shall maintain a standby watch at the radio until the passage through the canal and lock is completed.

(vi) Failure to comply with the foregoing procedures could result in considerable delay to a vessel and possibly in a collision between vessels in the restricted section of the canal.
