
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.590 Black Rock Canal and Lock at Buffalo, N.Y.; use, administration, and navigation.
##### Black Rock Lock.

(m)All vessels and boats desiring to use the lock shall signal by two long and two short whistle blasts.

(1) Northbound vessels and boats shall not be brought to within less than 300 feet of the upper lock gates, nor shall southbound vessels be brought to within less than 200 feet of the lower lock gates, until the lock is made ready and the lockmaster in charge signals the vessel to enter the lock.

(2) Vessels and boats shall not moor to the approach walls of the lock at either end, for any other purpose than waiting for lockage, except by direction or permission of the lockmaster.

(3) Commercial vessels will receive preference in passage through the locks. Small vessels such as row, sail, and motor boats, bent on pleasure only, will be passed through the lock in company with commercial vessels when small vessels can be safely accommodated or in the absence of commercial vessels may be passed through the lock individually or together in one lockage on the hour if northbound and on the half hour if southbound. However, commercial vessels will receive preference which could delay the passage of pleasure craft. Pleasure craft will not be permitted to pass through the lock with vessels carrying inflammable cargo. Vessels and other large boats when in the lock shall fasten one head line and one spring line to the snubbing posts on the lock walls, and the lines shall not be cast off until the signal is given by the lockmaster for the boats to leave the lock.

(4) Vessels and boats will be passed through the lock in order of their arrival except that the lockmaster may order a small vessel to lock through in company with another vessel, irrespective of the former's order of arrival.

(5) All vessels and boats shall be maneuvered with great care so as not to strike any part of the lock walls, or any gate or appurtenance thereto, or machinery for operating the gates, or the walls protecting the lock approaches.

(6) Vessels and boats shall not enter or leave until the lock gates are fully in their recesses, and the lockmaster has given direction for starting.

(7) [Reserved]

(8) Trespass on lock property is strictly prohibited. However, in that portion of the Black Rock Canal lying between the International Railway Bridge and the northerly end of the westerly lower guide pier, the following conditions shall apply to the embarking or disembarking of crew members or passengers of a vessel transiting the lock:

(i) Only the master or mate and two or three linesmen will be permitted to go ashore from transiting vessels and then only for normal operations and business incident to the transit. A maximum of only four (4) men will be permitted to go ashore from any one ship.

(ii) No crew members will be permitted to board a ship at the locks unless previously requested in writing by the master or owners, and approved by canal authorities.

(iii) No crew member may leave a ship while it is in transit in the lock or canal unless certified in advance as an emergency by the vessel master and approved by canal authorities.

(iv) No guest passengers will be permitted to either board or disembark at the canal or locks.

(9) Schedule of Seasonal Operation:

(i) March 23 through June 14-6 a.m. to 11 p.m., daily.

(ii) June 15 through September 6-24 hours, daily.

(iii) September 7 through November 30-6 a.m. to 11 p.m., daily.

(iv) December 1 through March 22-8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., daily. During the navigation season the hours may be extended by the district engineer, depending on conditions and the need for lockage service. Public notices will be issued announcing the opening and closing dates at least 10 days in advance of such dates.
