
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.680 Willamette River, Oreg.; use, administration, and navigation of canal and locks at Willamette Falls, Oreg.
##### Use of canal locks.

(7)No person, unless authorized by the lockmaster or his assistants, shall open or close any bridge, lock gate, wicket gate, or operate any lock machinery, or in any way interfere with any mechanism or appliance connected with the operation of the locks, nor shall anyone interfere with the employees in the discharge of their duties. The lockmaster or his assistants may call for aid from the persons in charge of any craft, vessel, or raft using the lock should such aid be necessary. Persons rendering such assistance shall be strictly under the orders of the lockmaster. The Government reserves the right to refuse lockage to any vessel, craft or raft when the persons in charge thereof refuse to give such assistance when it is requested. The persons in charge of vessels with tows or rafts, barges and other craft must provide sufficient personnel, lines and towing equipment of sufficient power to insure at all times full control of such tows, rafts, barges and other craft while moving into and through the locks, unless otherwise prearranged with the lockmaster. A copy of these regulations shall be kept on board each vessel regularly engaged in navigating the locks. Copies may be obtained without charge from the lockmaster or from the District Engineer, Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, 319 S.W. Pine Street, Post Office Box 2946, Portland, Oregon 97208.
