
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.718 Navigation locks and approach channels, Columbia and Snake Rivers, Oreg. and Wash.
##### General.

(a)All locks, approach channels, and all lock appurtenances, shall be under the jurisdiction of the District Engineer, Corps of Engineers, U.S. Army, in charge of the locality. The district engineer may, after issuing a public notice and providing a 30-day opportunity for public comment, set (issue) a schedule for the daily lockage of recreational vessels. Recreational vessels are pleasure boats such a row, sail, or motor boats used for recreational purposes. Commercial vessels include licensed commercial passenger vessels operating on a published schedule or regularly operating in the "for hire" trade. Any recreational schedule shall provide for a minimum of one scheduled recreation lockage upstream and downstream (two lockages) each day. At the discretion of the district engineer, additional lockages may be scheduled. Each schedule and any changes to the schedule will be issued at least 30 days prior to implementation. Prior to issuing any schedule or any change to the schedule, the district engineer will consider all public comments and will evaluate the expected energy situation, water supply, and recreation use of the lock to determine the seasonal need for the schedule or change in schedule. The district engineer's representative at the locks shall be the project engineer, who shall issue orders and instructions to the lockmaster in charge of the lock. Hereinafter, the term "lockmaster" shall be used to designate the person in immediate charge of the lock at any given time. In case of emergency and on all routine work in connection with the operation of the lock, the lockmaster shall have authority to take action without waiting for instructions from the project engineer.
