
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.718 Navigation locks and approach channels, Columbia and Snake Rivers, Oreg. and Wash.
##### Permissible dimensions of vessels.

(e)Nominal overall dimensions of vessels allowed in the lock chamber are 84 feet wide and 650 feet long. Depth of water in the lock depends upon river levels which may vary from day to day. Staff gauges showing the minimum water level depth over gate sills are located inside the lock chamber near each lock gate and outside the lock chamber near the end of both upstream and downstream guide walls, except at Bonneville where the staff gauges show water levels in feet above MSL and are located on the southern guide walls at the upstream and downstream miter gates. Bonneville's upstream sill elevation is 51 feet MSL and the downstream sill elevation is -12 feet MSL. Depth over sill at Bonneville is determined by subtracting the sill elevation from the gauge reading. Vessels shall not enter the navigation lock unless the vessel draft is at least one foot less than the water depth over the sill. Information concerning allowable draft for vessel passage through the locks may be obtained from the Lock Master. Minimum lock chamber water level depth is 15 feet except at Ice Harbor where it is 14 feet and at Bonneville where it is 19 feet. When the river flow at Lower Granite exceeds 330,000 cubic feet per second the normal minimum 15-foot depth may be decreased to as little as eight feet.
