
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.718 Navigation locks and approach channels, Columbia and Snake Rivers, Oreg. and Wash.
##### Precedence at lock.

(f)Subject to the order of precedence, the vessel or tow arriving first; at the lock will be locked through first, however, this precedence may be modified at the discretion of the lockmaster. If immediate passage is required, lockage of vessels owned or operated by the United States shall take precedence. The precedence of all other vessels shall be as follows:

(1) When a recreational vessel lockage schedule is in effect, at the appointed time for lockage of recreation craft, recreation craft shall take precedence; however, commercial vessels may be locked through with recreation craft if safety and space permit. At other than the appointed time, the lockage of commercial and tow vessels shall take precedence and recreational craft may (only) lock through with commercial vessels only as provided in paragraph (h) of this section.

(2) If a recreational vessel lockage schedule is not in effect, commercial and tow vessels shall take precedence. Recreational craft may be locked through with commercial craft. If no commercial vessels are scheduled to be locked through within a reasonable time, not to exceed one hour after the arrival of the recreational vessels at the lock, the recreational vessel may be locked through separately. If a combined lockage cannot be arranged, the recreational craft shall be locked through after waiting three commercial lockages.
