
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.750 Puget Sound Area, Wash.
##### Mooring in locks.

(v)Vessels entering the locks shall be equipped with adequate lines, at least 50 feet in length being required fore and aft. While in the large lock vessels and rafts will be moored at the top of the lock wall. While in the small lock vessels shall be moored to the floating mooring wall. Lines shall not be released until the signal has been given by the lock force to leave the lock, after which there shall be no delay in leaving. All vessels not equipped to handle tie-up lines with power winches shall be equipped with suitable mooring lines of manila, or other suitable fiber, of sufficient size and strength to hold the vessel against the currents to be met within the lock chamber. The use of wire rope for tie-up by vessels not equipped to handle such lines with power winches is prohibited. Vessels may be denied the use of the locks if their lines are not in good condition, or if the mooring bits on barges are not accessible or are not equipped to prevent lines from slipping off when the water is lowered in the lock. All vessels entering the locks should have, in addition to the master, at least one person on deck to handle lines. Mates and deckhands, when preparing to moor within the lock chambers, should not throw heavy mooring lines at the lockmen on the walls, but should wait for a heaving lie to be passed to them unless otherwise directed. All towboat crews, while locking or moving a tow out of the lock chamber, should station themselves so as to preclude the possibility of being injured by the parting of cable or lines under strain. Persons attempting to take vessels through the locks without assistance on deck may be required to wait until the lock is clear of other traffic before passing through. All operators of vessels are especially cautioned to use extreme care while crowded in the locks to avoid accident or fire on their boats. Under no circumstances will small craft, such as rowboats, launches and houseboats, or any other type of pleasure boats, be locked through with barges used for carrying any type of petroleum product or other hazardous material. At the discretion of the lockmaster, small craft as described above may be locked through with barge tows containing other than dangerous material. Operators of small vessels and larger vessels operating in the proximity of each other shall be alert to the danger arising from the limited maneuverability of the larger vessels, and shall exercise all precautions to prevent accident.
