
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.750 Puget Sound Area, Wash.
##### Damage to locks or other structures.

(6)(i) The regulations in this paragraph shall not affect the liability of the owners and operators of vessels for any damage caused by their operations to the locks or other structures. The sides and corners of all vessels and rafts passing through the locks should be free from spikes or projections of any kind which might damage the locks or other structures. Vessels with appurtenances or projections which might damage the locks or other structures shall be fitted with adequate fenders. Lockage of leaking vessels or vessels with overhanging loads may be refused. Such barge or craft shall be moored in a location outside of the channel approach to the lock so as to not interfere with passing navigation. Vessels of unusual dimensions, or other characteristics which, in the opinion of the lockmaster, pose a threat to the integrity or safety of the locks or canal will be refused passage until written permission to pass is provided by the District Engineer. Sufficient written data and drawings shall be provided the District Engineer that an engineering determination can be made as to the safety of the vessel. The District Engineer shall have the right to inspect any such vessels prior to passage. The operators of all vessels shall use care to avoid striking the guide walls or other structures pertaining to the canal.

(ii) In the interest of safety and fire prevention, all woven rope fenders used with barges carrying flammable cargo should be water-soaked or otherwise fireproofed prior to entering the lock approaches.

(iii) Burning fenders should be dropped overboard immediately rather than being placed on the deck of a barge or towboat.

(iv) A minimum of one man with a portable fender shall be stationed at the head end of every tow of hazardous cargo and at the aft if the lockmaster so directs so as to protect the lock and guide walls from damage while entering or departing the lock structures.

(v) All cylinder or containers holding gases under pressure, or any other chemical or substance, shall be securely fastened to the hull of the vessel to prevent their rolling overboard into the lock chamber and becoming a hazard.

(vi) All containers holding paint, gasoline or other volatile materials shall be securely fastened with tight-fitting covers. To preclude a concentration of potentially explosive vapors, no paint will be allowed to be applied to the exterior of vessel hulls, houses, machinery, or other equipment while the vessels are in the lock chamber.

(vii) All hatches of tank barges must be closed prior to entering lock. Tank barges with open hatch or hatches will be denied lockage.

(viii) No smoking will be permitted aboard vessels with cargoes of fuel or explosives.

(ix) All vessels carrying hazardous cargoes shall so be identified with the lockmaster. They shall be in compliance with Department of Transportation (U.S. Coast Guard) regulations (CFR title 46, parts 30 thru 40, parts 146 thru 154, and 49 CFR parts 171 thru 179 and shall accordingly carry required markings. All DOT safety regulations for transit of hazardous cargoes shall be adhered to, whether or not specifically cited or duplicated herein.

(7) [Reserved]
