
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 207 - NAVIGATION REGULATIONS
#### ยง 207.750 Puget Sound Area, Wash.
##### Operation of salt water barrier in the large lock of the Hiram M. Chittenden Locks.

(16)(i) A salt water barrier is installed across the east end of the large lock. This barrier, while in the depressed position, reduces the depth of the water available at the east end of this chamber from 36 feet to 33.75 feet at low lake elevation (20 feet above MLLW). In the raised position, the depth of water will be reduced to 16 feet. In comparison, the depth of water available for navigation at the west end of the large lock chamber is 29 feet at mean lower low water. The purpose of this barrier is to reduce salt water intrusion into Lake Washington through normal operations of the locks.

(ii) The least depth of water available over the barrier when raised will be shown on signs placed near the ends of the guide piers to the large lock. A yellow light mounted on these signs will be lighted only while the barrier is in a raised position.

(iii) Vessels transiting the lock from east to west having draft requirements that exceed the water depth available over the barrier will advise the lockmaster by sounding one long and two short blasts of a horn or whistle. When the yellow light is extinguished on the signboard, the operator of the vessel may assume the barrier has been lowered.

(iv) Vessels transiting the lock from west to east having draft requirements that exceed the depth available over the intrusion barrier will advise the lockmaster by sounding one long and two short blasts of a horn or whistle. A yellow light mounted on a standard on the south lock wall and opposite the intrusion barrier will be lighted only when the barrier is in the raised position.

(v) It shall be the responsibility of the vessel operator to satisfy himself of the position of this barrier prior to passing over it.
