
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 208 - FLOOD CONTROL REGULATIONS
#### ยง 208.10 Local flood protection works; maintenance and operation of structures and facilities.
##### General.

(a)(1) The structures and facilities constructed by the United States for local flood protection shall be continuously maintained in such a manner and operated at such times and for such periods as may be necessary to obtain the maximum benefits.

(2) The State, political subdivision thereof, or other responsible local agency, which furnished assurance that it will maintain and operate flood control works in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Army, as required by law, shall appoint a permanent committee consisting of or headed by an official hereinafter called the "Superintendent," who shall be responsible for the development and maintenance of, and directly in charge of, an organization responsible for the efficient operation and maintenance of all of the structures and facilities during flood periods and for continuous inspection and maintenance of the project works during periods of low water, all without cost to the United States.

(3) A reserve supply of materials needed during a flood emergency shall be kept on hand at all times.

(4) No encroachment or trespass which will adversely affect the efficient operation or maintenance of the project works shall be permitted upon the rights-of-way for the protective facilities.

(5) No improvement shall be passed over, under, or through the walls, levees, improved channels or floodways, nor shall any excavation or construction be permitted within the limits of the project right-of-way, nor shall any change be made in any feature of the works without prior determination by the District Engineer of the Department of the Army or his authorized representative that such improvement, excavation, construction, or alteration will not adversely affect the functioning of the protective facilities. Such improvements or alterations as may be found to be desirable and permissible under the above determination shall be constructed in accordance with standard engineering practice. Advice regarding the effect of proposed improvements or alterations on the functioning of the project and information concerning methods of construction acceptable under standard engineering practice shall be obtained from the District Engineer or, if otherwise obtained, shall be submitted for his approval. Drawings or prints showing such improvements or alterations as finally constructed shall be furnished the District Engineer after completion of the work.

(6) It shall be the duty of the superintendent to submit a semiannual report to the District Engineer covering inspection, maintenance, and operation of the protective works.

(7) The District Engineer or his authorized representatives shall have access at all times to all portions of the protective works.

(8) Maintenance measures or repairs which the District Engineer deems necessary shall be promptly taken or made.

(9) Appropriate measures shall be taken by local authorities to insure that the activities of all local organizations operating public or private facilities connected with the protective works are coordinated with those of the Superintendent's organization during flood periods.

(10) The Department of the Army will furnish local interests with an Operation and Maintenance Manual for each completed project, or separate useful part thereof, to assist them in carrying out their obligations under this part.
