
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 208 - FLOOD CONTROL REGULATIONS
#### ยง 208.10 Local flood protection works; maintenance and operation of structures and facilities.
##### Pumping plants,Maintenance.

(f)-(1)Pumping plants shall be inspected by the Superintendent at intervals not to exceed 30 days during flood seasons and 90 days during off-flood seasons to insure that all equipment is in order for instant use. At regular intervals, proper measures shall be taken to provide for cleaning plant, buildings, and equipment, repainting as necessary, and lubricating all machinery. Adequate supplies of lubricants for all types of machines, fuel for gasoline or diesel powered equipment, and flash lights or lanterns for emergency lighting shall be kept on hand at all times. Telephone service shall be maintained at pumping plants. All equipment, including switch gear, transformers, motors, pumps, valves, and gates shall be trial operated and checked at least once every 90 days. Megger tests of all insulation shall be made whenever wiring has been subjected to undue dampness and otherwise at intervals not to exceed one year. A record shall be kept showing the results of such tests. Wiring disclosed to be in an unsatisfactory condition by such tests shall be brought to a satisfactory condition or shall be promptly replaced. Diesel and gasoline engines shall be started at such intervals and allowed to run for such length of time as may be necessary to insure their serviceability in times of emergency. Only skilled electricians and mechanics shall be employed on tests and repairs. Operating personnel for the plant shall be present during tests. Any equipment removed from the station for repair or replacement shall be returned or replaced as soon as practicable and shall be trial operated after reinstallation. Repairs requiring removal of equipment from the plant shall be made during off-flood seasons insofar as practicable.
