
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 208 - FLOOD CONTROL REGULATIONS
#### ยง 208.11 Regulations for use of storage allocated for flood control or navigation and/or project operation at reservoirs subject to prescription of rules and regulations by the Secretary of the Army in the interest of flood control and navigation.
##### Scope and terminology.

(c)This regulation applies to Federal authorized flood control and/or navigation storage projects, and to non-Federal projects which require the Secretary of the Army to prescribe regulations as a condition of the license, permit or legislation, during the planning, design and construction phases, and throughout the life of the project. In compliance with the authority cited above, this regulation defines certain activities and responsibilities concerning water control management throughout the Nation in the interest of flood control and navigation. In carrying out the conditions of this regulation, the owner and/or operating agency will comply with applicable provisions of Pub. L. 85-624, the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act of 1958, and Pub. L. 92-500, the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972. This regulation does not apply to local flood protection works governed by ยง 208.10, or to navigation facilities and associated structures which are otherwise covered by part 207 (Navigation Regulations) of title 33 of the code. Small reservoirs, containing less than 12,500 acre-feet of flood control or navigation storage, may be excluded from this regulation and covered under ยง 208.10, unless specifically required by law or conditions of the license or permit.
