
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 208 - FLOOD CONTROL REGULATIONS
#### ยง 208.11 Regulations for use of storage allocated for flood control or navigation and/or project operation at reservoirs subject to prescription of rules and regulations by the Secretary of the Army in the interest of flood control and navigation.
##### Water control plan and manual.

(4)Prior to project completion, water control managers from the Corps of Engineers will visit the project and the area served by the project to become familiar with the water control facilities, and to insure sound formulation of the water control plan. The formal plan of regulation for flood control and/or navigation, referred to herein as the water control plan, will be developed and documented in a water control manual prepared by the Corps of Engineers. Development of the manual will be coordinated with the project owner to obtain the necessary pertinent information, and to insure compatibility with other project purposes and with surcharge regulation. Major topics in the manual will include: Authorization and description of the project, hydrometeorology, data collection and communication networks, hydrologic forecasting, the water control plan, and water resource management functions, including responsibilities and coordination for water control decisionmaking. Special instructions to the dam tender or reservoir manager on data collection, reporting to higher Federal authority, and on procedures to be followed in the event of a communication outage under emergency conditions, will be prepared as an exhibit in the manual. Other exhibits will include copies of this regulation, letters of understanding consummating this regulation, and the water control agreements. After approval by the Chief of Engineers or his duly authorized representative, the manual will be furnished the project owner.
