
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 208 - FLOOD CONTROL REGULATIONS
#### ยง 208.11 Regulations for use of storage allocated for flood control or navigation and/or project operation at reservoirs subject to prescription of rules and regulations by the Secretary of the Army in the interest of flood control and navigation.
##### Water control agreement.

(5)(i) A water control diagram (graphical) will be prepared by the Corps of Engineers for each project having variable space reservation for flood control and/or navigation during the year; e.g., variable seasonal storage, joint-use space, or other rule curve designation. Reservoir inflow parameters will be included on the diagrams when appropriate. Concise notes will be included on the diagrams prescribing the use of storage space in terms of release schedules, runoff, nondamaging or other controlling flow rates downstream of the damsite, and other major factors as appropriate. A water control release schedule will be prepared in tabular form for projects that do not have variable space reservation for flood control and/or navigation. The water control diagram or release schedule will be signed by a duly authorized representative of the Chief of Engineers, the project owner, and the designated operating agency, and will be used as the basis for carrying out this regulation. Each diagram or schedule will contain a reference to this regulation.

(ii) When deemed necessary by the Corps of Engineers, information given on the water control diagram or release schedule will be supplemented by appropriate text to assure mutual understanding on certain details or other important aspects of the water control plan not covered in this regulation, on the water control diagram or in the release schedule. This material will include clarification of any aspects that might otherwise result in unsatisfactory project performance in the interest of flood control and/or navigation. Supplementation of the agreement will be necessary for each project where the Corps of Engineers exercises the discretionary authority to prescribe the flood control regulation on a day-to-day (real-time) basis. The agreement will include delegation of the responsibility. The document should also cite, as appropriate, section 7 of the 1944 Flood Control Act, the Federal Power Act and/or other congressional legislation authorizing construction and/or directing operation of the project.

(iii) All flood control regulations published in theunder this section (part 208) of the code prior to the date of this publication which are listed in ยง 208.11(e) are hereby superseded.

(iv) Nothing in this regulation prohibits the promulgation of specific regulations for a project in compliance with the authorizing acts, when agreement on acceptable regulations cannot be reached between the Corps of Engineers and the owner.
