
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 208 - FLOOD CONTROL REGULATIONS
#### ยง 208.11 Regulations for use of storage allocated for flood control or navigation and/or project operation at reservoirs subject to prescription of rules and regulations by the Secretary of the Army in the interest of flood control and navigation.
##### Notification of the general public.

(8)The Corps of Engineers and other interested Federal and State agencies, and the project owner will jointly sponsor public involvement activities, as appropriate, to fully apprise the general public of the water control plan. Public meetings or other effective means of notification and involvement will be held, with the initial meeting being conducted as early as practicable but not later than the time the project first becomes operational. Notice of the initial public meeting shall be published once a week for 3 consecutive weeks in one or more newspapers of general circulation published in each county covered by the water control plan. Such notice shall also be used when appropriate to inform the public of modifications in the water control plan. If no newspaper is published in a county, the notice shall be published in one or more newspapers of general circulation within that county. For the purposes of this section a newspaper is one qualified to publish public notices under applicable State law. Notice shall be given in the event significant problems are anticipated or experienced that will prevent carrying out the approved water control plan or in the event that an extreme water condition is expected that could produce severe damage to property or loss of life. The means for conveying this information shall be commensurate with the urgency of the situation. The water control manual will be made available for examination by the general public upon request at the appropriate office of the Corps of Engineers, project owner or designated operating agency.
