
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 208 - FLOOD CONTROL REGULATIONS
#### ยง 208.11 Regulations for use of storage allocated for flood control or navigation and/or project operation at reservoirs subject to prescription of rules and regulations by the Secretary of the Army in the interest of flood control and navigation.
##### i.e.

(ii) Any water impounded in the flood control space defined by the water control agreement shall be evacuated as rapidly as can be safely accomplished without causing downstream flows to exceed the controlling rates;, releases from reservoirs shall be restricted insofar as practicable to quantities which, in conjunction with uncontrolled runoff downstream of the dam, will not cause water levels to exceed the controlling stages currently in force. Although conflicts may arise with other purposes, such as hydropower, the plan or regulation may require releases to be completely curtailed in the interest of flood control or safety of the project.

(iii) Nothing in the plan of regulation for flood control shall be construed to require or allow dangerously rapid changes in magnitudes of releases. Releases will be made in a manner consistent with requirements for protecting the dam and reservoir from major damage during passage of the maximum design flood for the project.

(iv) The project owner shall monitor current reservoir and hydro- meteorological conditions in and adjacent to the watershed and downstream of the damsite, as necessary. This and any other pertinent information shall be reported to the Corps of Engineers on a timely basis, in accordance with standing instructions to the damtender or other means requested by the Corps of Engineers.

(v) In all cases where the project owner retains responsibility for real-time implementation of the water control plan, he shall make current determinations of: Reservoir inflow, flood control storage utilized, and scheduled releases. He shall also determine storage space and releases required to comply with the water control plan prescribed by the Corps of Engineers. The owner shall report this information on a timely basis as requested by the Corps of Engineers.

(vi) The water control plan is subject to temporary modification by the Corps of Engineers if found necessary in time of emergency. Requests for and action on such modifications may be made by the fastest means of communication available. The action taken shall be confirmed in writing the same day to the project owner and shall include justification for the action.

(vii) The project owner may temporarily deviate from the water control plan in the event an immediate short-term departure is deemed necessary for emergency reasons to protect the safety of the dam, or to avoid other serious hazards. Such actions shall be immediately reported by the fastest means of communication available. Actions shall be confirmed in writing the same day to the Corps of Engineers and shall include justification for the action. Continuation of the deviation will require the express approval of the Chief of Engineers, or his duly authorized representative.

(viii) Advance approval of the Chief of Engineers, or his duly authorized representative, is required prior to any deviation from the plan of regulation prescribed or approved by the Corps of Engineers in the interest of flood control and/or navigation, except in emergency situations provided for in paragraph (d)(9)(vii) of this section. When conditions appear to warrant a prolonged deviation from the approved plan, the project owner and the Corps of Engineers will jointly investigate and evaluate the proposed deviation to insure that the overall integrity of the plan would not be unduly compromised. Approval of prolonged deviations will not be granted unless such investigations and evaluations have been conducted to the extent deemed necessary by the Chief of Engineers, or his designated representatives, to fully substantiate the deviation.
