
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 208 - FLOOD CONTROL REGULATIONS
#### ยง 208.26 Altus Dam and Reservoir, North Fork Red River, Okla.
##### Provided,

(b) When the reservoir level is below elevation 1559 and the predicted volume of runoff from the area above the dam exceeds the volume of water necessary to raise the reservoir level above elevation 1559, the reservoir will be operated to obtain maximum overall benefits which may consist of preflood releases:That all preflood releases will have prior concurrence of the Bureau of Reclamation or its designated agent. The preflood releases shall not result in a reservoir level below elevation 1559 at the end of the flood.

(c) When the reservoir level exceeds elevation 1559, releases will be made equal to inflow or 2,000 c.f.s., whichever is smaller, except that when the reservoir elevation forecast indicates that this operation will result in a reservoir level exceeding elevation 1562, releases will be increased in order to provide maximum overall benefits and prevent the reservoir level from exceeding elevation 1562, insofar as possible. The flood control pool will be emptied by continuing the peak discharge rate until the reservoir level recedes to elevation 1559, at which time releases will be made equal to inflow.

(d) If the reservoir level exceeds elevation 1562 (top of flood control pool) releases shall be made at the maximum rate possible through the spillway gates, conduit, and the uncontrolled spillway and continued until the reservoir level recedes to elevation 1559, at which time releases will be made equal to inflow.

(e) Whenever the reservoir level is above elevation 1559 and communication with the Bureau of Reclamation Regional Office and the Corps of Engineers District Office is unobtainable, releases shall be made equal to inflow until all gates are fully open. The maximum release thus obtained shall be maintained until the pool recedes to elevation 1559 at which time releases shall be made to equal inflow.

(f) The representative of the Bureau of Reclamation, or its designated agent, in immediate charge of the operation of Altus Dam will furnish daily to the District Engineer, Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, in charge of the locality, a report on forms provided by the District for this purpose, showing the reservoir pool elevation; the number of spillway gates in operation with their respective opening and releases; the uncontrolled spillway release; conduit, canal outlet wasteway, and irrigation releases; storage; reservoir inflow; available evaporation data; and precipitation in inches. A reading at 8 a.m., noon, 4 p.m., and midnight, shall be shown for each day. Whenever the reservoir level rises to elevation 1559 and releases for flood control regulation are necessary or appear imminent, the representative of the Bureau of Reclamation or its designated agent, shall report at once to the District Engineer by telephone or telegraph and, unless otherwise instructed, shall report at 8 a.m., noon, and 3 p.m. thereafter, in that manner, until the reservoir level recedes to elevation 1559. These latter reports shall reach the District Engineer by 9 a.m., 1 p.m., and 4 p.m. each day.

(g) The regulations of this section, insofar as they govern use of the flood control storage capacity above elevation 1559 are subject to temporary modification by the District Engineer in time of flood, if found desirable on the basis of conditions at the time. Such desired modifications shall be coordinated with and approved by the Bureau of Reclamation.

(h) Flood control operation shall not restrict releases necessary for irrigation, municipal, and industrial uses.

(i) Releases made in accordance with the regulations of this section are subject to the conditions that releases shall not be made at rates or in a manner that would be inconsistent with emergency requirements for protecting the dam and reservoir from major damage.

(j) Any time that the Bureau of Reclamation determines that operation in accordance with the regulations of this section will jeopardize the safety of Altus Dam, they will so advise the District Engineer and will assume operational responsibility and take action necessary to assure the safety of the dam.

(k) The discharge characteristics of the controlled and the uncontrolled spillways (capable of discharging approximately 42,800 c.f.s. and 2,000 c.f.s., respectively, with the reservoir level at elevation 1562) shall be maintained in accordance with the construction plans (Bureau of Reclamation Drawing No. 258-D-69).

(l) All elevations stated in this section are at Altus Dam and are referred to the datum in use at that location.
