
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 209 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
#### ยง 209.138a Authorization for exploratory drilling in the Gulf of Santa Catalina, Calif.

(a) Department of the Army authorization is required pursuant to section 4(f) of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act of 1953 (67 Stat. 462; 43 U.S.C. 1333(f)) in coastal waters and the water covering the Outer Continental Shelf. The determination whether or not to issue a Department of the Army authorization for structures on the Outer Continental Shelf related to exploration of minerals is based upon the proposed activities' effect on navigation and national security. All other matters concerning offshore drilling, including environmental considerations, are the responsibility of the Department of the Interior.

(b) The following rules have been developed jointly by the Los Angeles district engineer and the 11th Coast Guard District, in consultation with the Bureau of Land Management and the U.S. Geological Survey for drilling in the Gulf of Santa Catalina:

(1) All drilling with a single tract will be covered by a single application.

(2) Where practicable, applications shall be submitted at least 120 days in advance of drilling for tracts where drilling is expected to be accomplished within the traffic separation scheme, the precautionary zone or within 2 nautical miles of a traffic lane.

(3) Applications shall include the location of any known proposed drilling site and the estimated start and completion dates for each. Updated information on the plan shall be furnished as soon as available. One individual (and alternate) shall be designated by the applicant as responsible for maintaining close liaison with all involved agencies.

(4) Where it is not feasible to perform exploratory work from outside the traffic lanes ormile buffer zones, or precautionary zone, authorizations will include the following conditions:

(i) Exploratory vessels within a traffic lane will, to the degree practicable, be sited near traffic lane boundaries.

(ii) Exploratory vessels within one traffic lane, or in the precautionary zone, shall be separated by at least 8 nautical miles in the direction of the lane axis.

(iii) Exploratory vessels located within the traffic lanes, or the precautionary zone, shall not have their pendant buoys within 3,000 yards from the pendant buoys of any other vessel.

(iv) Exploratory rigs and vessels engaged in offshore development may have no cables, anchors, buoys, or other associated equipment within the traffic lanes,mile buffer zones, or the precautionary zone, at a depth of less than 100 feet, unless such equipment is marked with class I private aids to navigation in accordance with current Federal regulations.
