
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 209 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
#### ยง 209.140 Operations of the Corps of Engineers under the Federal Power Act.
##### Authority of Division and District Engineers.

(b)Section 2 of the revised Federal Power Act provides that the Federal Power Commission may request the President to detail an officer or officers from the Corps of Engineers, or other branches of the United States Army, to serve the Commission as Engineer officer or officers, or in any other capacity, in field work outside the seat of government, their duties to be prescribed by the Commission. By authority of the Secretary of the Army, and in accordance with the instructions issued by the President in a letter to the Secretary of the Army dated May 18, 1931, Division Engineers will be detailed to serve the Commission as engineer officers in field work outside the seat of government, their duties to be prescribed by the Commission, and to be performed under the supervision of the Chief of Engineers. District Engineers will be designated to carry out the field inspections and investigations under supervision of the Division Engineer. When a Division Engineer is detailed by the Chief of Engineers to assist the Commission in either the investigation or supervision of a project he will be the accredited representative of the Commission. The actual field work will be done by the designated District Engineer who will make a report to the Division Engineer. All reports and such correspondence as would normally be forwarded to the Commission will be addressed to the Chief of Engineers.
