
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 209 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
#### ยง 209.140 Operations of the Corps of Engineers under the Federal Power Act.
##### Procedure for investigations and report on applications for permits and licenses.

(c)(1) Upon request by the Federal Power Commission, the Chief of Engineers will assign the investigation of an application for permit or license under the Federal Power Act to a Division Engineer, who will submit a report on the investigation as provided herein. The date that the report is to be submitted will be specified. The Division Engineer, upon assignment of an investigation involving extensive studies, will when requested by the Chief of Engineers submit an estimate of the cost of the investigation, listing the probable expenditures for salaries separate from the estimated costs of non-personal services.

(2) If in the investigation of an application or a declaration of intention filed under the Federal Power Act the Division Engineer considers a public hearing desirable in the interests of navigation or flood control, the Chief of Engineers will be notified whereupon the matter will be brought to the attention of the Commission. No public hearing will be held unless specifically authorized by the Commission or by the Chief of Engineers. If a hearing is authorized it will be limited strictly to consideration of the purpose for which approval is granted.

(3) The report will describe and discuss material facts having a definite bearing on the interests of navigation and flood control and the general effect the project would have on a comprehensive plan of developing the water resources of the basin. Specific reference will be made to pertinent published documents containing the results of studies and/or resolutions directing studies to be made. In the case of an application for permit or license for an unconstructed project the report will include a recommendation as to whether development should be undertaken by the United States rather than by a licensee. A recommendation for Federal development will be supported by a showing as to how this would serve the Corps of Engineers programs and policies. In the case of an application for permit or license for a constructed project the report should contain appropriate comments concerning possible redevelopment to improve the usefulness of the project in relation to the objectives of the Corps program in the basin.

(4) The report on an application for license will contain recommendations of the Division Engineer concerning the inclusion in the license of any terms and conditions that are considered to be necessary or desirable in the public interest from the standpoint of Corps of Engineers responsibilities.

(5) The report on an application for permit will contain such recommendations as required to insure coordination of the applicant's studies with the Division or District Engineer in cases where interests of the Corps of Engineers are involved. In all cases, the report will contain, in lieu of specific recommendations, a discussion of interests which should be protected by articles in a license issued subsequent to the permit period.

(6) If the project is on a Federal reservation or contemplates the use of a dam, either of which is under the jurisdiction of the Department of the Army, the report should state, giving reasons:

(i) Whether the project will interfere or be inconsistent with the purpose for which such reservation was created or acquired and what conditions, if any, should be imposed for the adequate protection and utilization of the reservation.

(ii) Whether the dam may be advantageously used by the United States for public purposes in addition to authorized purposes and whether it should be reserved for such use.

(iii) Whether the development should be undertaken by the United States.

(7) The reports will not be released or made public except by specific authority of the Chief of Engineers, nor will copies of a report, its findings, or recommendations be furnished to the applicant, to interested parties, or to the Commission until released by the Chief of Engineers.
