
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 209 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
#### ยง 209.140 Operations of the Corps of Engineers under the Federal Power Act.
##### Procedure for supervision of operations under permits and licenses.

(d)(1) When supervision of the operations of an applicant under a permit or a license is requested by the Federal Power Commission, the Chief of Engineers will assign responsibility for supervision to the Division Engineer. The operations to be supervised, such as investigations being conducted by a permittee, construction of a project under a license or operation of completed projects, will be as specified by the Commission.

(2) Projects will be classified as major, minor, minor part or transmission line projects as indicated in the Federal Power Act and as specified in the instructions from the Commission.

(3) Inspection during the construction of a major project will be made monthly, or as often as may be necessary for the Division Engineer to assure himself that the terms of the license are being complied with and the work is of acceptable quality and in accordance with the approved plans. The frequency of inspections of minor, minor part, and transmission line projects is left to the discretion of the Division Engineer.

(4) After a project has been completed and placed in operation and is under the supervision of the Division Engineer, annual inspection will be made of major and minor projects but inspection of transmission line projects will not be made unless specifically requested by the Commission.

(5) Reports on supervision and inspections of operations under Federal Power Commission permits and licenses will be submitted in accordance with instructions in paragraph (e) of this section.
