
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 209 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
#### ยง 209.170 Violations of laws protecting navigable waters.
##### Injurious deposits.

(c)(1) Section 13 of the River and Harbor Act of March 3, 1899 (30 Stat. 1152; 33 U.S.C. 407), makes it unlawful to throw, discharge, or deposit, or cause, suffer, or procure to be thrown, discharged, or deposited either from or out of any ship, barge, or other floating craft, or from the shore, wharf, manufacturing establishment, or mill, any refuse matter of any kind or description whatever other than that flowing from streets and sewers and passing therefrom in a liquid state, into any navigable water of the United States, or into any tributary of any navigable water from which the same shall float or be washed into such navigable water, or to deposit or cause, suffer, or procure to be deposited material of any kind in any place on the bank of any navigable water or on the bank of any tributary of any navigable water, where the same shall be liable to be washed into such navigable water, either by ordinary or high tides, or by storms or floods, or otherwise, whereby navigation shall or may be impeded or obstructed. Section 13 does not apply to the operations in connection with the improvement of navigable waters or construction of public works considered necessary and proper by the United States officers supervising such improvement or public work.

(2) An Act of Congress approved June 29, 1888 (25 Stat. 209; 33 U.S.C. 441-451), as amended on August 28, 1958 (72 Stat. 970-971; 33 U.S.C. 441-451b) forbids the placing, discharging, or depositing of refuse, dirt, ashes, cinders, mud, sand, dredgings, sludge, acid, or any other matter of any kind, other than that flowing from streets, sewers, and passing therefrom in a liquid state, in the tidal waters of the harbors of New York, Hampton Roads, and Baltimore or its adjacent or tributary waters, within the limits which shall be prescribed by the Supervisor of the Harbor. The provisions of this act are enforced by the Supervisor under the direction of the Secretary of the Army.
