
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 209 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
#### ยง 209.170 Violations of laws protecting navigable waters.
##### Penalties for violations.

(d)(1) Section 12 of the River and Harbor Act of March 3, 1899 (30 Stat. 1151; 33 U.S.C. 406), as amended, provides that every person and every corporation that shall violate any of the provisions of sections 9 and 10 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be punished by fine, imprisonment, or both, in the discretion of the court. The removal of any structures or parts of structures erected in violation of the provisions of the said sections may be enforced by the injunction of any district court exercising jurisdiction in any district in which such structures may exist, and proper proceedings to this end may be instituted under the direction of the Attorney General.

(2) Section 16 of the River and Harbor Act of March 3, 1899 (30 Stat. 1153; 33 U.S.C. 412), provides that every person and every corporation that shall violate, or that shall knowingly aid, abet, authorize or instigate a violation of the provisions of sections 13, 14 and 15, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. On conviction thereof violators shall be punished by a fine, imprisonment, or both, in the discretion of the court. Any master, pilot, and engineer, or person or persons acting in such capacity, respectively, on board of any boat or vessel who shall knowingly engage in towing any scow, boat, or vessel loaded with any material specified in section 13 to any point or place of deposit or discharge in any harbor or navigable water, elsewhere than within the limits defined and permitted by the Secretary of the Army, or who shall willfully injure or destroy any work of the United States contemplated in section 14, or who shall willfully obstruct the channel of any waterway in the manner contemplated in section 15, shall be deemed guilty of a violation of the Act. Upon conviction he shall be punished as provided in this section, and shall also have his license revoked or suspended for a term to be fixed by the judge before whom tried and convicted. Any boat, vessel, scow, raft, or other craft used or employed in violating any of the provisions of sections 13, 14, and 15 shall be liable for the pecuniary penalties specified in this section, and in addition for the amount of the damages done by said boat, vessel, scow, raft, or other craft. The latter sum shall be placed to the credit of the appropriation for the improvement of the harbor or waterway in which the damage occurred, and said boat, vessel, scow, raft, or other craft may be proceeded against summarily by way of libel in any district court of the United States having jurisdiction thereof.
