
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 209 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
#### ยง 209.170 Violations of laws protecting navigable waters.
##### Enforcement.

(e)(1) Section 17 of the River and Harbor Act of March 3, 1899 (30 Stat. 1153; 33 U.S.C. 413) provides that the Department of Justice shall conduct the legal proceedings necessary to enforce the provisions of sections 9 to 16, inclusive, of the Act. It shall be the duty of district attorneys of the United States to prosecute vigorously all offenders against the same whenever requested to do so by the Secretary of the Army or by any of his designated representatives.

(2) Under the provisions of section 17, District Engineers and the United States collectors of customs and other revenue officers, have power and authority to swear out process and to arrest and take into custody, with or without process, any person or persons who may commit any of the acts or offenses prohibited by sections 9 to 16, inclusive, or who may violate any of the provisions of the same. No person shall be arrested without process for any offense not committed in the presence of some one of the aforesaid officials. Whenever any arrest is made under the provisions of the Act, the person so arrested shall be brought forthwith before a commissioner, judge, or court of the United States for examination of the offenses alleged against him. Such commissioner, judge, or court shall proceed as authorized by law in case of crimes against the United States.
