
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 209 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
#### ยง 209.170 Violations of laws protecting navigable waters.
##### i.e.

(3) It is the duty of each District Engineer to take notice of any violations of the laws for the protection of the navigable waters and the works of improvement therein that may occur in his district and to take the necessary steps to secure enforcement of the law. Whenever any violation of any of these provisions of law comes to his attention he will investigate carefully the circumstances of the case and will determine the amount of the damage for which the parties committing the violation are responsible under section 16 of the River and Harbor Act of March 3, 1899. He will advise the responsible parties to remove the illegal structure or deposit or to repair the damage at their own expense within a time specified by him. When there is reasonable doubt as to legal liability or the facts do not appear to warrant legal action, the District Engineer will report the case to the Chief of Engineers for decision before communicating with the responsible parties. When the damage must be repaired within a reasonable time, if the responsible parties so request in writing and if, when considered advisable by the District Engineer to protect the interests of the United States, they furnish a satisfactory bond or other guaranty, he may cause the repairs to be made by employees of the United States and then call upon the responsible parties to pay over to him the cost of the damages when finally ascertained. Where the damage is not to be repaired within a reasonable time, the District Engineer will make final settlement with the responsible parties as promptly as possible by collecting the estimated amount of the damages. All sums so received will be deposited promptly to the credit of the Treasurer of the United States for recredit to the appropriation affected and will be accounted for in the District Engineer's money accounts by proper vouchers. With reference to the method of ascertaining the amount of the damages under section 16 of the Act, a distinction should be made between cases involving property that should be repaired and those involving property that should be abandoned. In the former cases the amount of the damages should be the total cost of repairs, less any salvage value and any enhanced value. In the latter cases, the amount of the damages should be the fair value of the property, less any salvage value. Whether or not there has been any enhanced value (, whether the fair value of the structure immediately after the repairs is greater than its fair value immediately before the damage occurred) is a matter to be determined from an actual survey of the structure and knowledge of its age and condition. Where maintenance has equalled depreciation there probably would be no enhanced value.

(4) If the parties deny their responsibility, or if they refuse or neglect to remove any unlawful structure or deposit or to repair the damages within the time specified by the District Engineer, the matter will be reported to the Chief of Engineers with such evidence as the District Engineer may be able to obtain and his recommended action under section 17 of the Act of March 3, 1899. In a situation requiring immediate action, the District Engineer may report the case directly to the U.S. attorney for the district. The Chief of Engineers will be advised of such action by a written report. Although the Corps of Engineers has certain police powers under this Act it has been the long standing policy to secure compliance with its provisions short of legal proceedings. Accordingly every effort will be made to accomplish corrective measures prior to initiation of action leading to such proceedings. As a general rule, while minor and unintentional or accidental violations of the provisions of the Act need not be reported to the Chief of Engineers, all willful or intentional violations and all cases in which the parties responsible refuse or neglect to remove the unlawful structure or deposit or to make good the damages suffered should be reported promptly to the Chief of Engineers in accordance with the above. It is the policy not to recommend prosecution when the violation of law is trivial, apparently unpremeditated, and results in no material public injury. Each report recommending prosecution should be accompanied by a full statement of the case and copies of correspondence relating thereto.

(5) The procedure in cases involving injurious deposits is similar to that described for other violations of law except that as the damage caused thereby cannot be repaired readily there will be no reason for serving any notice on the parties responsible for the violations further than to bring to their attention the consequences thereof.

(6) Section 6 of the river and Harbor Act approved March 3, 1905 (33 Stat. 1148; 33 U.S.C. 417) provides that expenses incurred by the Corps of Engineers in all investigations, inspections, hearings, reports, service of notice, or other action incidental to examinations into alleged violations of laws for protection and preservation of navigable waters shall be payable from any funds which may be available for the improvement, maintenance, operation, or care of the waterways or harbors affected. If such funds are not available in sums judged by the Chief of Engineers to be adequate, they shall be payable from any funds available for examinations, surveys, and contingencies of rivers and harbors.
