
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 209 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
#### ยง 209.200 Regulations governing navigable waters.
##### Danger zones.

(c)(1) The Secretary of the Army has authority to prescribe regulations for the use and navigation of any area of the navigable waters of the United States or waters under the jurisdiction of the United States likely to be endangered by Department of Defense operations. This authority is pursuant to the provisions of Chapter XIX of the Army Act of July 9, 1918, or of section 7 of the River and Harbor Act of August 8, 1917.

(2) On receipt of a request from any element of the Department of Defense or other agency for approval by the Secretary of the Army of regulations establishing danger zones under authority of either Act, the District Engineer will, prior to issuing any public notice, make certain that the applicant: (i) Has coordinated its proposed operations with any operations being conducted or contemplated by other agencies in the same area with a view to avoiding interagency conflicts, (ii) has obtained clearance from the proper Regional Subcommittee on Airspace, Rules of the Air and Air Traffic Control (Air Coordinating Committee), where the use of airspace is involved, and (iii) has conducted preliminary discussions with local interests when considered advisable. In the case of proposed danger zones off the Atlantic and Pacific Coasts, the coordination referred to in (c)(2)(i) of this section will include the Commander, Service Force, U.S. Atlantic Fleet, or the Commander, Western Sea Frontier.

(3) The authority to prescribe danger zone regulations must be exercised so as not to interfere with or restrict unreasonably the food fishing industry. Whenever the establishment of a proposed danger zone or restricted area may affect fishing operations the District Engineer will consult with the regional director, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior. Two copies of all notices of applications for the establishment of danger zones and restricted areas will be forwarded to the Chief of Staff, U.S. Air Force. In addition, notices of all applications relating to the establishment of aerial gunnery and bombing areas will be sent to local Army, Navy, and Federal Aviation Agency representatives.

(4) If the use of water areas is desired only for such temporary, occasional, or intermittent periods that operations can be conducted safely without imposing restrictions on navigation, applicants may be informed that formal regulations by the Secretary of the Army are not required. However, proper notices for mariners requesting that vessels avoid the areas will be issued by the District Engineer to all interested persons. Copies will be sent to the Commandant, U.S. Coast Guard, Washington, D.C. 20226 and the Commander, U.S. Naval Oceanographic Office, Washington, D.C. 20390.
