
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 209 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
#### ยง 209.200 Regulations governing navigable waters.
##### Dumping grounds.

(d)(1) Section 4 of the River and Harbor Act of March 3, 1905 (33 Stat. 1147; 33 U.S.C. 419), authorizes the Secretary of the Army to prescribe regulations to govern the transportation and dumping into any navigable water, or waters adjacent thereto, of dredgings and other refuse materials whenever in his judgment such regulations are required in the interest of navigation.

(2) Section 13 of the river and Harbor Act of March 3, 1899 (30 Stat. 1152; 33 U.S.C. 407) authorizes the Secretary of the Army to permit the deposit of refuse matter in navigable waters, whenever in the judgment of the Chief of Engineers anchorage and navigation will not be injured thereby, within limits to be defined and under conditions to be prescribed by him. Although the Department has exercised this authority from time to time, it is considered preferable to act under Section 4 of the River and Harbor Act of March 3, 1905 (33 Stat. 1147; 33 U.S.C. 419). As a means of assisting the Chief of Engineers in determining the effect on anchorage of vessels, the views of the U.S. Coast Guard will be solicited by coordination with the Commander of the local Coast Guard District.

(3) Under the authority contained in an Act of Congress to prevent obstructive and injurious deposits within the harbor and adjacent waters of New York City of June 29, 1888 (25 Stat. 209; 33 U.S.C. 441), the Supervisor of New York Harbor has established dumping areas in those waters and has prescribed regulations for their use. The provisions of the act are enforced by the Supervisor under the direction of the Secretary of the Army.

(4) In considering requests for the establishment of dumping grounds, District and Division Engineers will give careful consideration to the requirements of navigation and will take action to prevent unreasonable injury to fish and wildlife.
