
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 209 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
#### ยง 209.325 Navigation lights, aids to navigation, navigation charts, and related data policy, practices and procedure.
##### Cooperation with Coast Guard.

(d)(1) District Engineers will consult with the Coast Guard District Commander during design of channel and harbor improvement projects to discuss the aids to navigation requirements and all other facets of the projects that involve Coast Guard responsibility. Project material furnished direct to Coast Guard Commanders will include:

(i) Information as to the authorization by Congress of a project involving changes affecting aids, such as channel limits, breakwaters, including a copy of the project document;

(ii) The proposed operations on such projects during the next fiscal year, to be furnished annually on the release of the budget estimates;

(iii) Plans showing the final location of the channel limits or structures to be furnished at the time work is undertaken.

(2) Changes in channel limits affecting navigation aids, made under general or specific provisions of the law, should be made the subject of a conference with the Coast Guard District Commander. He will be promptly informed as to the approval of such changes and the probable date of completion of the work.

(3) District Engineers will furnish direct to the various Coast Guard District Commanders, for their immediate information, any facts which may come to their attention in connection with their duties which will be of benefit to the Coast Guard in maintaining its system of aids to navigation. This should include statements as to the displacement of or defects in any such aids to navigation.

(4) If work involving harbor or channel improvements directly affects any existing aids to navigation or any structures of the Coast Guard, Districts Engineers will, when practicable, give notice to the Coast Guard District Commander sufficiently in advance to permit taking such steps as may be deemed necessary by the Coast Guard. If the Coast Guard District Commander specifically requests that the affected structure be replaced, the District Engineer will inform him of the estimated cost and will proceed with the work if so authorized by the Chief of Engineers. On completion of the work, the District Engineer will promptly furnish the Coast Guard District Commander, for settlement, an account of the expense incurred.
