
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 209 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
#### ยง 209.325 Navigation lights, aids to navigation, navigation charts, and related data policy, practices and procedure.
##### Navigation Aids of the Corps of Engineers.

(e)(1) Whenever channel dredging or other channel improvements are being performed, necessary temporary markers, such as ranges and light poles, should be installed and maintained by the District Engineer pending the installation of permanent aids by the Coast Guard. The Coast Guard desires that information regarding aids to navigation installed or maintained by District Engineers in connection with harbor or channel improvement be furnished promptly. Such information is needed for inclusion in Notice to Mariners as published by the Coast Guard, and where desirable on the charts of the waters concerned.

(2) District Engineers will notify the Coast Guard District Commander in every case where aids to navigation for marking works of harbor or channel improvements are established or discontinued. Notice should be given of such aids as may be of use or interest to general navigation. Notice need not be given as to such buoys, lights, or fog signals as are of temporary or unimportant character, or of importance only to the Corps of Engineers. Omit also lights or fog signals on ferry slips and on piers used only by certain vessels, and stakes, bushes, and barrel buoys marking shallow and little-used channels.

(3) In placing aids to navigation in connection with harbor or channel improvement works, District Engineers should see that they do not conflict in character or otherwise with other aids to navigation in the vicinity. District Engineers should confer with the Coast Guard District Commander on this subject.

(4) The necessary blank forms for reporting information regarding Corps of Engineers aids will be furnished upon request by the Coast Guard District Commander.

(5) It is essential that the Coast Guard by furnished with information for publication concerning markers installed by the Corps of Engineers as temporary aids to navigation, for new improvements, in advance of permanent aids, and also concerning other markers that may be established in connection with Corps of Engineers operations that may also serve as important aids to navigation. Care will be exercised to see that all markers established are not misleading to general navigation and do not interfere with aids to navigation established by the Coast Guard.
