
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 209 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
#### ยง 209.325 Navigation lights, aids to navigation, navigation charts, and related data policy, practices and procedure.
##### Information to be furnished by the Corps of Engineers.

(g)(1) District Engineers responsible for harbors and waterways shown on charts of the National Ocean Survey (NOAA), will report the channel conditions promptly, using standard tabular forms, to:

(2) Channel survey drawings furnished to the Coast Guard are to include:

(i) Either NAD 27 or State Plane grids.

(ii) Plots of the positions of aids to navigation.

(iii) Written notations of the coordinates in NAD 27 or State Plane Coordinates of the fixed aids to navigation found during the survey.

(3) The standard tabular forms with illustrated data follow:

(i) For channels 400 feet wide and greater (ENG Form 4020-R).

(ii) For channels 100 to 400 feet wide (ENG Form 4021-R).

(iii) For channels less than 100 feet in width, report controlling depths only based on at least 80 percent of project width, 40 percent on either side of centerline. (The submission of tabular forms is not required for channels having a project depth less than 10 feet except coastal inlets and harbors of refuge.)

(4) The tabulations of depths should be amplified by footnotes or otherwise to show clearly and definitely the location of controlling shoals, tendency of shoals to recur, and all other critical information of special value and importance for safe navigation of the channel. Reaches of channel not presently named should be identified in the tabular form by reference to chartered aids or features, or assigned identifying names, numbers or letters. For localized irregular project areas where the application of the tabular form would not be practical, the controlling depth based on a safe navigable width will be described as well as unusual or critical conditions of shoaling.

(5) The prompt dissemination of the latest detailed information concerning channel conditions is of utmost importance, and necessary measures will be taken to insure that such information is reported without delay simultaneously to the U.S. Naval Oceanographic Office, the Coast Guard, the National Ocean Survey and Defense Mapping Agency. When a dangerous shoaling is found during the progress of a survey, information thereon will be furnished immediately to the above-mentioned agencies, so that such information may be made available to mariners promptly, and buoys shifted to mark the shoal. Descriptions of any dredging or other operations in important channels in tidal waters-either in progress and not already reported, or soon to be undertaken-together with a statement of the work and expected duration, will also be reported in order that Naval and other vessels may be warned to look out for dredges and other plant, temporary markers and lights.

(6) District Engineers having charge of improvements of harbors and waterways shown on charts of the Defense Mapping Agency or of the National Ocean Survey will send to both offices promptly, as ascertained for the correction of such charts, the following information: Descriptions of changes in channel location and depth, or of obstructions that may be discovered, with such prints and other information as may be necessary to permit the existing charts to be corrected to date. All maps should contain sufficient data to permit the fixed plane or reference, bench marks, base lines, etc., to be determined and located. The survey stations should be shown and, when no unreasonable expenditure of time or labor is involved, the map will show one or more triangulation station(s) of the National Ocean Survey in such a way as to facilitate connection of old or new work. The source of authority for the shoreline and topography should be stated on the map. The data supplied should indicate what charts are affected.

(7) When any survey of areas covered by charts of the Defense Mapping Agency or the National Ocean Survey is completed, a print of each tracing will be sent direct to both the Defense Mapping Agency and the National Ocean Survey. It is not necessary that tracings be fully complete as to form and title when such prints are made. An informal manuscript title marked "Advance Sheets", and containing a description sufficient to identify the locality and to identify the source of the map, will be sufficient.

(8) Information relative to the improvement of harbors and waterways such as dredging operations, and precautions rendered necessary due to the presence of dredging or other plant will, when considered necessary, be brought to the attention of vessel owners or operators regularly using the waterway. This will be done through issuing bulletins or notices by District Engineers.
