
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 209 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
#### ยง 209.325 Navigation lights, aids to navigation, navigation charts, and related data policy, practices and procedure.
##### Special Reports.

(h)Changes affecting navigation will be made promptly whenever information of immediate concern to navigation becomes known. Items of information especially desired are channel conditions as revealed by surveys, changes in channel conditions, either by natural causes or by dredging or other work, changes in approved projects for improvement with statements of results expected from proposed operations, descriptions of proposed dredging or other Federal work of improvement such as breakwater, pier, and revetment construction or alterations, descriptions of proposed or completed municipal or private improvements in or affecting navigable waters. Additional items of information desired are descriptions of wrecks, uncharted shoals, and other obstructions to navigation and particulars as to proposed or completed removal of same, changes in buoys or lights, erection of new, or changes in existing bridges, new or revised Federal or local rules and regulations for harbors and channels, and establishment or existence of danger areas in navigable waters. Reproductions of drawings or sketches which will be helpful in interpreting the data shall accompany the reports. The reports will not be limited to a reference to an accompanying drawing or sketch, but will contain a complete description in form suitable for publication in notices to mariners and the monthly supplements to the U.S. Coast Pilot. In this respect, the reports will provide enough information that a single notification to navigational interests will suffice. In the case of dredging or construction work, the bare statement that work will commence or has commenced on a certain date is insufficient. All additional information possible, such as probable duration of operations and object of work, will be given-the latter in the case of dredging being such data as the area to be covered and the depth expected to be provided. The reports required by this paragraph will be identified by reference to the appropriate Engineer Manual or regulation and will be numbered consecutively by each District during the calendar year, starting with number 1 at the beginning of each year.
