
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 209 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
#### ยง 209.325 Navigation lights, aids to navigation, navigation charts, and related data policy, practices and procedure.
##### Information pamphlets, maps, brochures and other material.

(i)(1) Pub. L. 85-480, approved 2 July 1958, authorizes the Chief of Engineers to publish information pamphlets, maps, brochures, and other material on river and harbor, flood control, and other Civil Works activities, including related public park and recreation facilities under his jurisdiction, as he may deem to be of value to the general public.

(2) This Public Law authorizes the Chief of Engineers to provide for the sale of any of the material prepared under authority of the act-and of publications, charts, or other material prepared under his direction pursuant to other legislative authorization or appropriation, and to charge therefor a sum of not less than the cost of reproduction.

(3) District Engineers are authorized to publish the material covered in paragraph 8a above, and to sell such material. Except for material specifically prepared for free distribution to the general public, the charges for such other published information will be not less than the cost of its reproduction.

(4) Condition survey maps or charts, sold or otherwise distributed to the public, showing depths will specifically state the date or dates that the surveys were made. They shall also have the following notation printed or stamped thereon:

"The information depicted on this map represents the results of surveys made on the dates indicated and can only be considered as indicating the general conditions existing at that time."
