
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 209 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
#### ยง 209.340 Laboratory investigations and materials testing.
##### Policy.

(d)Subject to the authority limitations contained in paragraph (f) of this section, laboratory investigations and materials testing may be performed for other agencies of the Federal Government, State and local units of government, foreign governments and private firms under the following conditions:

(1) The work will be performed on a cost reimbursable basis.

(2) Work may be performed for State and local units of government, foreign governments or private firms only when it is firmly established that private commercial laboratory facilities capable of performing such work are not available, or because of location or for other reasons it is clearly impractical to utilize such private commercial laboratory services. The requesting entity must further certify that such services cannot be procured reasonably and expeditiously through ordinary business channels.

(3) Performance of the work will not interfere with provisions of services essential to the mission of the Corps.

(4) Performance of the work will not require an increase in the permanent staff of the facility.

(5) Performance of the work will not require expansion of normal facilities.

(6) The work is within the scope of authorized activities of the laboratory at which the work is to be performed.

(7) Performance of the work will not be adverse to the public interest.

(8) Prior to undertaking laboratory investigations or materials testing for private firms, written certification will be obtained from such firms stating that the results of the work will not be used in litigation or for promotional purposes.
