
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 209 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
#### ยง 209.345 Water resource policies and authorities.
##### General policy.

(d)(1) The specific limitations put upon the allotment of funds authorized by section 215 indicate that only limited use should be made of the authority. It will, therefore, be Corps of Engineers policy to restrict the use of this authority to cases that meet all of the following conditions:

(i) The work, even if the Federal Government does not complete the authorized project, will be separately useful or will be an integral part of a larger non-Federal undertaking that is separately useful;

(ii) The work done by the non-Federal entity will not create a potential hazard;

(iii) Approval of the proposal will be in the general public interest;

(iv) Only work commenced after project authorization and execution of an agreement pursuant to this Regulation will be eligible for reimbursement or credit;

(v) Proposed reimbursement will not exceed the amount that the District Engineer considers a reasonable estimate of the reduction in Federal expenditures resulting from construction of the project component by the non-Federal entity.

(2) Before finally approving any agreement under section 215, the Chief of Engineers will inform the Secretary of the Army and the Chairman (Senate and House), Subcommittee on Public Works, Committee on Appropriations of the proposed arrangements. The Chief of Engineers will not sign an agreement until Secretarial and Committee concurrences are obtained.

(3) Section 215 authority will not be used where it might appear to circumvent the intent of Congress. It will not, for example, be used to initiate work on projects to which Congressional committees have indicated general opposition or refused to provide requested funds, or to accelerate portions of work on which construction has already been commenced by the Federal Government.

(4) Section 215(f) authorizes a specific allotment of funds to reimburse non-Federal entities for work accomplished under the Section. No allotment has been established, nor is one proposed at this time. Until one is, and firm procedures are established, any agreement with a non-Federal entity shall call for reimbursement, or for credit against required contributions, only when construction funds for the Federal project which incorporates the part constructed by the non-Federal entity are appropriated and allocated.

(5) The non-Federal entity will normally be required to develop the design memorandum, engineering plans, and specifications for the work it proposes to undertake. Subject to policies established in ER 1140-2-301, as modified in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the District Engineer may provide engineering services with funds advanced by the non-Federal entity if he determines it to be impracticable for the entity to obtain the services elsewhere. Non-Federal engineering and overhead costs for the part of the Federal project that the non-Federal entity proposes to construct will be part of the reimbursement agreement.

(6) The agreement shall include local cooperation items required by the project authorization and by Section 221, FCA of 1970.

(7) Reimbursement of non-Federal work under Section 215 is not applicable to small projects authorized under the general authority of Section 107, Pub. L. 86-645, as amended. (33 U.S.C. 577); Section 205, Pub. L. 858, 80th Congress, as amended, (33 U.S.C. 701s); and Section 103, Pub. L. 87-874, as amended, (33 U.S.C. 426g); and Section 14, Pub. L. 79-526 (33 U.S.C. 701r).
