
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 209 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
#### ยง 209.345 Water resource policies and authorities.
##### Procedures.

(e)(1) Non-Federal entities desiring reimbursement under Section 215 for constructing part of an authorized Federal project should confer with the District Engineer and submit a written proposal to him. This proposal will form the basis for consulting, as needed, with OCE and for deciding whether the proposal meets the policy criteria of paragraph (d) of this section, and whether to continue under the procedures below and what sequence to follow.

(2) If Federal preconstruction planning funds are not available to the project and it is considered impractical for the non-Federal entity to prepare a partial design memorandum and/or plans and specifications, the draft agreement may propose that this work be accomplished by the Corps of Engineers through an advance of non-Federal funds for this purpose. Certain advances of funds will be necessary, in any event, to cover other costs which are required on the part of the Corps of Engineers. Paragraph 11 of ER 1140-2-301 requires that requests to the Appropriations Committees for approval of advances of funds should normally be submitted to the Committees by non-Federal interests outside of Corps of Engineers channels. An exception to this procedure will be made in the case of Section 215 proposals in that the request for approval of advances will be made a part of the request to the committees for approval of the overall arrangement referred to in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. Thus, proposed advances of funds for the following purposes will be clearly set forth in the draft agreement: (i) Preparation of a partial design memorandum and/or plans and specifications (ii) corps review of design scheduled for accomplishment by local interests, and (iii) periodic and final inspections.

(3) The District Engineer will submit for review an unsigned draft agreement to OCE. All agreements will be prepared for the signature of the Chief of Engineers.

(4) The District Engineer will be notified of any changes in the draft agreement that the Chief of Engineers may require, and will negotiate a final agreement with the non-Federal entity. After signature of the agreement by the non-Federal entity, the District Engineer will forward three copies to HQDA (DAEN-CWO-C) WASH DC 20314, for signature by the Chief of Engineers.

(5) Upon receipt from OCE of the full executed agreement, the District Engineer will transmit the signed agreement to the non-Federal entity.

(6) The Division Engineer will review the (partial) design memorandum, and, if it meets the relevant criteria in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, will submit it to OCE with the recommendations on whether or not the work may proceed subject to reimbursement under the agreement.

(7) The Division Engineer will approve plans and specifications.

(8) The non-Federal entity will award contract.

(9) The District Engineer will conduct periodic and final inspections.

(10) Upon completion of the local work, the District Engineer will certify the cost data, and that performance has been in accordance with the agreement.
