
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 209 - ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
#### ยง 209.345 Water resource policies and authorities.
##### Agreements.

(f)Agreements under Section 215 should follow the general format presented in paragraph (c)(6) of this section, adapted as warranted by the specific case. Each agreement shall:

(1) Expire 3 years after the date of execution if the non-Federal entity has not commenced the work contemplated by the agreement.

(2) State the time allowed for completion of the work. A reasonable time shall be allowed, but normally not over 2 construction seasons.

(3) Fully describe the work to be accomplished by the non-Federal entity and specify the manner in which it will be carried out.

(4) The agreement will specify that reimbursement by the Federal Government will not exceed $1,000,000.

(5) Provide for necessary review of designs, plans, and specifications, by the District Engineer.

(6) Provide for examination and review of proposed contracts and for inspection of the work by the District Engineer for conformance with the terms of the agreement.

(7) State fully the basis on which reimbursement or credit shall be determined, and provide for the final adjustment when the balance of the Federal project is constructed. If the improvement proposed by the non-Federal entity includes work that will not become a part of the Federal project, the means of determining the part eligible for reimbursement shall be fully defined.

(8) State that such reimbursement shall depend upon appropriation of funds applicable to the project and shall not take precedence over other pending projects of higher priority.

(9) Specify that reimbursement or credit for non-Federal work shall apply only to that work undertaken after execution of the agreement. The term "work" shall include advance engineering and design as well as actual construction.

(10) State that the agreement is not to be construed as committing the United States to reimbursement if the Federal project is not undertaken, or if the Federal project should be modified in such a way that the work performed by the non-Federal entity does not constitute a part thereof.

(11) Contain applicable equal employment clauses from Armed Services Procurement Regulations.
