
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 221 - WORK FOR OTHERS
#### ยง 221.1 Investigation and supervision of hydropower projects under the Federal Power Act (ER 1140-2-4).
##### License applications.

(1)(i) The effect of the project on navigation and flood control, including adequacies of the plans of the structures affecting navigation. Section 4(e) of the Federal Power Act provides for approval of plans for hydroelectric power projects as noted in paragraph (e)(2) of this section. Section 4(e) approval normally will obviate the need for a Department of Army permit under section 10 of the 1899 River and Harbor Act. The basis for Corps approval under section 4(e) will be limited to effects on navigation; however, section 4(e) does not obviate the need for a Department of the Army permit pursuant to section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (see paragraph (i)(2)) of this section. Such a permit is subject to a full public interest review pursuant to 33 CFR part 320 and the application of the Environmental Protection Agency's guidelines in 40 CFR part 230.

(ii) Recommendations for license provisions required to protect the interest of navigation. This item is discussed under paragraphs 7, 8 and 9.

(iii) Consideration of the project in relation to a comprehensive plan for developing the basin water resources from the standpoint of the Corps of Engineers' programs and responsibilities. Specific references should be made to pertinent published Congressional documents containing results of studies and/or to Congressional resolutions directing studies to be made to provide identification.

(iv) Consideration of environmental aspects of a project as related to navigation and flood control matters or other specific Corps interests and responsibilities in particular cases.

(v) The matter of possible redevelopment of an existing project to improve the usefulness of the project in relation to the objectives of the Corps program in the basin. In the case of an unconstructed project, based on request from the Commission, a recommendation along with justification, should be included as to whether or not development should be undertaken by the United States.

(vi) Consideration of structural safety and adequacy of spillway design flood for FERC licensed projects are the responsibility of the FERC. The Dam Safety Act, Pub. L. 92-367 provides that dams constructed pursuant to license issued under the authority of Federal Power Act are specifically exempted from the Corps National inspection program. This does not preclude the Corps District and Division offices from making comments on license applications for the FERC information, about any design deficiencies that are brought to their attention.
