
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 221 - WORK FOR OTHERS
#### ยง 221.1 Investigation and supervision of hydropower projects under the Federal Power Act (ER 1140-2-4).
##### Relicensing (new license) application.

(2)(i) Consider paragraphs (f) (1) through (6) of this section.

(ii) Recommendations should be furnished to the FERC with respect to possible need for "take over" of a project by the Federal Government. Details on "take over" under the Federal Power Act are provided in part 16 of the CFR, title 18 (part 1 to 149). A copy of part 16 is provided for ready reference in appendix A of this part.

(iii) FERC Preliminary Permit Application. Consider appropriate recommendations to insure coordination of applicant's studies with the Division or District Engineer in cases where responsibilities and interests of the Corps of Engineers would be affected. The report should include discussion of Corps interests which could result in recommendations for provisions to be included in a subsequent license. In general proposed construction of power facilities at or in conjunction with a Corps reservoir project will be reviewed with the objective of recommending design, construction and operation factors that the applicant must consider in its studies in order for the proposed power development to be compatible, physically and economically, with the authorized function of the Corps project(s).
