
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 221 - WORK FOR OTHERS
#### ยง 221.1 Investigation and supervision of hydropower projects under the Federal Power Act (ER 1140-2-4).
##### Distinction between Corps of Engineers and FERC jurisdiction with respect to non-Federal Hydroelectric projects.

(i)(1) The following procedures are currently being followed in connection with Department of Army permit responsibilities involving pre-1920 legislation:

(i) In regard to FERC licensing of projects, Corps responsibilities under section 10 of the River and Harbor Act of 1899, for power related activities, may normally be met through the FERC licensing procedure including insertion of terms and conditions in the license of the interest of navigation. Section 4(e) of the Federal Power Act provides for approval of plans of project works by the Chief of Engineers and Secretary of the Army from the standpoint of interests of navigation. The consideration for our approval under section 4(e) will be limited to effects of project power related activities on navigation.

(ii) Applications to Corps Division or District Engineers for approval of repairs, maintenance or modification of non-Federal water power projects authorized under River and Harbor Acts as well as special Acts of Congress prior to 1920, or requests for advice with respect thereto should be referred to the FERC for consideration in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Power Act. The permittee should be advised that the application is being referred to the FERC for consideration and that if a FERC license is required Corps recommendations will be furnished to the FERC.

(2) Responsibilities under section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act as amended in 1972 (33 U.S.C. 1151) pertinent to discharge of dredged or fill material into the navigable waters at specified disposal sites will be met only through the Department of Army permit procedures as specified in ER 1145-2-303. In regard to FERC cases involving section 404, our report to the FERC through (DAEN-CWE-HY) will specify the need for a Department of Army permit (section 404) if, on the basis of the Division and District Engineers' reports, such permit is deemed necessary. A Department of the Army permit will be required for any portion of a proposed project which involves the discharge of dredged or fill material into the waters of the United States. This includes the placement of fill necessary for construction of a project's dam and appurtenant structures.

(3) When applicable, FERC will be advised that the requirement for Department of the Army permit pursuant to section 103 of the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act of 1972 for the transport of dredged material from the project site for the purpose of dumping it into the ocean waters will be met only through the Department of the Army permit program.

(4) In connection with FERC licensed projects there may be proposed non-power water oriented activities, such as recreational development, which are associated with the overall project but may not be a part of the hydroelectric power facilities at the project. Such cases, if involving navigable waters should be reviewed from the standpoint of need for a section 10 permit. Such section 10 permit actions would involve consideration of the overall public interest, including water quality, fish and wildlife, recreation, general environmental concerns and the needs and welfare of the people. Corps responsibilities for permit requirements under section 10 of the River and Harbor Act of 1899 for nonpower activities affecting navigable waters at the FERC projects will be met only through the Corps permit procedures. The Corps' report to FERC through (DAEN-CWE-HY) will specify the need for such permit when recommended by the Division and District Engineers' report.
