
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 221 - WORK FOR OTHERS
#### ยง 221.1 Investigation and supervision of hydropower projects under the Federal Power Act (ER 1140-2-4).
##### Investigation of applications for surrender or termination of license.

(j)The period of the FERC license for hydroelectric projects is usually 50 years. During and/or upon the expiration of the period of a license, a licensee may file with the FERC an application for surrender or termination of its license. These applications may encompass requests for physical removal of an existing dam and/or powerhouse structures from a stream. Division Engineers who would be assigned by the Chief of Engineers to review such applications will consider, in their review and report to DAEN-CWE-HY, the possibility that sediment discharge resulting from removal of a dam structure from a navigable river or from any site that may affect navigable waters would impair the anchorage and navigation and/or flood carrying capacity of the stream. In cases where there is a possibility of significant downstream shoaling (sedimentation) as the result of removal of a dam and its appurtenant structures, recommendation may be made to the FERC, through DAEN-CWE-HY, requiring licensee as a condition of approval of dam removal to agree to bear the expense for removal of any shoaling at the navigable river(s) which would be determined by the Corps to be detrimental to navigation. Other recommendations to be considered include gradual lowering of a dam over a period of time and/or possibility of sediment removal prior to dam removal. It should also be noted that a Department of the Army permit under section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act amendments of 1972 (33 U.S.C. 1151), as discussed in Paragraph 9b of this regulation, may be needed in connection with removal of dams on or affecting the navigable waters if a discharge of dredged or fill material also occurs during the removal operation. Other recommendations within the Corps authority that should be considered in reviewing applications for surrender or termination of licenses for projects where their power facilities have been removed, or recommended for removal, is that upon any approval of such application by the FERC, continuation of existence of the nonpower project on or affecting the navigable waters of the U.S. will require a Department of the Army permit in compliance with section 10 of the River and Harbor Act of 1899. Furthermore, it should be noted that in the absence of FERC nonpower use license, pursuant to 16 U.S.C. 808(b), the structural safety and maintenance of dam and reservoir for a nonpower project will be governed by the laws and regulations of the State in which the project is located.
