
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 221 - WORK FOR OTHERS
#### ยง 221.1 Investigation and supervision of hydropower projects under the Federal Power Act (ER 1140-2-4).
##### Supervision and inspection of operation of licensed hydroelectric projects.

(k)Corps Division and District Engineers responsibilities with respect to any project affecting navigable waters include surveillance of operation and maintenance to insure that the interests of navigation are not adversely affected. In addition, in certain cases the Corps, at the request of the FERC, may act as agent for the FERC for overall supervision of project operation and maintenance. Corps Division Engineers have, in the past, represented the FERC in supervision and inspection of a number of FERC licensed projects within their respective divisions. The Commission by letter dated March 4, 1976 relieved the Corps of Engineers from acting as the Commission's representative for supervision and inspection of its licensed projects. This responsibility has been transferred by the Commission to its own regional engineers. There are no requirements for any periodic or annual reports from the Division offices regarding the operation of FERC licensed hydroelectric projects. However, Division Engineers will report to DAEN-CWE-HY on a current basis any significant detrimental effects with respect to Corps of Engineers responsibilities or other matters which come to their attention.
