
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 221 - WORK FOR OTHERS
#### Appendix A to Part 221 - Part 16-Procedures Relating to Takeover and Relicensing of Licensed Projects

This part implements the amendments of sections 7(c), 14, and 15 of part I of the Federal Power Act, as amended, enacted by Public Law 90-451, 82 Stat. 616, approved August 3, 1968. It applies to projects subject to sections 14 and 15 of the Federal Power Act including projects for which a nonpower license may be issued. Procedures are provided for the filing of applications for either power or nonpower licenses for projects whose licenses are expiring. A license for a power project issued to either the original licensee or another licensee is referred to in this part as a "new license" and a license for a nonpower project as a "non-power license". Also provided are procedures for the filing of recommendations for takeover by Federal departments or agencies and applications for renewal of licenses not subject to section 14.

In order that there should be adequate notice and opportunity to file timely applications for a license the Commission's Secretary will give notice of the expiration of license of a project (except transmission line and minor projects) 5 years in advance thereof in the same manner as provided in section 4(f) of the Act. The Secretary shall upon promulgation of the rules herein give notice, as provided in section 4(f) of the Act, of all whose license terms have expired since January 1, 1968, or which will expire within 5 years of the effective date of this rule. In addition, the Commission each year will publish in its annual report and in thea table showing the projects which will expire during the succeeding 5 years. The table will list these licenses according to their expiration dates and will contain the following information: (a) License expiration date; (b) licensee's name; (c) project number; (d) type of principal project works licensed, e.g., dam and reservoir, powerhouse, transmission lines; (e) location by State, county, and stream; also by city or nearby city when appropriate; and (f) plant installed capacity.

(a) An existing licensee must file an application for a "new license" or "nonpower license" or a statement of intention not to file an application for a "new license" no earlier than 5 years and no later than 3 years prior to the expiration of its license, except that, where the license will expire within 3years of the issuance of this part, such applications or statements shall be filed within 6 months from the effective date of this part. Applicants which have applications pending which were filed under previous Commission regulations shall supplement their applications in accordance with pertinent provisions of this part within 6 months of the effective date of this part.

(b) Any other person or municipality may file an application for a "new license" or "non-power license" within 5 years of the expiration of the license, but in no event, unless authorized by the Commission, later than 6 months after issuance of notice of the filing of an application or statement by the licensee under ยง 16.4 or 2years before the expiration of the license, whichever is earlier.

(c) Any application submitted after the expiration of the time specified herein for filing must be accompanied by a motion requesting permission to file late, which motion shall detail the reasons of good cause why the application was not timely filed and how the public interest would be served by its consideration.
