
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 221 - WORK FOR OTHERS
#### Appendix A to Part 221 - Part 16-Procedures Relating to Takeover and Relicensing of Licensed Projects
##### et seq.,

When any timely application or statement within the meaning of § 16.3 is received, or when the Commission grants any motion for consideration of a late filed application, notice of receipt thereof will be furnished the applicant, and public notice will be given in the same manner as provided in sections 4(f) and 15(b) of the Act (49 Stat. 838; 41 Stat. 1072; 82 Stat. 616; 16 U.S.C. 797, 808) §§ 1.37 and 2.1 of this chapter, the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act, 48 Stat. 401, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 661and by publication in the

No application for annual license need be filed nor will such application be accepted under section 15 of the Act. An existing licensee making timely filing for a new license will be deemed to have filed for an annual license. If the Commission has not acted upon an application by licensee for a new license at the expiration of the license terms, by the issuance of an order granting, denying or dismissing it, an annual license shall be issued by notice of the Secretary.

(a) Each application for a new license hereunder shall conform in form to § 131.2 of this chapter, and shall set forth in appropriate detail all information and exhibits prescribed in §§ 4.40 through 4.42 of this chapter, inclusive and in § 4.51 of this chapter, as well as additional information specified in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section, except that Exhibit A may be incorporated in an application by reference where one applicant files applications for several projects, one of which already contains an Exhibit A or in any case where applicant has filed an Exhibit A within 10 years preceding the filing of the application, and that Exhibits N and O as specified in § 4.41 of this chapter need only be filed as provided in paragraph (c) of this section. An original and fourteen conformed copies of the application and all accompanying exhibits shall be submitted to the Commission plus one additional conformed copy for each interested State Commission.

(b) An application for a "new license" hereunder shall include a statement showing the amount which licensee estimates would be payable if the project were to be taken over at the end of the license term pursuant to the provisions of sections 14 and 15 of the Federal Power Act. This statement shall include estimates of: (1) Fair value; (2) net investment; and (3) severance damages. (This subsection is not applicable to State, municipal, or nonlicensee applicants.)

(c) If the applicant proposes project works in addition to those already under license, the maps, plans, and descriptions of the project works (Exs. I, J, L and M) shall distinguish the project works of parts thereof which have been constructed from those to be constructed. Exhibits N and O shall also be included in the application relating to new construction.

(d) Applicant shall furnish its plans for the future modification or redevelopment of the project, if any, and shall set forth in detail why technically feasible, additional capacity is not proposed for installation at the time of relicensing.

(e) Applicant shall file a statement on the effect that takeover by the United States or relicensing to another applicant would have upon the supply of electric energy to the system with which it is interconnected, the rates charged its customers, the licensee's financial condition, and taxes collected by local, State, and Federal Governments. (This subsection is not applicable to State, municipal or nonlicensee applicants.)

Each application for "non-power license" shall generally follow the form prescribed in § 131.6 of this chapter, except for subsections 7 and 8 thereof. It shall be accompanied by Exhibits K, L, R, and S prepared as described in section 4.41, and shall include the information specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section. Unless otherwise specified, an original and 14 conformed copies of the application and all accompanying exhibits shall be submitted with one additional conformed copy for each interested State commission. Additional information may be requested by the Commission if desired.

(a) Applicant shall furnish a description of the nonpower purpose for which the project is to be utilized and a showing of how such use conforms with a comprehensive plan for improving or developing a waterway or waterways for beneficial uses, including a statement of the probable impact which conversion of the project to nonpower use will have on the power supply of the system served by the project.

(b) Applicant shall identify the State, municipal, interstate or Federal agency, if any, which is authorized or willing to assume regulatory supervision over the land, waterways and facilities to be included within the nonpower project. (If there is such an agency, applicant shall forward one copy of the application to such agency.)

(c) Applicant shall submit a proposal for the removal or other disposition of power facilities of the project.
