
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 221 - WORK FOR OTHERS
#### Appendix A to Part 221 - Part 16-Procedures Relating to Takeover and Relicensing of Licensed Projects
##### Provided, however,

A recommendation that the United States exercise its right to take over a project may be filed by any Federal department or agency no earlier than 5 years and no later than 2 years prior to the expiration of the license term;That such recommendation shall not be filed later than 9 months after the issuance of a notice of application for a new license. Departments or agencies filing such recommendations shall thereby become parties to the relicensing-takeover proceeding. An original and 14 copies of the recommendation shall be filed together with one additional copy for each interested State commission. The recommendation shall specify the project works which would be taken over by the United States, shall include a detailed description of the proposed Federal operation of the project, including any plans for its redevelopment and shall indicate how takeover would serve the public interest as fully as non-Federal development and operation. It shall also include a statement indicating whether the agency making the recommendation intends to undertake operation of the project. A copy of the recommendation shall be served upon the licensee by the Commission's Secretary. Any applicant for a new license covering all or part of the project involved in the takeover recommendation shall have 120 days within which to serve a reply to the recommendation upon the Commission with copies to any parties in the proceeding.

If the Commission, after notice and opportunity for hearing, concludes upon departmental recommendation, a proposal of any party, or its own motion, that the standards of section 10(a) of the Act would best be served if a project whose license is expiring is taken over by the United States, it will issue its findings and recommendations to this effect, and after any modification thereof, upon consideration of any application for reconsideration, made in conformity with the provisions of ยง 1.34 of this chapter governing applications for rehearing, forward copies of its findings and recommendations to the Congress.

If the Commission does not recommend to the Congress that a project be taken over, a Federal department or agency which has filed a timely recommendation for takeover as provided in this part may, within thirty (30) days of issuance of an order granting a license, file a motion, with copies to the parties in the proceeding, before the Commission requesting a stay of the license order. Upon the filing of such a motion, the license order automatically will be stayed for 2 years from the date of issuance of the order, unless the stay is terminated earlier upon motion of the department or agency requesting the stay or by action of Congress. The Commission will notify Congress of any such stay. Upon expiration or termination of the stay, including any extension thereof by act of Congress, the Commission's license order shall automatically become effective in accordance with its terms. The Commission will notify Congress of each license order which has become effective by reason of the expiration or termination of a stay.

A determination whether or not there is to be a Federal takeover of a project would ultimately be made by Congress through the enactment of appropriate legislation. If Congress authorizes takeover, the Secretary will immediately give the Licensee not less than 2 years' notice in writing of such action. Within 6 months of issuance of such notice the Licensee shall present to the Commission any claim for compensation consistent with the provisions of section 14 of the Federal Power Act and the regulations of the Commission.

Licenses whose minor or minor part licenses are not subject to sections 14 and 15 of the Act and wish to continue operation of the project after the end of the license term shall file an application for a "new license" 1 year prior to the expiration of their original license in accordance with applicable provisions of part 4 of this chapter.

Acceptance for filing or rejection of applications under this part shall be in accordance with the provisions of ยง 4.31 of this chapter.
