
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 222 - ENGINEERING AND DESIGN
#### ยง 222.2 Acquisition of lands downstream from spillways for hydrologic safety purposes.
##### Procedural guidance.

(h)Procedures regarding the application of the principles outlined in the above paragraphs are as follows:

(1) For various flood magnitudes up to the probable maximum flood determine the "with" and "without project" flood conditions downstream of a dam spillway for the following:

(i) Flooded area.

(ii) Flood depth.

(iii) Flood duration.

(iv) Velocities.

(v) Debris and erosion.

(2) Determine the combinations of flood magnitudes and the above flood conditions that could be the most hazardous and/or result in the greatest increase in hazard from "without" to "with project" flood conditions. Designate these combinations of flood magnitude and flood conditions as the critical conditions.

(3) For the critical conditions selected above outline the areas where the project could increase and/or create (impose) one or more of the critical conditions. Areas where spillway flows do not create or increase flood conditions are excluded from further analysis.

(4) Determine where the imposed critical conditions as outlined above would be hazardous and non-hazardous. Non-hazardous areas are defined as those areas where:

(i) Flood depths are maximum of 2 feet in urban and rural areas.

(ii) Flood depths are essentially non-damaging to urban property.

(iii) Flood durations are a maximum of 3 hours in urban areas and 24 hours in agricultural areas.

(iv) Velocities do not exceed 4 feet per second.

(v) Debris and erosion potentials are minimal.

(vi) Imposed flood conditions would be infrequent. That is, the exceedence frequency should be less than 1 percent. Hazardous areas are those where any of the above criteria are exceeded.

(5) Based upon the information developed above and the principles outlined in paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section, decide on the extent of area and estate required for hydrologic safety purposes.
