
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 222 - ENGINEERING AND DESIGN
#### ยง 222.5 Water control management (ER 1110-2-240).
##### General policies.,i.e.

(f)(1) Water control plans will be developed for reservoirs, locks and dams, reregulation and major control structures and interrelated systems to conform with objectives and specific provisions of authorizing legislation and applicable Corps of Engineers reports. They will include any applicable authorities established after project construction. The water control plans will be prepared giving appropriate consideration to all applicable Congressional Acts relating to operation of Federal facilities,, Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act (Pub. L. 85-624), Federal Water Project Recreation Act-Uniform Policies (Pub. L. 89-72), National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (Pub. L. 91-190), and Clean Water Act of 1977 (Pub. L. 95-217). Thorough analysis and testing studies will be made as necessary to establish the optimum water control plans possible within prevailing constraints.

(2) Necessary actions will be taken to keep approved water control plans up-to-date. For this purpose, plans will be subject to continuing and progressive study by personnel in field offices of the Corps of Engineers. These personnel will be professionally qualified in technical areas involved and familiar with comprehensive project objectives and other factors affecting water control. Organizational requirements for water control management are further discussed in ER 1110-2-1400.

(3) Water control plans developed for specific projects and reservoir systems will be clearly documented in appropriate water control manuals. These manuals will be prepared to meet initial requirements when storage in the reservoir begins. They will be revised as necessary to conform with changing requirements resulting from developments in the project area and downstream, improvements in technology, new legislation and other relevant factors, provided such revisions comply with existing Federal regulations and established Corps of Engineers policy.

(4) Development and execution of water control plans will include appropriate consideration for efficient water management in conformance with the emphasis on water conservation as a national priority. The objectives of efficient water control management are to produce beneficial water savings and improvements in the availability and quality of water resulting from project regulation/operation. Balanced resource use through improved regulation should be developed to conserve as much water as possible and maximize all project functions consistent with project/system management. Continuous examination should be made of regulation schedules, possible need for storage reallocation (within existing authority and constraints) and to identify needed changes in normal regulation. Emphasis should be placed on evaluating conditions that could require deviation from normal release schedules as part of drought contingency plans (ER 1110-2-1941).

(5) Adequate provisions for collection, analysis and dissemination of basic data, the formulation of specific project regulation directives, and the performance of project regulation will be established at field level.

(6) Appropriate provisions will be made for monitoring project operations, formulating advisories to higher authorities, and disseminating information to others concerned. These actions are required to facilitate proper regulation of systems and to keep the public fully informed regarding all pertinent water control matters.

(7) In development and execution of water control plans, appropriate attention will be given to project safety in accordance with ER 1130-2-417 and ER 1130-2-419 so as to insure that all water impounding structures are operated for the safety of users of the facilities and the general public. Care will be exercised in the development of reservoir regulation schedules to assure that controlled releases minimize project impacts and do not jeopardize the safety of persons engaged in activities downstream of the facility. Water control plans will include provisions for issuing adequate warnings or otherwise alerting all affected interests to possible hazards from project regulation activities.

(8) In carrying out water control activities, Corps of Engineers personnel must recognize and observe the legal responsibility of the National Weather Service (NWS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), for issuing weather forecasts and flood warnings, including river discharges and stages. River forecasts prepared by the Corps of Engineers in the execution of its responsibilities should not be released to the general public, unless the NWS is willing to make the release or agrees to such dissemination. However, release to interested parties of factual information on current storms or river conditions and properly quoted NWS forecasts is permissible. District offices are encouraged to provide assistance to communities and individuals regarding the impact of forecasted floods. Typical advice would be to provide approximate water surface elevations at locations upstream and downstream of the NWS forecasting stream gages. Announcement of anticipated changes in reservoir release rates as far in advance as possible to the general public is the responsibility of Corps of Engineers water control managers for projects under their jurisdiction.

(9) Water control plans will be developed in concert with all basin interests which are or could be impacted by or have an influence on project regulation. Close coordination will be maintained with all appropriate international, Federal, State, regional and local agencies in the development and execution of water control plans. Effective public information programs will be developed and maintained so as to inform and educate the public regarding Corps of Engineers water control management activities.

(10) Fiscal year budget requests for water control management activities will be prepared and submitted to the Office of the Chief of Engineers in accordance with requirements established in Engineer Circular on Annual Budget Requests for Civil Works Activities. The total annual costs of all activities and facilities that support the water control functions, (excluding physical operation of projects, but including flood control and navigation regulation of projects subject to 33 CFR 208.11) are to be reported. Information on the Water Control Data Systems and associated Communications Category of the Plant Replacement and Improvement Program will be submitted with the annual budget. Reporting will be in accordance with the annual Engineer Circular on Civil Works Operations and Maintenance, General Program.
