
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 222 - ENGINEERING AND DESIGN
#### ยง 222.5 Water control management (ER 1110-2-240).
##### Public involvement and information,Public meeting and public involvement.

(2)-(i)The Corps of Engineers will sponsor public involvement activities, as appropriate, to appraise the general public of the water control plan. In developing or modifying water control manuals, the following criteria is applicable.

(A) Conditions that require public involvement and public meetings include: Development of a new water control manual that includes a water control plan; or revision or update of a water control manual that changes the water control plan.

(B) Revisions to water control manuals that are administratively or informational in nature and that do not change the water control plan do not require public meetings.

(C) For those conditions described in paragraph (g)(2)(i)(A) of this section, the Corps will provide information to the public concerning proposed water control management decisions at least 30 days in advance of a public meeting. In so doing, a separate document(s) should be prepared that explains the recommended water control plan or change, and provides technical information explaining the basis for the recommendation. It should include a description of its impacts (both monetary and nonmonetary) for various purposes, and the comparisons with alternative plans or changes and their effects. The plan or manual will be prepared only after the public involvement process associated with its development or change is complete.

(D) For those conditions described in paragraph (g)(2)(i)(A) of this section, the responsible division office will send each proposed water control manual to the Army Corps of Engineers Headquarters, Attn: CECW-EH-W for review and comments prior to approval by the responsible division office.
