
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 222 - ENGINEERING AND DESIGN
#### ยง 222.5 Water control management (ER 1110-2-240).
##### Water control manuals for US Army Corps of Engineers projects.

(i)(1) As used herein, the term "water control manual" refers to manuals that relate primarily to the functional regulation of an individual project or system of projects. Although such manuals normally include background information concerning physical features of projects, they do not prescribe rules or methods for physical maintenance or care of facilities, which are covered in other documents. (References 15 and 23, appendix A.)

(2) Water control manuals prepared in substantially the detail and format specified in instructions referred to in paragraph 8 are required for all reservoirs under the supervision of the Corps of Engineers, regardless of the purpose or size of the project. Water Control manuals are also required for lock and dam, reregulation and major control structure projects that are physically regulated by the Corps of Engineers. Where there are several projects in a drainage basin with interrelated purposes, a "Master Manual" shall be prepared. The effects of non-Corps projects will be considered in appropriate detail, including an indication of provisions for interagency coordination.

(3) "Preliminary water control manuals," for projects regulated by the Corps of Engineers should contain regulation schedules in sufficient detail to establish the basic plan of initial project regulation.

(4) As a general rule, preliminary manuals should be superseded by more detailed interim or "final" manuals within approximately one year after the project is placed in operation.

(5) Each water control manual will contain a section on special regulations to be conducted during emergency situations, including droughts. Preplanned operations and coordination are essential to effective relief or assistance.

(6) One copy of all water control manuals and subsequent revisions shall be forwarded to DAEN-CWE-HW for file purposes as soon as practicable after completion, preferably within 30 days from date of approval at the division level.
