
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 222 - ENGINEERING AND DESIGN
#### ยง 222.5 Water control management (ER 1110-2-240).
##### Policies and requirements for preparing regulations for non-Corps projects.

(j)(1) Division and district commanders will develop water control plans as required by section 7 of the 1944 Flood Control Act, the Federal Power Act and section 9 of Pub. L. 436-83 for all projects located within their areas, in conformance with ER 1110-2-241, 33 CFR part 208. That regulation prescribes the policy and general procedures for regulating reservoir projects capable of regulation for flood control or navigation, except projects owned and operated by the Corps of Engineers; the International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico; those under the jurisdiction of the International Joint Commission, United States and Canada, and the Columbia River Treaty. ER 1110-2-241, 33 CFR part 208 permits the promulgation of specific regulations for a project in compliance with the authorizing acts, when agreement on acceptable regulations cannot be reached between the Corps Engineers and the owners. Appendix B provides a summary of the Corps of Engineers responsibilities for prescribing regulations for non-Corps reservoir projects.

(2) Water control plans will be developed and processed as soon as possible for applicable projects already completed and being operated by other entities, including projects built by the Corps of Engineers and turned over to others for operation.

(3) In so far as practicable, water control plans for non-Corps projects should be developed in cooperation with owning/operating agencies involved during project planning stages. Thus, tentative agreements on contents, including pertinent regulation schedules and diagrams, can be accomplished prior to completion of the project.

(4) The magnitude and nature of storage allocations for flood control or navigation purposes in non-Corps projects are governed basically by conditions of project authorizations or other legislative provisions and may include any or all of the following types of storage assignments:

(i) Year-round allocations: Storage remains the same all year.

(ii) Seasonal allocations: Storage varies on a fixed seasonal basis.

(iii) Variable allocations of flood control from year to year, depending on hydrologic parameters, such as snow cover.

(5) Water control plans should be developed to attain maximum flood control or navigation benefits, consistent with other project requirements, from the storage space provided for these purposes. When reservoir storage capacity of the category referred to in paragraph (j)(4)(iii) is utilized for flood control or navigation, jointly with other objectives, the hydrologic parameters and related rules developed under provisions of ER 1110-2-241, 33 CFR part 208 should conform as equitably as possible with the multiple-purpose objectives established in project authorizations and other pertinent legislation.

(6) Storage allocations made for flood control or navigation purposes in non-Corps projects are not subject to modifications by the Corps of Engineers as a prerequisite for prescribing 33 CFR 208.11 regulations. However, regulations developed for use of such storage should be predicated on a mutual understanding between representatives of the Corps and the operating agency concerning the conditions of the allocations in order to assure reasonable achievement of basic objectives intended. In the event field representatives of the Corps of Engineers, and the operating agency are unable to reach necessary agreements after all reasonable possibilities have been explored, appropriate background explanations and recommendations should be submitted to DAEN-CWE-HW for consideration.

(7) The Chief of Engineers is responsible for prescribing regulations for use of flood control or navigation storage and/or project operation under the provisions of the referenced legislative acts. Accordingly, any regulations established should designate the division/district commander who is responsible to the Chief of Engineers as the representative to issue any special instructions required under the regulation. However, to the extent practicable, project regulations should be written to permit operation of the project by the owner without interpretations of the regulations by the designated representative of the Commander during operating periods.

(8) Responsibility for compliance with 33 CFR 208.11 regulations rests with the operating agency. The division or district commander of the area in which the project is located will be kept informed regarding project operations to verify reasonable conformance with the regulations. The Chief of Engineers or his designated representative may authorize or direct deviation from the established water control plan when conditions warrant such deviation. In the event unapproved deviations from the prescribed regulations seem evident, the division or district commander concerned will bring the matter to the attention of the operating agency by appropriate means.

(9) Regulations should contain information regarding the required exchange of basic data between the representative of the operating agency and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, that are pertinent to regulation and coordination of interrelated projects in the region.

(10) All 33 CFR 208.11 regulations shall contain provisions authorizing the operating agency to temporarily deviate from the regulations in the event that it is necessary for emergency reasons to protect the safety of the dam, to avoid health hazards, and to alleviate other critical situations.
