
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 222 - ENGINEERING AND DESIGN
#### ยง 222.5 Water control management (ER 1110-2-240).
##### Water control during project construction stage.

(l)Water control plans discussed in preceding paragraphs are intended primarily for application after the dam, spillway and outlet structures; major relocations; land acquisitions, administrative arrangements and other project requirements have reached stages that permit relatively normal project regulation. With respect to non-Corps projects, regulations normally become applicable when water control agreements have been signed by the designated signatories, subject to special provisions in specific cases. In some instances, implementation of regulations has been delayed by legal provisions, contract limitations, or other considerations. These delays can result in loss of potential project benefits and possible hazards. Accordingly, it is essential that appropriate water control and contingency plans be established for use from the date any storage may accumulate behind a partially completed dam until the project is formally accepted for normal operations. Division commanders shall make certain that construction-stage regulation plans are established and maintained in a timely and adequate manner for projects under the supervision of the Corps of Engineers. In addition, the problems referred to should be discussed with authorities who are responsible for non-Corps projects, with the objective of assuring that such projects operate as safely and effectively as possible during the critical construction stage and any period that may elapse before regular operating arrangements have been established. These special regulation plans should include consideration for protection of construction operations; safety of downstream interests that might be jeopardized by failure of partially completed embankments; requirements for minimizing adverse effects on partially completed relocations or incomplete land acquisition; and the need for obtaining benefits from project storage that can be safely achieved during the construction and early operation period.
