
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 222 - ENGINEERING AND DESIGN
#### ยง 222.5 Water control management (ER 1110-2-240).
##### Master plans for water control data systems (RCS DAEN-CWE-21).

(6)(i) A water control data system is all of the equipment within a division which is used to acquire, process, display and distribute information for real-time project regulation and associated interagency coordination. A subsystem is all equipment as defined previously within a district. A network is all equipment as defined previously which is used to regulate a single project or a group of projects which must be regulated interdependently.

(ii) Master plans for water control data systems and significant revisions thereto will be prepared by division water control managers and submitted to DAEN-CWE-HW by 1 February each year for review and approval of engineering aspects. Engineering approval does not constitute funding approval. After engineering approval is obtained, equipment in the master plan is eligible for consideration in the funding processes described in ER 1125-2-301 and engineering circulars on the annual budget request for civil works activities. Master plans will be maintained current and will:

(A) Outline the system performance requirements, including those resulting from any expected expansions of Corps missions.

(B) Describe the extent to which existing facilities fulfill performance requirements.

(C) Describe alternative approaches which will upgrade the system to meet the requirements not fulfilled by existing facilities, or are more cost effective than the existing system.

(D) Justify and recommend a system considering timeliness, reliability, economics and other factors deemed important.

(E) Delineate system scope, implementation schedules, proposed annual capital expenditures by district, total costs, and sources of funding.

(iii) Modified master plans should be submitted to DAEN-CWE-HW by 1 February, whenever revisions are required, to include equipment not previously approved or changes in scope or approach. Submittal by the February date will allow adequate time for OCE review and approval prior to annual budget submittals.

(iv) Division commanders are delegated authority to approve detailed plans for subsystems and networks of approved master plans. Plans approved by the division commander should meet the following conditions:

(A) The plan conforms to an approved master plan.

(B) The equipment is capable of functioning independently.

(C) An evaluation of alternatives has been completed considering reliability, cost and other important factors.

(D) The plan is economically justified, except in special cases where legal requirements dictate performance standards which cannot be economically justified.

(v) Copies of plans approved by the division commander shall be forwarded to appropriate elements in OCE in support of funding requests and to obtain approval of Automatic Data Processing Equipment (ADPE), when applicable.

(vi) Water control data systems may be funded from Plant Revolving Fund; O&M General; Flood Control, MR&T, and Construction, General. Funding for water control equipment that serves two or more projects will be from Plant Revolving Fund in accordance with ER 1125-2-301. District and division water control managers will coordinate plant revolving fund requests with their respective Plant Replacement and Improvement Program (PRIP) representatives following guidance provided in ER 1125-2-301. Budget funding requests under the proper appropriation title should be submitted only if the equipment is identified in an approved master plan.

(vii) Justification for the Automatic Data Processing Equipment (ADPE) aspects of water control data systems must conform to AR 18-1, Appendix I or J as required. The "Funding for ADPE" paragraph in Appendixes I and J must cite the source of funds and reference relevant information in the approved master plan and detailed plan.

(viii) Division water control managers will submit annual letter summaries of the status of their respective water control systems and five-year plan for improvements. These summaries will be submitted to DAEN-CWE by 1 June for coordination with DAEN-CWO, CWB and DSZ-A, prior to the annual budget request. Summaries should not be used to obtain approval of significant changes in master plans. Sources of funding for all items for each district and for the division should be delineated so that total system expenditures and funding requests are identified. Changes in the master plan submitted 1 February should be documented in this letter summary if the changes were approved.
