
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 230 - PROCEDURES FOR IMPLEMENTING NEPA
#### ยง 230.13 Environmental Impact Statement (EIS).
##### Supplements.,draft

(b)A supplement to the draft or final EIS should be prepared whenever required as discussed in 40 CFR 1502.09(c). A supplement to a draft EIS should be prepared and filed in the same manner as a draft EIS and should be titled "Supplement I", "Supplement II", etc. The final EIS should address the changes noted in the supplement and substantive comments received as a result of circulation of the document. A supplement to a final EIS should be prepared and filed first as asupplement and then as a final supplement. Supplements will be filed and circulated in the same manner as a draft and final EIS (including the abbreviated procedure discussed in 13a. above). Supplements to a draft or final EIS filed before 30 July 1979 may follow the format of the previously filed EIS. Supplements to a draft EIS filed after this date will follow the format outlined in 40 CFR 1502.10. References to the draft or final EIS being supplemented should be used to eliminate repetitive discussions in order to focus on the important issues and impacts. The transmittal letter to EPA as well as the cover sheet should clearly identify the title and purpose of the document as well as the title and filing date of the previous EIS being supplemented and how copies can be obtained. The decision may be made on the proposed action by the appropriate Corps official no sooner than 30 days after the final supplement has been on file. A record of decision will be signed when the decision is made.
