
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 230 - PROCEDURES FOR IMPLEMENTING NEPA
#### Appendix A to Part 230 - Processing Corps NEPA Documents
##### CEBRH Review.

c.CEBRH will review the EIS at the same time it reviews the final feasibility report. The report and EIS should be compatible. If the CEBRH review requires minor revisions (with insignificant impacts) to the plan as recommended by the division and district commanders, these changes and impacts shall be noted in the CEBRH report. If the CEBRH action results in major revisions to the recommended plan and revisions are variants of the plan or are within the range of alternatives considered and discussed in the draft EIS, an addendum to the final EIS will be prepared by CEBRH (with assistance from the district commander, as required). This addendum "package" will be identified as an "Addendum to the Final EIS-Environmental Consequences of the Modifications Recommended by the Board of Engineers for Rivers and Harbors-project name." The format shall include an abstract on the cover page; recommended changes to the division/district commander's proposed plan; rationale for the recommended changes; environmental consequences of the recommended changes; and the name, expertise/discipline, experience, and role of the principal preparer(s) of the addendum. Letters received during CEBRH review which provide new pertinent information having a bearing on the modifications recommended by CEBRH will be attached to the addendum. If CEBRH proposes to recommend a major revision or a new alternative to the plan recommended by the division and district commanders with significant impacts which were not discussed in the draft EIS, a supplement to the draft EIS will be required. After consultation with CEBRH and the division commander, the district commander will prepare and circulate the supplement to the draft EIS in accordance with paragraph 13(b). The supplement together with incoming letters of comment and Corps responses to substantive issues shall be incorporated into the existing final report and EIS with a minimum of page changes or revisions to reflect the modified or new proposed plan. CEBRH will review its proposed action in light of the comments received prior to taking final action on the report and EIS.
