
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 230 - PROCEDURES FOR IMPLEMENTING NEPA
#### Appendix C to Part 230 - Notice of Intent To Prepare a Draft EIS
##### Publishing Documents in the Federal Register.

3.The following information is furnished for preparation and publication of notices of intent in the

a. A brief transmittal letter inclosing three (3) signed copies of the notice of intent should be processed through local Chief, Information Management channels to: HQDA, SFIS-APP, ATTN: Department of the Army Liaison Officer with the Office of the Federal Register, Alexandria, VA 22331-0302. This office will review and correct (if needed) all documents prior to publication in the

b. The notice must be signed by the official issuing the document along with the signer's typed name, rank and position title for military officials or name and position title for civilian officials. A signer cannot sign "as acting" or "for" if another name is shown in the signature block. All three copies sent forward must be signed in ink. A xerox copy of the signature is not allowed.

c. A six-digit billing code number must be typed or handwritten in ink at the top of the first page on all three copies of a notice. This billing code number can be found on GPO bills, GPO Form 400, in the upper left corner opposite the address. The billing code number will be indicated as 3710-XX. FOAs must submit an open-end printing and binding requisition, Standard Form 1, each fiscal year to coverprinting costs (reference 3(n)). Completed requisitions (SF-1) must be forwarded to reach HQUSACE (CEIM-SP) WASH DC 20314-1000 by 1 June of each year. Consult the local chief, Information Management for Assistance.
