
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 230 - PROCEDURES FOR IMPLEMENTING NEPA
#### Appendix C to Part 230 - Notice of Intent To Prepare a Draft EIS
##### Name and location of project, permit or activity

Intent To Prepare A Draft Environment Impact Statement (DEIS) For a Proposed ().

Agency: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, DoD.

Action: Notice of Intent.

Summary: The summary should briefly state in simple language what action is being taken, why the action is necessary, and the intended effect of the action. Extensive discussion belongs under the Supplementary Information caption.

For Further Information Contact: Questions about the proposed action and DEIS can be answered by: (Provide name, telephone number, and address of the person in the district or division who can answer questions about the proposed action and the DEIS).

Supplementary Information: The Supplementary Information should contain the remainder of the necessary information of the document. It should contain any authority citation,citation to a previously published document, or CFR citation when appropriate and include a discussion of the following topics:

1. Briefly describe the proposed action.

2. Briefly describe reasonable alternatives.

3. Briefly describe the Corps' scoping process which is reasonably foreseeable for the DEIS under consideration. The description:

a. Shall discuss the proposed public involvement program and invite the participation of affected Federal, state and local agencies, affected Indian tribes, and other interested private organizations and parties.

b. Shall identify significant issues to be analyzed in depth in the DEIS.

c. May discuss possible assignments for input into the EIS under consideration among the lead and cooperating agencies.

d. Shall identify other environmental review and consultation requirements.

4. Indicate whether or not a scoping meeting will be held. Indicate time, date and location if a meeting is scheduled.

5. Provide an estimated date when the DEIS will be made available to the public.

- Text to be double-spaced. Use block format.

- Place local billing code number at the top of the first page on all three copies.

- Margins-one inch on top, bottom and right side; and one and one-half inches on the left side.

- Pages must be numbered consecutively.

- Text should be typed on one side only.

- Use 8by 11 inch bond paper or photocopy paper.
