
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 238 - WATER RESOURCES POLICIES AND AUTHORITIES: FLOOD DAMAGE REDUCTION MEASURES IN URBAN AREAS
#### ยง 238.6 General policy.

(a) Satisfactory resolution of water damage problems in urban areas often involves cooperation between local non-Federal interests and the Federal flood control agencies. In urban or urbanizing areas, provision of a basic drainage system to collect and convey the local runoff to a stream is a non-Federal responsibility. This regulation should not be interpreted to extend the flood damage reduction program into a system of pipes traditionally recognized as a storm drainage system. Flood damage reduction works generally address discharges that represent a serious threat to life and property. The decision criteria outlined below therefore exclude from consideration under flood control authorities small streams and ditches with carrying capacities typical of storm sewer pipes. Location of political boundaries will not be used as a basis for specifying project responsibility. Project responsibilities can be specified as follows:

(1) Flood damage reduction works, as defined in this regulation, may be accomplished by the Corps of Engineers.

(2) Construction of storm sewer systems and components thereof will be a non-Federal responsibility. Non-Federal interests have a responsibility to design storm sewer systems so that residual damages are reduced to an acceptable level.

(b) Consideration will be given to the objectives and requirements of Executive Order 11988 (reference ยง 238.3(a)) and the general guidelines therefor by the U.S. Water Resources Council (reference ยง 238.3(b)).
