
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 238 - WATER RESOURCES POLICIES AND AUTHORITIES: FLOOD DAMAGE REDUCTION MEASURES IN URBAN AREAS
#### § 238.7 Decision criteria for participation.
##### Urban flood control.

(a)(1) Urban water damage problems associated with a natural stream or modified natural waterway may be addressed under the flood control authorities downstream from the point where the flood discharge of such a stream or waterway within an urban area is greater than 800 cubic feet per second for the 10-percent flood (one chance in ten of being equalled or exceeded in any given year) under conditions expected to prevail during the period of analysis. Those drainage areas which lie entirely within the urban area (as established on the basis of future projections, in accordance with § 238.5 of this part), and which are less than 1.5 square miles in area, shall be assumed to lack adequate discharge to meet the above hydrologic criteria. Those urban streams and waterways which receive runoff from land outside the urban area shall not be evaluated using this 1.5 square mile drainage area criterion.

(2) A number of conditions within a drainage area may limit discharges for the 10-percent flood, without proportionately reducing discharges for larger floods, such as the one-percent flood. Examples include the presence of extremely pervious soils, natural storage (wetlands) or detention basins or diversions with limited capacity. Other conditions could result in a hydrological disparity between the 10- and one-percent flood events.

(3) Division Engineers, except for NED and POD, are authorized to grant exceptions to the 800 cfs, 10-percent flood discharge criterion specified in this § 238.7(a)(1) whenever both of the following criteria are met:

(i) The discharge for the one-percent flood exceeds 1800 cfs; and

(ii) The reason that the 10-percent flood discharge is less than 800 cfs is attributable to a hydrologic disparity similar to those described in § 238.7(a)(2).

(4) Flood damage reduction works must conform to the definition in § 238.4(b) and must be justified based on Corps of Engineers evaluation procedures in use at the time the evaluation is made. Flood reduction measures, such as dams or diversions, may be located upstream of the particular point where the hydrologic criteria (and area criterion, if appropriate) are met, if economically justified by benefits derived within the stream reach which does qualify for flood control improvement. Similarly, the need to terminate flood control improvements in a safe and economical manner may justify the extension of some portions of the improvements, such as levee tiebacks, into areas upstream of the precise point where Federal flood control authorities become applicable.
