
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 241 - FLOOD CONTROL COST-SHARING REQUIREMENTS UNDER THE ABILITY TO PAY PROVISION
#### § 241.5 Procedures for estimating the alternative cost-share.
##### Principles and Guidelines

(1) Calculate the ratio of flood control benefits (developed using the Water Resources Council's-ref. § 241.3(b)) to flood control costs for the project based on the discount rate which the Corps is currently using to evaluate projects. Costs include operations and maintenance as well as first costs. Divide the result by four. For example, if the project's (or separable element's) benefit-cost ratio is 1.2:1, the factor for this project equals 0.3. If a project has been authorized for construction without a benefit-cost ratio calculated in accordance with the Principles and Guidelines, determination of the ratio is a prerequisite for consideration under the ability to pay provision.

(2) If the factor determined in § 241.5(a)(1), when expressed as a percentage, is greater than the standard level of cost-sharing, the standard level will apply.

(3) If the factor determined in § 241.5(a)(1), when expressed as a percentage, is less than the standard level of cost-sharing, projects may be eligible for either a reduction in the non-Federal share to this "benefits based floor" (BBF), or for a partial reduction to a share between the standard level and the BBF, as determined by the procedures in step two, § 243.5. In no case however, will the non-Federal cost-share be less than five percent.
