
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 241 - FLOOD CONTROL COST-SHARING REQUIREMENTS UNDER THE ABILITY TO PAY PROVISION
#### § 241.5 Procedures for estimating the alternative cost-share.
##### Application of the Ability to Pay Formula to the Basic Cost-sharing Provisions of Section 103.

(c)If a flood control project has a BBF which is less than the standard cost-share and an EF which is greater than zero, the non-Federal cost-share will be reduced. The alternative non-Federal share will be calculated and reported to the nearest one tenth of one percent. The actual reduction is determined by applying the ability to pay formula to the basic flood control cost-sharing provisions of section 103 of Pub. L. 99-662, 33 U.S.C. 2213, as follows:

(1) When EF ≥1, non-Federal cost-share = BBF

(2) For structural projects covered by section 103(a), when 0 <EF <1:

(i) If LERRD equals or exceeds 45 percent:

(ii) If LERRD exceeds 20 percent but is less than 45 percent:

(iii) If LERRD is less than 20 percent:

(3) For non-structural projects covered by section 103(b), when 0 <EF <1:

(4) In no case however, can the non-Federal share be less than five percent, even if the calculation made in § 241.5(c) (1), (2), or (3) results in a smaller number.

(5)LERRD equals the costs of lands, easements, rights-of-way, relocations, and dredged material disposal areas expressed as a percentage of total project costs. The BBF and numerical terms in the equations above are also expressed as percentages.
