
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 241 - FLOOD CONTROL COST-SHARING REQUIREMENTS UNDER THE ABILITY TO PAY PROVISION
#### § 241.7 Application of test.

(a) A preliminary ability to pay test will be applied during the study phase of any proposed project. If the ability to pay cost-share is lower than the standard share, the revised estimated cost-share will be used for budgetary and other planning purposes.

(b) The official application of the ability to pay test will be made at the time the Project Cooperation Agreement (PCA) between the Corps of Engineers and the Non-Federal sponsor is signed. For structural flood control projects, the standard level of cost-sharing will not be known until the end of the project (since the standard level as specified in section 103(a), 33 U.S.C. 2213, includes LERRD). In this case, if the Eligibility Factor is greater than zero but less than one, the ability to pay non-Federal share will be determined using estimated costs.

(c) The PCA for all projects subject to the ability to pay test will include a "whereas" clause indicating the results of the test. If the project is eligible for a lower non-Federal share:

(1) The revised share will be specified in the PCA (there will be no recalculation of this share once the PCA is signed).

(2) An exhibit attached to the Project Cooperation Agreement (PCA) will include the Benefits Based Floor (BBF) determined in § 241.5(a): the Eligibility Factor (EF) determined in § 241.5(b): If the Eligibility Factor is greater than zero but less than one, the estimated standard non-Federal share; the formula used in determining the ability to pay share as described in § 241.5(c)(1) through (c)(4); and a display of the non-Federal cost share under the high cost criteria described in § 241.5(d).

(d) If at the time of project completion, the standard non-Federal share based on actual costs is less than the ability to pay share specified in the PCA, the standard share will apply.
