
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 241 - FLOOD CONTROL COST-SHARING REQUIREMENTS UNDER THE ABILITY TO PAY PROVISION
#### ยง 241.7 Application of test.
##### For structural projects.

(e)(1) If the standard LERRD plus cash requirement exceeds the ability to pay cost-share, the Federal Government will make any necessary adjustments in expenditures in the following order: First, paying any cash requirement in excess of five percent of total project costs (if any) that would, under standard cost-sharing, have been the responsibility of the non-Federal sponsor; second, making payments for LERRD; and third, providing for reimbursement at the end of construction. Federal payments for LERRD will be made only after the non-Federal payment for LERRD reaches a percentage of total project costs equal to the ability to pay non-Federal cost-share less the five percent cash requirement. If such arrangements are necessary, the PCA should be prepared to reflect agreement on the best manner available for acquisition of those LERRD over the limiting percentage, or for reimbursing the sponsor upon completion of construction.

(2) The non-Federal sponsor will be required to provide a cash payment equal to the minimum of five percent of estimated project costs, regardless of the outcome of the ability to pay test, unless any or all of the five percent cash requirement is waived by application of the high cost criteria described in ยง 241.5(d). The project sponsor shall make cash payments during construction at a rate such that the amount of non-Federal payments in each year, as a percentage of total non-Federal cash payments, equals the amount of Federal expenditures (including sunk pre-construction engineering and design costs as a first year Federal construction expenditure) as a percentage of total Federal expenditures. Total Federal expenditures include cash payments for construction and if necessary (due to ability to pay considerations), for LERRD, and for reimbursement to the non-Federal sponsor. Total Federal expenditures for the purpose of this calculation, do not include expenditures which allow the non-Federal sponsor to defer payment of the non-Federal share under the provisions of this rule.

(f) For non-structural projects, reductions in the non-Federal cost-share as a result of the ability to pay test will not affect the procedures for determining the non-Federal and Federal payment schedules. For non-structural projects, no specific cash payments during construction are required by law.
