
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 320 - GENERAL REGULATORY POLICIES
#### ยง 320.3 Related laws.

(a) Section 401 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1341) requires any applicant for a federal license or permit to conduct any activity that may result in a discharge of a pollutant into waters of the United States to obtain a certification from the State in which the discharge originates or would originate, or, if appropriate, from the interstate water pollution control agency having jurisdiction over the affected waters at the point where the discharge originates or would originate, that the discharge will comply with the applicable effluent limitations and water quality standards. A certification obtained for the construction of any facility must also pertain to the subsequent operation of the facility.

(b) Section 307(c) of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1456(c)), requires federal agencies conducting activities, including development projects, directly affecting a state's coastal zone, to comply to the maximum extent practicable with an approved state coastal zone management program. Indian tribes doing work on federal lands will be treated as a federal agency for the purpose of the Coastal Zone Management Act. The Act also requires any non-federal applicant for a federal license or permit to conduct an activity affecting land or water uses in the state's coastal zone to furnish a certification that the proposed activity will comply with the state's coastal zone management program. Generally, no permit will be issued until the state has concurred with the non-federal applicant's certification. This provision becomes effective upon approval by the Secretary of Commerce of the state's coastal zone management program. (See 15 CFR part 930.)

(c) Section 302 of the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act of 1972, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1432), authorizes the Secretary of Commerce, after consultation with other interested federal agencies and with the approval of the President, to designate as marine sanctuaries those areas of the ocean waters, of the Great Lakes and their connecting waters, or of other coastal waters which he determines necessary for the purpose of preserving or restoring such areas for their conservation, recreational, ecological, or aesthetic values. After designating such an area, the Secretary of Commerce shall issue regulations to control any activities within the area. Activities in the sanctuary authorized under other authorities are valid only if the Secretary of Commerce certifies that the activities are consistent with the purposes of Title III of the Act and can be carried out within the regulations for the sanctuary.

(d) The National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321-4347) declares the national policy to encourage a productive and enjoyable harmony between man and his environment. Section 102 of that Act directs that "to the fullest extent possible: (1) The policies, regulations, and public laws of the United States shall be interpreted and administered in accordance with the policies set forth in this Act, and

(2) All agencies of the Federal Government shall * * * insure that presently unquantified environmental amenities and values may be given appropriate consideration in decision-making along with economic and technical considerations * * *". (See Appendix B of 33 CFR part 325.)
