
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 320 - GENERAL REGULATORY POLICIES
#### ยง 320.3 Related laws.
##### et seq.

(m) The Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion Act of 1980, (42 U.S.C. section 9101) establishes a licensing regime administered by the Administrator of NOAA for the ownership, construction, location, and operation of ocean thermal energy conversion (OTEC) facilities and plantships. An application for an OTEC license filed with the Administrator constitutes an application for all federal authorizations required for ownership, construction, location, and operation of an OTEC facility or plantship, except for certain activities within the jurisdiction of the Coast Guard. This includes applications for section 10, section 404, section 103 and other DA authorizations which may be required.

(n) Section 402 of the Clean Water Act authorizes EPA to issue permits under procedures established to implement the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) program. The administration of this program can be, and in most cases has been, delegated to individual states. Section 402(b)(6) states that no NPDES permit will be issued if the Chief of Engineers, acting for the Secretary of the Army and after consulting with the U.S. Coast Guard, determines that navigation and anchorage in any navigable water will be substantially impaired as a result of a proposed activity.

(o) The National Fishing Enhancement Act of 1984 (Pub. L. 98-623) provides for the development of a National Artificial Reef Plan to promote and facilitate responsible and effective efforts to establish artificial reefs. The Act establishes procedures to be followed by the Corps in issuing DA permits for artificial reefs. The Act also establishes the liability of the permittee and the United States. The Act further creates a civil penalty for violation of any provision of a permit issued for an artificial reef.
