
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 320 - GENERAL REGULATORY POLICIES
#### ยง 320.4 General policies for evaluating permit applications.
##### Effects on limits of the territorial sea.,United States,California,

(f)Structures or work affecting coastal waters may modify the coast line or base line from which the territorial sea is measured for purposes of the Submerged Lands Act and international law. Generally, the coast line or base line is the line of ordinary low water on the mainland; however, there are exceptions where there are islands or lowtide elevations offshore (the Submerged Lands Act, 43 U.S.C. 1301(a) andv.381 U.S.C. 139 (1965), 382 U.S. 448 (1966)). Applications for structures or work affecting coastal waters will therefore be reviewed specifically to determine whether the coast line or base line might be altered. If it is determined that such a change might occur, coordination with the Attorney General and the Solicitor of the Department of the Interior is required before final action is taken. The district engineer will submit a description of the proposed work and a copy of the plans to the Solicitor, Department of the Interior, Washington, DC 20240, and request his comments concerning the effects of the proposed work on the outer continental rights of the United States. These comments will be included in the administrative record of the application. After completion of standard processing procedures, the record will be forwarded to the Chief of Engineers. The decision on the application will be made by the Secretary of the Army after coordination with the Attorney General.
