
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 320 - GENERAL REGULATORY POLICIES
#### ยง 320.4 General policies for evaluating permit applications.
##### Consideration of property ownership.

(g)Authorization of work or structures by DA does not convey a property right, nor authorize any injury to property or invasion of other rights.

(1) An inherent aspect of property ownership is a right to reasonable private use. However, this right is subject to the rights and interests of the public in the navigable and other waters of the United States, including the federal navigation servitude and federal regulation for environmental protection.

(2) Because a landowner has the general right to protect property from erosion, applications to erect protective structures will usually receive favorable consideration. However, if the protective structure may cause damage to the property of others, adversely affect public health and safety, adversely impact floodplain or wetland values, or otherwise appears contrary to the public interest, the district engineer will so advise the applicant and inform him of possible alternative methods of protecting his property. Such advice will be given in terms of general guidance only so as not to compete with private engineering firms nor require undue use of government resources.

(3) A riparian landowner's general right of access to navigable waters of the United States is subject to the similar rights of access held by nearby riparian landowners and to the general public's right of navigation on the water surface. In the case of proposals which create undue interference with access to, or use of, navigable waters, the authorization will generally be denied.

(4) Where it is found that the work for which a permit is desired is in navigable waters of the United States (see 33 CFR part 329) and may interfere with an authorized federal project, the applicant should be apprised in writing of the fact and of the possibility that a federal project which may be constructed in the vicinity of the proposed work might necessitate its removal or reconstruction. The applicant should also be informed that the United States will in no case be liable for any damage or injury to the structures or work authorized by Sections 9 or 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1899 or by section 404 of the Clean Water Act which may be caused by, or result from, future operations undertaken by the Government for the conservation or improvement of navigation or for other purposes, and no claims or right to compensation will accrue from any such damage.

(5) Proposed activities in the area of a federal project which exists or is under construction will be evaluated to insure that they are compatible with the purposes of the project.

(6) A DA permit does not convey any property rights, either in real estate or material, or any exclusive privileges. Furthermore, a DA permit does not authorize any injury to property or invasion of rights or any infringement of Federal, state or local laws or regulations. The applicant's signature on an application is an affirmation that the applicant possesses or will possess the requisite property interest to undertake the activity proposed in the application. The district engineer will not enter into disputes but will remind the applicant of the above. The dispute over property ownership will not be a factor in the Corps public interest decision.
