
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 320 - GENERAL REGULATORY POLICIES
#### ยง 320.4 General policies for evaluating permit applications.
##### Other Federal, state, or local requirements.

(j)(1) Processing of an application for a DA permit normally will proceed concurrently with the processing of other required Federal, state, and/or local authorizations or certifications. Final action on the DA permit will normally not be delayed pending action by another Federal, state or local agency (See 33 CFR 325.2 (d)(4)). However, where the required Federal, state and/or local authorization and/or certification has been denied for activities which also require a Department of the Army permit before final action has been taken on the Army permit application, the district engineer will, after considering the likelihood of subsequent approval of the other authorization and/or certification and the time and effort remaining to complete processing the Army permit application, either immediately deny the Army permit without prejudice or continue processing the application to a conclusion. If the district engineer continues processing the application, he will conclude by either denying the permit as contrary to the public interest, or denying it without prejudice indicating that except for the other Federal, state or local denial the Army permit could, under appropriate conditions, be issued. Denial without prejudice means that there is no prejudice to the right of the applicant to reinstate processing of the Army permit application if subsequent approval is received from the appropriate Federal, state and/or local agency on a previously denied authorization and/or certification. Even if official certification and/or authorization is not required by state or federal law, but a state, regional, or local agency having jurisdiction or interest over the particular activity comments on the application, due consideration shall be given to those official views as a reflection of local factors of the public interest.

(2) The primary responsibility for determining zoning and land use matters rests with state, local and tribal governments. The district engineer will normally accept decisions by such governments on those matters unless there are significant issues of overriding national importance. Such issues would include but are not necessarily limited to national security, navigation, national economic development, water quality, preservation of special aquatic areas, including wetlands, with significant interstate importance, and national energy needs. Whether a factor has overriding importance will depend on the degree of impact in an individual case.

(3) A proposed activity may result in conflicting comments from several agencies within the same state. Where a state has not designated a single responsible coordinating agency, district engineers will ask the Governor to express his views or to designate one state agency to represent the official state position in the particular case.

(4) In the absence of overriding national factors of the public interest that may be revealed during the evaluation of the permit application, a permit will generally be issued following receipt of a favorable state determination provided the concerns, policies, goals, and requirements as expressed in 33 CFR parts 320-324, and the applicable statutes have been considered and followed: e.g., the National Environmental Policy Act; the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act; the Historical and Archeological Preservation Act; the National Historic Preservation Act; the Endangered Species Act; the Coastal Zone Management Act; the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act of 1972, as amended; the Clean Water Act, the Archeological Resources Act, and the American Indian Religious Freedom Act. Similarly, a permit will generally be issued for Federal and Federally-authorized activities; another federal agency's determination to proceed is entitled to substantial consideration in the Corps' public interest review.

(5) Where general permits to avoid duplication are not practical, district engineers shall develop joint procedures with those local, state, and other Federal agencies having ongoing permit programs for activities also regulated by the Department of the Army. In such cases, applications for DA permits may be processed jointly with the state or other federal applications to an independent conclusion and decision by the district engineer and the appropriate Federal or state agency. (See 33 CFR 325.2(e).)

(6) The district engineer shall develop operating procedures for establishing official communications with Indian Tribes within the district. The procedures shall provide for appointment of a tribal representative who will receive all pertinent public notices, and respond to such notices with the official tribal position on the proposed activity. This procedure shall apply only to those tribes which accept this option. Any adopted operating procedures shall be distributed by public notice to inform the tribes of this option.
