
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 320 - GENERAL REGULATORY POLICIES
#### ยง 320.4 General policies for evaluating permit applications.
##### Floodplain management.

(l)(1) Floodplains possess significant natural values and carry out numerous functions important to the public interest. These include:

(i) Water resources values (natural moderation of floods, water quality maintenance, and groundwater recharge);

(ii) Living resource values (fish, wildlife, and plant resources);

(iii) Cultural resource values (open space, natural beauty, scientific study, outdoor education, and recreation); and

(iv) Cultivated resource values (agriculture, aquaculture, and forestry).

(2) Although a particular alteration to a floodplain may constitute a minor change, the cumulative impact of such changes may result in a significant degradation of floodplain values and functions and in increased potential for harm to upstream and downstream activities. In accordance with the requirements of Executive Order 11988, district engineers, as part of their public interest review, should avoid to the extent practicable, long and short term significant adverse impacts associated with the occupancy and modification of floodplains, as well as the direct and indirect support of floodplain development whenever there is a practicable alternative. For those activities which in the public interest must occur in or impact upon floodplains, the district engineer shall ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, that the impacts of potential flooding on human health, safety, and welfare are minimized, the risks of flood losses are minimized, and, whenever practicable the natural and beneficial values served by floodplains are restored and preserved.

(3) In accordance with Executive Order 11988, the district engineer should avoid authorizing floodplain developments whenever practicable alternatives exist outside the floodplain. If there are no such practicable alternatives, the district engineer shall consider, as a means of mitigation, alternatives within the floodplain which will lessen any significant adverse impact to the floodplain.
