
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 320 - GENERAL REGULATORY POLICIES
#### ยง 320.4 General policies for evaluating permit applications.
##### Navigation.

(o)(1) Section 11 of the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1899 authorized establishment of harbor lines shoreward of which no individual permits were required. Because harbor lines were established on the basis of navigation impacts only, the Corps of Engineers published a regulation on 27 May 1970 (33 CFR 209.150) which declared that permits would thereafter be required for activities shoreward of the harbor lines. Review of applications would be based on a full public interest evaluation and harbor lines would serve as guidance for assessing navigation impacts. Accordingly, activities constructed shoreward of harbor lines prior to 27 May 1970 do not require specific authorization.

(2) The policy of considering harbor lines as guidance for assessing impacts on navigation continues.

(3) Protection of navigation in all navigable waters of the United States continues to be a primary concern of the federal government.

(4) District engineers should protect navigational and anchorage interests in connection with the NPDES program by recommending to EPA or to the state, if the program has been delegated, that a permit be denied unless appropriate conditions can be included to avoid any substantial impairment of navigation and anchorage.
