
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 322 - PERMITS FOR STRUCTURES OR WORK IN OR AFFECTING NAVIGABLE WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES
#### ยง 322.5 Special policies.
##### Artificial Reefs.

(b)(1) When considering an application for an artificial reef, as defined in 33 CFR 322.2(g), the district engineer will review the applicant's provisions for siting, constructing, monitoring, operating, maintaining, and managing the proposed artificial reef and shall determine if those provisions are consistent with the following standards:

(i) The enhancement of fishery resources to the maximum extent practicable;

(ii) The facilitation of access and utilization by United States recreational and commercial fishermen;

(iii) The minimization of conflicts among competing uses of the navigable waters or waters overlying the outer continental shelf and of the resources in such waters;

(iv) The minimization of environmental risks and risks to personal health and property;

(v) Generally accepted principles of international law; and

(vi) the prevention of any unreasonable obstructions to navigation. If the district engineer decides that the applicant's provisions are not consistent with these standards, he shall deny the permit. If the district engineer decides that the provisions are consistent with these standards, and if he decides to issue the permit after the public interest review, he shall make the provisions part of the permit.

(2) In addition, the district engineer will consider the National Artificial Reef Plan developed pursuant to section 204 of the National Fishing Enhancement Act of 1984, and if he decides to issue the permit, will notify the Secretary of Commerce of any need to deviate from that plan.

(3) The district engineer will comply with all coordination provisions required by a written agreement between the DOD and the Federal agencies relative to artificial reefs. In addition, if the district engineer decides that further consultation beyond the normal public commenting process is required to evaluate fully the proposed artificial reef, he may initiate such consultation with any Federal agency, state or local government, or other interested party.

(4) The district engineer will issue a permit for the proposed artificial reef only if the applicant demonstrates, to the district engineer's satisfaction, that the title to the artificial reef construction material is unambiguous, that responsibility for maintenance of the reef is clearly established, and that he has the financial ability to assume liability for all damages that may arise with respect to the proposed artificial reef. A demonstration of financial responsibility might include evidence of insurance, sponsorship, or available assets.

(i) A person to whom a permit is issued in accordance with these regulations and any insurer of that person shall not be liable for damages caused by activities required to be undertaken under any terms and conditions of the permit, if the permittee is in compliance with such terms and conditions.

(ii) A person to whom a permit is issued in accordance with these regulations and any insurer of that person shall be liable, to the extent determined under applicable law, for damages to which paragraph (i) does not apply.

(iii) Any person who has transferred title to artificial reef construction materials to a person to whom a permit is issued in accordance with these regulations shall not be liable for damages arising from the use of such materials in an artificial reef, if such materials meet applicable requirements of the plan published under section 204 of the National Artificial Reef Plan, and are not otherwise defective at the time title is transferred.
