
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 322 - PERMITS FOR STRUCTURES OR WORK IN OR AFFECTING NAVIGABLE WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES
#### ยง 322.5 Special policies.
##### Non-Federal dredging for navigation.

(c)(1) The benefits which an authorized Federal navigation project are intended to produce will often require similar and related operations by non-Federal agencies (e.g., dredging access channels to docks and berthing facilities or deepening such channels to correspond to the Federal project depth). These non-Federal activities will be considered by Corps of Engineers officials in planning the construction and maintenance of Federal navigation projects and, to the maximum practical extent, will be coordinated with interested Federal, state, regional and local agencies and the general public simultaneously with the associated Federal projects. Non-Federal activities which are not so coordinated will be individually evaluated in accordance with these regulations. In evaluating the public interest in connection with applications for permits for such coordinated operations, equal treatment will be accorded to the fullest extent possible to both Federal and non-Federal operations. Permits for non-Federal dredging operations will normally contain conditions requiring the permittee to comply with the same practices or requirements utilized in connection with related Federal dredging operations with respect to such matters as turbidity, water quality, containment of material, nature and location of approved spoil disposal areas (non-Federal use of Federal contained disposal areas will be in accordance with laws authorizing such areas and regulations governing their use), extent and period of dredging, and other factors relating to protection of environmental and ecological values.

(2) A permit for the dredging of a channel, slip, or other such project for navigation may also authorize the periodic maintenance dredging of the project. Authorization procedures and limitations for maintenance dredging shall be as prescribed in 33 CFR 325.6(e). The permit will require the permittee to give advance notice to the district engineer each time maintenance dredging is to be performed. Where the maintenance dredging involves the discharge of dredged material into waters of the United States or the transportation of dredged material for the purpose of dumping it in ocean waters, the procedures in 33 CFR parts 323 and 324 respectively shall also be followed.
