
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 322 - PERMITS FOR STRUCTURES OR WORK IN OR AFFECTING NAVIGABLE WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES
#### ยง 322.5 Special policies.
##### Structures for small boats.

(d)(1) In the absence of overriding public interest, favorable consideration will generally be given to applications from riparian owners for permits for piers, boat docks, moorings, platforms and similar structures for small boats. Particular attention will be given to the location and general design of such structures to prevent possible obstructions to navigation with respect to both the public's use of the waterway and the neighboring proprietors' access to the waterway. Obstructions can result from both the existence of the structure, particularly in conjunction with other similar facilities in the immediate vicinity, and from its inability to withstand wave action or other forces which can be expected. District engineers will inform applicants of the hazards involved and encourage safety in location, design, and operation. District engineers will encourage cooperative or group use facilities in lieu of individual proprietary use facilities.

(2) Floating structures for small recreational boats or other recreational purposes in lakes controlled by the Corps of Engineers under a resource manager are normally subject to permit authorities cited in ยง 322.3, of this section, when those waters are regarded as navigable waters of the United States. However, such structures will not be authorized under this regulation but will be regulated under applicable regulations of the Chief of Engineers published in 36 CFR 327.19 if the land surrounding those lakes is under complete Federal ownership. District engineers will delineate those portions of the navigable waters of the United States where this provision is applicable and post notices of this designation in the vicinity of the lake resource manager's office.
