
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 322 - PERMITS FOR STRUCTURES OR WORK IN OR AFFECTING NAVIGABLE WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES
#### ยง 322.5 Special policies.
##### Facilities at the borders of the United States.

(h)(1) The construction, operation, maintenance, or connection of facilities at the borders of the United States are subject to Executive control and must be authorized by the President, Secretary of State, or other delegated official.

(2) Applications for permits for the construction, operation, maintenance, or connection at the borders of the United States of facilities for the transmission of electric energy between the United States and a foreign country, or for the exportation or importation of natural gas to or from a foreign country, must be made to the Secretary of Energy. (Executive Order 10485, September 3, 1953, 16 U.S.C. 824(a)(e), 15 U.S.C. 717(b), as amended by Executive Order 12038, February 3, 1978, and 18 CFR parts 32 and 153).

(3) Applications for the landing or operation of submarine cables must be made to the Federal Communications Commission. (Executive Order 10530, May 10, 1954, 47 U.S.C. 34 to 39, and 47 CFR 1.766).

(4) The Secretary of State is to receive applications for permits for the construction, connection, operation, or maintenance, at the borders of the United States, of pipelines, conveyor belts, and similar facilities for the exportation or importation of petroleum products, coals, minerals, or other products to or from a foreign country; facilities for the exportation or importation of water or sewage to or from a foreign country; and monorails, aerial cable cars, aerial tramways, and similar facilities for the transportation of persons and/or things, to or from a foreign country. (Executive Order 11423, August 16, 1968).

(5) A DA permit under section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1899 is also required for all of the above facilities which affect the navigable waters of the United States, but in each case in which a permit has been issued as provided above, the district engineer, in evaluating the general public interest, may consider the basic existence and operation of the facility to have been primarily examined and permitted as provided by the Executive Orders. Furthermore, in those cases where the construction, maintenance, or operation at the above facilities involves the discharge of dredged or fill material in waters of the United States or the transportation of dredged material for the purpose of dumping it into ocean waters, appropriate DA authorizations under section 404 of the Clean Water Act or under section 103 of the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act of 1972, as amended, are also required. (See 33 CFR parts 323 and 324.)
