
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 322 - PERMITS FOR STRUCTURES OR WORK IN OR AFFECTING NAVIGABLE WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES
#### ยง 322.5 Special policies.
##### Power transmission lines.

(i)(1) Permits under section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1899 are required for power transmission lines crossing navigable waters of the United States unless those lines are part of a water power project subject to the regulatory authorities of the Department of Energy under the Federal Power Act of 1920. If an application is received for a permit for lines which are part of such a water power project, the applicant will be instructed to submit the application to the Department of Energy. If the lines are not part of such a water power project, the application will be processed in accordance with the procedures of these regulations.

(2) The following minimum clearances are required for aerial electric power transmission lines crossing navigable waters of the United States. These clearances are related to the clearances over the navigable channel provided by existing fixed bridges, or the clearances which would be required by the U.S. Coast Guard for new fixed bridges, in the vicinity of the proposed power line crossing. The clearances are based on the low point of the line under conditions which produce the greatest sag, taking into consideration temperature, load, wind, length or span, and type of supports as outlined in the National Electrical Safety Code.

(3) Clearances for communication lines, stream gaging cables, ferry cables, and other aerial crossings are usually required to be a minimum of ten feet above clearances required for bridges. Greater clearances will be required if the public interest so indicates.

(4) Corps of Engineer regulation ER 1110-2-4401 prescribes minimum vertical clearances for power and communication lines over Corps lake projects. In instances where both this regulation and ER 1110-2-4401 apply, the greater minimum clearance is required.
