
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 322 - PERMITS FOR STRUCTURES OR WORK IN OR AFFECTING NAVIGABLE WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES
#### ยง 322.5 Special policies.
##### Seaplane operations.

(j)(1) Structures in navigable waters of the United States associated with seaplane operations require DA permits, but close coordination with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Department of Transportation, is required on such applications.

(2) The FAA must be notified by an applicant whenever he proposes to establish or operate a seaplane base. The FAA will study the proposal and advise the applicant, district engineer, and other interested parties as to the effects of the proposal on the use of airspace. The district engineer will, therefore, refer any objections regarding the effect of the proposal on the use of airspace to the FAA, and give due consideration to its recommendations when evaluating the general public interest.

(3) If the seaplane base would serve air carriers licensed by the Department of Transportation, the applicant must receive an airport operating certificate from the FAA. That certificate reflects a determination and conditions relating to the installation, operation, and maintenance of adequate air navigation facilities and safety equipment. Accordingly, the district engineer may, in evaluating the general public interest, consider such matters to have been primarily evaluated by the FAA.

(4) For regulations pertaining to seaplane landings at Corps of Engineers projects, see 36 CFR 327.4.
