
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 322 - PERMITS FOR STRUCTURES OR WORK IN OR AFFECTING NAVIGABLE WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES
#### ยง 322.5 Special policies.
##### Shipping safety fairways and anchorage areas.

(l)DA permits are required for structures located within shipping safety fairways and anchorage areas established by the U.S. Coast Guard.

(1) The Department of the Army will grant no permits for the erection of structures in areas designated as fairways, except that district engineers may permit anchors and attendant cables or chains for floating or semisubmersible drilling rigs to be placed within a fairway provided the following conditions are met:

(i) The purpose of such anchors and attendant cables or chains as used in this section is to stabilize floating production facilities or semisubmersible drilling rigs which are located outside the boundaries of the fairway.

(ii) In water depths of 600 feet or less, the installation of anchors and attendant cables or chains within fairways must be temporary and shall be allowed to remain only 120 days. This period may be extended by the district engineer provided reasonable cause for such extension can be shown and the extension is otherwise justified. In water depths greater than 600 feet, time restrictions on anchors and attendant cables or chains located within a fairway, whether temporary or permanent, shall not apply.

(iii) Drilling rigs must be at least 500 feet from any fairway boundary or whatever distance necessary to insure that minimum clearance over an anchor line within a fairway will be 125 feet.

(iv) No anchor buoys or floats or related rigging will be allowed on the surface of the water or to a depth of 125 feet from the surface, within the fairway.

(v) Drilling rigs may not be placed closer than 2 nautical miles of any other drilling rig situated along a fairway boundary, and not closer than 3 nautical miles to any drilling rig located on the opposite side of the fairway.

(vi) The permittee must notify the district engineer, Bureau of Land Management, Mineral Management Service, U.S. Coast Guard, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the U.S. Navy Hydrographic Office of the approximate dates (commencement and completion) the anchors will be in place to insure maximum notification to mariners.

(vii) Navigation aids or danger markings must be installed as required by the U.S. Coast Guard.

(2) District engineers may grant permits for the erection of structures within an area designated as an anchorage area, but the number of structures will be limited by spacing, as follows: The center of a structure to be erected shall be not less than two (2) nautical miles from the center of any existing structure. In a drilling or production complex, associated structures shall be as close together as practicable having due consideration for the safety factors involved. A complex of associated structures, when connected by walkways, shall be considered one structure for the purpose of spacing. A vessel fixed in place by moorings and used in conjunction with the associated structures of a drilling or production complex, shall be considered an attendant vessel and its extent shall include its moorings. When a drilling or production complex includes an attendant vessel and the complex extends more than five hundred (500) yards from the center or the complex, a structure to be erected shall be not closer than two (2) nautical miles from the near outer limit of the complex. An underwater completion installation in and anchorage area shall be considered a structure and shall be marked with a lighted buoy as approved by the United States Coast Guard.
