
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 324 - PERMITS FOR OCEAN DUMPING OF DREDGED MATERIAL
#### ยง 324.4 Special procedures.
##### EPA review.

(c)When the Regional Administrator, EPA, in accordance with 40 CFR 225.2(b), advises the district engineer, in writing, that the proposed dumping will comply with the criteria, the district engineer will complete his evaluation of the application under this part and 33 CFR parts 320 and 325. If, however, the Regional Administrator advises the district engineer, in writing, that the proposed dumping does not comply with the criteria, the district engineer will proceed as follows:

(1) The district engineer will determine whether there is an economically feasible alternative method or site available other than the proposed ocean disposal site. If there are other feasible alternative methods or sites available, the district engineer will evaluate them in accordance with 33 CFR parts 320, 322, 323, and 325 and this part, as appropriate.

(2) If the district engineer determines that there is no economically feasible alternative method or site available, and the proposed project is otherwise found to be not contrary to the public interest, he will so advise the Regional Administrator setting forth his reasons for such determination. If the Regional Administrator has not removed his objection within 15 days, the district engineer will submit a report of his determination to the Chief of Engineers for further coordination with the Administrator, EPA, and decision. The report forwarding the case will contain the analysis of whether there are other economically feasible methods or sites available to dispose of the dredged material.
