
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 325 - PROCESSING OF DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY PERMITS
#### ยง 325.4 Conditioning of permits.

(a) District engineers will add special conditions to Department of the Army permits when such conditions are necessary to satisfy legal requirements or to otherwise satisfy the public interest requirement. Permit conditions will be directly related to the impacts of the proposal, appropriate to the scope and degree of those impacts, and reasonably enforceable.

(1) Legal requirements which may be satisfied by means of Corps permit conditions include compliance with the 404(b)(1) guidelines, the EPA ocean dumping criteria, the Endangered Species Act, and requirements imposed by conditions on state section 401 water quality certifications.

(2) Where appropriate, the district engineer may take into account the existence of controls imposed under other federal, state, or local programs which would achieve the objective of the desired condition, or the existence of an enforceable agreement between the applicant and another party concerned with the resource in question, in determining whether a proposal complies with the 404(b)(1) guidelines, ocean dumping criteria, and other applicable statutes, and is not contrary to the public interest. In such cases, the Department of the Army permit will be conditioned to state that material changes in, or a failure to implement and enforce such program or agreement, will be grounds for modifying, suspending, or revoking the permit.

(3) Such conditions may be accomplished on-site, or may be accomplished off-site for mitigation of significant losses which are specifically identifiable, reasonably likely to occur, and of importance to the human or aquatic environment.

(b) District engineers are authorized to add special conditions, exclusive of paragraph (a) of this section, at the applicant's request or to clarify the permit application.

(c) If the district engineer determines that special conditions are necessary to insure the proposal will not be contrary to the public interest, but those conditions would not be reasonably implementable or enforceable, he will deny the permit.
