
# Title 33 - Navigation and Navigable Waters
## Chapter II - Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense
### PART 325 - PROCESSING OF DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY PERMITS
#### ยง 325.8 Authority to issue or deny permits.
##### District engineer's authority.

(b)District engineers are authorized to issue or deny permits in accordance with these regulations pursuant to sections 9 and 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1899; section 404 of the Clean Water Act; and section 103 of the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act of 1972, as amended, in all cases not required to be referred to higher authority (see below). It is essential to the legality of a permit that it contain the name of the district engineer as the issuing officer. However, the permit need not be signed by the district engineer in person but may be signed for and in behalf of him by whomever he designates. In cases where permits are denied for reasons other than navigation or failure to obtain required local, state, or other federal approvals or certifications, the Statement of Findings must conclusively justify a denial decision. District engineers are authorized to deny permits without issuing a public notice or taking other procedural steps where required local, state, or other federal permits for the proposed activity have been denied or where he determines that the activity will clearly interfere with navigation except in all cases required to be referred to higher authority (see below). District engineers are also authorized to add, modify, or delete special conditions in permits in accordance with ยง 325.4 of this part, except for those conditions which may have been imposed by higher authority, and to modify, suspend and revoke permits according to the procedures of ยง 325.7 of this part. District engineers will refer the following applications to the division engineer for resolution:

(1) When a referral is required by a written agreement between the head of a Federal agency and the Secretary of the Army;

(2) When the recommended decision is contrary to the written position of the Governor of the state in which the work would be performed;

(3) When there is substantial doubt as to authority, law, regulations, or policies applicable to the proposed activity;

(4) When higher authority requests the application be forwarded for decision; or

(5) When the district engineer is precluded by law or procedures required by law from taking final action on the application (e.g. section 9 of the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1899, or territorial sea baseline changes).
