
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - GENERAL ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - General Labeling Requirements
###### § 1.24 Exemptions from required label statements.
####### penny candy

(4) Individually wrapped pieces ofand other confectionery of less than one-half ounce net weight per individual piece shall be exempt from the labeling requirements of this part when the container in which such confectionery is shipped is in conformance with the labeling requirements of this part. Similarly, when such confectionery items are sold in bags or boxes, such items shall be exempt from the labeling requirements of this part, including the required declaration of net quantity of contents specified in this part when the declaration on the bag or box meets the requirements of this part.

(5)(i) Soft drinks packaged in bottles shall be exempt from the placement requirements for the statement of identity prescribed by § 101.3 (a) and (d) of this chapter if such statement appears conspicuously on the bottle closure. When such soft drinks are marketed in a multiunit retail package, the multiunit retail package shall be exempt from the statement of identity declaration requirements prescribed by § 101.3 of this chapter if the statement of identity on the unit container is not obscured by the multiunit retail package.

(ii) A multiunit retail package for soft drinks shall be exempt from the declaration regarding name and place of business required by § 101.5 of this chapter if the package does not obscure the declaration on unit containers or if it bears a statement that the declaration can be found on the unit containers and the declaration on the unit containers complies with § 101.5 of this chapter. The declaration required by § 101.5 of this chapter may appear on the top or side of the closure of bottled soft drinks if the statement is conspicuous and easily legible.

(iii) Soft drinks packaged in bottles which display other required label information only on the closure shall be exempt from the placement requirements for the declaration of contents prescribed by § 101.7(f) of this chapter if the required content declaration is blown, formed, or molded into the surface of the bottle in close proximity to the closure.

(iv) Where a trademark on a soft drink package also serves as, or is, a statement of identity, the use of such trademark on the package in lines not parallel to the base on which the package rests shall be exempted from the requirement of § 101.3(d) of this chapter that the statement be in lines parallel to the base so long as there is also at least one statement of identity in lines generally parallel to the base.

(v) A multiunit retail package for soft drinks in cans shall be exempt from the declaration regarding name and place of business required by § 101.5 of this chapter if the package does not obscure the declaration on unit containers or if it bears a statement that the declaration can be found on the unit containers and the declaration on the unit containers complies with § 101.5 of this chapter. The declaration required by § 101.5 of this chapter may appear on the top of soft drinks in cans if the statement is conspicuous and easily legible, provided that when the declaration is embossed, it shall appear in type size at least one-eighth inch in height, or if it is printed, the type size shall not be less than one-sixteenth inch in height. The declaration may follow the curvature of the lid of the can and shall not be removed or obscured by the tab which opens the can.
