
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 7 - ENFORCEMENT POLICY
##### Subpart E - Criminal Violations
###### § 7.87 Records related to opportunities for presentation of views conducted before report of criminal violation.

(a) Records related to a section 305 opportunity for presentation of views constitute investigatory records for law enforcement purposes and may include inter- and intra-agency memorandums.

(1) Notwithstanding the rule established in § 20.21 of this chapter, no record related to a section 305 presentation is available for public disclosure until consideration of criminal prosecution has been closed in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, except as provided in § 20.82 of this chapter. Only very rarely and only under circumstances that demonstrate a compelling public interest will the Commissioner exercise, in accordance with § 20.82 of this chapter, the authorized discretion to disclose records related to a section 305 presentation before the consideration of criminal prosecution is closed.

(2) After consideration of criminal prosecution is closed, the records are available for public disclosure in response to a request under the Freedom of Information Act, except to the extent that the exemptions from disclosure in subpart D of part 20 of this chapter are applicable. No statements obtained through promises of confidentiality shall be available for public disclosure.

(b) Consideration of criminal prosecution based on a particular section 305 notice of opportunity for presentation of views shall be deemed to be closed within the meaning of this section and § 7.85 when a final decision has been made not to recommend criminal prosecution to a United States attorney based on charges set forth in the notice and considered at the presentation, or when such a recommendation has been finally refused by the United States attorney, or when criminal prosecution has been instituted and the matter and all related appeals have been concluded, or when the statute of limitations has run.

(c) Before disclosure of any record specifically reflecting consideration of a possible recommendation for criminal prosecution of any individual, all names and other information that would identify an individual whose prosecution was considered but not recommended, or who was not prosecuted, shall be deleted, unless the Commissioner concludes that there is a compelling public interest in the disclosure of the names.

(d) Names and other information that would identify a Food and Drug Administration employee shall be deleted from records related to a section 305 presentation of views before public disclosure only under § 20.32 of this chapter.
