
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Drugs for Human Use
#### PART 316 - ORPHAN DRUGS
##### Subpart B - Written Recommendations for Investigations of Orphan Drugs
###### ยง 316.10 Content and format of a request for written recommendations.

(a) A sponsor's request for written recommendations from FDA concerning the nonclinical and clinical investigations necessary for approval of a marketing application shall be submitted in the form and contain the information required in this section. FDA may require the sponsor to submit information in addition to that specified in paragraph (b) of this section if FDA determines that the sponsor's initial request does not contain adequate information on which to base recommendations.

(b) A sponsor shall submit two copies of a completed, dated, and signed request for written recommendations that contains the following:

(1) The sponsor's name and address.

(2) A statement that the sponsor is requesting written recommendations on orphan-drug development under section 525 of the act.

(3) The name of the sponsor's primary contact person and/or resident agent, and the person's title, address, and telephone number.

(4) The generic name and trade name, if any, of the drug and a list of the drug product's components or description of the drug product's formulation, and chemical and physical properties.

(5) The proposed dosage form and route of administration.

(6) A description of the disease or condition for which the drug is proposed to be investigated and the proposed indication or indications for use for such disease or condition.

(7) Current regulatory and marketing status and history of the drug product, including:

(i) Whether the product is the subject of an IND or a marketing application (if the product is the subject of an IND or a marketing application, the IND or marketing application numbers should be stated and the investigational or approved indication or indications for use specified);

(ii) Known marketing experience or investigational status outside the United States;

(iii) So far as is known or can be determined, all indications previously or currently under investigation anywhere;

(iv) All adverse regulatory actions taken by the United States or foreign authorities.

(8) The basis for concluding that the drug is for a disease or condition that is rare in the United States, including the following:

(i) The size and other known demographic characteristics of the patient population affected and the source of this information.

(ii) For drugs intended for diseases or conditions affecting 200,000 or more people in the United States, or for a vaccine, diagnostic drug, or preventive drug that would be given to 200,000 or more persons per year, a summary of the sponsor's basis for believing that the disease or condition described in paragraph (b)(6) of this section occurs so infrequently that there is no reasonable expectation that the costs of drug development and marketing will be recovered in future sales of the drug in the United States. The estimated costs and sales data should be submitted as provided for in ยง 316.21(c).

(9) A summary and analysis of available data on the pharmacologic effects of the drug.

(10) A summary and analysis of available nonclinical and clinical data pertinent to the drug and the disease to be studied including copies of pertinent published reports. When a drug proposed for orphan drug designation is intended to treat a life-threatening or severely debilitating illness, especially where no satisfactory alternative therapy exists, the sponsor may wish voluntarily to provide this information. A sponsor of such a drug may be entitled to expeditious development, evaluation, and marketing under 21 CFR part 312, subpart E.

(11) An explanation of how the data summarized and analyzed under paragraphs (b)(9) and (b)(10) of this section support the rationale for use of the drug in the rare disease or condition.

(12) A definition of the population from which subjects will be identified for clinical trials, if known.

(13) A detailed outline of any protocols under which the drug has been or is being studied for the rare disease or condition and a summary and analysis of any available data from such studies.

(14) The sponsor's proposal as to the scope of nonclinical and clinical investigations needed to establish the safety and effectiveness of the drug.

(15) Detailed protocols for each proposed United States or foreign clinical investigation, if available.

(16) Specific questions to be addressed by FDA in its recommendations for nonclinical laboratory studies and clinical investigations.
