
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Drugs for Human Use
#### PART 320 - BIOAVAILABILITY AND BIOEQUIVALENCE REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart B - Procedures for Determining the Bioavailability or Bioequivalence of Drug Products
###### ยง 320.25 Guidelines for the conduct of an in vivo bioavailability study.
####### Extended release formulations.

(f)(1) The purpose of an in vivo bioavailability study involving a drug product for which an extended release claim is made is to determine if all of the following conditions are met:

(i) The drug product meets the extended release claims made for it.

(ii) The bioavailability profile established for the drug product rules out the occurrence of any dose dumping.

(iii) The drug product's steady-state performance is equivalent to a currently marketed nonextended release or extended release drug product that contains the same active drug ingredient or therapeutic moiety and that is subject to an approved full new drug application.

(iv) The drug product's formulation provides consistent pharmacokinetic performance between individual dosage units.

(2) The reference material(s) for such a bioavailability study shall be chosen to permit an appropriate scientific evaluation of the extended release claims made for the drug product. The reference material shall be one of the following or any combination thereof:

(i) A solution or suspension of the active drug ingredient or therapeutic moiety.

(ii) A currently marketed noncontrolled release drug product containing the same active drug ingredient or therapeutic moiety and administered according to the dosage recommendations in the labeling of the noncontrolled release drug product.

(iii) A currently marketed extended release drug product subject to an approved full new drug application containing the same active drug ingredient or therapeutic moiety and administered according to the dosage recommendations in the labeling proposed for the extended release drug product.

(iv) A reference material other than one set forth in paragraph (f)(2) (i), (ii) or (iii) of this section that is appropriate for valid scientific reasons.
