
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Drugs for Human Use
#### PART 328 - OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUG PRODUCTS INTENDED FOR ORAL INGESTION THAT CONTAIN ALCOHOL
##### Subpart B - Ingredients
###### ยง 328.10 Alcohol.

(a) Any over-the-counter (OTC) drug product intended for oral ingestion shall not contain alcohol as an inactive ingredient in concentrations that exceed those established in this part, unless a specific exemption, as provided in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section, has been approved.

(b) For any OTC drug product intended for oral ingestion and labeled for use by adults and children 12 years of age and over, the amount of alcohol in the product shall not exceed 10 percent.

(c) For any OTC drug product intended for oral ingestion and labeled for use by children 6 to under 12 years of age, the amount of alcohol in the product shall not exceed 5 percent.

(d) For any OTC drug product intended for oral ingestion and labeled for use by children under 6 years of age, the amount of alcohol in the product shall not exceed 0.5 percent.

(e) The Food and Drug Administration will grant an exemption from paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section where appropriate, upon petition under the provisions of ยง 10.30 of this chapter. Appropriate cause, such as a specific solubility or manufacturing problem, must be adequately documented in the petition. Decisions with respect to requests for exemption shall be maintained in a permanent file for public review by the Division of Dockets Management (HFA-305), Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852.

(f) Ipecac syrup is exempt from the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section.

(g) The following drugs are temporarily exempt from the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section:

(1) Aromatic Cascara Fluidextract.

(2) Cascara Sagrada Fluidextract.

(3) Orally ingested homeopathic drug products.
