
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Drugs for Human Use
#### PART 330 - OVER-THE-COUNTER (OTC) HUMAN DRUGS WHICH ARE GENERALLY RECOGNIZED AS SAFE AND EFFECTIVE AND NOT MISBRANDED
##### Subpart B - Administrative Procedures
###### ยง 330.10 Procedures for classifying OTC drugs as generally recognized as safe and effective and not misbranded, and for establishing monographs.
####### Amendment of monographs.

(12)(i) The Commissioner may propose on the Commissioner's own initiative to amend or repeal any monograph established pursuant to this section. Any interested person may petition the Commissioner for such proposal pursuant to ยง 10.30 of this chapter. The Commissioner may deny the petition if the Commissioner finds a lack of safety or effectiveness employing the standards in paragraph (a)(4) of this section (in which case the appeal provisions of paragraph (a)(11) of this section shall apply), or the Commissioner may publish a proposed amendment or repeal in theif the Commissioner finds general recognition of safety and effectiveness employing the standards in paragraph (a)(4) of this section. Any interested person may, within 90 days after publication of the proposed order in thefile with the Division of Dockets Management, Food and Drug Administration, written comments in triplicate. Comments may be accompanied by a memorandum or brief in support thereof. All comments may be reviewed in the Division of Dockets Management between the hours of 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. After reviewing the comments, the Commissioner shall publish a final order amending the monograph established under the provisions of paragraph (a)(9) of this section or withdraw the proposal if comments opposing the amendment are persuasive. A new drug application may be submitted in lieu of, or in addition to, a petition under this paragraph.

(ii) A new drug application may be submitted in lieu of a petition to amend the OTC drug monograh only if the drug product with the condition that is the subject of the new drug application has not been marketed on an interim basis (such as under the provisions of paragraph (a)(6)(iii) of this section), all clinical testing has been conducted pursuant to a new drug application plan, and no marketing of the product with the condition for which approval is sought is undertaken prior to approval of the new drug application. The Food and Drug Administration shall handle a new drug application as a petition for amendment of a monograph, and shall review it on that basis, if the provisions of this paragraph preclude approval of a new drug application but permit the granting of such a petition.
