
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Drugs for Human Use
#### PART 330 - OVER-THE-COUNTER (OTC) HUMAN DRUGS WHICH ARE GENERALLY RECOGNIZED AS SAFE AND EFFECTIVE AND NOT MISBRANDED
##### Subpart B - Administrative Procedures
###### ยง 330.10 Procedures for classifying OTC drugs as generally recognized as safe and effective and not misbranded, and for establishing monographs.
####### Tentative final monograph.

(7)(i) After reviewing all comments, reply comments, and any new data and information or, alternatively, after reviewing a panel's recommendations, the Commissioner shall publish in thea tentative order containing a monograph establishing conditions under which a category of OTC drugs or specific OTC drugs are generally recognized as safe and effective and not misbranded. Within 90 days, any interested person may file with the Division of Dockets Management, Food and Drug Administration, written comments or written objections specifying with particularity the omissions or additions requested. These objections are to be supported by a brief statement of the grounds therefor. A request for an oral hearing may accompany such objections.

(ii) The Commissioner may also publish in thea separate tentative order containing a statement of those active ingredients reviewed and proposed to be excluded from the monograph on the basis of the Commissioner's determination that they would result in a drug product not being generally recognized as safe and effective or would result in misbranding. This order may be published when no substantive comments in opposition to the panel report or new data and information were received by the Food and Drug Administration under paragraph (a)(6)(iv) of this section or when the Commissioner has evaluated and concurs with a panel's recommendation that a condition be excluded from the monograph. Within 90 days, any interested person may file with the Division of Dockets Management, Food and Drug Administration, written objections specifying with particularity the provision of the tentative order to which objection is made. These objections are to be supported by a brief statement of the grounds therefor. A request for an oral hearing may accompany such objections.

(iii) Within 12 months after publishing a tentative order pursuant to paragraph (a)(7)(i) of this section, any interested person may file with the Division of Dockets Management, Food and Drug Administration, new data and information to support a condition excluded from the monograph in the tentative order.

(iv) Within 60 days after the final day for submission of new data and information, comments on the new data and information may be filed with the Division of Dockets Management, Food and Drug Administration.

(v) New data and information submitted after the time specified in this paragraph but prior to the establishment of a final monograph will be considered as a petition to amend the monograph and will be considered by the Commissioner only after a final monograph has been published in theunless the Commisisoner finds that good cause has been shown that warrants earlier consideration.
