
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Drugs for Human Use
#### PART 330 - OVER-THE-COUNTER (OTC) HUMAN DRUGS WHICH ARE GENERALLY RECOGNIZED AS SAFE AND EFFECTIVE AND NOT MISBRANDED
##### Subpart B - Administrative Procedures
###### ยง 330.10 Procedures for classifying OTC drugs as generally recognized as safe and effective and not misbranded, and for establishing monographs.
####### Proposed monograph.

(6)After reviewing the conclusions and recommendations of the advisory review panel, the Commissioner shall publish in thea proposed order containing:

(i) A monograph or monographs establishing conditions under which a category of OTC drugs or a specific or specific OTC drugs are generally recognized as safe and effective and not misbranded (Category I).

(ii) A statement of the conditions excluded from the monograph on the basis of the Commissioner's determination that they would result in the drug's not being generally recognized as safe and effective or would result in misbranding (Category II).

(iii) A statement of the conditions excluded from the monograph on the basis of the Commissioner's determination that the available data are insufficient to classify such conditions under either paragraph (a)(6)(i) or (ii) of this section (Category III).

(iv) The full report(s) of the panel to the Commissioner. The proposed order shall specify a reasonable period of time within which conditions falling within paragraph (a)(6)(iii) of this section may be continued in marketed products while the data necessary to support them are being obtained for evaluation by the Food and Drug Administration. The summary minutes of the panel meetings shall be made available to interested persons upon request. Any interested person may, within 90 days after publication of the proposed order in thefile with the Division of Dockets Management of the Food and Drug Administration written comments in triplicate. Comments may be accompanied by a memorandum or brief in support thereof. All comments may be reviewed at the office of the Division of Dockets Management between the hours of 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. Within 30 days after the final day for submission of comments, reply comments may be filed with the Division of Dockets Management; these comments shall be utilized to reply to comments made by other interested persons and not to reiterate a position. The Commissioner may satisfy this requirement by publishing in thea proposed order summarizing the full report of the advisory review panel, containing its conclusions and recommendations, to obtain full public comment before undertaking his own evaluation and decision on the matters involved.
