
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Drugs for Human Use
#### PART 330 - OVER-THE-COUNTER (OTC) HUMAN DRUGS WHICH ARE GENERALLY RECOGNIZED AS SAFE AND EFFECTIVE AND NOT MISBRANDED
##### Subpart B - Administrative Procedures
###### ยง 330.12 Status of over-the-counter (OTC) drugs previously reviewed under the Drug Efficacy Study (DESI).

(a) There were 420 OTC drugs reviewed in the Drug Efficacy Study (a review of drugs introduced to the market through new drug procedures between 1938 and 1962). A careful review has been made of the reports on these drugs to determine those drugs for which implementation may be deferred without significant risk to the public health, pending review by appropriate OTC drug advisory review panels and promulgation of a monograph.

(b) On and after April 20, 1972, a number of notices were published in theconcerning previously unpublished OTC drugs reviewed by the National Academy of Sciences-National Research Council Drug Efficacy Study Group. Only the evaluations and comments of the panels were published, with no conclusions of the Commissioner of Food and Drugs. Those publications were for the purpose of giving interested persons the benefit of the Academy's opinions. For those products, and also for OTC drug products previously published with the Commissioner's conclusions (except for the products listed in paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section, all requests for data, revised labeling, requests for new drug applications, abbreviated new drug applications, updating supplements, data to support less than effective claims, if any, etc., are deferred, and such OTC drug products are instead subject to the OTC drug review in their appropriate classes pursuant to the procedures established in this subpart.

(1) The requirements of the following DESI announcements are not deferred (the reference document may also pertain to prescription drugs):

(i) Certain Surgical Sutures (DESI 4725), published in theof November 11, 1971 (36 FR 21612).

(ii) Absorbable Dusting Powder (DESI 6264), published in theof May 25, 1971 (36 FR 9475).

(iii) Certain Insulin Preparations (DESI 4286), published in theof April 9, 1971 (36 FR 6842).

(iv) Sulfo-Van Ointment (DESI 2230), published in theof October 8, 1970 (35 FR 15860).

(v) Antiperspirants and Deodorants Containing Neomycin Sulfate (DESI 11048) for which an order revoking provisions for certification or release was published in theof December 5, 1972 (37 FR 25820) and has been stayed by the filing of objections.

(vi) Thorexin Cough Medicine (DESI 11160) for which a notice of opportunity for hearing was published in theof February 2, 1973 (38 FR 3210).

(vii) Antibiotic susceptibility discs (DESI 90235) for which an order providing for certain discs to be certified and removing provisions for certification of other discs was published in theof September 30, 1972 (37 FR 20525) and has been stayed by the filing of objections notice of which was published in theof March 15, 1973 (38 FR 7007).

(2) Deferral of requirements is not appropriate when an announcement has been published and has been followed by a final order classifying a drug either as lacking substantial evidence of effectiveness or as not shown to be safe. These products will be removed from the market, if they have not already been removed. Regulatory action will also be undertaken against identical, similar and related products (21 CFR 310.6). Deferral of requirements is not appropriate for the following (the referenced document may also pertain to prescription drugs):

(i) Certain Sulfonamide-Decongestant Nasal Preparation (DESI 4850), for which notice of withdrawal of approval of new drug applications was published in theof October 24, 1970 (35 FR 16605, 16606).

(ii) Eskay's Theranates, containing strychnine, sodium, and calcium glycerophosphates, thiamine hydrochloride, alcohol, and phosphoric acid (DESI 2220), for which notice of withdrawal of approval of the new drug application was published in theof February 18, 1971 (36 FR 3152).

(iii) The following topical drugs (DESI 1726), for which notice of withdrawal of new drug applications was published in theof August 28, 1971 (36 FR 17368):
