
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Drugs for Human Use
#### PART 330 - OVER-THE-COUNTER (OTC) HUMAN DRUGS WHICH ARE GENERALLY RECOGNIZED AS SAFE AND EFFECTIVE AND NOT MISBRANDED
##### Subpart B - Administrative Procedures
###### ยง 330.12 Status of over-the-counter (OTC) drugs previously reviewed under the Drug Efficacy Study (DESI).
####### b

() Zirnox Topical Lotion, containing phenyitoloxamine citrate and zirconium oxide.

(iv) Menacyl Tablets, containing aspirin, menadione, and ascorbic acid (DESI 6363), for which notice of withdrawal of approval of the new drug application was published in theof July 23, 1970 (35 FR 11827).

(v) Curad Medicated Adhesive Bandage containing sulfathiazole (DESI 4964), for which notice of withdrawal of approval of the new drug application was published in theof December 31, 1969 (34 FR 20441).

(vi) Drugs Containing Rutin, Quercetin, Hesperidin, or any Bioflavonoids (DESI 5960), for which notice of withdrawal of approval of new drug applications was published in theof July 3, 1970 (35 FR 10872, 10873) and October 17, 1970 (35 FR 16332). A further notice of opportunity for hearing with respect to the drugs covered by the October 17, 1970notice will be published at a later date.

(vii) Antibiotics in Combination with Other Drugs for Nasal Use (DESI 7561), for which an order revoking provision for certification was published in theof August 6, 1971 (36 FR 14469) and confirmed in theof October 28, 1971 (36 FR 20686).

(viii) Antibiotic Troches (DESI 8328), for which an order revoking provision for certification was published in theof July 14, 1971 (36 FR 13089) and confirmed in theof October 9, 1971 (36 FR 19695).

(ix) Certain Drugs Containing Oxyphenisatin or Oxyphenisatin Acetate (DESI 10732), for which notices of withdrawal of approval of new drug applications were published in theof February 1, 1972 (37 FR 2460), and March 9, 1973 (38 FR 6419).

(x) Curad Medicated Adhesive Bandage containing tyrothricin-nitrofurazone (DESI 6898), for which an order revoking provision for certification was published March 14, 1972 (37 FR 5294), and confirmed in theof July 6, 1972 (37 FR 13254).

(xi) Candette Cough Gel (DESI 11562), for which notice of withdrawal of approval of the new drug application was published in theof November 19, 1972 (37 FR 25249).

(xii) Certain OTC Multiple-Vitamin Preparations for Oral Use containing excessive amounts of vitamin D and/or vitamin A (DESI 97), for which notice of withdrawal of approval of the new drug applications was published in theof November 29, 1972 (37 FR 25249).

(xiii) Certain Sulfonamide-Containing Preparations for Topical Ophthalmic or Otic Use (DESI 368, for which a notice of withdrawal of approval was published in theof February 2, 1973 (38 FR 3208).

(xiv) Those parts of the publication entitled "Certain Mouthwash and Gargle Preparations" (DESI 2855) pertaining to Tyrolaris Mouthwash, containing tyrothricin, panthenol, and alcohol, for which an order revoking provision for certification was published in theof February 2, 1967 (32 FR 1172) prior to the drug efficacy study implementation.

(c) Manufacturers and distributors should take notice that the information on OTC drugs provided by the Drug Efficacy Study review is valuable information as to the deficiencies in the data available to support indications for use. They are encouraged to perform studies to obtain adequate evidence of effectiveness for the review of OTC drugs which is already in progress. In the interim it is in the public interest that manufacturers and distributors of all OTC drugs effect changes in their formulations and/or labeling to bring the products into conformity with current medical knowledge and experience.

(d) Manufacturers and distributors of OTC drugs may be reluctant to make appropriate formulation and/or labeling changes for fear of losing the protection of the so-called "grandfather" provisions of the 1938 Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (sec. 201(p)(1)) and the 1962 amendments to the act (sec. 107(c) of those amendments). To encourage and facilitate prompt changes, the Food and Drug Administration will not take legal action against any OTC drug, other than those not deferred, based on a charge that the product is a new drug and not grandfathered under the act as a result of the changes if the changes in formulation and/or labeling are of the following kind:

(1) The addition to the labeling of warning, contraindications, side effects, and/or precaution information.

(2) The deletion from the labeling of false, misleading, or unsupported indications for use or claims of effectiveness.

(3) Changes in the components or composition of the drug that will give increased assurance that the drug will have its intended effect, yet not raise or contribute any added safety questions.

(4) Changes in the components or composition of the drug which may reasonably be concluded to improve the safety of the drug, without diminishing its effectiveness.

(e) The forbearance from legal action for lack of grandfather protection is an interim procedure designed to encourage appropriate change in formulation and/or labeling during the time period required to review the various classes of OTC drugs. At such time as an applicable OTC drug monograph becomes effective, the interim procedure will automatically be terminated and any appropriate regulatory action will be initiated.
