
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 10 - ADMINISTRATIVE PRACTICES AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - General Administrative Procedures
###### § 10.20 Submission of documents to Division of Dockets Management; computation of time; availability for public disclosure.
####### e.g.

(e) Except as provided in § 10.31(b), all submissions to the Division of Dockets Management will be considered as submitted on the date they are postmarked or, if delivered in person during regular business hours, on the date on which they are delivered, unless a provision in this part, an applicablenotice, or an order issued by an administrative law judge specifically states that the documents must be received by a specified date,, § 10.33(g) relating to a petition for reconsideration, in which case they will be submitted on the date received.

(f) All submissions are to be mailed or delivered in person to the Division of Dockets Management, Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852.

(g) FDA ordinarily will not acknowledge or give receipt for documents, except:

(1) Documents delivered in person or by certified or registered mail with a return receipt requested; and

(2) Petitions for which acknowledgment of receipt of filing is provided by regulation or by customary practice, e.g., § 10.30(c) relating to a citizen petition.

(h) Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal legal holidays are included in computing the time allowed for the submission of documents, except that when the time for submission expires on a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal legal holiday, the period will be extended to include the next business day.

(i) All submissions to the Division of Dockets Management are representations that, to the best of the knowledge, information, and belief of the person making the submission, the statements made in the submission are true and accurate. All submissions are subject to the False Reports to the Government Act (18 U.S.C. 1001) under which a willfully false statement is a criminal offense.

(j) The availability for public examination and copying of submissions to the Division of Dockets Management is governed by the following rules:

(1) Except to the extent provided in paragraphs (j)(2) and (3) of this section, the following submissions, including all supporting material, will be on public display and will be available for public examination between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. Requests for copies of submissions will be filed and handled in accordance with subpart C of part 20:

(i) Petitions.

(ii) Comments on petitions, on documents published in theand on similar public documents.

(iii) Objections and requests for hearings filed under part 12.

(iv) Material submitted at a hearing under § 12.32(a)(2) and parts 12, 13, and 15.

(v) Material placed on public display under the regulations in this chapter, e.g., agency guidance documents developed under § 10.115.

(2)(i) Material prohibited from public disclosure under § 20.63 (clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy) and, except as provided in paragraph (j)(3) of this section, material submitted with objections and requests for hearing filed under part 12, or at a hearing under part 12 or part 13, or an alternative form of public hearing before a public advisory committee or a hearing under § 12.32(a) (2) or (3), of the following types will not be on public display, will not be available for public examination, and will not be available for copying or any other form of verbatim transcription unless it is otherwise available for public disclosure under part 20:
