
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 10 - ADMINISTRATIVE PRACTICES AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - General Administrative Procedures
###### ยง 10.75 Internal agency review of decisions.

(a) A decision of an FDA employee, other than the Commissioner, on a matter, is subject to review by the employee's supervisor under the following circumstances:

(1) At the request of the employee.

(2) On the initiative of the supervisor.

(3) At the request of an interested person outside the agency.

(4) As required by delegations of authority.

(b)(1) The review will be made by consultation between the employee and the supervisor or by review of the administrative file on the matter, or both. The review will ordinarily follow the established agency channels of supervision or review for that matter.

(2) A sponsor, applicant, or manufacturer of a drug or device regulated under the act or the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 262), may request review of a scientific controversy by an appropriate scientific advisory panel as described in section 505(n) of the act, or an advisory committee as described in section 515(g)(2)(B) of the act. The reason(s) for any denial of a request for such review shall be briefly set forth in writing to the requester. Persons who receive a Center denial of their request under this section may submit a request for review of the denial. The request should be sent to the Chief Mediator and Ombudsman.

(c) An interested person outside the agency may request internal agency review of a decision through the established agency channels of supervision or review. Personal review of these matters by center directors or the office of the Commissioner will occur for any of the following purposes:

(1) To resolve an issue that cannot be resolved at lower levels within the agency (e.g., between two parts of a center or other component of the agency, between two centers or other components of the agency, or between the agency and an interested person outside the agency).

(2) To review policy matters requiring the attention of center or agency management.

(3) In unusual situations requiring an immediate review in the public interest.

(4) As required by delegations of authority.

(d) Internal agency review of a decision must be based on the information in the administrative file. If an interested person presents new information not in the file, the matter will be returned to the appropriate lower level in the agency for reevaluation based on the new information.

(e) Each request by an interested person for review of a decision within the Center for Devices and Radiological Health shall also comply with ยง 800.75 of this chapter.
