
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Drugs for Human Use
#### PART 341 - COLD, COUGH, ALLERGY, BRONCHODILATOR, AND ANTIASTHMATIC DRUG PRODUCTS FOR OVER-THE-COUNTER HUMAN USE
##### Subpart C - Labeling
###### ยง 341.90 Professional labeling.
####### For products containing codeine ingredients identified in ยง 341.14(a)(2).

(c)(1) Children 2 to under 6 years of age: Oral dosage is 1 milligram per kilogram body weight per day administered in four equal divided doses. The average body weight for each age may also be used to determine dosage as follows: For children 2 years of age (average body weight, 12 kilograms), the oral dosage is 3 milligrams every 4 to 6 hours, not to exceed 12 milligrams in 24 hours; for children 3 years of age (average body weight, 14 kilograms), the oral dosage is 3.5 milligrams every 4 to 6 hours, not to exceed 14 milligrams in 24 hours; for children 4 years of age (average body weight, 16 kilograms), the oral dosage is 4 milligrams every 4 to 6 hours, not to exceed 16 milligrams in 24 hours: for children 5 years of age (average body weight, 18 kilograms), the oral dosage is 4.5 milligrams every 4 to 6 hours, not to exceed 18 milligrams in 24 hours. The manufacturer must relate these dosages for its specific product dosages for its specific product to the use of the calibrated measuring device discussed in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. If age is used to determine the dose, the directions must include instructions to reduce the dose for low-weight children.

(2) Parents should be instructed to obtain and use a calibrated measuring device for administering the drug to the child, to use extreme care in measuring the dosage, and not exceed the recommended daily dosage.

(3) A dispensing device (such as a dropper calibrated for age or weight) should be dispensed along with the product when it is intended for use in children 2 to under 6 years of age to prevent possible overdose due to improper measuring of the dose.

(4) Codeine is not recommended for use in children under 2 years of age. Children under 2 years may be more susceptible to the respiratory depressant effects of codeine, including respiratory arrest, coma, and death.
