
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 10 - ADMINISTRATIVE PRACTICES AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - General Administrative Procedures
###### ยง 10.80 Dissemination of draft Federal Register notices and regulations.

(a) A representative of FDA may discuss orally or in writing with an interested person ideas and recommendations for notices or regulations. FDA welcomes assistance in developing ideas for, and in gathering the information to support, notices and regulations.

(b) (1) Once it is determined that a notice or proposed regulation will be prepared, the general concepts may be discussed by a representative of FDA with an interested person. Details of a draft of a notice or proposed regulation may be discussed with a person outside the executive branch only with the specific permission of the Commissioner. The permission must be in writing and filed with the Division of Dockets Management.

(2) A draft of a notice or proposed regulation or its preamble, or a portion of either, may be furnished to an interested person outside the executive branch only if it is made available to all interested persons by a notice published in theA draft of a notice or proposed regulation made available in this manner may, without the prior permission of the Commissioner, be discussed with an interested person to clarify and resolve questions raised and concerns expressed about the draft.

(c) After publication of a notice or proposed regulation in theand before preparation of a draft of the final notice or regulation, a representative of FDA may discuss the proposal with an interested person as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(d) (1) Details of a draft of a final notice or regulation may be discussed with an interested person outside the executive branch only with the specific permission of the Commissioner. The permission must be in writing and filed with the Division of Dockets Management.

(2) A draft of a final notice or regulation or its preamble, or any portion of either, may be furnished to an interested person outside the executive branch only if it is made available to all interested persons by a notice published in theexcept as otherwise provided in paragraphs (g) and (j) of this section. A draft of a final notice or regulation made available to an interested person in this manner may, without the prior permission of the Commissioner, be discussed as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(i) The final notice or regulation and its preamble will be prepared solely on the basis of the administrative record.

(ii) If additional technical information from a person outside the executive branch is necessary to draft the final notice or regulation or its preamble, it will be requested by FDA in general terms and furnished directly to the Division of Dockets Management to be included as part of the administrative record.

(iii) If direct discussion by FDA of a draft of a final notice or regulation or its preamble is required with a person outside the executive branch, appropriate protective procedures will be undertaken to make certain that a full and impartial administrative record is established. Such procedures may include either:
