
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 10 - ADMINISTRATIVE PRACTICES AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - General Administrative Procedures
###### § 10.80 Dissemination of draft Federal Register notices and regulations.
####### b

() The preparation of a tentative final regulation or tentative revised final regulation under § 10.40(f)(6), on which interested persons will be given an additional period of time for oral and written comment.

(e) After a final regulation is published, an FDA representative may discuss any aspect of it with an interested person.

(f) In addition to the requirements of this section, the provisions of § 10.55 apply to the promulgation of a regulation subject to § 10.50 and part 12.

(g) A draft of a final food additive color additive, or new animal drug regulation may be furnished to the petitioner for comment on the technical accuracy of the regulation. Every meeting with a petitioner relating to the draft will be recorded in a written memorandum, and all memoranda and correspondence will be filed with the Division of Dockets Management as part of the administrative record of the regulation under the provisions of § 10.65.

(h) In accordance with section 534 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Commissioner shall consult with interested persons and with the Technical Electronic Product Radiation Safety Standards Committee (TEPRSSC) before prescribing any performance standard for an electronic product. Accordingly, the Commissioner shall publish in thean announcement when a proposed or final performance standard, including any amendment, is being considered for an electronic product, and any draft of any proposed or final standard will be furnished to an interested person upon request and may be discussed in detail.

(i) The provisions of § 10.65 apply to meetings and correspondence relating to draft notices and regulations.

(j) The provisions of this section restricting discussion and disclosure of draft notices and regulations do not apply to situations covered by §§ 20.83 through 20.89.
