
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 10 - ADMINISTRATIVE PRACTICES AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - General Administrative Procedures
###### ยง 10.85 Advisory opinions.

(a) An interested person may request an advisory opinion from the Commissioner on a matter of general applicability.

(1) The request will be granted whenever feasible.

(2) The request may be denied if:

(i) The request contains incomplete information on which to base an informed advisory opinion;

(ii) The Commissioner concludes that an advisory opinion cannot reasonably be given on the matter involved;

(iii) The matter is adequately covered by a prior advisory opinion or a regulation;

(iv) The request covers a particular product or ingredient or label and does not raise a policy issue of broad applicability; or

(v) The Commissioner otherwise concludes that an advisory opinion would not be in the public interest.

(b) A request for an advisory opinion is to be submitted in accordance with ยง 10.20, is subject to the provisions of ยง 10.30 (c) through (l), and must be in the following form:

(c) The Commissioner may respond to an oral or written request to the agency as a request for an advisory opinion, in which case the request will be filed with the Division of Dockets Management and be subject to this section.

(d) A statement of policy or interpretation made in the following documents, unless subsequently repudiated by the agency or overruled by a court, will constitute an advisory opinion:

(1) Any portion of anotice other than the text of a proposed or final regulation, e.g., a notice to manufacturers or a preamble to a proposed or final regulation.

(2) Trade Correspondence (T.C. Nos. 1-431 and 1A-8A) issued by FDA between 1938 and 1946.

(3) Compliance policy guides issued by FDA beginning in 1968 and codified in the Compliance Policy Guides manual.
