
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 10 - ADMINISTRATIVE PRACTICES AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - General Administrative Procedures
###### ยง 10.85 Advisory opinions.
####### http://www.fda.gov.

(4) Other documents specifically identified as advisory opinions, e.g., advisory opinions on the performance standard for diagnostic X-ray systems, issued before July 1, 1975, and filed in a permanent public file for prior advisory opinions maintained by the Division of Freedom of Information (ELEM-1029)" and adding in its place "(the Freedom of Information Staff's address is available on the agency's web site at)

(e) An advisory opinion represents the formal position of FDA on a matter and except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, obligates the agency to follow it until it is amended or revoked. The Commissioner may not recommend legal action against a person or product with respect to an action taken in conformity with an advisory opinion which has not been amended or revoked.

(f) In unusual situations involving an immediate and significant danger to health, the Commissioner may take appropriate civil enforcement action contrary to an advisory opinion before amending or revoking the opinion. This action may be taken only with the approval of the Commissioner, who may not delegate this function. Appropriate amendment or revocation of the advisory opinion involved will be expedited.

(g) An advisory opinion may be amended or revoked at any time after it has been issued. Notice of amendment or revocation will be given in the same manner as notice of the advisory opinion was originally given or in theand will be placed on public display as part of the file on the matter in the office of the Division of Dockets Management. The Division of Dockets Management shall maintain a separate chronological index of all advisory opinions filed. The index will specify the date of the request for the advisory opinion, the date of the opinion, and identification of the appropriate file.

(h) Action undertaken or completed in conformity with an advisory opinion which has subsequently been amended or revoked is acceptable to FDA unless the Commissioner determines that substantial public interest considerations preclude continued acceptance. Whenever possible, an amended or revoked advisory opinion will state when action previously undertaken or completed does not remain acceptable, and any transition period that may be applicable.

(i) An interested person may submit written comments on an advisory opinion or modified advisory opinion. Four copies of any comments are to be sent to the Division of Dockets Management for inclusion in the public file on the advisory opinion. Individuals may submit only one copy. Comments will be considered in determining whether further modification of an advisory opinion is warranted.

(j) An advisory opinion may be used in administrative or court proceedings to illustrate acceptable and unacceptable procedures or standards, but not as a legal requirement.

(k) A statement made or advice provided by an FDA employee constitutes an advisory opinion only if it is issued in writing under this section. A statement or advice given by an FDA employee orally, or given in writing but not under this section or ยง 10.90, is an informal communication that represents the best judgment of that employee at that time but does not constitute an advisory opinion, does not necessarily represent the formal position of FDA, and does not bind or otherwise obligate or commit the agency to the views expressed.
