
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Drugs for Human Use
#### PART 346 - ANORECTAL DRUG PRODUCTS FOR OVER-THE-COUNTER HUMAN USE
##### Subpart B - Active Ingredients
###### § 346.22 Permitted combinations of anorectal active ingredients.

(a) Any two, three, or four protectants identified in § 346.14(a) may be combined, except aluminum hydroxide gel in § 346.14(a)(1) and kaolin in § 346.14(a)(5) may not be combined with any ingredient in § 346.14(a) (2), (4), (6), (7), (8) and (10), and (b) (2) and (3), provided that the combined percentage by weight of all protectants in the combination is at least 50 percent of the final product (e.g., 1 gram of a 2-gram dosage unit). Any protectant ingredient included in the combination must be present at a level that contributes at least 12.5 percent by weight (e.g., 0.25 gram of a 2-gram dosage unit), except cod liver oil and shark liver oil. If an ingredient in § 346.14(b) is included in the combination, it must not exceed the concentration limit specified in § 346.14(b).

(b) Any single anorectal ingredient identified in § 346.10, 346.12, 346.16, 346.18, or 346.20 may be combined with up to four protectants in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) Any single local anesthetic identified in § 346.10 may be combined with any single vasoconstrictor identified in § 346.12.

(d) Any single local anesthetic identified in § 346.10 may be combined with any single astringent identified in § 346.18.

(e) Any single local anesthetic identified in § 346.10 may be combined with any single keratolytic identified in § 346.20.

(f) Any single vasoconstrictor identified in § 346.12 may be combined with any single astringent identified in § 346.18.

(g) Any single analgesic, anesthetic, and antipruritic identified in § 346.16 may be combined with any single astringent identified in § 346.18.

(h) Any single analgesic, anesthetic, and antipruritic identified in § 346.16 may be combined with any single keratolytic identified in § 346.20.

(i) Any single astringent identified in § 346.18 may be combined with any single keratolytic identified in § 346.20.

(j) Any single local anesthetic identified in § 346.10 may be combined with any single vasoconstrictor identified in § 346.12 and with any single astringent identified in § 346.18.

(k) Any single local anesthetic identified in § 346.10 may be combined with any single astringent identified in § 346.18 and with any single keratolytic identified in § 346.20.

(l) Any single vasoconstrictor identified in § 346.12 may be combined with any single analgesic, anesthetic, and antipruritic identified in § 346.16 and with any single astringent identified in § 346.18.

(m) Any single analgesic, anesthetic, and antipruritic identified in § 346.16 may be combined with any single astringent identified in § 346.18 and with any single keratolytic identified in § 346.20.

(n) Any combination of ingredients listed in paragraphs (c) through (m) of this section may be combined with up to four protectants in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.

(o) Any product containing calamine for use as a protectant and/or as an astringent and/or containing zinc oxide for use as a protectant and/or as an astringent may not have a total weight of zinc oxide exceeding 25 percent by weight per dosage unit.
