
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Drugs for Human Use
#### PART 346 - ANORECTAL DRUG PRODUCTS FOR OVER-THE-COUNTER HUMAN USE
##### Subpart B - Active Ingredients
###### ยง 346.14 Protectant active ingredients.

(a) The following active ingredients may be used as the sole protectant active ingredient in a product if the ingredient as identified constitutes 50 percent or more by weight of the final product. In addition, the following active ingredients may be used in concentrations of less than 50 percent by weight only when used in combinations in accordance with ยง 346.22 (a), (b), or (n).

(1) Aluminum hydroxide gel.

(2) Cocoa butter.

(3) Glycerin in a 20- to 45-percent (weight/weight) aqueous solution so that the final product contains not less than 10 and not more than 45 percent glycerin (weight/weight). Any combination product containing glycerin must contain at least this minimum amount of glycerin.

(4) Hard fat.

(5) Kaolin.

(6) Lanolin.

(7) Mineral oil.

(8) Petrolatum.

(9) Topical starch.

(10) White petrolatum.

(b) The following active ingredients may not be used as a sole protectant ingredient but may be used in combination with one, two, or three other protectant active ingredients in accordance with ยง 346.22 (a), (b), (n), and (o) and with the following limitations:

(1) Calamine not to exceed 25 percent by weight per dosage unit (based on the zinc oxide content of calamine).

(2) Cod liver oil, provided that the product is labeled so that the amount of the product that is used in a 24-hour period represents a quantity that provides 10,000 U.S.P. units of vitamin A and 400 U.S.P. units of cholecalciferol.

(3) Shark liver oil, provided that the product is labeled so that the amount of the product that is used in a 24-hour period represents a quantity that provides 10,000 U.S.P. units of vitamin A and 400 U.S.P. units of cholecalciferol.

(4) Zinc oxide not to exceed 25 percent by weight per dosage unit.
