
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Drugs for Human Use
#### PART 347 - SKIN PROTECTANT DRUG PRODUCTS FOR OVER-THE-COUNTER HUMAN USE
##### Subpart C - Labeling
###### § 347.50 Labeling of skin protectant drug products.
####### Warnings.

(c)The labeling of the product contains the following warnings under the heading "Warnings":

(1) "For external use only" in accord with § 201.66(c)(5)(i) of this chapter. For products containing only mineral oil in § 347.10(l) or sodium bicarbonate in § 347.10(o), this warning may be omitted if labeling for oral use of the product is also provided.

(2) "When using this product [bullet] do not get into eyes".

(3) "Stop use and ask a doctor if [bullet] condition worsens [bullet] symptoms last more than 7 days or clear up and occur again within a few days".

(4) For products labeled according to § 347.50(b)(1) or (b)(2): "Do not use on [bullet] deep or puncture wounds [bullet] animal bites [bullet] serious burns".

(5) For products containing colloidal oatmeal identified in § 347.10(f) when labeled for use as a soak in a tub. "When using this product [bullet] to avoid slipping, use mat in tub or shower".

(6) For powder products containing kaolin identified in § 347.10(j) or topical starch identified in § 347.10(q)-(i) "Do not use on [bullet] broken skin".

(ii) "When using this product [bullet] keep away from face and mouth to avoid breathing it".

(7) For products containing colloidal oatmeal identified in § 347.10(f) or sodium bicarbonate identified in § 347.10(o) when labeled for use as a soak, compress, or wet dressing. "When using this product [bullet] in some skin conditions, soaking too long may overdry".
