
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Drugs for Human Use
#### PART 347 - SKIN PROTECTANT DRUG PRODUCTS FOR OVER-THE-COUNTER HUMAN USE
##### Subpart C - Labeling
###### § 347.50 Labeling of skin protectant drug products.
####### Products formulated and labeled as a lip protectant and that meet the criteria established in § 201.66(d)(10) of this chapter.

(e)The title, headings, subheadings, and information described in § 201.66(c) of this chapter shall be printed in accordance with the following specifications:

(1) The labeling shall meet the requirements of § 201.66(c) of this chapter except that the title, headings, and information described in § 201.66(c)(1), (c)(3), (c)(6), and (c)(7) may be omitted, and the headings, subheadings, and information described in § 201.66(c)(2), (c)(4), and (c)(5) may be presented as follows:

(i) The active ingredients (§ 201.66(c)(2) of this chapter) shall be listed in alphabetical order.

(ii) The heading and the indication required by § 201.66(c)(4) of this chapter may be limited to: "Use [in bold type] helps" (optional: "prevent and") "protect" (optional: "and relieve") "chapped lips". If both optional terms are used, the indication may be limited to: "Use [in bold type] helps prevent, protect, and relieve chapped lips".

(iii) The "external use only" warning in § 347.50(c)(1) and in § 201.66(c)(5)(i) of this chapter may be omitted. The warnings in § 347.50(c)(2), (c)(3), and (c)(4) are not required.

(iv) The subheadings in § 201.66(c)(5)(iii) through (c)(5)(vi) of this chapter may be omitted, provided the information after the heading "Warning" contains the warning in § 347.50(e)(1)(iii).

(v) The warnings in § 201.66(c)(5)(x) of this chapter may be omitted.

(2) The labeling shall be printed in accordance with the requirements of § 201.66(d) of this chapter except that any requirements related to § 201.66(c)(1), (c)(3), (c)(6), and (c)(7), and the horizontal barlines and hairlines described in § 201.66(d)(8), may be omitted.
