
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 10 - ADMINISTRATIVE PRACTICES AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - General Administrative Procedures
###### ยง 10.95 Participation in outside standard-setting activities.
####### http://www.fda.gov

(2) The letter requesting official FDA participation, the approval form, and the Commissioner's or center director's letter, together with all pertinent background information describing the activities involved, will be included in the public file on standard-setting activities established by the Division of Freedom of Information (ELEM-1029)" and adding in its place "(the Freedom of Information Staff's address is available on the agency's web site at).

(3) The availability for public disclosure of records relating to the activities will be governed by part 20.

(4) An FDA employee appointed as the liaison representative to an activity shall refer all requests for information about or participation in the activity to the group or organization responsible for the activity.

(5) The following minimum standards apply to an outside private standard-setting activity in which FDA employees participate:

(i) The activity will be based upon consideration of sound scientific and technological information, will permit revision on the basis of new information, and will be designed to protect the public against unsafe, ineffective, or deceptive products or practices.

(ii) The activity and resulting standards will not be designed for the economic benefit of any company, group, or organization, will not be used for such antitrust violations as fixing prices or hindering competition, and will not involve establishment of certification or specific approval of individual products or services.

(iii) The group or organization responsible for the standard-setting activity must have a procedure by which an interested person will have an opportunity to provide information and views on the activity and standards involved, without the payment of fees, and the information and views will be considered. How this is accomplished, including whether the presentation will be in person or in writing, will be decided by the group or organization responsible for the activity.

(6) Membership of an FDA employee in an organization that also conducts a standard-setting activity does not invoke the provisions of this section unless the employee participates in the standard-setting activity. Participation in a standard-setting activity is subject to this section.
