
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 10 - ADMINISTRATIVE PRACTICES AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart B - General Administrative Procedures
###### ยง 10.95 Participation in outside standard-setting activities.
####### http://www.fda.gov

(8) Because of the close daily cooperation between FDA and the associations of State and local government officials listed below in this paragraph, and the large number of agency employees who are members of or work with these associations, participation in the activities of these associations is exempt from paragraphs (d)(1) through (7) of this section, except that a list of the committees and other groups of these associations will be included in the public file on standard-setting activities established by the Division of Freedom of Information (ELEM-1029)" and adding in its place "(the Freedom of Information Staff's address is available on the agency's web site at).

(i) American Association of Food Hygiene Veterinarians (AAFHV).

(ii) American Public Health Association (APHA).

(iii) Association of American Feed Control Officials, Inc. (AAFCO).

(iv) Association of Food and Drug Officials (AFDO).

(v) AOAC INTERNATIONAL (AOAC).

(vi) Association of State and Territorial Health Officials (ASTHO).

(vii) Conference for Food Protection (CFP).

(viii) Conference of State Health and Environmental Managers (COSHEM).

(ix) Conference of Radiation Control Program Directors (CRCPD).

(x) International Association of Milk, Food, and Environmental Sanitation, Inc. (IAMFES).

(xi) Interstate Shellfish Sanitation Conference (ISSC).

(xii) National Association of Boards of Pharmacy (NABP).

(xiii) National Association of Departments of Agriculture (NADA).

(xiv) National Conference on Interstate Milk Shipments (NCIMS).

(xv) National Conference of Local Environmental Health Administrators (NCLEHA).

(xvi) National Conference on Weights and Measures (NCWW).

(xvii) National Environmental Health Association (NEHA).

(xviii) National Society of Professional Sanitarians (NSPS).
