
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Drugs for Human Use
#### PART 355 - ANTICARIES DRUG PRODUCTS FOR OVER-THE-COUNTER HUMAN USE
##### Subpart D - Testing Procedures
###### ยง 355.70 Testing procedures for fluoride dentifrice drug products.
####### Biological Testing Procedures for Fluoride Dentifrices

(a) A fluoride dentifrice drug product shall meet the biological test requirements for animal caries reduction and one of the following tests: Enamel solubility reduction or fluoride enamel uptake. The testing procedures for these biological tests are labeled; these testing procedures are on file under Docket No. 80N-0042 in the Division of Dockets Management (HFA-305), Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852, and are available on request to that office.

(b) The United States Pharmacopeia fluoride dentifrice reference standards along with reference standard stability profiles (total fluoride, available fluoride ion, pH, and specific gravity) required to be used in the biological tests are available to any purchaser upon written request to the United States Pharmacopeial Convention, Inc., 1260 Twinbrook Parkway, Rockville, MD 20852.

(c) Alternative testing procedures may be used. Any proposed modification or alternative testing procedures shall be submitted as a petition in accord with ยง 10.30 of this chapter. The petition should contain data to support the modification or data demonstrating that an alternative testing procedure provides results of equivalent accuracy. All information submitted will be subjected to the disclosure rules in part 20 of this chapter.
