
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 10 - ADMINISTRATIVE PRACTICES AND PROCEDURES
##### Subpart C - Electronic Media Coverage of Public Administrative Proceedings; Guideline on Policy and Procedures
###### ยง 10.206 Procedures for electronic media coverage of agency public administrative proceedings.

(a) To facilitate the agency's response to media needs, a person intending to videotape an FDA public administrative proceeding should, whenever possible, provide advance notice to the Press Relations Staff (HFI-20), Office of Public Affairs, Food and Drug Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857, in writing or by telephone (telephone 301-443-4177), at least 48 hours in advance of the proceeding. The Press Relations Staff will inform the presiding officer that the proceeding will be attended by representatives of the electronic media, and ascertain whether any special provisions in addition to those set forth in this subpart are required by the presiding officer. If so, the Press Relations Staff will function as a liaison between the presiding officer and the person intending to record the proceeding in facilitating any procedures in addition to those outlined in this subpart. The presiding officer will not deny access for failure to provide a 48-hour advance notice. Any advance notice may describe the intended length of recording if known, the amount and type of equipment to be used, and any special needs such as interviews.

(b) Cameras should be completely set up before a proceeding is scheduled to begin or during a break in the proceeding and should remain standing in the area designated for electronic media equipment. Cameras may be taken down only during breaks or after the hearing is over. Roving cameras will not be permitted during the proceeding. Any artificial lighting should be unobtrusive. Microphones, like cameras, should be in place before the start of a proceeding and may be taken down as indicated in this paragraph.

(c) When space in the hearing room is limited, the presiding officer may restrict the number of cameras or the equipment present. Should such a restriction become necessary, the pool arrangements are the responsibility of the participating media. The agency encourages the network pool to make copies of the tape, film, or other product available at cost to nonpool participants. However, if this is not possible, the agency may need to use the time of receipt of any advance notice to determine the representation for each category, e.g., one network reporter, one independent reporter, etc.
