
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter D - Drugs for Human Use
#### PART 361 - PRESCRIPTION DRUGS FOR HUMAN USE GENERALLY RECOGNIZED AS SAFE AND EFFECTIVE AND NOT MISBRANDED: DRUGS USED IN RESEARCH
##### ยง 361.1 Radioactive drugs for certain research uses.
###### Membership.

(1)A Radioactive Drug Research Committee shall consist of at least five individuals. Each committee shall include the following three individuals: (i) A physician recognized as a specialist in nuclear medicine, (ii) a person qualified by training and experience to formulate radioactive drugs, and (iii) a person with special competence in radiation safety and radiation dosimetry. The remainder of the committee shall consist of individuals qualified in various disciplines pertinent to the field of nuclear medicine (e.g., radiology, internal medicine, clinical pathology, hematology, endocrinology, radiation therapy, radiation physics, radiation biophysics, health physics, and radiopharmacy). Membership shall be sufficiently diverse to permit expert review of the technical and scientific aspects of proposals submitted to the committee. The addition of consultants in other pertinent medical disciplines is encouraged. A Radioactive Drug Research Committee shall be either associated with a medical institution operated for care of patients and with sufficient scientific expertise to allow for selection of committee members from its faculty, or with a committee established by a State authority to provide advice on radiation health matters. Joint committees involving more than one medical institution which have been established in order to achieve a high level and diversity of experience will be acceptable. The Director of the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research may modify any of the foregoing requirements in a particular situation where alternative factors provide substantially the same composition and association.
