
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 500 - GENERAL
##### Subpart D - Requirements for Specific Animal Drugs
###### ยง 500.65 Epinephrine injection 1:1,000 in 10-milliliter containers for emergency treatment of anaphylactoid shock in cattle, horses, sheep, and swine.

(a) Anaphylactoid reactions in cattle, horses, sheep, and swine occur occasionally from the injection of antibiotics, bacterins, and vaccines. Adequate directions for use of these antibiotics, bacterins, and vaccines can generally be written for use by the laity and thus are available to livestock producers. Epinephrine injection is effective for the treatment of anaphylactoid reactions in animals and would be of value in saving lives of animals if it were readily available at the time of administration of the causative agents. In connection with this problem the Food and Drug Administration has obtained the views of the Advisory Committee on Veterinary Medicine, and other experts, and has concluded that adequate directions for over-the-counter sale of epinephrine injection 1:1,000 can be prepared.

(b) In view of the above, the Commissioner of Food and Drugs has concluded that it is in the public interest to make epinephrine injection 1:1,000 available for sale without a prescription provided that it is packaged in vials not exceeding 10 milliliters and its label bears, in addition to other required information, the following statements in a prominent and conspicuous manner: "For emergency use only in treating anaphylactoid shock. Usual Dosage: Cattle, horses, sheep, and swine-1 cubic centimeter per 100 pounds of body weight. Inject subcutaneously".

(c) The labeling must also bear a description of the symptoms of anaphylactoid shock including glassy eyes, increased salivation, grinding of the teeth, rapid breathing, muscular tremors, staggering gait, and collapse with death following. These symptoms may appear shortly after injection of a bacterin, vaccine, or antibiotic.
