
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 501 - ANIMAL FOOD LABELING
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 501.2 Information panel of package for animal food.
####### Provided,

(3) Packaged foods are exempt from the type size requirements of this paragraph:That:

(i) The package is designed such that it has a total surface area available to bear labeling of less than 12 square inches.

(ii) The label information includes a full list of ingredients in accordance with regulations in this part.

(iii) The information required by paragraph (b) of this section appears on the principal display panel or information panel label in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph (c) except that the type size is not less thaninch in height.

(d) All information required to appear on the principal display panel or on the information panel pursuant to this section shall appear on the same panel unless there is insufficient space. In determining the sufficiency of the available space, any vignettes, design, and other nonmandatory label information shall not be considered. If there is insufficient space for all of this information to appear on a single panel, it may be divided between these two panels except that the information required pursuant to any given section or part shall all appear on the same panel. A food whose label is required to bear the ingredient statement on the principal display panel may bear all other information specified in paragraph (b) of this section on the information panel.

(e) All information appearing on the information panel pursuant to this section shall appear in one place without other intervening material.

(f) If the label of any package of food is too small to accommodate all of the information required by §§ 501.4, 501.5, 501.8, and 501.17, the Commissioner may establish by regulation an acceptable alternative method of disseminating such information to the public, e.g., a type size smaller than one-sixteenth inch in height, or labeling attached to or inserted in the package or available at the point of purchase. A petition requesting such a regulation, as an amendment to this paragraph shall be submitted pursuant to part 10 of this chapter.
