
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 12 - FORMAL EVIDENTIARY PUBLIC HEARING
##### Subpart B - Initiation of Proceedings
###### ยง 12.22 Filing objections and requests for a hearing on a regulation or order.

(a) Objections and requests for a hearing under ยง 12.20(d) must be submitted to the Division of Dockets Management and will be accepted for filing if they meet the following conditions:

(1) They are submitted within the time specified in ยง 12.20(e).

(2) Each objection is separately numbered.

(3) Each objection specifies with particularity the provision of the regulation or proposed order objected to.

(4) Each objection on which a hearing is requested specifically so states. Failure to request a hearing on an objection constitutes a waiver of the right to a hearing on that objection.

(5) Each objection for which a hearing is requested includes a detailed description and analysis of the factual information to be presented in support of the objection. Failure to include a description and analysis for an objection constitutes a waiver of the right to a hearing on that objection. The description and analysis may be used only for the purpose of determining whether a hearing has been justified under ยง 12.24, and do not limit the evidence that may be presented if a hearing is granted.

(i) A copy of any report, article, survey, or other written document relied upon must be submitted, except if the document is-
