
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 12 - FORMAL EVIDENTIARY PUBLIC HEARING
##### Subpart B - Initiation of Proceedings
###### § 12.22 Filing objections and requests for a hearing on a regulation or order.
####### b

() A recognized medical or scientific textbook that is readily available to the agency.

(ii) A summary of the nondocumentary testimony to be presented by any witnesses relied upon must be submitted.

(b) Requests for hearing submitted under § 12.21 will be submitted to the Division of Dockets Management and will be accepted for filing if they meet the following conditions:

(1) They are submitted on or before the 30th day after the date of publication of the notice of opportunity for hearing.

(2) They comply with §§ 314.200, 514.200, or 601.7(a).

(c) If an objection or request for a public hearing fails to meet the requirements of this section and the deficiency becomes known to the Division of Dockets Management, the Division of Dockets Management shall return it with a copy of the applicable regulations, indicating those provisions not complied with. A deficient objection or request for a hearing may be supplemented and subsequently filed if submitted within the 30-day time period specified in § 12.20(e) or § 12.21(b).

(d) If another person objects to a regulation issued in response to a petition submitted under § 12.20(a)(2), the petitioner may submit a written reply to the Division of Dockets Management.
