
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 507 - CURRENT GOOD MANUFACTURING PRACTICE, HAZARD ANALYSIS, AND RISK-BASED PREVENTIVE CONTROLS FOR FOOD FOR ANIMALS
##### Subpart C - Hazard Analysis and Risk-Based Preventive Controls
###### ยง 507.34 Preventive controls.

(a)(1) You must identify and implement preventive controls to provide assurances that any hazards requiring a preventive control will be significantly minimized or prevented and the animal food manufactured, processed, packed, or held by your facility will not be adulterated under section 402 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act; and

(2) Preventive controls required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section include:

(i) Controls at critical control points (CCPs), if there are any CCPs; and

(ii) Controls, other than those at CCPs, that are also appropriate for animal food safety.

(b) Preventive controls must be written.

(c) Preventive controls include, as appropriate to the facility and animal food:

(1) Process controls. Process controls include procedures, practices, and processes to ensure the control of parameters during operations such as heat processing, irradiating, and refrigerating animal food. Process controls must include, as appropriate to the nature of the applicable control and its role in the facility's food safety system:

(i) Parameters associated with the control of the hazard; and

(ii) The maximum or minimum value, or combination of values, to which any biological, chemical, or physical parameter must be controlled to significantly minimize or prevent a hazard requiring a process control.

(2) Sanitation controls. Sanitation controls include procedures, practices, and processes to ensure that the facility is maintained in a sanitary condition adequate to significantly minimize or prevent hazards such as environmental pathogens and biological hazards due to employee handling. Sanitation controls must include, as appropriate to the facility and the animal food, procedures, practices, and processes for the:

(i) Cleanliness of animal food-contact surfaces, including animal food-contact surfaces of utensils and equipment; and

(ii) Prevention of cross-contamination from insanitary objects and from personnel to animal food, animal food-packaging material, and other animal food-contact surfaces and from raw product to processed product.

(3) Supply-chain controls. Supply-chain controls include the supply-chain program as required by subpart E of this part;

(4) A recall plan as required by ยง 507.38; and

(5) Other preventive controls. These include any other procedures, practices, and processes necessary to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. Examples of other controls include hygiene training and other current good manufacturing practices.
