
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 510 - NEW ANIMAL DRUGS
##### Subpart C - Import Tolerances for Residues of Unapproved New Animal Drugs in Food
###### § 510.205 Content and administration of a request.
####### https://www.fda.gov/industry/electronic-submissions-gateway.

(b) Requests shall be submitted and addressed to the Document Control Unit (HFV-199), Center for Veterinary Medicine, Food and Drug Administration, 7500 Standish Pl., Rockville, MD 20855. Requests may be submitted in an electronic format as authorized by FDA. See FDA&#x2032;s Electronic Submissions Gateway website:

(c) Any material submitted in a foreign language shall be accompanied by a complete and accurate English translation. Translations of literature printed in a language other than English shall be accompanied by copies of the original publication.

(d) The request must be dated and must be signed by the requester or by his or her authorized attorney, agent, or official and shall state the requester's correspondence address. If the requester or such authorized representative does not reside or have a place of business within the United States, the requester must also furnish the name and post office address of, and the request must be countersigned by, an authorized attorney, agent, or official residing or maintaining a place of business within the United States.

(e) The request must include the following information:

(1) The established name and all pertinent information concerning the new animal drug, including chemical identity and composition of the new animal drug, and its physical, chemical, and biological properties;

(2) The conditions of use for the new animal drug, including the route of administration and dosage, together with all labeling, directions, and recommendations regarding the uses in countries in which the new animal drug is lawfully used;

(3) The proposed import tolerance(s) for residues of the new animal drug;

(4) Human food safety information to support the proposed import tolerance(s) in either of the following forms:

(i) If a permanent maximum residue limit (MRL) has been established by the Codex Alimentarius Committee (Codex MRL), the requester shall provide the permanent Codex MRL and monographs and reports from the Joint Expert Committee on Food Additives (JECFA) of the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and the World Health Organization (WHO) of the United Nations and/or monographs and reports from the Joint FAO/WHO Meeting on Pesticide Residues (JMPR) that support the development of the permanent Codex MRL. FDA may request additional information as needed.

(ii) If no permanent Codex MRL has been established, or upon notification by FDA, the requester must provide full reports of investigations made with respect to the human food safety of the new animal drug. A request may be regarded as incomplete unless it includes full reports of adequate tests by all methods reasonably applicable to show whether or not any imported edible portion of any animal receiving the new animal drug will be safe for human consumption. The reports must include detailed data derived from appropriate animal and other biological experiments in which the methods used and the results obtained are clearly set forth, including data submitted to the appropriate regulatory authority in any country where the new animal drug is lawfully used. The request must also include a statement that all such reports have been submitted or contain an explanation of why such reports were not submitted. With respect to each nonclinical laboratory study contained in the request, the requestor must submit either a statement that the study was conducted in compliance with the good laboratory practice regulations set forth in part 58 of this chapter, or, if the study was not conducted in compliance with such regulations, a brief statement of the reason for the noncompliance, and how this may have impacted the study;

(5) Other human food safety information as deemed necessary by the Commissioner;

(6) A description of practicable methods for determining the quantity, if any, of the new animal drug in or on food, and any substance formed in or on food because of its use;

(7) An environmental assessment under § 25.40 of this chapter; and

(8) Any information required under §§ 500.80 through 500.92 of this chapter (Subpart E, Regulation of Carcinogenic Compounds Used in Food-Producing Animals), where applicable.

(f) A request to amend an established import tolerance must contain information to support each proposed change. The request may omit statements made in the original request for which no change is proposed.

(g) The requester may withdraw the request at any time before the notification provided for in § 510.207(a) of this chapter has been made publicly available.
