
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 510 - NEW ANIMAL DRUGS
##### Subpart C - Import Tolerances for Residues of Unapproved New Animal Drugs in Food
###### § 510.207 Disclosure of information submitted in a request.

(a) When a request is determined to be complete for FDA's consideration, the Commissioner will provide public notification of the request containing the name of the requester and a brief description of the request in general terms. A copy of the notification will be sent to the requester at the time the information is made available to the public.

(b) Any notification establishing, amending, or revoking an import tolerance will be made publicly available. A summary of the basis for the decision will be publicly released in accordance with the provisions of part 20 of this chapter. If FDA determines that the new animal drug referred to in the request is a new animal drug that induces cancer when ingested by people or animals, and the requester complies with the requirements of §§ 500.80 through 500.92 of this chapter (Subpart E, Regulation of Carcinogenic Compounds Used in Food-Producing Animals), the regulatory method for ascertaining the marker residue in the target tissue will be made publicly available. All information and safety data submitted with the request, or previously submitted information incorporated in, and considered as part of, a request on the basis of specific reference to such information, shall be available for public disclosure, also in accordance with the provisions of part 20 of this chapter. Trade secrets and confidential commercial or financial information are exempted from release under § 20.61 of this chapter.
