
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 511 - NEW ANIMAL DRUGS FOR INVESTIGATIONAL USE
##### ยง 511.1 New animal drugs for investigational use exempt from section 512(a) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
###### c

(ii) Data to show that food derived from animals treated at the maximum levels and with the minimum withdrawal periods, if any, specified in accordance with paragraph (b)(4)(v)() of this section, does not contain drug residues or metabolites.

(iii) The name and location of the packing plant where the animals will be processed, except that this requirement may be waived, on request, by the terms of the authorization.

(6) On written request of FDA, the sponsor shall submit any additional information reported to or otherwise received by him with respect to the investigation deemed necessary to facilitate a determination whether there are grounds in the interest of public health for terminating the exemption.

(7) The sponsor shall assure himself that the new animal drug is shipped only to investigators who:

(i) Are qualified by scientific training and/experience to evaluate the safety and/or effectiveness of the new animal drug.

(ii) Shall maintain complete records of the investigations, including complete records of the receipt and disposition of each shipment or delivery of the new animal drug under investigation. Copies of all records of the investigation shall be retained by the investigator for 2 years after the termination of the investigation or approval of a new animal drug application.

(iii) Shall furnish adequate and timely reports of the investigation to the sponsor.

(8) The sponsor:

(i) Shall retain all reports received from investigators for 2 years after the termination of the investigation or approval of a new animal drug application and make such reports available to a duly authorized employee of the Department for inspection at all reasonable times.

(ii) Shall provide for current monitoring of the investigation by a person qualified by scientific training and experience to evaluate information obtained from the investigation, and shall promptly investigate and report to FDA and to all investigators any findings associated with use of the new animal drug that may suggest significant hazards pertinent to the safety of the new animal drug.

(iii) Shall not unduly prolong distribution of the new animal drug for investigational use.

(iv) Shall not, nor shall any person acting for or on behalf of the sponsor, represent that the new animal drug is safe or effective for the purposes for which it is under investigation. This requirement is not intended to restrict the full exchange of scientific information.

(v) Shall not commercially distribute nor test-market the new animal drug until a new animal drug application is approved pursuant to section 512(c) of the act.

(9) If the shipment or other delivery of the new animal drug is imported or offered for importation into the United States for clinical investigational use in animals, it shall also meet the following conditions:

(i) The importer of all such shipments or deliveries is an agent of the foreign exporter residing in the United States or the ultimate consignee, which person has, prior to such shipments and deliveries, informed FDA of his intention to import the new animal drug as sponsor in compliance with the conditions prescribed in this subdivision; or

(ii) The new animal drug is shipped directly to a scientific institution with adequate facilities and qualified personnel to conduct laboratory or clinical investigations and is intended solely for use in such institutions and which institution has submitted a statement as sponsor of the investigation.

(10) The sponsor shall submit either a claim for categorical exclusion under ยง 25.30 or ยง 25.33 of this chapter or an environmental assessment under ยง 25.40 of this chapter.
