
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 511 - NEW ANIMAL DRUGS FOR INVESTIGATIONAL USE
##### ยง 511.1 New animal drugs for investigational use exempt from section 512(a) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
###### New animal drugs for clinical investigation in animals.

(b)A shipment or other delivery of a new animal drug or an animal feed containing a new animal drug intended for clinical investigational use in animals shall be exempt from section 512(a) and (m) of the act if all the following conditions are met:

(1) The label shall bear the statements:

In the case of containers too small or otherwise unable to accommodate a label with sufficient space to bear the caution statements required by paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, the statements may be included on the carton label and other labeling on or within the package from which the new animal drug is to be dispensed.

(2) The person or firm distributing or causing the distribution of the new animal drug or animal feed containing a new animal drug shall use due diligence to assure that the new animal drug or animal feed containing a new animal drug will actually be used for tests in animals and is not used in humans.

(3) The person who introduced such shipment or who delivered the new animal drug or animal feed containing a new animal drug for introduction into interstate commerce shall maintain adequate records showing the name and post office address of the investigator to whom the new animal drug or animal feed containing a new animal drug is shipped and the date, quantity, and batch or code mark of each shipment and delivery for a period of 2 years after such shipment and delivery. Upon the request of a properly authorized employee of the Department at reasonable times, such records shall be made available for inspection and copying.

(4) Prior to shipment of the new animal drug for clinical tests in animals, the sponsor of the investigation shall submit in triplicate to FDA a "Notice of Claimed Investigational Exemption for a New Animal Drug" including a signed statement containing the following information:

(i) The identity of the new animal drug.

(ii) All labeling and other pertinent information to be supplied to the investigators. When such pertinent information includes nonclinical laboratory studies, the information shall include, with respect to each nonclinical study, either a statement that the study was conducted in compliance with the requirements set forth in part 58 of this chapter, or, if the study was not conducted in compliance with such regulations, a brief statement of the reason for the noncompliance.

(iii) The name and address of each clinical investigator.

(iv) The approximate number of animals to be treated (or if not available, the amount of new animal drug to be shipped).

(v) If the new animal drug is given to food-producing animals, the statement shall contain the following additional information:
