
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 514 - NEW ANIMAL DRUG APPLICATIONS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 514.1 Applications.

(a) Applications to be filed under section 512(b) of the act shall be submitted in the form and contain the information described in paragraph (b) of this section, as appropriate to support the particular submission. If any part of the application is in a foreign language, an accurate and complete English translation shall be appended to such part. Translations of literature printed in a foreign language shall be accompanied by copies of the original publication. The application must be signed by the applicant or by an authorized attorney, agent, or official. If the applicant or such authorized representative does not reside or have a place of business within the United States, the application must also furnish the name and post office address of, and must be countersigned by, an authorized attorney, agent, or official residing or maintaining a place of business within the United States. Pertinent information may be incorporated in, and will be considered as part of, an application on the basis of specific reference to such information, including information submitted under the provisions of ยง 511.1 of this chapter, in the files of the Food and Drug Administration; however, the reference must be specific in identifying the information. Any reference to information furnished by a person other than the applicant may not be considered unless its use is authorized in a written statement signed by the person who submitted it.

(b) Applications for new animal drugs shall be submitted in triplicate and assembled in the manner prescribed by paragraph (b)(15) of this section, and shall include the following information, as appropriate to support the particular submission:
