
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 514 - NEW ANIMAL DRUG APPLICATIONS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 514.1 Applications.
####### Components and composition.

(4)A complete list of all articles used for production of the new animal drug including a full list of the composition of each article:

(i) A full list of the articles used as components of the new animal drug. This list should include all substances used in the synthesis, extraction, or other method of preparation of any new animal drug and in the preparation of the finished dosage form, regardless of whether they undergo chemical change or are removed in the process. Each component should be identified by its established name, if any, or complete chemical name, using structural formulas when necessary for specific identification. If any proprietary name is used, it should be followed by a complete quantitative statement of composition. Reasonable alternatives for any listed component may be specified.

(ii) A full statement of the composition of the new animal drug. The statement shall set forth the name and amount of each ingredient, whether active or not, contained in a stated quantity of the new animal drug in the form in which it is to be distributed (for example, amount per tablet or milliliter) and a batch formula representative of that to be employed for the manufacture of the finished dosage form. All components should be included in the batch formula regardless of whether they appear in the finished product. Any calculated excess of an ingredient over the label declaration should be designated as such and percent excess shown. Reasonable variation may be specified.

(iii) If it is a new animal drug produced by fermentation:
