
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 514 - NEW ANIMAL DRUG APPLICATIONS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 514.1 Applications.
####### Manufacturing methods, facilities, and controls.

(5)A full description of the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the manufacture, processing, and packing of the new animal drug. This description should include full information with respect to any new animal drug in sufficient detail to permit evaluation of the adequacy of the described methods of manufacture, processing, and packing, and the described facilities and controls to determine and preserve the identity, strength, quality, and purity of the new animal drug, and the following:

(i) If the applicant does not himself perform all the manufacturing, processing, packaging, labeling, and control operations for any new animal drug, he shall: Identify each person who will perform any part of such operations and designate the part; and provide a signed statement from each such person fully describing, directly or by reference, the methods, facilities, and controls he will use in his part of the operation. The statement shall include a commitment that no changes will be made without prior approval by the Food and Drug Administration, unless permitted under ยง 514.8.

(ii) A description of the qualifications, including educational background and experience, of the technical and professional personnel who are responsible for assuring that the new animal drug has the identity, strength, quality, and purity it purports or is represented to possess, and a statement of their responsibilities.

(iii) A description of the physical facilities including building and equipment used in manufacturing, processing, packaging, labeling, storage, and control operations.

(iv) The methods used in the synthesis, extraction, isolation, or purification of any new animal drug. When the specifications and controls applied to such new animal drugs are inadequate in themselves to determine its identity, strength, quality, and purity, the methods should be described in sufficient detail, including quantities used, times, temperature, pH, solvents, etc., to determine these characteristics. Alternative methods or variations in methods within reasonable limits that do not affect such characteristics of the new animal drug may be specified. A flow sheet and indicated equations should be submitted when needed to explain the process.

(v) Precautions to insure proper identity, strength, quality, and purity of the raw materials, whether active or not, including:
