
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 514 - NEW ANIMAL DRUG APPLICATIONS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 514.1 Applications.
####### b

() If the article is one that is represented to be sterile, the same information with regard to the manufacturing, processing, packaging, and the collection of samples of the drug should be given for sterility controls. Include the standards used for acceptance of each lot of the finished drug.

(viii) An explanation of the exact significance of any batch control numbers used in the manufacturing, processing, packaging, and labeling of the new animal drug, including such control numbers that may appear on the label of the finished article. State whether these numbers enable determination of the complete manufacturing history of the product. Describe any methods used to permit determination of the distribution of any batch if its recall is required.

(ix) Adequate information with respect to the characteristics of and the test methods employed for the container, closure, or other component parts of the drug package to assure their suitability for the intended use.

(x) A complete description of, and data derived from, studies of the stability of the new animal drug in the final dosage form, including information showing the suitability of the analytical methods used. A description of any additional stability studies underway or planned. Stability data for the finished dosage form of the new animal drug in the container in which it is to be marketed, including any proposed multiple dose container, and, if it is to be put into solution at the time of dispensing, for the solution prepared as directed. If the new animal drug is intended for use in the manufacture of Type C medicated feed as defined in ยง 558.3 of this chapter, stability data derived from studies in which representative formulations of the medicated feed articles are used. Similar data may be required for Type B medicated feeds as determined by the Food and Drug Administration on a case-by-case basis. Expiration dates shall be proposed for finished pharmaceutical dosage forms and Type A medicated articles. If the data indicate that an expiration date is needed for Type B or Type C medicated feeds, the applicant shall propose such expiration date. If no expiration date is proposed for Type B or Type C medicated feeds, the applicant shall justify its absence with data.

(xi) Additional procedures employed which are designed to prevent contamination and otherwise assure proper control of the product. An application may be refused unless it includes adequate information showing that the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the manufacturing, processing, and packaging of the new animal drug are adequate to preserve its identity, strength, quality, and purity in conformity with good manufacturing practice and identifies each establishment, showing the location of the plant conducting these operations.
