
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 514 - NEW ANIMAL DRUG APPLICATIONS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 514.1 Applications.
####### Assembling and binding the application.

(15)Assemble and bind an original and two copies of the application as follows:

(i) Bind the original or ribbon copy of the application as copy No. 1.

(ii) Bind two identical copies as copy No. 2 and copy No. 3.

(iii) Identify each front cover with the name of the applicant, new animal drug, and the copy number.

(iv) Number each page of the application sequentially in the upper right hand corner or in another location so that the page numbers remain legible after the application has been bound, and organize the application consistent with paragraphs (b) (1) through (14) of this section. Each copy should bear the same page numbering, whether sequential in each volume or continuous and sequential throughout the application.

(v) Include complete labeling in each of the copies. It is suggested that labeling be identified by date of printing or date of preparation.

(vi) Submit separate applications for each different dosage form of the drug proposed. Repeating basic information pertinent to all dosage forms in each application is unnecessary if reference is made to the application containing such information. Include in each application information applicable to the specific dosage form, such as labeling, composition, stability data, and method of manufacture.

(vii) Submit in folders amendments, supplements, and other correspondence sent after submission of an original application. The front cover of these submissions should be identified with the name of the applicant, new animal drug, copy number, and the new animal drug application number, if known.

(c) When a new animal drug application is submitted for a new animal drug which has a stimulant, depressant, or hallucinogenic effect on the central nervous system, if it appears that the drug has a potential for abuse, the Commissioner shall forward that information to the Attorney General of the United States.
