
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 12 - FORMAL EVIDENTIARY PUBLIC HEARING
##### Subpart E - Hearing Procedures
###### § 12.92 Prehearing conference procedure.

(a) Participants in a hearing are to appear at the prehearing conference prepared to discuss and resolve all matters specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(1) To expedite the hearing, participants are encouraged to prepare in advance for the prehearing conference. Participants should cooperate with each other, and request information and begin preparation of testimony at the earliest possible time. Failure of a participant to appear at the prehearing conference or to raise matters that could reasonably be anticipated and resolved at that time will not delay the progress of the hearing, and constitutes a waiver of the rights of the participant regarding such matters as objections to the agreements reached, actions taken, or rulings issued by the presiding officer and may be grounds for striking the participation under § 12.45.

(2) Participants shall bring to the prehearing conference the following specific information, which will be filed with the Division of Dockets Management under § 12.80:

(i) Any additional information to supplement the submission filed under § 12.85, which may be filed if approved under § 12.85(c).

(ii) A list of all witnesses whose testimony will be offered, orally or in writing, at the hearing, with a full curriculum vitae for each. Additional witnesses may later be identified, with the approval of the presiding officer, on a showing that the witness was not reasonably available at the time of the prehearing conference or the relevance of the witness' views could not reasonably have been foreseen at that time.

(iii) All prior written statements including articles and any written statement signed or adopted, or a recording or transcription of an oral statement made, by persons identified as witnesses if-
