
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 514 - NEW ANIMAL DRUG APPLICATIONS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 514.8 Supplements and other changes to an approved application.
####### Manufacturing changes to an approved application,General provisions.

(b)-(1)(i) The applicant must notify FDA about each change in each condition established in an approved application beyond the variations already provided for in the application. The notice is required to describe the change fully. Depending on the type of change, the applicant must notify FDA about it in a supplement under paragraph (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section or by inclusion of the information in the annual report to the application under paragraph (b)(4) of this section.

(ii) The holder of an approved application under section 512 of the act must assess the effects of the change before distributing a drug made with a manufacturing change.

(iii) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section, an applicant must make a change provided for in those paragraphs in accordance with a regulation or guidance that provides for a less burdensome notification of the change (for example, by submission of a supplement that does not require approval prior to distribution of the drug, or by notification in the next annual report described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section).

(iv) In each supplement and amendment to a supplement providing for a change under paragraph (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section, the applicant must include a statement certifying that a field copy has been provided to the appropriate FDA district office. No field copy is required for a supplement providing for a change made to a drug manufactured outside of the United States.

(v) A supplement or annual report described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section must include a list of all changes contained in the supplement or annual report. For supplements, this list must be provided in the cover letter.
