
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 514 - NEW ANIMAL DRUG APPLICATIONS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 514.8 Supplements and other changes to an approved application.
####### 2

() Replacement of equipment with that of a different design that does not affect the process methodology or process operating parameters.

(C) Relaxation of an acceptance criterion or deletion of a test to comply with an official compendium that is consistent with FDA statutory and regulatory requirements.

(iii) A supplement submitted under paragraph (b)(3)(i) or (b)(3)(vi) of this section is required to give a full explanation of the basis for the change and identify the date on which the change is made. The supplement submitted under paragraph (b)(3)(i) must be labeled "Supplement-Changes Being Effected in 30 Days."

(iv) Pending approval of the supplement by FDA and except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(vi) of this section, distribution of the drug made using the change may begin not less than 30 days after receipt of the supplement by FDA. The information listed in paragraphs (b)(2)(iii)(A) through (b)(2)(iii)(J) of this section must be contained in the supplement.

(v) The applicant must not distribute the drug made using the change if within 30 days following FDA's receipt of the supplement, FDA informs the applicant that either:

(A) The change requires approval prior to distribution of the drug in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section; or

(B) Any of the information required under paragraph (b)(3)(iv) of this section is missing. In this case, the applicant must not distribute the drug made using the change until the supplement has been amended to provide the missing information.

(vi) The agency may designate a category of changes for the purpose of providing that, in the case of a change in such category, the holder of an approved application may commence distribution of the drug involved upon receipt by the agency of a supplement for the change. The information listed in paragraphs (b)(2)(iii)(A) through (b)(2)(iii)(J) of this section must be contained in the supplement. The supplement must be labeled "Supplement-Changes Being Effected." These changes include, but are not limited to:

(A) Addition to a specification or changes in the methods or controls to provide increased assurance that the drug will have the characteristics of identity, strength, quality, purity, or potency that it purports or is represented to possess; and

(B) A change in the size and/or shape of a container for a nonsterile drug product, except for solid dosage forms, without a change in the labeled amount of drug product or from one container closure system to another.

(vii) If the agency disapproves the supplemental application, it may order the manufacturer to cease distribution of the drug(s) made with the manufacturing change.
