
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 514 - NEW ANIMAL DRUG APPLICATIONS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 514.11 Confidentiality of data and information in a new animal drug application file.
####### NADA file

(a) For purposes of this section theincludes all data and information submitted with or incorporated by reference in the NADA, INAD's incorporated into the NADA, supplemental NADA's, reports under §§ 514.80 and 510.301 of this chapter, master files, and other related submissions. The availability for public disclosure of any record in the NADA file shall be handled in accordance with the provisions of this section.

(b) The existence of an NADA file will not be disclosed by the Food and Drug Administration before the application has been approved, unless it has been previously disclosed or acknowledged.

(c) If the existence of an NADA file has not been publicly disclosed or acknowledged, no data or information in the NADA file is available for public disclosure.

(d) If the existence of an NADA file has been publicly disclosed or acknowledged before the application has been approved, no data or information contained in the file is available for public disclosure, but the Commissioner may, in his discretion, disclose a summary of such selected portions of the safety and effectiveness data as are appropriate for public consideration of a specific pending issue, i.e., at an open session of a Food and Drug Administration advisory committee or pursuant to an exchange of important regulatory information with a foreign government.

(e) After an application has been approved, the following data and information in the NADA file are immediately available for public disclosure unless extraordinary circumstances are shown:

(1) All safety and effectiveness data and information previously disclosed to the public, as defined in § 20.81 of this chapter.

(2) A summary or summaries of the safety and effectiveness data and information submitted with or incorporated by reference in the NADA file. Such summaries do not constitute the full reports of investigations under section 512(b)(1) of the act (21 U.S.C. 360b(b)(1)) on which the safety or effectiveness of the drug may be approved. Such summaries shall consist of the following:

(i) For an NADA approved prior to July 1, 1975, internal agency records that describe such data and information, e.g., a summary of basis for approval or internal reviews of the data and information, after deletion of:
