
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 514 - NEW ANIMAL DRUG APPLICATIONS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 514.11 Confidentiality of data and information in a new animal drug application file.
####### b

() The Center for Veterinary Medicine may prepare its own summary of such data and information.

(3) A protocol for a test or study, unless it is shown to fall within the exemption established for trade secrets and confidential commercial information in § 20.61 of this chapter.

(4) Adverse reaction reports, product experience reports, consumer complaints, and other similar data and information, after deletion of:

(i) Names and any information that would identify the person using the product.

(ii) Names and any information that would identify any third party involved with the report, such as a physician, hospital, or other institution.

(5) A list of all active ingredients and any inactive ingredients previously disclosed to the public as defined in § 20.81 of this chapter.

(6) An assay method or other analytical method, unless it serves no regulatory or compliance purpose and is shown to fall within the exemption established in § 20.61 of this chapter.

(7) All correspondence and written summaries of oral discussions relating to the NADA, in accordance with the provisions of part 20 of this chapter.

(f) All safety and effectiveness data and information not previously disclosed to the public are available for public disclosure at the time any one of the following events occurs unless extraordinary circumstances are known:

(1) The NADA has been abandoned and no further work is being undertaken with respect to it.

(2) A final determination is made that the NADA is not approvable, and all legal appeals have been exhausted.

(3) Approval of the NADA is withdrawn, and all legal appeals have been exhausted.

(4) A final determination has been made that the animal drug is not a new animal drug.

(5) A final determination has been made that the animal drug may be marketed without submission of such safety and/or effectiveness data and information.

(g) The following data and information in an NADA file are not available for public disclosure unless they have been previously disclosed to the public as defined in § 20.81 of this chapter or they relate to a product or ingredient that has been abandoned and they no longer represent a trade secret or confidential commercial or financial information as defined in § 20.61 of this chapter:

(1) Manufacturing methods or processes, including quality control procedures.

(2) Production, sales, distribution, and similar data and information, except that any compilation of such data and information aggregated and prepared in a way that does not reveal data or information which is not available for public disclosure under this provision is available for public disclosure.

(3) Quantitative or semiquantitative formulas.

(h) For purposes of this regulation, safety and effectiveness data include all studies and tests of an animal drug on animals and all studies and tests on the animal drug for identity, stability, purity, potency, and bioavailability.
