
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 514 - NEW ANIMAL DRUG APPLICATIONS
##### Subpart B - Administrative Actions on Applications
###### ยง 514.80 Records and reports concerning experience with approved new animal drugs.
####### Applicability.

(a)(1) Each applicant must establish and maintain indexed and complete files containing full records of all information pertinent to safety or effectiveness of a new animal drug that has not been previously submitted as part of the NADA or ANADA. Such records must include information from domestic as well as foreign sources. Each nonapplicant must establish and maintain indexed and complete files containing full records of all information pertinent to safety or effectiveness of a new animal drug that is received or otherwise obtained by the nonapplicant. Such records must include information from domestic as well as foreign sources.

(2) Each applicant must submit reports of data, studies, and other information concerning experience with new animal drugs to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for each approved NADA and ANADA, as required in this section. A nonapplicant must submit data, studies, and other information concerning experience with new animal drugs to the appropriate applicant, as required in this section. The applicant, in turn, must report the nonapplicant's data, studies, and other information to FDA. Applicants and nonapplicants must submit data, studies, and other information described in this section from domestic, as well as foreign sources.

(3) FDA reviews the records and reports required in this section to facilitate a determination under section 512(e) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 360b(e)) as to whether there may be grounds for suspending or withdrawing approval of the NADA or ANADA.

(4) The requirements of this section also apply to any approved Type A medicated article. In addition, the requirements contained in ยง 514.80(b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(4)(iv), and (b)(4)(v) apply to any approved Type A medicated article incorporated in animal feeds.

(5) The records and reports referred to in this section are in addition to those required by the current good manufacturing practice regulations in parts 211, 225, and 226 of this chapter.
