
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 514 - NEW ANIMAL DRUG APPLICATIONS
##### Subpart B - Administrative Actions on Applications
###### ยง 514.80 Records and reports concerning experience with approved new animal drugs.
####### Periodic drug experience report.

(4)This report must be accompanied by a completed Form FDA 2301 "Transmittal of Periodic Reports and Promotional Materials for New Animal Drugs." It must be submitted every 6 months for the first 2 years following approval of an NADA or ANADA and yearly thereafter. Reports required by this section must contain data and information for the full reporting period. The 6-month periodic drug experience reports must be submitted within 30 days following the end of the 6-month reporting period. The yearly periodic drug experience reports must be submitted within 90 days of the anniversary date of the approval of the NADA or ANADA. Any previously submitted information contained in the report must be identified as such. For yearly (annual) periodic drug experience reports, the applicant may petition FDA to change the date of submission or frequency of reporting, and after approval of such petition, file such reports on the new filing date or at the new reporting frequency. Also, FDA may require a report at different times or more frequently. The periodic drug experience report must contain the following:
