
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 514 - NEW ANIMAL DRUG APPLICATIONS
##### Subpart B - Administrative Actions on Applications
###### ยง 514.80 Records and reports concerning experience with approved new animal drugs.
####### Summary report of increased frequency of adverse drug experience.

(v)The applicant must periodically review the incidence of reports of adverse drug experiences to determine if there has been an increased frequency of serious (expected and unexpected) adverse drug events. The applicant must evaluate the increased frequency of serious (expected or unexpected) adverse drug events at least as often as reporting of periodic drug experience reports. The applicant must report the increased frequency of serious (expected and unexpected) adverse drug events in the periodic drug experience report. Summaries of reports of increased frequency of adverse drug events must be submitted in narrative form. The summaries must state the time period on which the increased frequency is based, time period comparisons in determining increased frequency, references to any reports previously submitted under paragraphs (b)(1), (2), and (3) and (b)(4)(iv)(A) and (C) of this section, the method of analysis, and the interpretation of the results. The summaries must be submitted in a separate section within the periodic drug experience report.
