
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 514 - NEW ANIMAL DRUG APPLICATIONS
##### Subpart B - Administrative Actions on Applications
###### ยง 514.106 Approval of supplemental applications.
####### Category II.

(2)Supplements that may require a reevaluation of certain safety or effectiveness data in the parent application. Category II supplements include the following:

(i) A change in the active ingredient concentration or composition of the final product.

(ii) A change in quality, purity, strength, and identity specifications of the active or inactive ingredients.

(iii) A change in dose (amount of drug administered per dose).

(iv) A change in the treatment regimen (schedule of dosing).

(v) Addition of a new therapeutic claim to the approved uses of the product.

(vi) Addition of a new or revised animal production claim.

(vii) Addition of a new species.

(viii) A change in the prescription or over-the-counter status of a drug product.

(ix) A change in statements regarding side effects, warnings, precautions, and contraindications, except the addition of approved statements to container, package, and promotional labeling, and prescription drug advertising.

(x) A change in the drug withdrawal period prior to slaughter or in the milk discard time.

(xi) A change in the tolerance for drug residues.

(xii) A change in analytical methods for drug residues.

(xiii) A revised method of synthesis or fermentation of the new drug substance.

(xiv) Updating or changes in the manufacturing process of the new drug substance and/or final dosage form (other than a change in equipment that does not alter the method of manufacture of a new animal drug, or a change from one commercial batch size to another without any change in manufacturing procedure), or changes in the methods, facilities, or controls used for the manufacture, processing, packaging, or holding of the new animal drug (other than use of an establishment not covered by the approval that is in effect) that give increased assurance that the drug will have the characteristics of identity, strength, quality, and purity which it purports or is represented to possess.
