
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 514 - NEW ANIMAL DRUG APPLICATIONS
##### Subpart B - Administrative Actions on Applications
###### ยง 514.110 Reasons for refusing to file applications.

(a) The date of receipt of an application for a new animal drug shall be the date on which the application shall be deemed to be filed.

(b) An application for a new animal drug shall not be considered acceptable for filing for any of the following reasons:

(1) It does not contain complete and accurate English translations of any pertinent part in a foreign language.

(2) Fewer than three copies are submitted.

(3) It is incomplete on its face in that it is not properly organized and indexed.

(4) On its face the information concerning required matter is so inadequate that the application is clearly not approvable.

(5) The new animal drug is to be manufactured, prepared, propagated, compounded, or processed in whole or in part in any State in an establishment that has not been registered or exempted from registration under the provisions of section 510 of the act.

(6) The sponsor does not reside or maintain a place of business within the United States and the application has not been countersigned by an attorney, agent, or other representative of the applicant, which representative resides in the United States and has been duly authorized to act on behalf of the applicant and to receive communications on all matters pertaining to the application.
