
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 514 - NEW ANIMAL DRUG APPLICATIONS
##### Subpart B - Administrative Actions on Applications
###### ยง 514.110 Reasons for refusing to file applications.
####### et seq.

(7) The new animal drug is a drug subject to licensing under the animal virus, serum, and toxin law of March 4, 1913 (37 Stat. 832; 21 U.S.C. 151). Such applications will be referred to the U.S. Department of Agriculture for action.

(8) It fails to include, with respect to each nonclinical laboratory study contained in the application, either a statement that the study was conducted in compliance with the good laboratory practice regulations set forth in part 58 of this chapter, or, if the study was not conducted in compliance with such regulations, a brief statement of the reasons for the noncompliance.

(9) [Reserved]

(10) The applicant fails to submit a complete environmental assessment under ยง 25.40 of this chapter or fails to provide sufficient information to establish that the requested action is subject to categorical exclusion under ยง 25.30 or ยง 25.33 of this chapter.

(c) If an application is determined not to be acceptable for filing, the applicant shall be notified within 30 days of receipt of the application and shall be given the reasons therefore.

(d) If the applicant disputes the findings that his application is not acceptable for filing, he may make written request that the application be filed over protest, in which case it will be filed as of the day originally received.
