
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 516 - NEW ANIMAL DRUGS FOR MINOR USE AND MINOR SPECIES
##### Subpart C - Index of Legally Marketed Unapproved New Animal Drugs for Minor Species
###### ยง 516.123 Informal conferences regarding agency administrative actions.

(a) Should FDA make an initial decision denying a request for determination of eligibility for indexing, terminating an investigational exemption, determining that a qualified expert panel does not meet the selection criteria, denying a request for addition to the index, or removing a new animal drug from the index, FDA will give written notice that specifies the grounds for the initial decision and provides an opportunity for an informal conference for review of the decision.

(b) The written notice will include information for scheduling the informal conference and state that a written request for a conference must be made within 60 days of the date FDA sends its notice.

(c) Within 45 days of receiving a request for an informal conference, FDA will schedule and hold the informal conference at a time agreeable to both FDA and the person making the request.

(d) Such an informal conference will be conducted by a presiding officer who will be the Director of the Center for Veterinary Medicine or his or her designee, excluding the Director of the Office of Minor Use and Minor Species Animal Drug Development and other persons significantly involved in the initial decision.

(e) The person requesting an informal conference must provide a written response to FDA's initial decision at least 2 weeks prior to the date of the scheduled meeting. Generally, this written response would be attached to the request for an informal conference. At the option of the person requesting an informal conference, such written response to FDA's initial decision may act in lieu of a face-to-face meeting. In this case, the informal conference will consist of a review by the presiding officer of the submitted written response.

(f) The purpose of an informal conference is to discuss scientific and factual issues. It will involve a discussion of FDA's initial decision and any written response to that decision.

(g) Internal agency review of a decision must be based on the information in the administrative file. If the person requesting an informal conference presents new information not in the file, the matter will be returned to the appropriate lower level in the agency for reevaluation based on the new information.

(h) Informal conferences under this part are not subject to the separation of functions rules in ยง 10.55 of this chapter.

(i) The rules of evidence do not apply to informal conferences. No motions or objections relating to the admissibility of information and views will be made or considered, but any party to the conference may comment upon or rebut all such data, information and views.

(j) [Reserved]

(k) The presiding officer will prepare a written report regarding the subject of the informal conference that states and describes the basis for his or her findings. Whenever time permits, the parties to the informal conference will have 30 days to review and comment on the report.

(l) The administrative record of the informal conference will consist of:

(1) The notice providing an opportunity for an informal conference and the written response to the notice.

(2) All written information and views submitted to the presiding officer at the conference or, at the discretion of the presiding officer, thereafter.

(3) The presiding officer's written report.

(4) All correspondence and memoranda of any and all meetings between the participants and the presiding officer.

(m) The administrative record of the informal conference is closed to the submission of information at the close of the conference, unless the presiding officer specifically permits additional time for further submission.

(n) The administrative record of the informal conference specified herein constitutes the exclusive record for decision.
