
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 516 - NEW ANIMAL DRUGS FOR MINOR USE AND MINOR SPECIES
##### Subpart C - Index of Legally Marketed Unapproved New Animal Drugs for Minor Species
###### ยง 516.141 Qualified expert panels.
####### Responsibilities of a qualified expert panel member.

(e)A qualified expert panel member must do the following:

(1) Continue to meet all selection criteria described in paragraph (b) of this section.

(2) Act in accordance with generally accepted professional and ethical business practices.

(3) Review all information relevant to a determination of the target animal safety and effectiveness of the new animal drug provided by the requestor. The panel should also consider all relevant information otherwise known by the panel members, including anecdotal information.

(4) Participate in the preparation of the written report of the findings of the qualified expert panel, described in ยง 516.143.

(5) Sign, or otherwise approve in writing, the written report. Such signature or other written approval will serve as certification that the written report meets the requirements of the written report in ยง 516.143.

(6) Provide the information relating to potential conflict of interest described in paragraph (g) of this section to FDA for its consideration. Such information should be submitted directly to the Director, OMUMS, when notified by the requestor.

(7) Immediately notify the requestor and FDA of any change in conflict of interest status.

(8) Certify at the time of submission of the written report that there has been no change in conflict of interest status, or identify and document to FDA any such change.
