
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 516 - NEW ANIMAL DRUGS FOR MINOR USE AND MINOR SPECIES
##### Subpart C - Index of Legally Marketed Unapproved New Animal Drugs for Minor Species
###### ยง 516.161 Modifications to indexed drugs.
####### Significant changes.

(2)(i) The following modifications to an indexed drug or its labeling may be made only after a request has been submitted to and subsequently granted by FDA:

(A) Addition of an intended use.

(B) Addition of a species.

(C) Addition or alteration of an active ingredient.

(D) Alteration of the concentration of an active ingredient.

(E) Alteration of dose or dosage regimen.

(F) Alteration of prescription or over-the-counter status.

(ii) Each modification described in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section must go through the same review process as an original index listing and is subject to the same standards for review.

(iii) Each submission of a request for a modification described in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section should contain only one type of modification unless one modification is actually necessitated by another, such as a modification of dose necessitated by a modification of the concentration of an active ingredient. Submissions relating to addition of an intended use for an existing species or addition of a species should be submitted separately, but each such submission may include multiple additional intended uses and/or multiple additional species.
