
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 14 - PUBLIC HEARING BEFORE A PUBLIC ADVISORY COMMITTEE
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 14.1 Scope.
####### public advisory committee

(b) In determining whether a group is aas defined in ยง 10.3(a) and thus subject to this part and to the Federal advisory Committee Act, the following guidelines will be used:

(1) An advisory committee may be a standing advisory committee or an ad hoc advisory committee. All standing advisory committees are listed in ยง 14.100.

(2) An advisory committee may be a policy advisory committee or a technical advisory committee. A policy advisory committee advises on broad and general matters. A technical advisory committee advises on specific technical or scientific issues, which may relate to regulatory decisions before FDA.

(3) An advisory committee includes any of its subgroups when the subgroup is working on behalf of the committee. Section 14.40(d) describes when a subgroup will be established as an advisory committee separate from the parent committee.

(4) A committee composed entirely of full-time Federal Government employees is not an advisory committee.

(5) An advisory committee ordinarily has a fixed membership, a defined purpose of providing advice to the agency on a particular subject, regular or periodic meetings, and an organizational structure, for example, a Chairperson and staff, and serves as a source of independent expertise and advice rather than as a representative of or advocate for any particular interest. The following groups are not advisory committees:

(i) A group of persons convened on an ad hoc basis to discuss a matter of current interest to FDA, but which has no continuing function or organization and does not involve substantial special preparation.

(ii) A group of two or more FDA consultants meeting with the agency on an ad hoc basis.

(iii) A group of experts who are employed by a private company or a trade association which has been requested by FDA to provide its views on a regulatory matter pending before FDA.

(iv) A consulting firm hired by FDA to provide advice regarding a matter.
