
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 14 - PUBLIC HEARING BEFORE A PUBLIC ADVISORY COMMITTEE
##### Subpart B - Meeting Procedures
###### § 14.29 Conduct of a hearing before an advisory committee.

(a) For each meeting, the open portion for public participation, which constitutes a public hearing under § 14.25(a), will be at least 1 hour, unless public participation does not last that long, and may last for whatever longer time the committee Chairperson determines will facilitate the work of the committee. Thenotice published under § 14.20 will designate the time specifically reserved for the hearing, which is ordinarily the first portion of the meeting. Further public participation in any open portion of the meeting under § 14.25(b) is solely at the discretion of the Chairperson.

(b) An interested person who wishes to be assured of the right to make an oral presentation at a meeting shall inform the Designated Federal Officer or other designated agency employee, orally or in writing, before the meeting.

(1) The person shall state the general nature of the presentation and the approximate time desired. Whenever possible, all written information to be discussed by that person at the meeting should be furnished in advance to the Designated Federal Officer or other designated agency employee. This material may be distributed or mailed by FDA to the committee members in advance of the meeting if time permits, and otherwise will be distributed to the members when they arrive for the meeting. The mailing or distribution may be undertaken only by FDA unless FDA grants permission to a person to mail or distribute the material

(2) Before the meeting, the Designated Federal Officer or other designated agency employee shall determine the amount of time allocated to each person for oral presentation and the time that the presentation is to begin. Each person will be so informed in writing, if time permits, or by telephone. FDA may require persons with common interests to make joint presentations.

(c) The Chairperson of the committee shall preside at the meeting in accordance with § 14.30 and be accompanied by other committee members, who serve as a panel in conducting the hearing portion of the meeting.

(d) Each person may use the allotted time as desired, consistent with an orderly hearing. A person may be accompanied by additional persons, and may present any written information or views for inclusion in the record of the hearing, subject to the requirements of § 14.35(c).

(e) If a person is absent at the time specified for that person's presentation, the persons following will appear in order. An attempt will be made to hear the person at the conclusion of the hearing. Interested persons attending the hearing who did not request an opportunity to make an oral presentation may be given an opportunity to do so at the discretion of the Chairperson.

(f) The Chairperson and other members may question a person concerning that person's presentation. No other person, however, may question the person. The Chairperson may allot additional time when it is in the public interest, but may not reduce the time allotted without consent of the person.

(g) Participants may question a committee member only with that member's permission and only about matters before the committee.

(h) The hearing is informal, and the rules of evidence do not apply. No motions or objections relating to the admissibility of information and views may be made or considered, but other participants may comment upon or rebut matters presented. No participant may interrupt the presentation of another participant.
