
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 14 - PUBLIC HEARING BEFORE A PUBLIC ADVISORY COMMITTEE
##### Subpart C - Establishment of Advisory Committees
###### ยง 14.40 Establishment and renewal of advisory committees.

(a) An advisory committee may be established or renewed whenever it is necessary or appropriate for the committee to hold a public hearing and to review and make recommendations on any matter pending before FDA. Except for committees established by statute, before a committee is established or renewed it must first be approved by the Department pursuant to 45 CFR part 11 and by the General Services Administration.

(b) When an advisory committee is established or renewed, the Commissioner will issue anotice certifying that the establishment or renewal is in the public interest and stating the structure, function, and purposes of the committee and, if it is a standing advisory committee, shall amend ยง 14.100 to add it to the list of standing advisory committees. A notice of establishment will be published at least 15 days before the filing of the advisory committee charter under paragraph (c) of this section. A notice of renewal does not require the 15-day notice.

(c) No committee may meet or take action until its charter is prepared and filed as required by section 9(c) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act. This requirement is to be met by an advisory committee utilized by FDA, even though it is not established by the agency, prior to utilization.

(d) The regulations of the Department cited in paragraph (a) of this section provide that the charter of a parent committee may incorporate information concerning activities of a subgroup. In such instances, a subgroup will not be established as a committee distinct from the parent committee. However, a subgroup will be established as a separate committee when the charter of the parent committee does not incorporate the activities of the subgroup, or when the subgroup includes members who are not all drawn from the parent committee.

(e) An advisory committee not required to be established by law will be established or utilized only if it is in the public interest and only if its functions cannot reasonably be performed by other existing advisory committees or by FDA.

(f) An advisory committee must meet the following standards:

(1) Its purpose is clearly defined.

(2) Its membership is balanced fairly in terms of the points of view represented in light of the functions to be performed. Although proportional representation is not required, advisory committee members are selected without regard to race, color, national origin, religion, age, or sex.

(3) It is constituted and utilizes procedures designed to assure that its advice and recommendations are the result of the advisory committee's independent judgment.

(4) Its staff is adequate. The Commissioner designates an Designated Federal Officer and alternate for every advisory committee, who are employees of FDA. The Designated Federal Officer is responsible for all staff support unless other agency employees are designated for this function.

(5) Whenever feasible, or required by statute, it includes representatives of the public interest.
