
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 14 - PUBLIC HEARING BEFORE A PUBLIC ADVISORY COMMITTEE
##### Subpart C - Establishment of Advisory Committees
###### ยง 14.55 Termination of advisory committees.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a standing advisory committee is terminated when it is no longer needed, or not later than 2 years after its date of establishment unless it is renewed for an additional 2-year period. A committee may be renewed for as many 2-year periods as the public interest requires. The requirements for establishment of a committee under ยง 14.40 also apply to its renewal.

(b) FDA will issue anotice announcing the reasons for terminating a committee and, if it is a standing committee, amending ยง 14.100 to delete it from the list.

(c) TEPRSSC is a permanent statutory advisory committee established by section 358(f)(1)(A) of the Public Health Service Act, as added by the Radiation Control for Health and Safety Act of 1968, transferred to the FD&C Act (21 U.S.C. 360kk(f)(1)(A)), and is not subject to termination and renewal under paragraph (a) of this section, except that a new charter is prepared and filed at the end of each 2-year period as provided in ยง 14.40(c). Also, the statutory medical device classification panels established under section 513(b)(1) of the FD&C Act (21 U.S.C. 360c(b)(1)) and part 860, and the statutory medical device good manufacturing practice advisory committees established under section 520(f)(3) of the FD&C Act (21 U.S.C. 360j(f)(3)), are specifically exempted from the normal 2-year duration period.

(d) Color additive advisory committees are required to be established under the circumstances specified in sections 721(b)(5)(C) and (D) of the FD&C Act (21 U.S.C. 379e(b)(5)(C) and (D)). A color additive advisory committee is subject to the termination and renewal requirements of the Federal Advisory Committee Act and of this part.

(e) The Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee is a permanent statutory advisory committee established by section 917 of the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act (21 U.S.C. 387q) (Pub. L. 111-31) and is not subject to termination and renewal under paragraph (a) of this section.
