
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 14 - PUBLIC HEARING BEFORE A PUBLIC ADVISORY COMMITTEE
##### Subpart D - Records of Meetings and Hearings Before Advisory Committees
###### ยง 14.61 Transcripts of advisory committee meetings.

(a) The agency will arrange for a transcript or recording to be made for each portion of a meeting.

(b) A transcript or recording of an open portion of a meeting made by FDA is to be included in the record of the committee proceedings.

(c) A transcript or recording of any closed portion of a meeting made by FDA will not be included in the administrative record of the committee proceedings. The transcript or recording will be retained as confidential by FDA, and will not be discarded or erased.

(d) Any transcript or recording of a meeting or portion thereof which is publicly available under this section will be available at actual cost of duplication, which will be, where applicable, the fees established in ยง 20.45. FDA may furnish the requested transcript or recording for copying to a private contractor who shall charge directly for the cost of copying under ยง 20.53.

(e) A person attending any open portion of a meeting may, consistent with the orderly conduct of the meeting, record or otherwise take a transcript of the meeting. This transcription will not be part of the administrative record.

(f) Only FDA may make a transcript or recording of a closed portion of a meeting.
