
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 14 - PUBLIC HEARING BEFORE A PUBLIC ADVISORY COMMITTEE
##### Subpart D - Records of Meetings and Hearings Before Advisory Committees
###### § 14.75 Examination of administrative record and other advisory committee records.

(a) The administrative record and other committee records are available for public disclosure under part 20, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, at the following times:

(1) The written information for consideration by the committee at any meeting: at the same time it is made available to the committee.

(2) The transcript or recording of any open portion of a meeting: as soon as it is available.

(3) The minutes of any open portion of a meeting: after they have been approved by the committee and certified by the Chairperson.

(4) The brief summary of any closed portion of a meeting prepared under § 14.60(c): as soon as it is available.

(5) All written information or views submitted to the committee at an open portion of a meeting: as soon as they are submitted.

(6) The minutes or portions thereof of a closed portion of a meeting-

(i) For a matter not directed to be maintained as confidential under § 14.22(i)(2): After they have been approved by the committee and certified by the Chairperson; and

(ii) For a matter directed to be maintained as confidential under § 14.22(i)(2): After the advice or report of the committee relevant to those minutes or portions thereof is acted upon by the Commissioner, or upon a determination by the Commissioner that such minutes or portions thereof may be made available for public disclosure without undue interference with agency or advisory committee operations.

(7) Formal advice or a report of the committee: After it has been acted upon, i.e., approved, disapproved, or rejected as inadequate, by the Commissioner, or upon a determination by the Commissioner that such formal advice or report may be made available for public disclosure without undue interference with agency or committee operations. Such formal advice or report may be retained as confidential while it is under active advisement.

(8) Any other committee records relating to the matter, except transcripts and recordings of closed portions of meetings: After the advice or report of the committee relevant to those records is acted upon by the Commissioner, or upon a determination by the Commissioner that the records may be made available for public disclosure without undue interference with agency or committee operations.

(b) The following information contained in the administrative record is not available for public examination or copying except as provided in § 12.32(g):

(1) Material provided to the committee by FDA that is exempt from public disclosure under part 20 and the regulations referenced there.

(2) Material provided to the advisory committee by a person making a presentation described in § 14.25(c) and which is prohibited from public disclosure under part 20 and the regulations referenced there.

(c) The Division of Dockets Management (HFA-305) will maintain a file for each committee containing the following principal records for ready access by the public:

(1) The committee charter.

(2) A list of committee members and their curricula vitae.

(3) The minutes of committee meetings.

(4) Any formal advice or report of the committee.
