
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 14 - PUBLIC HEARING BEFORE A PUBLIC ADVISORY COMMITTEE
##### Subpart E - Members of Advisory Committees
###### ยง 14.84 Nominations and selection of nonvoting members of standing technical advisory committees.

(a) This section applies when the Commissioner concludes that a technical advisory committee should include nonvoting members to represent and serve as a liaison with interested individuals and organizations.

(b) Except when the Commissioner concludes otherwise, nonvoting members of a technical advisory committee are selected in accordance with paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section and are normally limited to one person selected by consumer groups and organizations and one person selected by industry groups and organizations.

(c) To select a nonvoting member to represent consumer interests, except as provided in paragraph (c)(5) of this section, the Commissioner publishes a notice in therequesting nominations for each specific committee, or subcommittee, for which nonvoting members are to be appointed.

(1) A period of 30 days will be permitted for submission of nominations for that committee or subcommittee. Interested persons may nominate one or more qualified persons to represent consumer interests. Although nominations from individuals will be accepted, individuals are encouraged to submit their nominations through consumer organizations as defined in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. Nominations of qualified persons for general consideration as nonvoting members of unspecified advisory committees or subcommittees may be made at any time. All nominations are to be submitted in writing to Advisory Committee Oversight and Management Staff, Food and Drug Administration, 10903 New Hampshire Ave., Bldg. 32, rm. 1503, Silver Spring, MD 20993.

(2) A complete curriculum vitae of any nominee is to be included. Nominations must state that the nominee is aware of the nomination, is willing to serve as a member of an advisory committee, and appears to have no conflict of interest. The nomination must state whether a nominee is interested only in a particular advisory committee or subcommittee, or whether the nominee is interested in becoming a member of any advisory committee or subcommittee. Nominations that do not comply with the requirements of this paragraph will not be considered.

(3) The Advisory Committee Oversight and Management Staff will compile a list of organizations whose objectives are to promote, encourage, and contribute to the advancement of consumer education and to the resolution of consumer problems. All organizations listed are entitled to vote upon the nominees. The list will include organizations representing the public interest, consumer advocacy groups, and consumer/health branches of Federal, State, and local governments. Any organization that meets the criteria may be included on such list on request.

(4) The executive secretary, or other designated agency employee, will review the list of nominees and select three to five qualified nominees to be placed on a ballot. Names not selected will remain on a list of eligible nominees and be reviewed periodically by the Advisory Committee Oversight and Management Staff to determine continued interest. Upon selection of the nominees to be placed on the ballot, the curriculum vitae for each of the nominees will be sent to each of the organizations on the list complied under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, together with a ballot to be filled out and returned within 30 days. After the time for return of the ballots has expired, the ballots will be counted and the nominee who has received the highest number of votes will be selected as the nonvoting member representing consumer interests for that particular advisory committee or subcommittee. In the event of a tie, the Commissioner will select the winner by lot from among those tied for the highest number of votes

(5) If a member representing consumer interests resigns or is removed before termination of the committee on which the member is serving, the following procedures will be used to appoint a replacement to serve out the term of the former member:

(i) The Commissioner will appoint the runner-up, in order of number of ballots received, on the original ballot submitted under paragraph (c)(4) of this section to fill the vacancy. If the runner-up is no longer willing to serve as a member, then the next runner-up will be appointed.

(ii) If none of the nominees on the original ballot is willing to serve, or if there was only one nominee on the original ballot, the Advisory Committee Oversight and Management Staff will contact by telephone eligible individuals whose names have been submitted in the past as candidates for membership as representatives of consumer interests. A list of persons who are interested in serving on an advisory committee will then be prepared. The curricula vitae of these persons, together with a ballot, will be sent to a representative number of consumer organizations that have been determined to be eligible to vote for consumer representatives in accordance with paragraph (c)(3) of this section. After 4 days have elapsed, the Advisory Committee Oversight and Management Staff will contact the consumer organizations by telephone and elicit their votes. The candidate who has received the highest number of votes will be selected. In the event of a tie, the Commissioner will select the winner by lot from among those tied for the highest number of votes.

(d) To select a nonvoting member to represent industry interests, the Commissioner will publish, for each committee for which the Commissioner has determined to appoint a nonvoting member, a notice requesting that, within 30 days, any industry organization interested in participating in the selection of an appropriate nonvoting member to represent industry interests send a letter stating that interest to the FDA employee designated in the notice. After 30 days, a letter will be sent to each organization that has expressed an interest, attaching a complete list of all such organizations, and stating that it is their responsibility to consult with each other in selecting, within 60 days after receipt of the letter, a single nonvoting member to represent industry interests for that committee. If no individual is selected within 60 days, the Commissioner will select the nonvoting member representing industry interests.

(e) The Commissioner has determined that, because nonvoting members representing consumer and industry interests are included on advisory committees specifically for the purpose of representing such interests and have no vote, any financial interest covered by 18 U.S.C. 208(a) in the class which the member represents is irrelevant to the services the Government expects from them and thus is hereby exempted under 18 U.S.C. 208(b) as too remote and inconsequential to affect the integrity of their services.
