
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 14 - PUBLIC HEARING BEFORE A PUBLIC ADVISORY COMMITTEE
##### Subpart E - Members of Advisory Committees
###### ยง 14.95 Compensation of advisory committee members.

(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (a) (2) and (3) of this section, all voting advisory committee members shall, and nonvoting members may, be appointed as special Government employees and receive a consultant fee and be reimbursed for travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, unless such compensation and reimbursement are waived.

(2) Members of the Technical Electronic Product Radiation Safety Standards Committee (TEPRSSC) are not appointed as special Government employees. Any member of TEPRSSC who is not a Federal employee or member of the uniformed services, including the Commissioned Corps of the Public Health Service, shall receive a consultant fee and be reimbursed for travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, unless such compensation and reimbursement are waived.

(3) Voting and nonvoting advisory committee members who are members of the uniformed services, including the Commissioned Corps of the Public Health Service, provide service on Food and Drug Administration advisory committees as part of their assigned functions, are not appointed as special government employees, but are reimbursed by the Food and Drug Administration for travel expenses.

(b) Notwithstanding the member's primary residence, an advisory committee member, while attending meetings of the full committee or a subcommittee, will be paid whether the meetings are held in the Washington, DC, area or elsewhere.

(c) A committee member who participates in any agency-directed assignment will be paid at an hourly rate when doing assigned work at home, a place of business, or in an FDA facility located within the member's commuting area, and at a daily rate when required to travel outside of that commuting area to perform the assignment. A committee member will not be paid for time spent on normal preparation for a committee meeting.

(1) An agency-directed assignment is an assignment that meets the following criteria:

(i) An activity that requires undertaking a definitive study. The activity must produce a tangible end product, usually a written report. Examples are:
