
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 14 - PUBLIC HEARING BEFORE A PUBLIC ADVISORY COMMITTEE
##### Subpart G - Technical Electronic Products Radiation Safety Standards Committee
###### ยง 14.127 Membership of TEPRSSC.

(a) The Commissioner will appoint the members after consultation with public and private organizations concerned with the technical aspect of electronic product radiation safety. TEPRSSC consists of 15 members, each of whom is technically qualified by training and experienced in one or more fields of science or engineering applicable to electronic product radiation safety, as follows:

(1) Five members selected from government agencies, including State and Federal Governments.

(2) Five members selected from the affected industries after consultation with industry representatives.

(3) Five members selected from the general public, of whom at least one shall be a representative of organized labor.

(b) The Commissioner will appoint a committee member as Chairperson of TEPRSSC.

(c) Appointments of members are for a term of 3 years or as specified by the Commissioner.

(1) The Chairperson is appointed for a term concurrent with the Chairperson's term as a member of TEPRSSC. If the Chairpersonship becomes vacant without adequate notice, the Designated Federal Officer may appoint a committee member as temporary Chairperson pending appointment of a new Chairperson by the Commissioner.

(2) Members may not be reappointed for a second consecutive full term.

(d) A person otherwise qualified for membership is not eligible for selection as a member of TEPRSSC from Government agencies or the general public if the Commissioner determines that the person does not meet the requirements of the conflict of interest laws and regulations.

(e) Retention of membership is conditioned upon the following:

(1) Continued status as a member of the group from which the member was selected as specified in paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) Absence of any conflict of interest during the term of membership as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.

(3) Active participation in TEPRSSC activities.

(f) Appointment as a member of TEPRSSC is conditioned on certification that the prospective member:

(1) Agrees to the procedures and criteria specified in this subpart.

(2) Has no conflict of interest as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.

(3) Will notify the Designated Federal Officer of TEPRSSC before any change in representative status on TEPRSSC which may be contrary to the conditions of the appointment.

(g) Members of TEPRSSC who are not full-time officers or employees of the United States receive compensation under ยง 14.95, in accordance with 42 U.S.C. 210(c).
