
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 14 - PUBLIC HEARING BEFORE A PUBLIC ADVISORY COMMITTEE
##### Subpart H - Color Additive Advisory Committees
###### ยง 14.142 Functions of a color additive advisory committee.

(a) A color additive advisory committee reviews all available information relating to the matter referred to it, including all information contained in any pertinent color additive petition and in FDA files. All information reviewed is placed on public display and is available for review at the office of the Division of Dockets Management.

(b) The Commissioner specifies to the color additive advisory committee, in writing, the issues on which review and recommendations are requested.

(c) The date of the first meeting of a color additive advisory committee, following receipt of the administrative record by each of the committee members, is designated as the beginning of the period allowed for consideration of the matter by the committee. Within 60 days after the first meeting, unless the time is extended as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the Chairperson of the committee shall certify to the Commissioner the report containing the recommendations of the committee, including any minority report. The report states the recommendations of the committee and the reasons or basis for them. The report includes copies of all material considered by the committee in addition to the administrative record furnished to it.

(d) If the Chairperson concludes that the color additive advisory committee needs additional time, the Chairperson shall so inform the Commissioner in writing and may certify the report of the committee to the Commissioner within 90 days instead of 60 days.

(e) More than one matter may be handled concurrently by a color additive advisory committee.
