
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 15 - PUBLIC HEARING BEFORE THE COMMISSIONER
##### Subpart B - Procedures for Public Hearing Before the Commissioner
###### ยง 15.21 Notice of participation; schedule for hearing.

(a) The notice of hearing will provide persons an opportunity to file a written notice of participation with the Division of Dockets Management within a specified period of time containing the information specified in the notice, e.g., name of participant, address, phone number, affiliation, if any, topic of presentation and approximate amount of time requested for the presentation. If the public interest requires, e.g., a hearing is to be conducted within a short period of time or is to be primarily attended by individuals without an organizational affiliation, the notice may name a specific FDA employee and telephone number to whom an oral notice of participation may be given or provide for submitting notices of participation at the time of the hearing. A written or oral notice of participation must be received by the designated person by the close of business of the day specified in the notice.

(b) Promptly after expiration of the time for filing a notice, the Commissioner will determine the amount of time allotted to each person and the approximate time that oral presentation is scheduled to begin. If more than one hearing is held on the same subject, a person will ordinarily be allotted time for a presentation at only one hearing.

(c) Individuals and organizations with common interests are urged to consolidate or coordinate their presentations and to request time for a joint presentation. The Commissioner may require joint presentations by persons with common interests.

(d) The Commissioner will prepare a hearing schedule showing the persons making oral presentations and the time alloted to each person, which will be filed with the Division of Dockets Management and mailed or telephoned before the hearing to each participant.

(e) The hearing schedule will state whether participants must be present by a specified time to be sure to be heard in case the absence of participants advances the schedule.
