
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 16 - REGULATORY HEARING BEFORE THE FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart B - Initiation of Proceedings
###### ยง 16.22 Initiation of regulatory hearing.

(a) A regulatory hearing is initiated by a notice of opportunity for hearing from FDA. The notice will-

(1) Be sent by mail, telegram, telex, personal delivery, or any other mode of written communication;

(2) Specify the facts and the action that are the subject of the opportunity for a hearing;

(3) State that the notice of opportunity for hearing and the hearing are governed by this part; and

(4) State the time within which a hearing may be requested, and state the name, address, and telephone number of the FDA employee to whom any request for hearing is to be addressed.

(5) Refer to FDA's guideline on electronic media coverage of its administrative proceedings (21 CFR part 10, subpart C).

(b) A person offered an opportunity for a hearing has the amount of time specified in the notice, which may not be less than 3 working days after receipt of the notice, within which to request a hearing. The request may be filed by mail, telegram, telex, personal delivery, or any other mode of written communication, addressed to the designated FDA employee. If no response is filed within that time, the offer is deemed to have been refused and no hearing will be held.

(c) If a hearing is requested, the Commissioner will designate a presiding officer, and the hearing will take place at a time and location agreed upon by the party requesting the hearing, the FDA, and the presiding officer or, if agreement cannot be reached, at a reasonable time and location designated by the presiding officer.

(d) A notice of opportunity for hearing under this section will not operate to delay or stay any administrative action, including enforcement action by the agency unless the Commissioner, as a matter of discretion, determines that delay or a stay is in the public interest.
