
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 16 - REGULATORY HEARING BEFORE THE FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION
##### Subpart B - Initiation of Proceedings
###### ยง 16.24 Regulatory hearing required by the act or a regulation.

(a) A regulatory hearing required by the act or a regulation under ยง 16.1(b) will be initiated in the same manner as other regulatory hearings subject to the additional procedures in this section.

(b) [Reserved]

(c) The notice will state whether any action concerning the matter that is the subject of the opportunity for hearing is or is not being taken pending the hearing under paragraph (d) of this section.

(d) The Commissioner may take such action pending a hearing under this section as the Commissioner concludes is necessary to protect the public health, except where expressly prohibited by statute or regulation. A hearing to consider action already taken, and not stayed by the Commissioner, will be conducted on an expedited basis.

(e) The hearing may not be required to be held at a time less than 2 working days after receipt of the request for hearing.

(f) Before the hearing, FDA will give to the party requesting the hearing reasonable notice of the matters to be considered at the hearing, including a comprehensive statement of the basis for the decision or action taken or proposed that is the subject of the hearing and a general summary of the information that will be presented by FDA at the hearing in support of the decision or action. This information may be given orally or in writing, in the discretion of FDA.

(g) FDA and the party requesting the hearing will, if feasible, at least 1 day before the hearing provide to each other written notice of any published articles or written information to be presented at or relied on at the hearing. A copy will also be provided in advance if the other participant could not reasonably be expected to have or be able to obtain a copy. If written notice or a copy is not provided, the presiding officer may, if time permits, allow the party who did not receive the notice or copy additional time after the close of the hearing to make a submission concerning the article or information.
