
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 520 - ORAL DOSAGE FORM NEW ANIMAL DRUGS
##### ยง 520.1660b Oxytetracycline hydrochloride capsules.
###### Conditions of use.,Brucella bronchiseptica,,Streptococcus hemolyticus,,Escherichia coli,,Escherichia coli,,Staphylococcus aureus.

(c)(1) It is used in dogs and cats for the treatment of bacterial pneumonia caused bytonsilitis caused bybacterial enteritis caused byurinary tract infections caused byand wound infections caused by

(2) The drug is administered orally to dogs and cats at a dosage level of 25-50 milligrams per pound of body weight per day in divided doses at 12-hour intervals. The drug can be used for continuation of compatible antibiotic therapy following parenteral oxytetracycline administration where rapidly attained, sustained antibiotic blood levels are required. The duration of treatment required to obtain favorable response will depend to some extent on the severity and degree of involvement and the susceptibility of the infectious agent. Clinical response to antibiotic therapy usually occurs within 48 to 72 hours. If improvement is not observed within that period, the diagnosis and course of treatment should be reconsidered. To assure adequate treatment, administration of the drug should continue for at least 48 hours following favorable clinical response.

(3) Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.
