
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 17 - CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES HEARINGS
##### ยง 17.25 Exchange of witness lists, witness statements, and exhibits.

(a) At least 30 days before the hearing, or by such other time as is specified by the presiding officer, the parties shall exchange witness lists, copies of prior written statements of proposed witnesses, and copies of proposed hearing exhibits, including written testimony.

(b)(1) If a party objects to the proposed admission of evidence not exchanged in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, the presiding officer will exclude such evidence if he or she determines that the failure to comply with paragraph (a) of this section should result in its exclusion.

(2) Unless the presiding officer finds that extraordinary circumstances justified the failure to make a timely exchange of witness lists under paragraph (a) of this section, he or she must exclude from the party's hearing evidence the testimony of any witness whose name does not appear on the witness list.

(3) If the presiding officer finds that extraordinary circumstances existed, the presiding officer must then determine whether the admission of the testimony of any witness whose name does not appear on the witness lists exchanged under paragraph (a) of this section would cause substantial prejudice to the objecting party. If the presiding officer finds that there is not substantial prejudice, the evidence may be admitted. If the presiding officer finds that there is substantial prejudice, the presiding officer may exclude the evidence, or at his or her discretion, may postpone the hearing for such time as is necessary for the objecting party to prepare and respond to the evidence.

(c) Unless a party objects within 5 days prior to the hearing, documents exchanged in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section will be deemed to be authentic for the purpose of admissibility at the hearing.
