
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 17 - CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES HEARINGS
##### ยง 17.27 Hearing subpoenas.

(a) A party wishing to procure the appearance and testimony of any individual at the hearing may, when authorized by law, request that the presiding officer issue a subpoena.

(b) A subpoena requiring the attendance and testimony of an individual may also require the individual to produce documents at the hearing.

(c) A party seeking a subpoena shall file a written request therefor not less than 20 days before the date fixed for the hearing unless otherwise allowed by the presiding officer, upon a showing by the party of good cause. Such request shall specify any documents to be produced and shall designate the witnesses and describe the address and location thereof with sufficient particularity to permit such witnesses to be found.

(d) The subpoena shall specify the time and place at which the witness is to appear and any documents the witness is to produce.

(e) The party seeking the subpoena shall serve it in the manner prescribed for service of a complaint in ยง 17.7.

(f) If a party or the individual to whom the subpoena is directed believes a subpoena to be unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, or unduly burdensome, or if it wishes to raise any other objection or privilege recognized by law, the party or individual may file a motion to quash the subpoena within 10 days after service or on or before the time specified in the subpoena for compliance if it is less than 10 days after service. Such a filing will state the basis for the motion to quash. The presiding officer may quash or modify the subpoena or order it implemented, as justice may require.
