
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 17 - CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES HEARINGS
##### ยง 17.39 Evidence.

(a) The presiding officer shall determine the admissibility of evidence.

(b) Except as provided in this part, the presiding officer shall not be bound by the "Federal Rules of Evidence." However, the presiding officer may apply the "Federal Rules of Evidence" when appropriate, e.g., to exclude unreliable evidence.

(c) The presiding officer shall exclude evidence that is not relevant or material.

(d) Relevant evidence may be excluded if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice, confusion of the issues, or by considerations of undue delay or needless presentation of cumulative evidence.

(e) Relevant evidence may be excluded if it is privileged under Federal law.

(f) Evidence of furnishing or offering or promising to furnish, or accepting or offering or promising to accept, a valuable consideration in settling or attempting to settle a civil money penalty assessment which was disputed as to either validity or amount, is not admissible to prove liability for or invalidity of the civil money penalty or its amount. Evidence of conduct or statements made in settlement negotiations is likewise not admissible. This rule does not require the exclusion of any evidence otherwise discoverable merely because it is presented in the course of settlement negotiations. This rule also does not require exclusion when the evidence is offered for another purpose, such as proving bias or prejudice of a witness or opposing a contention of undue delay.

(g) The presiding officer may in his or her discretion permit the parties to introduce rebuttal witnesses and evidence.

(h) All documents and other evidence offered or taken for the record shall be open to examination by all parties, unless otherwise ordered by the presiding officer pursuant to ยง 17.28.
