
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 17 - CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES HEARINGS
##### ยง 17.47 Appeals.

(a) Either the Center or any respondent may appeal an initial decision, including a decision not to withdraw a default judgment, or a decision granting summary decision to the Commissioner of Food and Drugs or other entity the Commissioner designates to decide the appeal. The Commissioner has currently designated the Departmental Appeals Board (DAB) to decide appeals under this part. Parties may appeal to the DAB by filing a notice of appeal with the DAB, Appellate Division MS6127, Departmental Appeals Board, United States Department of Health and Human Services, 330 Independence Ave. SW., Cohen Bldg., rm. G-644, Washington, DC 20201, and the Division of Dockets Management (HFA-305), Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852, in accordance with this section.

(b)(1) A notice of appeal may be filed at any time within 30 days after the presiding officer issues an initial decision or decision granting summary decision.

(2) The Commissioner or the entity designated by the Commissioner to hear appeals may, within his or her discretion, extend the initial 30-day period for an additional period of time if the Center or any respondent files a request for an extension within the initial 30-day period and shows good cause.

(c) A notice of appeal shall be accompanied by a written brief of no greater length than that allowed for the posthearing brief. The notice must identify specific exceptions to the initial decision, must support each exception with citations to the record, and must explain the basis for each exception.

(d) The opposing party may file a brief of no greater length than that allowed for the posthearing brief in opposition to exceptions within 30 days of receiving the notice of appeal and accompanying brief, unless such time period is extended by the Commissioner or the entity designated by the Commissioner to hear appeals on request of the opposing party for good cause shown. Any brief in opposition to exceptions shall be filed with the Division of Dockets Management and the DAB (addresses above).

(e) The appellant may file a reply brief not more than 10 pages in length within 10 days of being served with appellee's brief.

(f) There is no right to appear personally before the Commissioner of Food and Drugs or other entity deciding the appeal (currently the DAB).

(g) The entity deciding the appeal will consider only those issues raised before the presiding officer, except that the appellee may make any argument based on the record in support of the initial decision or decision granting summary decision.

(h) If on appeal the entity deciding the appeal considers issues not adequately briefed by the parties, the entity may ask for additional briefing. However, no such additional briefs will be considered unless so requested.

(i) If any party demonstrates to the satisfaction of the entity deciding the appeal (currently the DAB) that additional evidence not presented at the hearing is relevant and material and that there were reasonable grounds for the failure to adduce such evidence at the hearing, the entity deciding the appeal may remand the matter to the presiding officer for consideration of the additional evidence.

(j) The Commissioner of Food and Drugs or other entity deciding the appeal (currently the DAB) will issue a decision on the appeal within 60 days, if practicable, of the due date for submission of the appellee's brief. In the decision, the entity deciding the appeal may decline to review the case, affirm the initial decision or decision granting summary decision (with or without an opinion), or reverse the initial decision or decision granting summary decision, or increase, reduce, reverse, or remand any civil money penalty determined by the presiding officer in the initial decision. If the entity deciding the appeal declines to review the case, the initial decision or the decision granting summary decision shall constitute the final decision of FDA and shall be final and binding on the parties 30 days after the declination by the entity deciding the appeal.

(k) The standard of review on a disputed issue of fact is whether the initial decision is supported by substantial evidence on the whole record. The standard of review on a disputed issue of law is whether the initial decision is erroneous.
