
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 522 - IMPLANTATION OR INJECTABLE DOSAGE FORM NEW ANIMAL DRUGS
##### ยง 522.563 Diatrizoate.
###### Conditions of use in dogs and cats,Amount.

(c)-(1)For excretion urography, administer 0.5 to 1.0 milliliter (mL) per pound of body weight to a maximum of 30 mL intravenously. For cystography, remove urine, administer 5 to 25 mL directly into the bladder via catheter. For urethrography, administer 1.0 to 5 mL via catheter into the urethra to provide desired contrasts delineation. For angiocardiography (including aortography) rapidly inject 5 to 10 mL directly into the heart via catheter or intraventricular puncture. For cerebral angiography, rapid injection of 3 to 10 mL via carotid artery. For peripheral arteriography and/or venography and selective coronary arteriography, rapidly inject 3 to 10 mL intravascularly into the vascular bed to be delineated. For lymphography, slowly inject 1.0 to 10 mL directly into the lymph vessel to be delineated. For arthrography, slowly inject 1.0 to 5 mL directly into the joint to be delineated. For discography, slowly inject 0.5 to 1.0 mL directly into the disc to be delineated. For sialography, slowly inject 0.5 to 1.0 mL into the duct to be delineated. For delineation of fistulous tracts, slowly inject quantity necessary to fill the tract. For delineation of peritoneal hernias, inject 0.5 to 1.0 mL per pound of body weight directly into the peritoneal cavity.
