
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 522 - IMPLANTATION OR INJECTABLE DOSAGE FORM NEW ANIMAL DRUGS
##### § 522.1077 Gonadorelin.
###### Conditions of use in cattle,Indications for use and amounts.

(e)-(1)(i) For the treatment of ovarian follicular cysts in dairy cattle: Administer 86 µg gonadorelin (No. 000061) or 100 µg gonadorelin diacetate tetrahydrate (Nos. 000010 and 061133) by intramuscular or intravenous injection.

(ii) For the treatment of ovarian follicular cysts in cattle: Administer 100 µg gonadorelin hydrochloride by intramuscular injection.

(iii) For use with cloprostenol sodium to synchronize estrous cycles to allow for fixed-time artificial insemination (FTAI) in beef cows and lactating dairy cows: Administer to each cow 86 µg gonadorelin by intramuscular injection, followed 6 to 8 days later by 500 µg cloprostenol by intramuscular injection, followed 30 to 72 hours later by 86 µg gonadorelin by intramuscular injection.

(iv) For use with cloprostenol sodium to synchronize estrous cycles to allow for fixed-time artificial insemination (FTAI) in lactating dairy cows and beef cows: Administer to each cow 100 µg gonadorelin by intramuscular injection, followed 6 to 8 days later by 500 µg cloprostenol by intramuscular injection, followed 30 to 72 hours later by 100 µg gonadorelin by intramuscular injection.

(v) For use with cloprostenol sodium to synchronize estrous cycles to allow for fixed-time artificial insemination (FTAI) in lactating dairy cows and beef cows: Administer to each cow 100 µg gonadorelin diacetate tetrahydrate by intramuscular injection, followed 6 to 8 days later by 500 µg cloprostenol by intramuscular injection, followed 30 to 72 hours later by 100 µg gonadorelin diacetate tetrahydrate by intramuscular injection.

(vi) For use with dinoprost injection to synchronize estrous cycles to allow fixed-time artificial insemination (FTAI) in lactating dairy cows: Administer to each cow 100 to 200 µg gonadorelin by intramuscular injection, followed 6 to 8 days later by 25 mg dinoprost by intramuscular injection, followed 30 to 72 hours later by 100 to 200 µg gonadorelin by intramuscular injection.

(2) [Reserved]
