
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 20 - PUBLIC INFORMATION
##### Subpart F - Availability of Specific Categories of Records
###### ยง 20.106 Studies and reports prepared by or with funds provided by the Food and Drug Administration.

(a) The following types of reports and studies prepared by or with funds provided by the Food and Drug Administration are available for public disclosure upon their acceptance by the responsible agency official:

(1) Quarterly and annual reports of the agency.

(2) External investigations or review of agency needs and performance.

(3) Surveys, compilations, and summaries of data and information.

(4) Consumer surveys.

(5) Compliance surveys.

(6) Compliance programs, except that names of specific firms, the location of specific activities, and details about sampling numbers or sizes shall be deleted until implementation of the program is completed.

(7) Work plans prepared by Food and Drug Administration centers, field offices, and other components, except that names of specific firms, the location of specific activities, and details about sampling numbers or sizes shall be deleted until implementation of the plan is completed.

(b) The following types of reports and studies prepared by or with funds provided by the Food and Drug Administration are not available for public disclosure:

(1) Internal audits of agency needs and performance.

(2) Records relating to the internal planning and budget process.

(3) Legislative proposals or comments prior to submission to Congress.
