
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 20 - PUBLIC INFORMATION
##### Subpart F - Availability of Specific Categories of Records
###### § 20.111 Data and information submitted voluntarily to the Food and Drug Administration.
####### b

() Names and any information that would identify any third party involved with the report, such as a physician or hospital or other institution.

(iv) If obtained through a Food and Drug Administration investigation, the record shall have the same status as the initial report which led to the investigation, i.e., it shall be disclosed in accordance with paragraph (c)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(v) Any compilation of data, information, and reports prepared in a way that does not reveal data or information which is not available for public disclosure under this section is available for public disclosure.

(vi) If a person requests a copy of any such record relating to a specific individual or a specific incident, such request will be denied unless accompanied by the written consent to such disclosure of the person who submitted the report to the Food and Drug Administration and the individual who is the subject of the report. The record will be disclosed to the individual who is the subject of the report upon request.

(4) A list of all ingredients contained in a food or cosmetic, whether or not it is in descending order of predominance, or a list of all active ingredients and any inactive ingredients previously disclosed to the public as defined in § 20.81 contained in a drug, or a list of all ingredients or components in a device.

(5) An assay method or other analytical method, unless it serves no regulatory or compliance purpose and is shown to fall within the exemption established in § 20.61.

(d) The following data and information submitted voluntarily to the Food and Drug Administration are not available for public disclosure unless they have been previously disclosed to the public as defined in § 20.81 or they relate to a product or ingredient that has been abandoned and they no longer represent a trade secret or confidential commercial or financial information as defined in § 20.61:

(1) All safety, effectiveness, and functionality data and information for a developmental ingredient or product that has not previously been disclosed to the public as defined in § 20.81.

(2) Manufacturing methods or processes, including quality control procedures.

(3) Production, sales, distribution, and similar data and information, except that any compilation of such data and information aggregated and prepared in a way that does not reveal data or information which is not available for public disclosure under this provision is available for public disclosure.

(4) Quantitative or semiquantitative formulas.

(e) For purposes of this regulation, safety, effectiveness, and functionality data include all studies and tests of an ingredient or a product on animals and humans and all studies and tests on the ingredient or product for identity, stability, purity, potency, bioavailability, performance, and usefulness.
