
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 21 - PROTECTION OF PRIVACY
##### Subpart D - Procedures for Notification of and Access to Records in Privacy Act Record Systems
###### ยง 21.45 Fees.

(a) Where applicable, fees for copying records shall be charged in accordance with the schedule set forth in this section. Fees may only be charged where an individual has requested that a copy be made of a record to which he is granted access. No fee may be charged for making a search of a Privacy Act Record System whether the search is manual, mechanical, or electronic. Where a copy of the record must be made to provide access to the record, e.g., computer printout where no screen reading is available, the copy shall be made available to the individual without cost. Where a medical record is made available to a representative designated by the individual under ยง 21.33, no fee will be charged.

(b) The fee schedule is as follows:

(1) Copying of records susceptible to photocopying-$.10 per page.

(2) Copying of records not susceptible to photocopying, e.g., punch cards or magnetic tapes-at actual cost to the determined on a case-by-case basis.

(3) No charge will be made if the total amount of copying for an individual does not exceed $25.

(c) When a fee is to be assessed, the individual shall be notified prior to the processing of the copies, and be given an opportunity to amend his request. Payment shall be made by check or money order made payable to the "Food and Drug Administration," and shall be sent to the Accounting Branch (HFA-120), Food and Drug Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857. Advance deposit shall be required where the total amount exceeds $50.
