
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 522 - IMPLANTATION OR INJECTABLE DOSAGE FORM NEW ANIMAL DRUGS
##### ยง 522.2477 Trenbolone acetate and estradiol.
###### Conditions of use,Steers fed in confinement for slaughter,Amount.

(d)-(1)-(i)(A) 120 milligrams (mg) trenbolone acetate and 24 mg estradiol (one implant consisting of 6 pellets, each pellet containing 20 mg trenbolone acetate and 4 mg estradiol) per implant dose.

(B) 120 mg trenbolone acetate and 24 mg estradiol (one implant consisting of 7 pellets, each of 6 pellets containing 20 mg trenbolone acetate and 4 mg estradiol, and 1 pellet containing 29 mg tylosin tartrate) per implant dose.

(C) 200 mg trenbolone acetate and 20 mg estradiol (one implant consisting of 10 pellets, each pellet containing 20 mg trenbolone acetate and 2 mg estradiol) per implant dose.

(D) 80 mg trenbolone acetate and 16 mg estradiol (one implant consisting of 4 pellets, each pellet containing 20 mg trenbolone acetate and 4 mg estradiol) per implant dose.

(E) 200 mg trenbolone acetate and 20 mg estradiol (one implant consisting of 11 pellets, each of 10 pellets containing 20 mg trenbolone acetate and 2 mg estradiol, and 1 pellet containing 29 mg tylosin tartrate) per implant dose.

(F) 80 mg trenbolone acetate and 16 mg estradiol (one implant consisting of 5 pellets, each of 4 pellets containing 20 mg trenbolone acetate and 4 mg estradiol, and 1 pellet containing 29 mg tylosin tartrate) per implant dose.
