
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 522 - IMPLANTATION OR INJECTABLE DOSAGE FORM NEW ANIMAL DRUGS
##### ยง 522.2478 Trenbolone acetate and estradiol benzoate.
###### Conditions of use,Growing beef steers and heifers fed in confinement for slaughter,Amounts and indications for use

(d)-(1)-(i). (A) An implant containing 100 mg trenbolone acetate and 14 mg estradiol benzoate as described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section for increased rate of weight gain in growing beef steers fed in confinement for slaughter and for increased rate of weight gain and improved feed efficiency in growing beef heifers fed in confinement for slaughter. For increased rate of weight gain for up to 200 days in a reimplantation program where an implant as described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section is the first implant and an implant as described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (ii) or (a)(2)(ii) of this section is administered 60 to 120 days later.

(B) An implant containing 200 mg trenbolone acetate and 28 mg estradiol benzoate as described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section for increased rate of weight gain and improved feed efficiency in growing beef steers fed in confinement for slaughter and for increased rate of weight gain in growing beef heifers fed in confinement for slaughter. For increased rate of weight gain for up to 200 days in a reimplantation program where an implant as described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section is the first implant and an implant as described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section is administered 60 to 120 days later.

(C) An extended-release implant containing 150 mg trenbolone acetate and 21 mg estradiol benzoate as described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section for increased rate of weight gain for up to 200 days.

(D) An extended-release implant containing 200 mg trenbolone acetate and 28 mg estradiol benzoate as described in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section for increased rate of weight gain and improved feed efficiency for up to 200 days. For increased rate of weight gain for up to 200 days in a reimplantation program where an implant as described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section is the first implant and an implant as described in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section is administered 60 to 120 days later.
