
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 25 - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT CONSIDERATIONS
##### Subpart C - Categorical Exclusions
###### § 25.30 General.

The classes of actions listed in this section and §§ 25.31 through 25.35 are categorically excluded and, therefore, ordinarily do not require the preparation of an EA or an EIS:

(a) Routine administrative and management activities, including inspections, and issuance of field compliance programs, program circulars, or field investigative assignments.

(b) Recommendation for an enforcement action to be initiated in a Federal court.

(c) Agency requests for initiation of recalls.

(d) Destruction or disposition of any FDA-regulated article condemned after seizure or the distribution or use of which has been enjoined or following detention or recall at agency request if the method of destruction or disposition of the article, including packaging material, is in compliance with all Federal, State, and local requirements.

(e) Extramural contracts, other agreements, or grants for statistical and epidemiological studies, surveys and inventories, literature searches, and report and manual preparation, or any other studies that will not result in the production or distribution of any substance and, therefore, will not result in the introduction of any substance into the environment.

(f) Extramural contracts, other agreements, and grants for research for such purposes as to develop analytical methods or other test methodologies.

(g) Activities of voluntary Federal-State cooperative programs, including issuance of model regulations proposed for State adoption.

(h) Issuance, amendment, or revocation of procedural or administrative regulations and guidance documents, including procedures for submission of applications for product development, testing and investigational use, and approval.

(i) Corrections and technical changes in regulations.

(j) Issuance of CGMP regulations, HACCP regulations, establishment standards, emergency permit control regulations, GLP regulations, and issuance or denial of permits, exemptions, variances, or stays under these regulations.

(k) Establishment or repeal by regulation of labeling requirements for marketed articles if there will be no increase in the existing levels of use or change in the intended uses of the product or its substitutes.

(l) Routine maintenance and minor construction activities such as:

(1) Repair to or replacement of equipment or structural components (e.g., door, roof, or window) of facilities controlled by FDA;

(2) Lease extensions, renewals, or succeeding leases;

(3) Construction or lease construction of 10,000 square feet or less of occupiable space;

(4) Relocation of employees into existing owned or currently leased space;

(5) Acquisition of 20,000 square feet or less of occupiable space in a structure that was substantially completed before the issuance of solicitation for offers; and

(6) Acquisition of between 20,000 square feet and 40,000 square feet of occupiable space if it constitutes less than 40 percent of the occupiable space in a structure that was substantially completed before the solicitation for offers.

(m) Disposal of low-level radioactive waste materials (as defined in the Nuclear Regulatory Commission regulations at 10 CFR 61.2) and chemical waste materials generated in the laboratories serviced by the contracts administered by FDA, if the waste is disposed of in compliance with all applicable Federal, State, and local requirements.
