
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 25 - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT CONSIDERATIONS
##### Subpart C - Categorical Exclusions
###### § 25.32 Foods, food additives, and color additives.

The classes of actions listed in this section are categorically excluded and, therefore, ordinarily do not require the preparation of an EA or an EIS:

(a) Issuance, amendment, or repeal of a food standard.

(b) Action on a request for exemption for investigational use of a food additive if the food additive to be shipped under the request is intended to be used for clinical studies or research.

(c) Approval of a color additive petition to change a provisionally listed color additive to permanent listing for use in food, drugs, devices, or cosmetics.

(d) Testing and certification of batches of a color additive.

(e) Issuance of an interim food additive regulation.

(f) Establishment or amendment of a regulation for a food substance as GRAS under the conditions of its intended use for humans or animals under parts 182, 184, 186, 582, or 584 of this chapter, and establishment or amendment of a regulation for a prior-sanctioned food ingredient, as defined in §§ 170.3(l) and 181.5(a) of this chapter, if the substance or food ingredient is already marketed in the United States for the proposed use.

(g) Issuance and enforcement of regulations relating to the control of communicable diseases or to interstate conveyance sanitation under parts 1240 and 1250 of this chapter.

(h) Approval of a request for diversion of adulterated or misbranded food for humans or animals to use as animal feeds.

(i) Approval of a food additive petition, establishment or amendment of a regulation for a food substance as GRAS under the conditions of its intended use for humans or animals under parts 182, 184, 186, 582, or 584 of this chapter, the granting of a request for exemption from regulation as a food additive under § 170.39 of this chapter, or allowing a notification submitted under 21 U.S.C. 348(h) to become effective, when the substance is present in finished food-packaging material at not greater than 5 percent-by-weight and is expected to remain with finished food-packaging material through use by consumers or when the substance is a component of a coating of a finished food-packaging material.

(j) Approval of a food additive petition, establishment or amendment of a regulation for a food substance as GRAS under the conditions of its intended use for humans or animals under parts 182, 184, 186, 582, or 584 of this chapter, the granting of a request for exemption from regulation as a food additive under § 170.39 of this chapter, or allowing a notification submitted under 21 U.S.C. 348(h) to become effective, when the substance is to be used as a component of a food-contact surface of permanent or semipermanent equipment or of another food-contact article intended for repeated use.

(k) Approval of a food additive petition or color additive petition, establishment or amendment of a regulation for a food substance as GRAS under the conditions of its intended use for humans or animals under parts 182, 184, 186, 582, or 584 of this chapter, or allowing a notification submitted under 21 U.S.C. 348(h) to become effective, for substances added directly to food that are intended to remain in food through ingestion by consumers and that are not intended to replace macronutrients in food.

(l) Approval of a petition for color additives used in contact lenses, sutures, filaments used as supporting haptics in intraocular lenses, bone cement, and in other FDA-regulated products having similarly low levels of use.

(m) Action to prohibit or otherwise restrict or reduce the use of a substance in food, food packaging, or cosmetics.

(n) Issuance, amendment, or revocation of a regulation pertaining to infant formulas.

(o) Approval of a food additive petition for the intended expression product(s) present in food derived from new plant varieties.

(p) Issuance, amendment, or revocation of a regulation in response to a reference amount petition as described in § 101.12(h) of this chapter, a nutrient content claim petition as described in § 101.69 of this chapter, a health claim petition as described in § 101.70 of this chapter, or a petition pertaining to the label declaration of ingredients as described in § 10.30 of this chapter.

(q) Approval of a food additive petition, the granting of a request for exemption from regulation as a food additive under § 170.39 of this chapter, or allowing a notification submitted under 21 U.S.C. 348(h) to become effective for a substance registered by the Environmental Protection Agency under FIFRA for the same use requested in the petition, request for exemption, or notification.

(r) Approval of a food additive petition or color additive petition, establishment or amendment of a regulation for a food substance as GRAS under the conditions of its intended use for humans or animals under parts 182, 184, 186, 582, or 584 of this chapter, or allowing a notification submitted under 21 U.S.C. 348(h) to become effective for a substance that occurs naturally in the environment, when the action does not alter significantly the concentration or distribution of the substance, its metabolites, or degradation products in the environment.
