
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 26 - MUTUAL RECOGNITION OF PHARMACEUTICAL GOOD MANUFACTURING PRACTICE REPORTS, MEDICAL DEVICE QUALITY SYSTEM AUDIT REPORTS, AND CERTAIN MEDICAL DEVICE PRODUCT EVALUATION REPORTS: UNITED STATES AND THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY
##### Subpart A - Specific Sector Provisions for Pharmaceutical Good Manufacturing Practices
###### ยง 26.6 Equivalence assessment.

(a) The criteria to be used by the parties to assess equivalence are listed in appendix D of this subpart. Information pertaining to the criteria under European Community (EC) competence will be provided by the EC.

(b) The authorities of the parties will establish and communicate to each other their draft programs for assessing the equivalence of the respective regulatory systems in terms of quality assurance of the products and consumer protection. These programs will be carried out, as deemed necessary by the regulatory authorities, for post- and preapproval inspections and for various product classes or processes.

(c) The equivalence assessment shall include information exchanges (including inspection reports), joint training, and joint inspections for the purpose of assessing regulatory systems and the authorities' capabilities. In conducting the equivalence assessment, the parties will ensure that efforts are made to save resources.

(d) Equivalence assessment for authorities added to appendix B of this subpart after the effective date described in ยง 26.80(a) will be conducted as described in this subpart, as soon as practicable.
