
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 26 - MUTUAL RECOGNITION OF PHARMACEUTICAL GOOD MANUFACTURING PRACTICE REPORTS, MEDICAL DEVICE QUALITY SYSTEM AUDIT REPORTS, AND CERTAIN MEDICAL DEVICE PRODUCT EVALUATION REPORTS: UNITED STATES AND THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY
##### Subpart A - Specific Sector Provisions for Pharmaceutical Good Manufacturing Practices
###### ยง 26.16 Suspension.

(a) Each party has the right to contest the equivalence of a regulatory authority. This right will be exercised in an objective and reasoned manner in writing to the other party.

(b) The issue shall be discussed in the Joint Sectoral Committee promptly upon such notification. Where the Joint Sectoral Committee determines that verification of equivalence is required, it may be carried out jointly by the parties in a timely manner, under ยง 26.6.

(c) Efforts will be made by the Joint Sectoral Committee to reach unanimous consent on the appropriate action. If agreement to suspend is reached in the Joint Sectoral Committee, an authority may be suspended immediately thereafter. If no agreement is reached in the Joint Sectoral Committee, the matter is referred to the Joint Committee as described in ยง 26.73. If no unanimous consent is reached within 30 days after such notification, the contested authority will be suspended.

(d) Upon the suspension of authority previously listed as equivalent, a party is no longer obligated to normally endorse the inspection reports of the suspended authority. A party shall continue to normally endorse the inspection reports of that authority prior to suspension, unless the authority of the receiving party decides otherwise based on health or safety considerations. The suspension will remain in effect until unanimous consent has been reached by the parties on the future status of that authority.
