
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 524 - OPHTHALMIC AND TOPICAL DOSAGE FORM NEW ANIMAL DRUGS
##### Fluocinolone Topical and Otic Dosage Forms
###### ยง 524.1742 Phosmet emulsifiable liquid.
####### Dip vat procedure.

(i)(A) Prior to charging vat, empty old contents and thoroughly clean the vat. Dip vats should be calibrated to maintain an accurate dilution. Add water, then drug to the vat according to the dilution rate indicated in the table. Add super phosphate at a rate of 100 pounds per 1,000 gallons of vat solution. Super phosphate is added to control the pH of the solution and ensure vat stability. Super phosphate is usually available at most fertilizer dealers as 0-45-0 or 0-46-0. Stir the dip thoroughly, preferably with a compressed air device; however, any form of thorough mixing is adequate. Re-stir vat contents prior to each use. During the dipping operation, each time the dip's volume is reduced bytoof its initial volume, replenish with water and add the drug at a rate of 1 gallon for each 50 or 200 gallons water added-depending on dilution rate 1:60 or 1:240. Also add super phosphate as necessary to maintain pH between 4.5 and 6.5. Stir well and resume dipping. Repeat replenishment process as necessary. For evaportion, add additional water accordingly. For added water due to rainfall, merely replenish dip with the product according to directions. If overflow occurs, either analyze for drug concentration and adjust accordingly or dispose of vat contents and recharge. Check pH after each addition of water or super phosphate to assure proper pH controls.
