
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 524 - OPHTHALMIC AND TOPICAL DOSAGE FORM NEW ANIMAL DRUGS
##### Fluocinolone Topical and Otic Dosage Forms
###### ยง 524.1982 Proparacaine ophthalmic solution.
####### Conditions of use.

(d)(1) The drug is indicated for use as a topical ophthalmic anesthetic in animals. It is used as an anesthetic in cauterization of corneal ulcers, removal of foreign bodies and sutures from the cornea, and measurement of intraocular pressure (tonometry) when glaucoma is suspected. Local applications may also be used as an aid in the removal of foreign bodies from the nose and ear canal, as an accessory in the examination and treatment of painful otitis, in minor surgery, and prior to catheterization.

(2) It is administered as follows:

(i) For removal of sutures: Instill one to two drops 2 or 3 minutes before removal of stitches.

(ii) For removal of foreign bodies from eye, ear, and nose: For ophthalmic use, instill three to five drops in the eye prior to examination; for otic use, instill five to 10 drops in the ear; for nasal use, instill five to 10 drops in each nostril every 3 minutes for three doses.

(iii) For tonometry: Instill one to two drops immediately before measurement.

(iv) As an aid in treatment of otitis: Instill two drops into the ear every 5 minutes for three doses.

(v) For minor surgery: Instill one or more drops as required.

(vi) For catheterization: Instill two to three drops with a blunt 20-gauge needle immediately before inserting catheter.

(3) For use only by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.
