
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 524 - OPHTHALMIC AND TOPICAL DOSAGE FORM NEW ANIMAL DRUGS
##### Fluocinolone Topical and Otic Dosage Forms
###### ยง 524.1742 Phosmet emulsifiable liquid.
####### Warnings.

(4)The drug is a cholinesterase inhibitor. Do not use this drug on animals simultaneously or within a few days before or after treatment with or exposure to cholinesterase-inhibiting drugs, pesticides, or chemicals. Do not apply within 21 days of slaughter. For use on beef cattle only. Do not treat sick, convalescent, or stressed cattle, or calves less than 3 months old except in Federal or State eradication programs where immediate treatment of all animals in an infested herd is mandatory. Be sure free access to drinking water is available to cattle prior to dipping. Do not dip excessively thirsty animals. Do not dip animals when overheated. Repeat treatment as necessary but not more often than every 7 to 10 days. Treatment for lice, ticks, hornflies, and scabies mites may be made any time of the year except when cattle grub larvae are in the gullet or spinal canal. Treatment for lice, ticks, and scabies mites may be made any time 7 to 10 days following treatment for grubs. Do not treat grubs when the grub larvae are in the gullet or spinal canal. Do not get in eyes, on skin, or on clothing. Do not breathe spray mist. Wear rubber gloves, goggles, and protective clothing. In case of skin contact, wash immediately with soap and water; for eyes, flush with water. Wash all contaminated clothing with soap and hot water before re-use.
