
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 524 - OPHTHALMIC AND TOPICAL DOSAGE FORM NEW ANIMAL DRUGS
##### ยง 524.920 Fenthion.
###### Limitations.,Hypoderma lineatum,H. bovis

(iii)Do not use on animals simultaneously or within a few days before or after treatment with or exposure to cholinesterase-inhibiting drugs, pesticides, or chemicals. Host-parasite reactions such as bloat, salivation, staggering and paralysis may sometimes occur when cattle are treated while the common cattle grub () is in the gullet, or while the northern cattle grub () is in the area of the spinal cord. Cattle should be treated before these stages of grub development. Consult your veterinarian, extension livestock specialist, or extension entomologist regarding the timing of treatment. If it is impossible to determine the area from which the cattle came and/or exact stage of the grubs, it is recommended that the cattle receive only a maintenance ration of low-energy feed during the treatment period. This lessens the likelihood of severe bloat which may occur in cattle on full feed when the common grub is killed while in the gullet. Do not treat dairy cattle of breeding age; calves less than 3 months old; sick, convalescent, or severely stressed livestock. Do not treat cattle for 10 days before or after shipping, weaning, dehorning, or after exposure to contagious or infectious diseases. Do not slaughter within 45 days of treatment.
