
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 26 - MUTUAL RECOGNITION OF PHARMACEUTICAL GOOD MANUFACTURING PRACTICE REPORTS, MEDICAL DEVICE QUALITY SYSTEM AUDIT REPORTS, AND CERTAIN MEDICAL DEVICE PRODUCT EVALUATION REPORTS: UNITED STATES AND THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY
##### Subpart B - Specific Sector Provisions for Medical Devices
###### ยง 26.41 Exchange and endorsement of quality system evaluation reports.

(a) Listed European Community (EC) conformity assessment bodies (CAB's) will provide FDA with reports of quality system evaluations, as follows:

(1) For preapproval quality system evaluations, EC CAB's will provide full reports; and

(2) For surveillance quality system evaluations, EC CAB's will provide abbreviated reports.

(b) Listed U.S. CAB's will provide to the EC Notified Body of the manufacturer's choice:

(1) Full reports of initial quality system evaluations;

(2) Abbreviated reports of quality systems surveillance audits.

(c) If the abbreviated reports do not provide sufficient information, the importing party may request additional clarification from the CAB.

(d) Based on the determination of equivalence in light of the experience gained, the quality system evaluation reports prepared by the CAB's listed as equivalent will normally be endorsed by the importing party, except under specific and delineated circumstances. Examples of such circumstances include indications of material inconsistencies or inadequacies in a report, quality defects identified in postmarket surveillance or other specific evidence of serious concern in relation to product quality or consumer safety. In such cases, the importing party may request clarification from the exporting party which may lead to a request for reinspection. The parties will endeavor to respond to requests for clarification in a timely manner. Where divergence is not clarified in this process, the importing party may carry out the quality system evaluation.
