
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 26 - MUTUAL RECOGNITION OF PHARMACEUTICAL GOOD MANUFACTURING PRACTICE REPORTS, MEDICAL DEVICE QUALITY SYSTEM AUDIT REPORTS, AND CERTAIN MEDICAL DEVICE PRODUCT EVALUATION REPORTS: UNITED STATES AND THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY
##### Subpart C - "Framework" Provisions
###### ยง 26.73 Joint Committee.

(a) A Joint Committee consisting of representatives of the United States and the European Community (EC) will be established. The Joint Committee shall be responsible for the effective functioning of the "Agreement on Mutual Recognition Between the United States of America and the European Community," from which this part is derived.

(b) The Joint Committee may establish Joint Sectoral Committees comprised of appropriate regulatory authorities and others deemed necessary.

(c) The United States and the EC shall each have one vote in the Joint Committee. The Joint Committee shall make its decisions by unanimous consent. The Joint Committee shall determine its own rules and procedures.

(d) The Joint Committee may consider any matter relating to the effective functioning of that agreement. In particular it shall be responsible for:

(1) Listing, suspension, withdrawal and verification of conformity assessment bodies (CAB's) in accordance with that agreement;

(2) Amending transitional arrangements in the sectoral annexes to that agreement;

(3) Resolving any questions relating to the application of that agreement not otherwise resolved in the respective Joint Sectoral Committees;

(4) Providing a forum for discussion of issues that may arise concerning the implementation of that agreement;

(5) Considering ways to enhance the operation of that agreement;

(6) Coordinating the negotiation of additional sectoral annexes to that agreement; and

(7) Considering whether to amend that agreement in accordance with ยง 26.80.

(e) When a party introduces new or additional conformity assessment procedures affecting a sectoral annex to that agreement, the parties shall discuss the matter in the Joint Committee with a view to bringing such new or additional procedures within the scope of that agreement and the relevant sectoral annex.
