
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 26 - MUTUAL RECOGNITION OF PHARMACEUTICAL GOOD MANUFACTURING PRACTICE REPORTS, MEDICAL DEVICE QUALITY SYSTEM AUDIT REPORTS, AND CERTAIN MEDICAL DEVICE PRODUCT EVALUATION REPORTS: UNITED STATES AND THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY
##### Subpart C - "Framework" Provisions
###### ยง 26.80 Entry into force, amendment, and termination.

(a) The "Agreement on Mutual Recognition Between the United States of America and the European Community," from which this part is derived, including its sectoral annexes on telecommunication equipment, electromagnetic compatibility, electrical safety, recreational craft, pharmaceutical Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) inspections, and medical devices shall enter into force on the first day of the second month following the date on which the parties have exchanged letters confirming the completion of their respective procedures for the entry into force of that agreement.

(b) That agreement including any sectoral annex may, through the Joint Committee, be amended in writing by the parties to that agreement. Those parties may add a sectoral annex upon the exchange of letters. Such annex shall enter into force 30 days following the date on which those parties have exchanged letters confirming the completion of their respective procedures for the entry into force of the sectoral annex.

(c) Either party to that agreement may terminate that agreement in its entirety or any individual sectoral annex thereof by giving the other party to that agreement 6-months notice in writing. In the case of termination of one or more sectoral annexes, the parties to that agreement will seek to achieve by consensus to amend that agreement, with a view to preserving the remaining Sectoral Annexes, in accordance with the procedures in this section. Failing such consensus, that agreement shall terminate at the end of 6 months from the date of notice.

(d) Following termination of that agreement in its entirety or any individual sectoral annex thereof, a party to that agreement shall continue to accept the results of conformity assessment procedures performed by conformity assessment bodies under that agreement prior to termination, unless a regulatory authority in the party decides otherwise based on health, safety and environmental considerations or failure to satisfy other requirements within the scope of the applicable sectoral annex.
