
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 558 - NEW ANIMAL DRUGS FOR USE IN ANIMAL FEEDS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 558.6 Veterinary feed directive drugs.
####### e.g.,

(i) A more specific description of the location of animals (by site, pen, barn, stall, tank, or other descriptor that the veterinarian deems appropriate);

(ii) The approximate age range of the animals;

(iii) The approximate weight range of the animals; and

(iv) Any other information the veterinarian deems appropriate to identify the animals specified in the VFD.

(5) For VFDs intended to authorize the use of an approved, conditionally approved, or indexed combination VFD drug that includes more than one VFD drug, the veterinarian must include the drug-specific information required in paragraphs (b)(3)(vi), (ix), (x), and (xi) of this section for each VFD drug in the combination.

(6) The veterinarian may restrict VFD authorization to only include the VFD drug(s) cited on the VFD or may expand such authorization to allow the use of the cited VFD drug(s) along with one or more over-the-counter (OTC) animal drugs in an approved, conditionally approved, or indexed combination VFD drug. The veterinarian must affirm his or her intent regarding combination VFD drugs by including one of the following statements on the VFD:

(i) "This VFD only authorizes the use of the VFD drug(s) cited in this order and is not intended to authorize the use of such drug(s) in combination with any other animal drugs."

(ii) "This VFD authorizes the use of the VFD drug(s) cited in this order in the following FDA-approved, conditionally approved, or indexed combination(s) in medicated feed that contains the VFD drug(s) as a component." [List specific approved, conditionally approved, or indexed combination medicated feeds following this statement.]

(iii) "This VFD authorizes the use of the VFD drug(s) cited in this order in any FDA-approved, conditionally approved, or indexed combination(s) in medicated feed that contains the VFD drug(s) as a component."

(7) The veterinarian must issue a written (nonverbal) VFD.

(8) The veterinarian must send a copy of the VFD to the distributor via hardcopy, facsimile (fax), or electronically. If in hardcopy, the veterinarian must send the copy of the VFD to the distributor either directly or through the client.

(9) The veterinarian must provide a copy of the VFD to the client.
