
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 558 - NEW ANIMAL DRUGS FOR USE IN ANIMAL FEEDS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 558.6 Veterinary feed directive drugs.
####### General requirements related to veterinary feed directive (VFD) drugs.

(a)(1) Animal feed bearing or containing a VFD drug or a combination VFD drug (a VFD feed or combination VFD feed) may be fed to animals only by or upon a lawful VFD issued by a licensed veterinarian.

(2) A VFD feed or combination VFD feed must not be fed to animals after the expiration date on the VFD.

(3) Use and labeling of a VFD drug or a combination VFD drug in feed is limited to the approved, conditionally approved, or indexed conditions of use. Use of feed containing this veterinary feed directive (VFD) drug in a manner other than as directed on the labeling (extralabel use) is not permitted.

(4) All involved parties (the veterinarian, the distributor, and the client) must retain a copy of the VFD for 2 years. The veterinarian must retain the original VFD in its original form (electronic or hardcopy). The distributor and client copies may be kept as an electronic copy or hardcopy.

(5) All involved parties must make the VFD and any other records specified in this section available for inspection and copying by FDA upon request.

(6) All labeling and advertising for VFD drugs, combination VFD drugs, and feeds containing VFD drugs or combination VFD drugs must prominently and conspicuously display the following cautionary statement: "Caution: Federal law restricts medicated feed containing this veterinary feed directive (VFD) drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian."
