
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 558 - NEW ANIMAL DRUGS FOR USE IN ANIMAL FEEDS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 558.6 Veterinary feed directive drugs.
####### Responsibilities of any person who distributes an animal feed containing a VFD drug or a combination VFD drug.

(c)(1) The distributor is permitted to fill a VFD only if the VFD contains all the information required in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(2) The distributor is permitted to distribute an animal feed containing a VFD drug or combination VFD drug only if it complies with the terms of the VFD and is manufactured and labeled in conformity with the approved, conditionally approved, or indexed conditions of use for such drug.

(3) The distributor must keep records of the receipt and distribution of all medicated animal feed containing a VFD drug for 2 years.

(4) In addition to other applicable recordkeeping requirements found in this section, if the distributor manufactures the animal feed bearing or containing the VFD drug, the distributor must also keep VFD feed manufacturing records for 1 year in accordance with part 225 of this chapter. Such records must be made available for inspection and copying by FDA upon request.

(5) A distributor of animal feed containing a VFD drug must notify FDA prior to the first time it distributes animal feed containing a VFD drug. The notification is required one time per distributor and must include the following information:

(i) The distributor's complete name and business address;

(ii) The distributor's signature or the signature of the distributor's authorized agent; and

(iii) The date the notification was signed.

(6) A distributor must also notify FDA within 30 days of any change in ownership, business name, or business address.
