
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 558 - NEW ANIMAL DRUGS FOR USE IN ANIMAL FEEDS
##### Subpart B - Specific New Animal Drugs for Use in Animal Feeds
###### ยง 558.325 Lincomycin.
####### Special considerations.

(d)(1) Federal law restricts medicated feed containing this veterinary feed directive (VFD) drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian. See ยง 558.6 for additional requirements.

(2) The expiration date of VFDs for lincomycin medicated feeds must not exceed 6 months from the date of issuance. VFDs for lincomycin shall not be refilled.

(3) Labeling of Type A medicated articles and Type B and Type C medicated feeds containing lincomycin shall bear the following:

(i) "CAUTION: Do not allow rabbits, hamsters, guinea pigs, horses, or ruminants access to feeds containing lincomycin. Ingestion by these species may result in severe gastrointestinal effects."

(ii) [Reserved]

(4) Labeling of medicated feeds containing lincomycin intended for use in swine shall bear the following:

(i) "CAUTION: Occasionally, swine fed lincomycin may within the first 2 days after the onset of treatment develop diarrhea and/or swelling of the anus. On rare occasions, some pigs may show reddening of the skin and irritable behavior. These conditions have been self-correcting within 5 to 8 days without discontinuing the lincomycin treatment."

(ii) "CAUTION: The effects of lincomycin on swine reproductive performance, pregnancy, and lactation have not been determined."
