
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 558 - NEW ANIMAL DRUGS FOR USE IN ANIMAL FEEDS
##### Subpart B - Specific New Animal Drugs for Use in Animal Feeds
###### ยง 558.342 Melengestrol.
####### Special considerations.

(d)(1) Type B or C medicated feeds may be manufactured from melengestrol acetate liquid Type A articles or Type B or C medicated feeds which have a pH of 4.0 to 8.0 and bear appropriate mixing directions as follows:

(i) For liquid feeds stored in recirculating tank systems: Recirculate immediately prior to use for no less than 10 minutes, moving not less than 1 percent of the tank contents per minute from the bottom of the tank to the top. Recirculate daily as described even when not used.

(ii) For liquid feeds stored in mechanical, air, or other agitation type tank systems: Agitate immediately prior to use for not less than 10 minutes, creating a turbulence at the bottom of the tank that is visible at the top. Agitate daily as described even when not used.

(2) A physically stable melengestrol acetate liquid Type B or C feed will not be subject to the requirements for mixing directions prescribed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section provided it has a pH of 4.0 to 8.0 and contains a suspending agent(s) sufficient to maintain a viscosity of not less than 300 centipoises per second for 3 months.

(3) Liquid or dry combination Type B or C medicated feeds containing melengestrol acetate and lasalocid must be labeled in accordance with ยง 558.311(d).

(4) Liquid or dry combination Type B or C medicated feeds containing melengestrol acetate and monensin must be labeled in accordance with ยง 558.355(d).

(5) Liquid combination Type B or C medicated feeds containing melengestrol acetate and tylosin must be manufactured in accordance with ยง 558.625(d).

(6) Liquid melengestrol acetate may not be mixed with oxytetracycline in a common liquid feed supplement.
