
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 558 - NEW ANIMAL DRUGS FOR USE IN ANIMAL FEEDS
##### Subpart B - Specific New Animal Drugs for Use in Animal Feeds
###### ยง 558.625 Tylosin.
####### Special considerations.

(d)(1) Federal law restricts medicated feed containing this veterinary feed directive (VFD) drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian. See ยง 558.6 for additional requirements.

(2) The expiration date of VFDs for tylosin medicated feeds must not exceed 6 months from the date of issuance. VFDs for tylosin shall not be refilled.

(3) Type C medicated feeds for cattle may be manufactured from tylosin liquid Type B medicated feeds which have a pH between 4.5 and 6.0 and which bear appropriate mixing directions as follows:

(i) For liquid feeds stored in recirculating tank systems: Recirculate immediately prior to use for not less than 10 minutes, moving not less than 1 percent of the tank contents per minute from the bottom of the tank to the top. Recirculate daily as described even when not used.

(ii) For liquid feeds stored in mechanical, air, or other agitation-type tank systems: Agitate immediately prior to use for not less than 10 minutes, creating a turbulence at the bottom of the tank that is visible at the top. Agitate daily as described even when not used.

(4) Tylosin liquid Type B medicated feeds must bear an expiration date of 31 days after the date of manufacture.

(5) Do not use tylosin liquid Type B medicated feeds in any liquid feed containing sodium metabisulfite or in any finished feed (supplement, concentrate, or complete feed) containing in excess of 2 percent bentonite.
