
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 558 - NEW ANIMAL DRUGS FOR USE IN ANIMAL FEEDS
##### Subpart B - Specific New Animal Drugs for Use in Animal Feeds
###### ยง 558.665 Zilpaterol.
####### Special considerations.

(d)(1) Labeling shall bear the following caution statements: "Zilpaterol hydrochloride is not for use in animals intended for breeding. Do not allow horses or other equines access to feed containing zilpaterol. Do not use in veal calves."

(2) Labeling of Type A medicated articles and Type B medicated feeds used to manufacture complete Type C medicated feeds shall bear the caution statement in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.

(3) Labeling of complete Type C medicated feeds shall bear the following caution statements: "Not to be fed to cattle in excess of 90 mg zilpaterol/head/day in complete feed. If pen consumption of complete feed exceeds 26.5 lb/head/day (90 percent dry matter basis), zilpaterol should not be fed in complete feed."

(4) Type B Liquid Feeds can be manufactured containing 68 to 680 g zilpaterol hydrochloride/ton. The liquid Type B feeds must be maintained at a pH of 3.8 to 7.5. For liquid feeds stored in recirculating tank systems: Recirculate immediately prior to use for not less than 10 minutes, moving not less than 1 percent of the tank contents per minute from the bottom of the tank to the top. Recirculate daily as described even when not used. For liquid feeds stored in mechanical, air or other agitation-type tank systems: Agitate immediately prior to use for not less than 10 minutes, creating a turbulence at the bottom of the tank that is visible at the top. Agitate daily as described even when not used.
