
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 573 - FOOD ADDITIVES PERMITTED IN FEED AND DRINKING WATER OF ANIMALS
##### Subpart B - Food Additive Listing
###### ยง 573.180 Anhydrous ammonia.

(a) The food additive anhydrous ammonia is applied directly to corn plant material and thoroughly blended prior to ensiling. It is used or intended for use as a source of nonprotein nitrogen in cattle feed in accordance with paragraphs (a)(1), (2), or (3) as follows:

(1)(i) The food additive anhydrous ammonia is applied as a component of an aqueous premix containing 16 to 17 percent ammonia, with molasses, minerals, and not less than 83 percent crude protein. The premix is a source of nonprotein nitrogen and minerals.

(ii) In addition to the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, the labeling shall bear an expiration date of not more than 10 weeks after date of manufacture; a statement that additional protein should not be fed to lactating dairy cows producing less than 32 pounds of milk per day nor beef cattle consuming less than 1 percent of body weight daily in shelled corn; and a warning not to use additional trace mineral supplementation with treated silage.

(2)(i) The food additive anhydrous ammonia is applied directly to corn plant material for use in dairy or beef cattle rations.

(ii) The anhydrous ammonia is applied at a rate not to exceed the equivalent of 0.35 percent of the corn plant material.

(iii) It is applied to corn plant material containing 30 to 35 percent dry matter.

(iv) It is applied so that 75 to 85 percent of the additive is liquid at ambient pressure.

(3)(i) The food additive anhydrous ammonia is applied after being diluted to a 15 to 30 percent aqueous ammonia solution (by weight).

(ii) The anhydrous ammonia solution is applied at a rate not to exceed anhydrous ammonia equivalent to 0.3 percent of the corn plant material.

(iii) It is applied to corn plant material containing 28 to 38 percent dry matter.

(iv) The silage treated with aqueous ammonia is to be fed to dairy cattle only.

(b) Its labeling shall bear, in addition to the other requirements of the act, the name of the additive, the concentration of ammonia, the maximum percentage of equivalent crude protein from nonprotein nitrogen, and directions for use consistent with this section.
