
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 573 - FOOD ADDITIVES PERMITTED IN FEED AND DRINKING WATER OF ANIMALS
##### Subpart B - Food Additive Listing
###### ยง 573.140 Ammoniated cottonseed meal.

The food additive ammoniated cottonseed meal may be safely used in accordance with the following conditions:

(a) The food additive is the product obtained by the treatment of cottonseed meal with anhydrous ammonia until a pressure of 50 pounds per square inch gauge is reached.

(b) It is used or intended for use in the feed of ruminants as a source of protein and/or as a source of nonprotein nitrogen in an amount not to exceed 20 percent of the total ration.

(c) To assure safe use, the label and labeling of the additive and of any feed additive supplement, concentrate, or premix prepared therefrom shall bear, in addition to the other information required by the act, the following:

(1) The name of the additive.

(2) The maximum percentage of equivalent crude protein from the nonprotein nitrogen.

(3) Directions for use to provide not more than 20 percent of the additive in the total ration.

(4) A statement:

(i) That not more than one-third of the total protein in the feed should come from nonprotein nitrogen sources.

(ii) That the additive is not to be given to debilitated or starved animals.

(iii) "Warning-This feed should be used only in accordance with directions furnished on the label."
