
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 573 - FOOD ADDITIVES PERMITTED IN FEED AND DRINKING WATER OF ANIMALS
##### Subpart B - Food Additive Listing
###### ยง 573.210 Benzoic acid.

The food additive, benzoic acid, may be safely used in the manufacture of complete swine feeds in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:

(a) The additive is used or intended for use as a feed acidifying agent, to lower the pH, in complete swine feeds at levels not to exceed 0.5 percent of the complete feed.

(b) The additive consists of not less than 99.5 percent benzoic acid (CAS 65-85-0) by weight with the sum of 2-methylbiphenyl, 3-methylbiphenyl, 4-methylbiphenyl, benzyl benzoate, and isomers of dimethylbiphenyl not to exceed 0.01 percent by weight.

(c) To assure safe use of the additive, in addition to the other information required by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and paragraph (b) of this section, the label and labeling shall contain:

(1) The name of the additive.

(2) Adequate directions for use including a statement that benzoic acid must be uniformly applied and thoroughly mixed into complete swine feeds and that the complete swine feeds so treated shall be labeled as containing benzoic acid.

(3) Appropriate warnings and safety precautions concerning benzoic acid.

(4) A warning statement identifying benzoic acid as a possible irritant.

(5) Information about emergency aid in case of accidental exposure.

(6) Contact address and telephone number for reporting adverse reactions or to request a copy of the Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS).
