
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 573 - FOOD ADDITIVES PERMITTED IN FEED AND DRINKING WATER OF ANIMALS
##### Subpart B - Food Additive Listing
###### ยง 573.460 Formaldehyde.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(i) An aqueous blend of oilseed and/or meals, with or without added vegetable oil, in a ratio such that, on a dry matter basis, the final protein level will be 25 to 35 percent and the fat content will be 20 to 45 percent. The feed ingredients are those defined by the "Official Publication" of the Association of American Feed Control Officials, Inc., 2003 ed., pp. 301, 307, 308, and 309, which is incorporated by reference. The Director of the Office of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain copies from the Assistant Secretary-Treasurer, Association of American Feed Control Officials Inc., P.O. Box 478, Oxford, IN 47971, or you may examine a copy at the Division of Dockets Management, Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers lane, rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(ii) Formaldehyde (37 percent solution) is added to the mixture at a level of 2.7 percent of the dry matter weight basis of the oilseeds and/or meals and the vegetable oil. This mixture, upon drying, contains not more than 0.5 percent formaldehyde and not more than 12 percent moisture.

(iii) To assure the safe use of the additive, in addition to the other information required by the act, the label and labeling of the dried mixture shall bear:

(A) The name of the additive.

(B) The statement, "This supplement is not to exceed 12.5% of the total ration. Dietary calcium and magnesium levels should be considered when supplementing the diet with fat."

(C) The minimum and maximum levels of crude fat must be guaranteed and must be between -5 percent and +5 percent of the analyzed fat content for each batch.
