
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 573 - FOOD ADDITIVES PERMITTED IN FEED AND DRINKING WATER OF ANIMALS
##### Subpart B - Food Additive Listing
###### ยง 573.460 Formaldehyde.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(i) An aqueous blend of soybean and sunflower meals in a ratio of 3:1, respectively, is mixed with animal fat such that the oilseed meals and animal fat are in a ratio of 3:2. The feed ingredients are those defined by the "Official Publication" of the Association of American Feed Control Officials, Inc., 2003 ed., pp. 303, 308, and 309, which is incorporated by reference. The Director of the Office of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain copies from the Assistant Secretary-Treasurer, Association of American Feed Control Officials Inc., P.O. Box 478, Oxford, IN 47971, or you may examine a copy at the Division of Dockets Management, Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(ii) Formaldehyde (37 percent solution) is added to the mixture at a level of 4 percent of the dry matter weight of the oilseed meals and animal fat. This mixture, upon drying, contains not more than 1 percent formaldehyde and not more than 12 percent moisture.

(iii) To assure the safe use of the additive, in addition to the other information required by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act), the label and labeling of the dried mixture shall bear:

(A) The name of the additive.

(B) Adequate directions for use providing that the feed as consumed does not contain more than 25 percent of the mixture.

(2) For soybean and canola seeds and/or meals to which there may be added vegetable oil as a component of dry, nonpelleted feeds for beef and dairy cattle, including lactating dairy cattle.
