
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 573 - FOOD ADDITIVES PERMITTED IN FEED AND DRINKING WATER OF ANIMALS
##### Subpart B - Food Additive Listing
###### ยง 573.720 Petrolatum.

Petrolatum may be safely used in or on animal feed, subject to the following prescribed conditions:

(a) Petrolatum complies with the specifications set forth in the U.S. Pharmacopeia XVI for white petrolatum or in The National Formulary XII for yellow petrolatum.

(b) Petrolatum meets the following ultraviolet absorbance limits when subjected to the analytical procedure described in ยง 172.886(b) of this chapter.

(c) It is used in animal feed for the following purposes:

(1) To reduce dustiness of feeds or mineral supplements.

(2) To serve as a lubricant in the preparation of pellets, cubes, or blocks, and to improve resistance to moisture of such pellets, cubes, or blocks.

(d) The quantity of petrolatum present in animal feeds from the uses specified in paragraph (c) of this section shall not exceed 3 percent in mineral supplements nor shall it exceed 0.06 percent of the total ration when present in feed or feed concentrates.

(e) When used in combination with technical white mineral oil for the uses described in paragraph (c) of this section, the total quantity of combined petrolatum and technical white mineral oil shall not exceed the limits prescribed in paragraph (d) of this section.

(f) Petrolatum may contain any antioxidant permitted in food by regulations issued in accordance with section 409 of the act, in an amount not greater than that required to produce its intended effect.
