
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 573 - FOOD ADDITIVES PERMITTED IN FEED AND DRINKING WATER OF ANIMALS
##### Subpart B - Food Additive Listing
###### § 573.640 Methyl esters of higher fatty acids.
####### Journal of the Association of Official Agricultural Chemists,,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.,"t"

(ii) The chick-edema factor bioassay method described under "26. Oils, Fats, and Waxes" in theVol. 44, Page 146 (1961), or the method described under "Chick-Edema Factor-Bioassay Method (34)-Official Final Action" in §§ 28.113-28.117, "Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists," 12th Ed., 1975, pp. 509-511, which is incorporated by reference, shall be employed. (Copies of the methods are available from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or available for inspectionat the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:) The presence of chick-edema factor shall be determined by a comparison between the mean log of the pericardial fluid volumes of a test group and of a concurrent negative control group. The significance of the difference in pericardial fluid volumes between the test group and the negative control group is determined by calculating avalue according to the formula:

(iii) "Other factors toxic to chicks" referred to in paragraph (b)(3) of this section shall be determined during the course of the bioassay test described in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section, on the basis of chick deaths or other abnormalities not attributable to chick-edema factor or to the experimental conditions of the test.

(c) It is used or intended for use as a supplementary source of fat for animal feed.

(d) To assure safe use of the additive, in addition to the other information required by the act:

(1) The label and labeling of the additive, and any feed additive supplement, feed additive concentrate, feed additive premix, or complete feed prepared therefrom shall bear:

(i) The name of the additive.

(ii) The designation "feed grade" in juxtaposition with the name and equally as prominent.

(2) The label or labeling of the additive and any feed additive supplement, feed additive concentrate, feed additive premix, or complete feed prepared therefrom shall bear adequate directions for use.
