
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 573 - FOOD ADDITIVES PERMITTED IN FEED AND DRINKING WATER OF ANIMALS
##### Subpart B - Food Additive Listing
###### ยง 573.920 Selenium.
####### Saccharomyces cerevisiae

(g) Selenium yeast is a dried, non-viable yeast () cultivated in a fed-batch fermentation which provides incremental amounts of cane molasses and selenium salts in a manner which minimizes the detrimental effects of selenium salts on the growth rate of the yeast and allows for optimal incorporation of inorganic selenium into cellular organic material. Residual inorganic selenium is eliminated in a rigorous washing process and must not exceed 2 percent of the total selenium content in the final selenium yeast product.

(1) Selenium, as selenium yeast, is added to feed as follows:

(i) In complete feed for chickens, turkeys, swine, beef cattle, and dairy cattle at a level not to exceed 0.3 part per million.

(ii) In feed supplements for limit feeding for beef cattle at a level not to exceed an intake of 3 milligrams per head per day.

(iii) In salt-mineral mixtures for free-choice feeding for beef cattle up to 120 parts per million in a mixture for free-choice feeding at a rate not to exceed an intake of 3 milligrams per head per day.

(2) Guaranteed organic selenium content from selenium yeast must be declared on the selenium yeast product label.

(3) The additive, as selenium yeast, shall be incorporated into feed as follows:

(i) It shall be incorporated into each ton of complete feed by adding no less than 1 pound of a premix containing no more than 272.4 milligrams of added selenium per pound.

(ii) It shall be incorporated into each ton of salt-mineral mixture for beef cattle from a premix containing no more than 4.5 grams of added selenium per pound.

(4) Usage of this additive must conform to the requirements of paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.

(h) Selenomethionine hydroxy analogue [R,S-2-hydroxy-4-methylselenobutanoic acid (CAS 873660-49-2)] is manufactured by the reaction of elemental selenium with methyllithium to form a methylseleno salt, which is then reacted with R,S-2-hydroxybutyrolactone to form a salt of 2-hydroxy-4-methylselenobutanoic acid. After acidification and purification, the additive consists of not less than 39.5 percent total selenium by weight with a selenomethionine hydroxy analogue content of not less than 98 percent of total selenium. The total organic selenium content of the additive is not less than 99 percent of total selenium.

(1) The selenomethionine hydroxy analogue meets the following specifications:

(i) Arsenic, not more than 2 parts per million (ppm);

(ii) Cadmium, not more than 1 ppm;

(iii) Lead, not more than 1 ppm; and

(iv) Mercury, not more than 1 ppm.

(2) Selenium, as selenomethionine hydroxy analogue, is added to feed as follows:

(i) In complete feed for chickens, turkeys, swine, beef cattle, and dairy cattle at a level not to exceed 0.3 ppm.

(ii) In feed supplements for limit feeding for beef cattle at a level not to exceed an intake of 3 milligrams per head per day.

(iii) In salt-mineral mixtures for free-choice feeding for beef cattle up to 120 parts per million in a mixture for free-choice feeding at a rate not to exceed an intake of 3 milligrams per head per day.

(3) To assure safe use of the additive, in addition to the other information required by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the label and labeling of selenomethionine hydroxy analogue in its packaged form shall contain:

(i) The name, selenomethionine hydroxy analogue;

(ii) Minimum and maximum guarantees for a total selenium content of not less than 2.08 percent (weight/weight) and not more than 2.24 percent;

(iii) Minimum guarantee for selenomethionine hydroxy analogue content of not less than 5.2 percent;

(iv) The following statement, "Storage Conditions: Selenomethionine hydroxy analogue must be stored in a closed package at temperatures not higher than 20 &#xB0;C (68 &#xB0;F)."; and

(v) An expiration date not to exceed 1 year from the date of manufacture.

(4) The additive, as selenomethionine hydroxy analogue, shall be incorporated into each ton of complete feed by adding no less than 1 pound of a premix containing no more than 272.4 milligrams of added selenium per pound.

(5) Usage of this additive must conform to the requirements of paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.
