
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 573 - FOOD ADDITIVES PERMITTED IN FEED AND DRINKING WATER OF ANIMALS
##### Subpart B - Food Additive Listing
###### ยง 573.920 Selenium.
####### Beef cattle:

(ii)Up to 120 parts per million in a mixture for free-choice feeding at a rate not to exceed an intake of 3 milligrams per head per day.

(4) The additive, as sodium selenite or sodium selenate, shall be incorporated into feed as follows:

(i) It shall be incorporated into each ton of complete feed by adding no less than 1 pound of a premix containing no more than 272.4 milligrams of added selenium per pound.

(ii) It shall be incorporated into each ton of salt-mineral mixture for sheep or beef cattle from a premix containing no more than 4.5 grams of added selenium per pound.

(5) Usage of the additive must conform to the requirements of paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.

(d) The premix manufacturer shall follow good manufacturing practices in the production of selenium premixes. Inventory, production, and distribution records must provide a complete and accurate history of product production. Production controls must assure products to be what they are purported and labeled. Production controls shall include analysis sufficient to adequately monitor quality.

(e) The label or labeling of any selenium premix shall bear adequate directions and cautions for use including this statement: "Caution: Follow label directions. The addition to feed of higher levels of this premix containing selenium is not permitted."

(f) The additive is orally administered to beef and dairy cattle as an osmotically controlled, constant release bolus containing sodium selenite. Each bolus contains 360 milligrams of selenium as sodium selenite, and delivers 3 milligrams of selenium per day for 120 days. To ensure safe use of the additive:

(1) The osmotically controlled, constant release bolus is for use only in beef and dairy cattle more than 3 months of age or over 200 pounds body weight.

(2) Only one bolus containing 360 milligrams of selenium as sodium selenite is administered orally to each animal in 120 days.

(3) The labeling shall bear the following: "This bolus delivers the maximum daily allowable amount of selenium and shall be the sole source of supplementation. Do not use in areas containing excess selenium. Do not rebolus within 4 months."
