
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter E - Animal Drugs, Feeds, and Related Products
#### PART 584 - FOOD SUBSTANCES AFFIRMED AS GENERALLY RECOGNIZED AS SAFE IN FEED AND DRINKING WATER OF ANIMALS
##### Subpart B - Listing of Specific Substances Affirmed as GRAS
###### ยง 584.700 Hydrophobic silicas.
####### Limitations.
######## Limitations.

(c)(1) Not to exceed 69 parts per billion (ppb) in feed or 34.5 ppb in drinking water. It shall be used in accordance with good manufacturing and feeding practices.

(2) The product must comply with the following specifications:

(i) Not less than 94.0 percent 25-hydroxyvitamin D.

(ii) Not more than 1 percent of any individual sterol.

(iii) Not more than 5 percent water.

(iv) Not more than 20 parts per million (ppm) lead.

(v) Not more than 20 ppm aluminum.

(vi) Not more than 1.0 percent solvents and non-detectable levels of 2&#x2032;. 4&#x2032;. 5&#x2032;. 7&#x2032;-tetraiodofluorescin.

(3) Product labeling shall bear the following:

(i) A statement to indicate that the maximum use level of 25-hydroxyvitamin Dmust not exceed 69 ppb in feed or 34.5 ppb in drinking water.

(ii) Adequate use directions to ensure that 25-hydroxyvitamin D(and all premixes) is uniformly blended throughout the feed or drinking water.

(iii) An expiration date on all premix labeling.

(iv) A statement on all premix labeling (feed and drinking water forms) that 25-hydroxyvitamin Dshould not be used simultaneously in both feed and water.
