
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter F - Biologics
#### PART 606 - CURRENT GOOD MANUFACTURING PRACTICE FOR BLOOD AND BLOOD COMPONENTS
##### Subpart G - Additional Labeling Standards for Blood and Blood Components
###### ยง 606.121 Container label.
####### i.e.,

(v) The appropriate donor classification statement,"paid donor" or "volunteer donor," in no less prominence than the proper name of the product.

(A) A paid donor is a person who receives monetary payment for a blood donation.

(B) A volunteer donor is a person who does not receive monetary payment for a blood donation.

(C) Benefits, such as time off from work, membership in blood assurance programs, and cancellation of nonreplacement fees that are not readily convertible to cash, do not constitute monetary payment within the meaning of this paragraph.

(9) If the product is intended for transfusion or as is otherwise appropriate, the ABO group and Rh type of the donor must be designated conspicuously. For Cryoprecipitated Antihemophiliac Factor (AHF), the Rh type may be omitted. The Rh type must be designated as follows:

(i) If the test using Anti-D Blood Grouping Reagent is positive, the product must be labeled: "Rh positive."

(ii) If the test using Anti-D Blood Grouping Reagent is negative, but the test for weak D (formerly D) is positive, the product must be labeled: "Rh positive."

(iii) If the test using Anti-D Blood Grouping Reagent is negative and the test for weak D (formerly D) is negative, the product must be labeled: "Rh negative."

(10) If the product is not intended for transfusion, a statement as applicable: "Caution: For Manufacturing Use Only," or "Caution: For Use in Manufacturing Noninjectable Products Only," or other cautionary statement as approved by the Director, Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER).

(11) If the product is intended for further manufacturing use, a statement listing the results of all the tests for relevant transfusion-transmitted infections required under ยง 610.40 of this chapter for which the donation has been tested and found negative; except that the container label for Source Plasma is not required to list the negative results of serological syphilis testing under ยง 640.65(b) of this chapter.

(12) The blood and blood components must be labeled in accordance with ยง 610.40 of this chapter, when the donation is tested and demonstrates evidence of infection due to a relevant transfusion-transmitted infection(s).

(13) The container label of blood or blood components intended for transfusion must bear encoded information in a format that is machine-readable and approved for use by the Director, CBER.
