
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter F - Biologics
#### PART 606 - CURRENT GOOD MANUFACTURING PRACTICE FOR BLOOD AND BLOOD COMPONENTS
##### Subpart G - Additional Labeling Standards for Blood and Blood Components
###### § 606.121 Container label.
####### Where does the machine-readable information go?

(v)The machine-readable information must appear on the label of any blood or blood component which is or can be transfused to a patient or from which the blood or blood component can be taken and transfused to a patient.

(d) Unless otherwise approved by the Director, CBER, the container label for blood and blood components intended for transfusion must be white and print must be solid black, with the following additional exceptions:

(1) The ABO and Rh blood groups must be printed as follows:

(i) Rh positive: Use black print on white background and use solid black or other solid color for ABO.

(ii) Rh negative: Use white print on black background for Rh and use black outline on a white background for ABO.

(2) The proper name of the product, with any appropriate modifiers and attributes, the donor classification statement, and the statement "properly identify intended recipient" may be printed in solid red or in solid black.

(3) The following color scheme may be used for differentiating ABO Blood groups:

(4) Special labels, such as those described in paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section, may be color-coded.

(e) Container label requirements for particular products or groups of products.

(1) Whole Blood labels must include:

(i) The name of the applicable anticoagulant approved for use by the Director, CBER.

(ii) The volume of anticoagulant.

(iii) If tests for unexpected antibodies are positive, blood intended for transfusion must be labeled: "Contains (name of antibody)."

(2) Except for frozen, deglycerolized, or washed Red Blood Cell products, Red Blood Cell labels must include:

(i) The type of anticoagulant, and if applicable, the volume of Whole Blood and type of additive solution, with which the product was prepared.

(ii) If tests for unexpected antibodies are positive and the product is intended for transfusion, the statement: "Contains (name of antibody)."

(3) If tests for unexpected antibodies are positive, Plasma intended for transfusion must be labeled: "Contains (name of antibody)."

(4) Recovered plasma labels must include:

(i) In lieu of an expiration date, the date of collection of the oldest material in the container.

(ii) For recovered plasma not meeting the requirements for manufacture into licensable products, the statement: "Not for Use in Products Subject to License Under Section 351 of the Public Health Service Act."

(iii) The type of anticoagulant with which the product was prepared.

(5) Source Plasma labels must include the following information:

(i) The cautionary statement, as specified in paragraph (c)(10) of this section, must follow the proper name with any appropriate modifiers and attributes and be of similar prominence as the proper name.

(ii) The statement "Store at -20 &#xB0;C or colder," provided, that where plasma is intended for manufacturing into noninjectable products, this statement may be replaced by a statement of the temperature appropriate for manufacture of the final product to be prepared from the plasma.

(iii) The total volume or weight of plasma and total quantity and type of anticoagulant used.

(iv) When plasma collected from a donor is reactive for a serologic test for syphilis, a statement that the plasma is reactive and must be used only for the manufacturing of positive control reagents for the serologic test for syphilis.

(v) Source Plasma diverted for Source Plasma Salvaged must be relabeled "Source Plasma Salvaged" as prescribed in § 640.76 of this chapter. Immediately following the proper name of the product, with any appropriate modifiers and attributes, the labeling must prominently state as applicable, "STORAGE TEMPERATURE EXCEEDED -20 &#xB0;C" or "SHIPPING TEMPERATURE EXCEEDED -5 &#xB0;C."

(vi) A statement as to whether the plasma was collected from normal donors, or from donors in specific collection programs approved by the Director, CBER. In the case of specific collection programs, the label must state the defining characteristics of the plasma. In the case of immunized donors, the label must state the immunizing antigen.

(f) Blood and blood components determined to be unsuitable for transfusion must be prominently labeled "NOT FOR TRANSFUSION," and the label must state the reason the unit is considered unsuitable. The provision does not apply to blood and blood components intended solely for further manufacture.

(g) [Reserved]

(h) The following additional information must appear on the label for blood and blood components shipped in an emergency prior to completion of required tests, in accordance with § 610.40(g) of this chapter:

(1) The statement: "FOR EMERGENCY USE ONLY BY __ ."

(2) Results of any tests prescribed under §§ 610.40 and 640.5(b) or (c) of this chapter completed before shipment.

(3) Indication of any tests prescribed under §§ 610.40 and 640.5(b) or (c) of this chapter not completed before shipment.

(i) The following additional information must appear on the label for blood and blood components intended for autologous transfusion:
