
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter F - Biologics
#### PART 606 - CURRENT GOOD MANUFACTURING PRACTICE FOR BLOOD AND BLOOD COMPONENTS
##### Subpart G - Additional Labeling Standards for Blood and Blood Components
###### ยง 606.121 Container label.

(a) The container label requirements are designed to facilitate the use of a uniform container label for blood and blood components intended for use in transfusion or further manufacture by all blood establishments.

(b) The label provided by the collecting facility and the initial processing facility must not be removed, altered, or obscured, except that the label may be altered to indicate the proper name of the product, with any appropriate modifiers and attributes, and other information required to identify accurately the contents of a container after blood components considered finished products have been prepared.

(c) The container label must include the following information, as well as other specialized information as required in this section for specific products:

(1) The proper name of the product in a prominent position, with any appropriate modifiers and attributes.

(2) The name, address, unique facility identifier, and, if a licensed product, the license number of each manufacturer; except the container label for blood and blood components for further manufacture is not required to include a unique facility identifier.

(3) The donor or lot number relating the unit to the donor. If pooled, all donor numbers, all donation numbers, or a pool number that is traceable to each individual unit comprising the pool.

(4)(i) The expiration date, including the day, month, and year, and, if the dating period for the product is 72 hours or less, including any product prepared in a system that might compromise sterility, the hour of expiration.

(ii) If Source Plasma intended for manufacturing into noninjectable products is pooled, the expiration date for the pool is determined from the collection date of the oldest unit in the pool, and the pooling records must show the collection date for each unit in the pool.

(5) For Whole Blood, Plasma, Platelets, and partial units of Red Blood Cells, the volume of the product, accurate to within +/-10 percent; or optionally for Platelets, the volume or volume range within reasonable limits.

(6) Where applicable, the name and volume of source material.

(7) The recommended storage temperature (in degrees Celsius).

(8) If the product is intended for transfusion, the statements:

(i) "Rx only."

(ii) "See circular of information for indications, contraindications, cautions, and methods of infusion."

(iii) "Properly identify intended recipient."

(iv) "This product may transmit infectious agents."
