
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter F - Biologics
#### PART 606 - CURRENT GOOD MANUFACTURING PRACTICE FOR BLOOD AND BLOOD COMPONENTS
##### Subpart G - Additional Labeling Standards for Blood and Blood Components
###### ยง 606.122 Circular of information.

A circular of information must be available for distribution if the product is intended for transfusion. The circular of information must provide adequate directions for use, including the following information:

(a) Instructions to mix the product before use.

(b) Instructions to use a filter in the administration equipment.

(c) The statement "Do Not Add Medications" or an explanation concerning allowable additives.

(d) A description of the product, its source, and preparation, including the name and proportion of the anticoagulant used in collecting the Whole Blood from each product is prepared.

(e) A statement that the product was prepared from blood that was found negative when tested for relevant transfusion-transmitted infections, as required under ยง 610.40 of this chapter (include each test that was performed).

(f) The statement: "Warning: The risk of transmitting infectious agents is present. Careful donor selection and available laboratory tests do not eliminate the hazard."

(g) The names of cryoprotective agents and other additives that may still be present in the product.

(h) The names and results of all tests performed when necessary for safe and effective use.

(i) The use of the product, indications, contradications, side effects and hazards, dosage and administration recommendations.

(j) [Reserved]

(k) For Red Blood Cells, the circular of information must contain:

(1) Instructions to administer a suitable plasma volume expander if Red Blood Cells are substituted when Whole Blood is the indicated product.

(2) A warning not to add Lactated Ringer's Injection U.S.P. solution to Red Blood Cell products.

(l) For Platelets, the circular of information must contain:

(1) The approximate volume of plasma from which a sample unit of Platelets is prepared.

(2) Instructions to begin administration as soon as possible, but not more than 4 hours after entering the container.

(m) For Plasma, the circular of information must contain:

(1) A warning against further processing of the frozen product if there is evidence of breakage or thawing.

(2) Instructions to thaw the frozen product at a temperature appropriate for the product.

(3) When applicable, instructions to begin administration of the product within a specified time after thawing.

(4) Instructions to administer to ABO-group-compatible recipients.

(5) A statement that this product has the same risk of transmitting infectious agents as Whole Blood; other plasma volume expanders without this risk are available for treating hypovolemia.

(n) For Cryoprecipitated AHF, the circular of information must contain:

(1) A statement that the average potency is 80 or more International Units of antihemophilic factor.

(2) The statement: "Usually contains at least 150 milligrams of fibrinogen"; or, alternatively, the average fibrinogen level determined by assay of representative units.

(3) A warning against further processing of the product if there is evidence of breakage or thawing.

(4) Instructions to thaw the product for no more than 15 minutes at a temperature of between 30 and 37 &#xB0;C.

(5) Instructions to store at room temperature after thawing and to begin administration as soon as possible but no more than 4 hours after entering the container or after pooling and within 6 hours after thawing.

(6) A statement that 0.9 percent Sodium Chloride Injection U.S.P. is the preferred diluent.

(7) Adequate instructions for pooling to ensure complete removal of all concentrated material from each container.

(8) The statement: "Good patient management requires monitoring treatment responses to Cryoprecipitated AHF transfusions with periodic plasma factor VIII or fibrinogen assays in hemophilia A and hypofibrinogenemic recipients, respectively."
