
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 70 - COLOR ADDITIVES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 70.19 Fees for listing.

(a) Each petition for the listing of a color additive shall be accompanied by a deposit of $3,000.00 if the proposal is for listing the color additive for use generally in or on foods, in or on drugs, and in or on cosmetics.

(b) If the petition for the listing is for use in or on foods only, the deposit shall be $3,000.00.

(c) If the petition for the listing is for use in or on drugs and/or cosmetics only, the deposit shall be $2,600.00.

(d) The provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section shall be applicable, whether or not the proposal contemplates any tolerances, limitations, or other restrictions placed upon the use of the color additive.

(e) If a petition proposing the issuance of a regulation is withdrawn before it is finally accepted for filing, the deposit, less a $600.00 fee for clerical handling and administrative and technical review, shall be returned to the petitioner.

(f) If a petition proposing the issuance of a regulation is withdrawn within 30 days after filing, the deposit, less $1,800.00 if the petition is covered by paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, and less $1,600.00, if the petition is covered by paragraph (c) of this section, shall be returned to the petitioner.

(g) When a petition is withdrawn after filing and resubmitted within 6 months, it shall be accompanied by a deposit of $1,800.00 for a petition filed under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, and $1,600.00 for a petition filed under paragraph (c) of this section. If a petition is resubmitted after 6 months, it shall be accompanied by the deposit that would be required if it were being submitted for the first time.

(h) When the resubmission pertains to a petition that had been withdrawn before acceptance for filing, a new advance deposit shall be made in full as prescribed in paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section.

(i) After a color additive has been listed, any request for an amendment or additional tolerance shall be accompanied by a deposit of $1,800.00 for use in the items specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, or $1,600.00 for use in items specified in paragraph (c) of this section.

(j) The fee for services in listing a diluent under ยง 80.35 for use in color additive mixtures shall be $250.00.

(k) Objections and request for public hearing under section 721(d) of the act or section 203(d)(2)(C) of Pub. L. 86-618 (74 Stat. 404; 21 U.S.C. 379e, note) shall be accompanied by a filing fee of $250.00.
