
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 70 - COLOR ADDITIVES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 70.19 Fees for listing.
####### Provided,

(l) In the event of a referral of a petition under this section to an advisory committee, all costs related thereto (including personal compensation of committee members, travel materials, and other costs) shall be borne by the person or organization requesting the referral, such costs to be assessed on the basis of actual cost to the Government:That the compensation of such costs shall include personal compensation of advisory committee members at a rate not to exceed $75.00 per member per day.

(m) In the case of requests of referrals to advisory committees, a special advance deposit shall be made in the amount of $2,500.00. Where required, further advance in increments of $2,500.00 each shall be made upon request of the Commissioner of Food and Drugs. All deposits for referrals to advisory committees in excess of actual expenses shall be refunded to the depositor.

(n) All requests for pharmacological or other scientific studies shall be accompanied by an advance deposit of $5,000.00. Further advance deposits shall be made upon request of the Commissioner of Food and Drugs when necessary to prevent arrears in such cost. Any deposits in excess of actual expenses will be refunded to the depositor. If a request is denied the advance deposit will be refunded less such costs as are incurred for review of the request.

(o) The person who files a petition for judicial review of an order under section 721(d) of the act shall pay the costs of preparing a transcript of the record on which the order is based.

(p) All deposits and fees required by the regulations in this section shall be paid by money order, bank draft or certified check drawn to the order of the Food and Drug Administration, collectible at par at Washington, DC All deposits and fees shall be forwarded to the Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition (HFS-200), Food and Drug Administration, 5001 Campus Dr., College Park, MD 20740, whereupon after making appropriate record thereof they will be transmitted to the Treasurer of the United States for deposit in the special account "Salaries and Expenses, Certification, Inspection, and Other Services, Food and Drug Administration."

(q) The Commissioner of Food and Drugs may waive or refund such fees in whole or in part when in his judgment such action will promote the public interest.

(r) Any person who believes that payment of these fees will work a hardship on him may petition the Commissioner of Food and Drugs to waive or refund the fees.
