
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter F - Biologics
#### PART 660 - ADDITIONAL STANDARDS FOR DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES FOR LABORATORY TESTS
##### Subpart A - Antibody to Hepatitis B Surface Antigen
###### ยง 660.6 Samples; protocols; official release.
####### Samples.

(a)(1) For the purposes of this section, a sample of product not iodinated withI means a sample from each filling of each lot packaged as for distribution, including all ancillary reagents and materials; and a sample of product iodinated withI means a sample from each lot of diagnostic test kits in a finished package, including all ancillary reagents and materials.

(2) Unless the Director, Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, determines that the reliability and consistency of the finished product can be assured with a smaller quantity of sample or no sample and specifically reduces or eliminates the required quantity of sample, each manufacturer shall submit the following samples to the Director, Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (see mailing addresses in ยง 600.2(c) of this chapter), within 5 working days after the manufacturer has satisfactorily completed all tests on the samples:

(i) One sample until written notification of official release is no longer required under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(ii) One sample at periodic intervals of 90 days, beginning after written notification of official release is no longer required under paragraph (c)(2) of this section. The sample submitted at the 90-day interval shall be from the first lot or filling, as applicable, released by manufacturer, under the requirements of ยง 610.1 of this chapter, after the end of the previous 90-day interval. The sample shall be identified as "surveillance sample" and shall include the date of manufacture.

(iii) Samples may at any time be required to be submitted to the Director, Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, if the Director finds that continued evaluation is necessary to ensure the potency, quality, and reliability of the product.
