
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter F - Biologics
#### PART 660 - ADDITIONAL STANDARDS FOR DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES FOR LABORATORY TESTS
##### Subpart C - Blood Grouping Reagent
###### ยง 660.28 Labeling.
####### Package label.

(2)The following information shall appear either on the package label or on the final container label if it is visible within the package.

(i) Proper name of the product.

(ii) Name of the antibody or antibodies present as set forth in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.

(iii) Name, address (including ZIP Code), and license number of the manufacturer.

(iv) Lot number, including sublot designations.

(v) Expiration date.

(vi) Preservative used and its concentration.

(vii) Number of containers, if more than one.

(viii) Volume or equivalent volume for dried products when reconstituted, and precautions for adequate mixing when reconstituting.

(ix) Recommended storage temperature in degrees Celsius.

(x) Source of the product if other than human serum or plasma.

(xi) Reference to enclosed package insert.

(xii) If a dried product, a statement indicating the period within which the product may be used after reconstitution.

(xiii) The statement: "FOR IN VITRO DIAGNOSTIC USE."

(xiv) The statement: "MEETS FDA POTENCY REQUIREMENTS."

(xv) If human blood was used in manufacturing the product, the statement: "CAUTION: ALL BLOOD PRODUCTS SHOULD BE TREATED AS POTENTIALLY INFECTIOUS. SOURCE MATERIAL FROM WHICH THIS PRODUCT WAS DERIVED WAS FOUND NEGATIVE WHEN TESTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH CURRENT FDA REQUIRED TESTS. NO KNOWN TEST METHODS CAN OFFER ASSURANCE THAT PRODUCTS DERIVED FROM HUMAN BLOOD WILL NOT TRANSMIT INFECTIOUS AGENTS."
