
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter F - Biologics
#### PART 660 - ADDITIONAL STANDARDS FOR DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES FOR LABORATORY TESTS
##### Subpart D - Reagent Red Blood Cells
###### ยง 660.35 Labeling.
####### e.g.,

(ii) If washing the cells is required by the manufacturer, the container label shall include appropriate instructions; if the cells should not be washed before use,if washing will adversely affect the product, the package insert shall explain.

(2) The container label of Group O cells shall state:

"FOR USE IN DETECTION OF UNEXPECTED ANTIBODIES" or "FOR USE IN IDENTIFICATION OF UNEXPECTED ANTIBODIES" or "NOT FOR USE IN DETECTION OR IDENTIFICATION OF UNEXPECTED ANTIBODIES".

(3) Except as provided in this section, the container and package labels shall state the percentage of red blood cells in the suspension either as a discrete figure with a variance of more than [+/-] 1 percentage unit or as a range the extremes of which differ by no more than 2 percentage units. If the stated red blood cell concentration is less than 2 percent, the variance shall be no more than [+/-] 0.5 percentage unit.

(4) The words "pooled cells" shall appear on the container and package labels of products prepared from pooled cells. The package label or package insert shall state that pooled cells are not recommended for pre-transfusion tests, done in lieu of a major crossmatch, to detect unexpected antibodies in patients' samples.

(5) The package insert of a pooled product intended for detection of unexpected antibodies shall identify the number of donors contributing to the pool. Products designed exclusively for ABO Serum Grouping and umbilical cord cells need not identify the number of donors in the pool.
