
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter F - Biologics
#### PART 660 - ADDITIONAL STANDARDS FOR DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES FOR LABORATORY TESTS
##### Subpart D - Reagent Red Blood Cells
###### ยง 660.36 Samples and protocols.

(a) The following shall be submitted to the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research Sample Custodian (see mailing addresses in ยง 600.2(c) of this chapter), within 30 days after each routine establishment inspection by FDA.

(1) From a lot of final product, samples from a cell panel intended for identification of unexpected antibodies. The sample shall be packaged as for distribution and shall have at least 14 days remaining in the dating period when shipped to the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research.

(2) A protocol which shall include the following:

(i) Complete test records of at least two donors of the samples submitted, including original and confirmation phenotyping records.

(ii) Bleeding records or receipt records which indicate collection date, volume, and HBsAg test results.

(iii) Manufacturing records which document all steps involved in the preparation of the product.

(iv) Test results which verify that the final product meets specifications.

(v) Identity test results.

(b) A copy of the antigenic constitution matrix specifying the antigens present or absent shall be submitted to the Director, Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (see mailing addresses in ยง 600.2(c) of this chapter), at the time of initial distribution of each lot of Reagent Red Blood Cells for detection or identification of unexpected antibodies. Products designed exclusively to identify Anti-A, Anti-A, and Anti-B, as well as products composed entirely of umbilical cord cells, are excluded from this requirement.

(c) Except for umbilical cord samples, whenever a new donor is used, a sample of red blood cells from each new donor used in a cell panel intended for the identification of unexpected antibodies shall be submitted by the manufacturer to the Director, Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (see mailing addresses in ยง 600.2(c) of this chapter). The sample should contain a minimum volume of 0.5 milliliter of red blood cells.
