
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter F - Biologics
#### PART 680 - ADDITIONAL STANDARDS FOR MISCELLANEOUS PRODUCTS
##### ยง 680.1 Allergenic Products.
###### Molds.

(2)(i) Molds (excluding rusts and smuts) used as source material in the manufacture of Allergenic Products shall meet the requirements of ยง 610.18 of this chapter and ยง 680.2 (a) and (b).

(ii) Mold cultures shall be free of contaminating materials (including microorganisms) prior to harvest, and care shall be taken to minimize contamination during harvest and subsequent processing.

(iii) Mold manufacturers shall maintain written standard operating procedures, developed by a qualified individual, that will ensure the identity of the seed culture, prescribe adequate processing of the mold, and specify the acceptable limits and kinds of contamination. These limits shall be based on results of appropriate tests performed by the manufacturer on at least three consecutive lots of a mold that is a representative species of mold subject to the standard operating procedures. The tests shall be performed at each manufacturing step during and subsequent to harvest, as specified in the standard operating procedures. Before use of the mold as a source material for Allergenic Products, in accordance with 21 CFR 601.2, the standard operating procedures and test data from the three representative lots described above shall be submitted to and approved by the Director, Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (see mailing address in ยง 600.2(a) of this chapter).
