
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Cosmetics
#### PART 701 - COSMETIC LABELING
##### Subpart B - Package Form
###### ยง 701.13 Declaration of net quantity of contents.
####### Provided,

(g) The declaration shall accurately reveal the quantity of cosmetic in the package exclusive of wrappers and other material packed therewith:That:

(1) In the case of cosmetics packed in containers designed to deliver the cosmetic under pressure, the declaration shall state the net quantity of the contents that will be expelled when the instructions for use as shown on the container are followed. The propellant is included in the net quantity declaration; and

(2) In the case of a package which contains the integral components making up a complete kit, and which is designed to deliver the components in the manner of an application (for example, a home permanent wave kit), the declaration may state the net quantity of the contents in nondeceptive terms of the number of applications available in the kit when the instructions for use as shown on the container are followed.

(h) The declaration shall appear in conspicuous and easily legible boldface print or type in distinct contrast (by typography, layout, color, embossing, or molding) to other matter on the package; except that a declaration of net quantity blown, embossed, or molded on a glass or plastic surface is permissible when all label information is so formed on the surface. Requirements of conspicuousness and legibility shall include the specifications that:

(1) The ratio of height to width (of the letter) shall not exceed a differential of 3 units to 1 unit (no more than 3 times as high as it is wide).

(2) Letter heights pertain to upper case or capital letters. When upper and lower case or all lower case letters are used, it is the lower case letter "o" or its equivalent that shall meet the minimum standards.

(3) When fractions are used, each component numeral shall meet one-half the minimum height standards.

(i) The declaration shall be in letters and numerals in a type size established in relationship to the area of the principal display panel of the package and shall be uniform for all packages of substantially the same size by complying with the following type specifications:

(1) Not less than one-sixteenth inch in height on packages the principal display panel of which has an area of 5 square inches or less.

(2) Not less than one-eighth inch in height on packages the principal display panel of which has an area of more than 5 but not more than 25 square inches.

(3) Not less than three-sixteenths inch in height on packages the principal display panel of which has an area of more than 25 but not more than 100 square inches.

(4) Not less than one-fourth inch in height on packages the principal display panel of which has an area of more than 100 square inches, except not less than one-half inch in height if the area is more than 400 square inches.

(j) On packages containing less than 4 pounds or 1 gallon and labeled in terms of weight or fluid measure:

(1) The declaration shall be expressed both in ounces, with identification by weight or by liquid measure and, if applicable (1 pound or 1 pint or more), followed in parentheses by a declaration in pounds for weight units, with any remainder in terms of ounces or common or decimal fractions of the pound (as set forth in paragraphs (m)(1) and (2) of this section), or in the case of liquid measure, in the largest whole units (quarts, quarts and pints, or pints, as appropriate) with any remainder in terms of fluid ounces or common or decimal fractions of the pint or quart (as set forth in paragraphs (m)(3) and (4) of this section). Net weight or fluid measure of less than 1 ounce shall be expressed in common or decimal fractions of the respective ounce and not in drams.

(2) The declaration may appear in more than one line. The term "net weight" shall be used when stating the net quantity of contents in terms of weight. Use of the terms "net" or "net contents" in terms of fluid measure or numerical count is optional. It is sufficient to distinguish avoirdupois ounce from fluid ounce through association of terms; for example, "Net wt. 6 oz." or "6 oz. net wt." and "Net contents 6 fl. oz." or "6 fl. oz."

(k) On packages containing 4 pounds or 1 gallon or more and labeled in terms of weight or fluid measure, the declaration shall be expressed in pounds for weight units with any remainder in terms of ounces or common or decimal fractions of the pound; in the case of fluid measure, it shall be expressed in the largest whole unit (gallons, followed by common or decimal fractions of a gallon or by the next smaller whole unit or units (quarts or quarts and pints)) with any remainder in terms of fluid ounces or common or decimal fractions of the pint or quart (as set forth in paragraph (m)(5) of this section).

(l) [Reserved]

(m) Examples: (1) A declaration of 1pounds weight shall be expressed as "Net wt. 24 oz. (1 lb. 8 oz.)", "Net wt. 24 oz. (1lb.)", or "Net wt. 24 oz. (1.5 lb.)".

(2) A declaration of three-fourths pound avoirdupois weight shall be expressed as "Net wt. 12 oz."

(3) A declaration of 1 quart liquid measure shall be expressed as "Net contents 32 fl. oz. (1 qt.)".

(4) A declaration of 1quarts liquid measure shall be expressed as "Net contents 56 fl. oz. (1 qt. 1pt.)" or "Net contents 56 fl. oz. (1 qt. 1 pt. 8 oz.)" but not in terms of quart and ounce such as "Net content 56 fl. oz. (1 qt. 24 oz.)".

(5) A declaration of 2gallons liquid measure shall be expressed in the alternative as "Net contents 2 gal. 2 qt." and not as "2 gal. 4 pt."

(n) For quantities, the following abbreviations and none other may be employed (periods and plural forms are optional):

(o) On packages labeled in terms of linear measure, the declaration shall be expressed both in terms of inches and, if applicable (1 foot or more), the largest whole units (yards, yards and feet, feet). The declaration in terms of the largest whole units shall be in parentheses following the declaration in terms of inches and any remainder shall be in terms of inches or common or decimal fractions of the foot or yard. Examples are "86 inches (2 yd. 1 ft. 2 inches)", "90 inches (2yd.)", "30 inches (2.5 ft.)", etc.

(p) On packages labeled in terms of area measure, the declaration shall be expressed in terms of square inches and, if applicable (1 square foot or more), the largest whole square unit (square yards, square yards and square feet, square feet). The declaration in terms of the largest whole units shall be in parentheses following the declaration in terms of square inches and any remainder shall be in terms of square inches or common or decimal fractions of the square foot or square yard; for example, "158 sq. inches (1 sq. ft. 14 sq. inches)", etc.

(q) Nothing in this section shall prohibit supplemental statements at locations other than the principal display panel(s) describing in nondeceptive terms the net quantity of contents, provided that such supplemental statements of net quantity of contents shall not include any term qualifying a unit of weight, measure, or count that tends to exaggerate the amount of the cosmetic contained in the package; for example, "giant pint" and "full quart." Dual or combination declarations of net quantity of contents as provided for in paragraphs (a), (c), and (j) of this section (for example, a combination of net weight plus numerical count) are not regarded as supplemental net quantity statements and shall be located on the principal display panel.

(r) A separate statement of the net quantity of contents in terms of the metric system is not regarded as a supplemental statement and an accurate statement of the net quantity of contents in terms of the metric system of weight or measure may also appear on the principal display panel or on other panels.

(s) The declaration of net quantity of contents shall express an accurate statement of the quantity of contents of the package. Reasonable variations caused by loss or gain of moisture during the course of good distribution practice or by unavoidable deviations in good manufacturing practice will be recognized. Variations from stated quantity of contents shall not be unreasonably large.
