
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Cosmetics
#### PART 720 - VOLUNTARY FILING OF COSMETIC PRODUCT INGREDIENT COMPOSITION STATEMENTS
##### ยง 720.4 Information requested about cosmetic products.

(a) Form FDA-2512 requests information on:

(1) The name and address, including post office ZIP code of the person (manufacturer, packer, or distributor) designated on the label of the product.

(2) The name and address, including post office ZIP code, of the manufacturer or packer of the product if different from the person designated on the label of the product, when the manufacturer or packer submits the information requested under this paragraph.

(3) The brand name or names of the cosmetic product.

(4) The cosmetic product category or categories.

(5) The ingredients in the product.

(b) The person filing Form FDA-2512 should:

(1) Provide the information requested in paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) Have the form signed by an authorized individual.

(3) Provide poison control centers with ingredient information and/or adequate diagnostic and therapeutic procedures to permit rapid evaluation and treatment of accidental ingestion or other accidental use of the cosmetic product.

(4) Provide ingredient information (and, when requested, ingredient samples) to a licensed physician who, in connection with the treatment of a patient, requests assistance in determining whether an ingredient in the cosmetic product is the cause of the problem for which the patient is being treated.

(c) One or more of the following cosmetic product categories should be cited to indicate the product's intended use.
