
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Cosmetics
#### PART 720 - VOLUNTARY FILING OF COSMETIC PRODUCT INGREDIENT COMPOSITION STATEMENTS
##### ยง 720.4 Information requested about cosmetic products.
###### Suntan preparations.

(13)(i) Suntan gels, creams, and liquids.

(ii) Indoor tanning preparations.

(iii) Other suntan preparations.

(d) Ingredients in the product should be listed as follows:

(1) A list of each ingredient of the cosmetic product in descending order of predominance by weight (except that the fragrance and/or flavor may be designated as such without naming each individual ingredient when the manufacturer or supplier of the fragrance and/or flavor refuses to disclose ingredient data).

(2) An ingredient should be listed by the name adopted by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the ingredient pursuant to ยง 701.3(c) of this chapter.

(3) In the absence of a name adopted by FDA pursuant to ยง 701.3(c) of this chapter, its common or usual name, if it has one, or its chemical or technical name should be listed.

(4) If an ingredient is a mixture, each ingredient of the mixture should be listed in accordance with paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section, unless such mixture is a formulation voluntarily registered on Form FDA 2512, in which case such mixture should be identified as "fragrance," "flavor," "fragrance and flavor" or "base formulation," as appropriate, and by stating its FDA-assigned cosmetic product ingredient statement number.

(5) When the manufacturer or supplier of a fragrance and/or flavor refuses to disclose ingredient data, the fragrance and/or flavor should be listed as such. The nonconfidential listing of the product name and/or trade name or name of the manufacturer or supplier of each proprietary fragrance and/or flavor mixture is optional.

(e) A separate Form FDA-2512 should be filed for each different formulation of a cosmetic product. However, except for the hair coloring preparations listed in paragraph (c)(6) of this section for which a statement for each shade of such product is required, a single Form FDA-2512 may be filed for two or more shades of a cosmetic product where only the amounts of the color additive ingredient used are varied or in the case of flavors and fragrances where only the amounts of the flavors and fragrances used are varied.
