
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter G - Cosmetics
#### PART 740 - COSMETIC PRODUCT WARNING STATEMENTS
##### Subpart B - Warning Statements
###### ยง 740.11 Cosmetics in self-pressurized containers.

(a)(1) The label of a cosmetic packaged in a self-pressurized container and intended to be expelled from the package under pressure shall bear the following warning:

(2) In the case of products intended for use by children, the phrase "except under adult supervision" may be added at the end of the last sentence in the warning required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(3) In the case of products packaged in glass containers, the word "break" may be substituted for the word "puncture" in the warning required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(4) The words "Avoid spraying in eyes" may be deleted from the warning required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section in the case of a product not expelled as a spray.

(b)(1) In addition to the warning required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the label of a cosmetic packaged in a self-pressurized container in which the propellant consists in whole or in part of a halocarbon or a hydrocarbon shall bear the following warning:

(2) The warning required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section is not required for the following products:

(i) Products expelled in the form of a foam or cream, which contain less than 10 percent propellant in the container.

(ii) Products in a container with a physical barrier that prevents escape of the propellant at the time of use.

(iii) Products of a net quantity of contents of less than 2 ozs. that are designed to release a measured amount of product with each valve actuation.

(iv) Products of a net quantity of contents of less thanoz.

(c) Labeling requirements for cosmetics packaged in a self- pressurized container containing or manufactured with a chlorofluorocarbon propellant or other ozone-depleting substance designated by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) are set forth in 40 CFR part 82.
