
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 800 - GENERAL
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Medical Devices
###### ยง 800.30 Over-the-counter hearing aid controls.
####### Note about reporting adverse events to FDA.

(E)

(iv) An illustration(s) of the OTC hearing aid that indicates operating controls, user adjustments, and the battery compartment.

(v) Information on the function of all controls intended for user adjustment.

(vi) A description of any accessory that accompanies the OTC hearing aid, including but not limited to wax guards and accessories for use with a computer, television, or telephone.

(vii) Specific instructions for all of the following:

(A) Instructions for sizing or inserting the eartip of the OTC hearing aid to prevent insertion past the depth limit and damage to the tympanic membrane.

(B) The tools, tests, or software that allow the user to control the OTC hearing aid, including self-selection and self-checking the performance of the OTC hearing aid, and customize it to the user's hearing needs, including information about properly fitting eartips.

(C) Use of the OTC hearing aid with any accompanying accessories.

(D) Maintenance and care of the OTC hearing aid, including how a lay user can clean, disinfect, and replace parts or how to seek replacements, as well as how to store the hearing aid when it will not be used for an extended period of time.

(E) If the battery is replaceable or rechargeable, how to replace or recharge the battery, including a generic designation of replacement batteries.

(F) Expected battery life.

(G) Any other information necessary for adequate directions for use as defined in ยง 801.5 of this chapter.

(viii) Identification of any known physiological side effects associated with the use of the OTC hearing aid that may warrant consultation with a physician, referring to an ear-nose-throat doctor when preferable, including if applicable, skin irritation and accelerated accumulation of cerumen (ear wax).

(ix) The technical specifications required by paragraph (c)(4) of this section.

(x) A description of commonly occurring, avoidable events that could adversely affect or damage the OTC hearing aid, including but not limited to, as applicable, ear wax buildup, drops, immersion in water, or exposure to excessive heat.

(xi) If the hearing aid incorporates wireless technology in its programming or use, appropriate warnings, instructions, and information relating to electromagnetic compatibility and wireless technology and human exposure to non-ionizing radiation.

(xii) Information on how and where to obtain repair service or replacements, including at least one specific address where the user can go or send the OTC hearing aid to obtain such repair service or replacements.

(xiii) If clinical or non-clinical studies were conducted by or for the manufacturer to support the performance of the OTC hearing aid, a summary of all such studies.
