
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 800 - GENERAL
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Medical Devices
###### ยง 800.30 Over-the-counter hearing aid controls.
####### Software device labeling.,e.g.,

(5)OTC hearing aid software that is not distributed with the hearing aid or amplification platform shall meet all of the following labeling requirements. With respect to the information required under paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section, the information must be provided in the software device labeling, as specified in paragraphs (c)(5)(i) through (v) of this section, rather than the locations (outside package labeling) specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4):

(i) Prior to first use of the software or obtaining payment information for the software, whichever occurs first, the labeling must clearly and prominently present all of the following to the prospective user. For each, the labeling must remain visible until the user dismisses it or proceeds to the next step:

(A) Compatibility and minimum operating requirements for the software device.

(B) Disclosures of any fees or payments after first use or initial payment, including but not limited to any fees or payments relating to subscriptions, add-on features, or continued access to features or services. The disclosures must name and briefly describe what each fee or payment covers.

(C) The information required under paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (iii), and (v) of this section.

(ii) Prior to first use of the software, the labeling must clearly and prominently present all of the following to the prospective user:

(A) The information required under paragraph (c)(2)(i)(A) of this section, and it must remain visible until the user acknowledges it.

(B) The information required under paragraphs (c)(2)(i)(B) and (C), (c)(2)(ii), (iii), and (v), (c)(2)(vii)(B) and (G), and (c)(2)(viii) and (ix) of this section, and the information must remain visible until the user dismisses it or proceeds to the next step.

(C) All other information required under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, to the extent applicable, and the information must remain visible until the user dismisses it or proceeds to the next step.

(iii) The software device labeling must include the information required under paragraphs (c)(3)(i) and (c)(4) of this section.

(iv) All of the software device labeling must be accessible for review after acknowledgment, dismissal, or proceeding to the next step.

(v) If there are changes to any of the labeling required under paragraph (c)(5) of this section, the labeling with the changed information must be presented to the user until the user dismisses it.
