
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 800 - GENERAL
##### Subpart C - Administrative Practices and Procedures
###### ยง 800.55 Administrative detention.
####### Movement of detained devices.

(h)(1) Except as provided in this paragraph (h), no person shall move detained devices within or from the place where they have been ordered detained until FDA terminates the detention under paragraph (j) of this section or the detention period expires, whichever occurs first.

(2) If detained devices are not in final form for shipment, the manufacturer may move them within the establishment where they are detained to complete the work needed to put them in final form. As soon as the devices are moved for the purpose of the preceding sentence, the individual responsible for their movement shall orally notify the FDA representative who issued the detention order, or another responsible division office official, of the movement of the devices. As soon as the devices are put in final form, they shall be segregated from other devices, and the individual responsible for their movement shall orally notify the FDA representative who issued the detention order, or another responsible division office official, of their new location. The devices put in final form shall not be moved further without FDA approval.

(3) The FDA representative who issued the detention order, or another responsible division office official, may approve, in writing, the movement of detained devices for any of the following purposes:

(i) To prevent interference with an establishment's operations or harm to the devices.

(ii) To destroy the devices.

(iii) To bring the devices into compliance.

(iv) For any other purpose that the FDA representative who issued the detention order, or other responsible division office official, believes is appropriate in the case.

(4) If an FDA representative approves the movement of detained devices under paragraph (h)(3) of this section, the detained devices shall remain segregated from other devices and the person responsible for their movement shall immediately orally notify the official who approved the movement of the devices, or another responsible FDA division office official, of the new location of the detained devices.

(5) Unless otherwise permitted by the FDA representative who is notified of, or who approves, the movement of devices under this paragraph, the required tags shall accompany the devices during and after movement and shall remain with the devices until FDA terminates the detention or the detention period expires, whichever occurs first.
