
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 800 - GENERAL
##### Subpart C - Administrative Practices and Procedures
###### ยง 800.75 Requests for supervisory review of certain decisions made by the Center for Devices and Radiological Health.
####### Submission of request,Review of 517A decisions

(b)-(1). (i) An initial or sequential request for supervisory review within CDRH of a 517A decision under ยง 10.75 of this chapter must be addressed to the next organizational level or higher above the individual who made the decision; submitted in electronic format in accordance with section 745A(b) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act; marked "Appeal: Request for Supervisory Review"; and received by CDRH no later than 30 days after the date of the decision involved. Any such request for supervisory review not received by CDRH within 30 days after the date of the decision involved is not eligible for review. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) or (iii) of this section, FDA will render a decision within 45 days of the request for supervisory review.

(ii) A person requesting supervisory review under paragraph (b)(1)(i) may request an in-person meeting or teleconference with the supervisor reviewing the request for supervisory review. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, if a request for in-person meeting or teleconference is included in the request for supervisory review to CDRH, CDRH will schedule the meeting or teleconference to occur within 30 days of receipt of the request. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, a decision will be rendered within 30 days of such meeting or teleconference.

(iii) The timeframes for CDRH to render a decision provided in (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, and the timeframe to schedule an in-person meeting or teleconference review in (b)(1)(ii) of this section, do not apply if a matter related to the 517A decision under review is referred by CDRH to external experts, such as an advisory committee, as provided in ยง 10.75(b) of this chapter.
