
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 801 - LABELING
##### Subpart H - Special Requirements for Specific Devices
###### ยง 801.405 Labeling of articles intended for lay use in the repairing and/or refitting of dentures.
####### "Warning-For temporary use only.

(ii) For denture reliners, pads, and cushions:Longterm use of this product may lead to faster bone loss, continuing irritation, sores, and tumors. For Use Only Until a Dentist Can Be Seen."

(c) Adequate directions for use require full information of the temporary and emergency use recommended in order for the layman to understand the limitations of usefulness, the reasons therefor, and the importance of adhering to the warnings. Accordingly, the labeling should contain substantially the following information:

(1) For denture repair kits: Special training and tools are needed to repair dentures to fit properly. Home-repaired dentures may cause irritation to the gums and discomfort and tiredness while eating. Long term use may lead to more troubles, even permanent changes in bones, teeth, and gums, which may make it impossible to wear dentures in the future. For these reasons, dentures repaired with this kit should be used only in an emergency until a dentist can be seen. Dentures that don't fit properly cause irritation and injury to the gums and faster bone loss, which is permanent. Dentures that don't fit properly cause gum changes that may require surgery for correction. Continuing irritation and injury may lead to cancer in the mouth. You must see your dentist as soon as possible.

(2) For denture reliners, pads, and cushions: Use of these preparations or devices may temporarily decrease the discomfort; however, their use will not make the denture fit properly. Special training and tools are needed to repair a denture to fit properly. Dentures that do not fit properly cause irritation and injury to the gums and faster bone loss, which is permanent and may require a completely new denture. Changes in the gums caused by dentures that do not fit properly may require surgery for correction. Continuing irritation and injury may lead to cancer in the mouth. You must see your dentist as soon as possible.

(3) If the denture relining or repairing material forms a permanent bond with the denture, a warning statement to the following effect should be included: "This reliner becomes fixed to the denture and a completely new denture may be required because of its use."

(d) Labeling claims exaggerating the usefulness or the safety of the material or failing to disclose all facts relevant to the claims of usefulness will be regarded as false and misleading under sections 201(n) and 502(a) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.

(e) Regulatory action may be initiated with respect to any article found within the jurisdiction of the act contrary to the provisions of this policy statement after 90 days following the date of publication of this section in the
