
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 801 - LABELING
##### Subpart H - Special Requirements for Specific Devices
###### ยง 801.422 Prescription hearing aid labeling.
####### Note about hearing loss in people younger than 18 and fitting devices.

(F)

(iii) An illustration(s) of the prescription hearing aid that indicates operating controls, user adjustments, and the battery compartment.

(iv) Information on the function of all controls intended for user adjustment.

(v) A description of any accessory that accompanies the prescription hearing aid, including but not limited to wax guards, and accessories for use with a computer, television, or telephone.

(vi) Specific instructions for all of the following:

(A) Use of the prescription hearing aid with any accompanying accessories.

(B) Maintenance and care of the prescription hearing aid, including how a user can clean, disinfect, and replace parts or how to seek replacements, as well as how to store the hearing aid when it will not be used for an extended period of time.

(C) If the battery is replaceable or rechargeable, how to replace or recharge the battery, including a generic designation of replacement batteries.

(D) Expected battery life.

(vii) Identification of any known physiological side effects associated with the use of the prescription hearing aid that may warrant consultation with a physician, referring to an ear-nose-throat doctor when preferable, including if applicable, skin irritation and accelerated accumulation of cerumen (ear wax).

(viii) The technical specifications required by paragraph (c)(4) of this section unless such specifications appear in separate labeling accompanying the prescription hearing aid.

(ix) A description of commonly occurring, avoidable events that could adversely affect or damage the prescription hearing aid, including but not limited to, as applicable, ear wax buildup, drops, immersion in water, or exposure to excessive heat.

(x) If the hearing aid incorporates wireless technology in its programming or use, appropriate warnings, instructions, and information relating to electromagnetic compatibility and wireless technology and human exposure to non-ionizing radiation.

(xi) Information on how and where to obtain repair service or replacements, including at least one specific address where the user can go or send the prescription hearing aid to obtain such repair service or replacements.

(xii) If clinical or non-clinical studies were conducted by or for the manufacturer to support the performance of the prescription hearing aid, a summary of all such studies.
