
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 801 - LABELING
##### Subpart H - Special Requirements for Specific Devices
###### ยง 801.422 Prescription hearing aid labeling.
####### Technical specifications.

(4)You must determine the technical specification values for the prescription hearing aid labeling in accordance with the test procedures of ANSI/ASA S3.22-2014 (R2020), except as provided in paragraph (c)(4)(ix) of this section for latency. Technical specifications and their associated values that are useful in selecting, fitting, and checking the performance of the prescription hearing aid shall appear in the user instructional brochure or in separate labeling that accompanies the device, including all of the following:

(i) Saturation output curve (Saturation Sound Pressure Level (SSPL) 90 curve).

(ii) Frequency response curve.

(iii) Average saturation output (High Frequency (HF)-Average SSPL 90).

(iv) Average full-on gain (HF-Average full-on gain).

(v) Reference test gain.

(vi) Frequency range.

(vii) Total harmonic distortion.

(viii) Equivalent input noise.

(ix) Latency, measured using a method that is accurate and repeatable to within 1.5 ms.

(x) Battery current drain.

(xi) Induction coil sensitivity (telephone coil aids only).

(xii) Input-output curve (only for hearing aids with automatic gain control).

(xiii) Attack and release times (only for hearing aids with automatic gain control).
