
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 801 - LABELING
##### Subpart H - Special Requirements for Specific Devices
###### ยง 801.435 User labeling for latex condoms.

(a) This section applies to the subset of condoms as identified in ยง 884.5300 of this chapter, and condoms with spermicidal lubricant as identified in ยง 884.5310 of this chapter, which products are formed from latex films.

(b) Data show that the material integrity of latex condoms degrade over time. To protect the public health and minimize the risk of device failure, latex condoms must bear an expiration date which is supported by testing as described in paragraphs (d) and (h) of this section.

(c) The expiration date, as demonstrated by testing procedures required by paragraphs (d) and (h) of this section, must be displayed prominently and legibly on the primary packaging (i.e., individual package), and higher levels of packaging (e.g., boxes of condoms), in order to ensure visibility of the expiration date by consumers.

(d) Except as provided under paragraph (f) of this section, the expiration date must be supported by data demonstrating physical and mechanical integrity of the product after three discrete and representative lots of the product have been subjected to each of the following conditions:

(1) Storage of unpackaged bulk product for the maximum amount of time the manufacturer allows the product to remain unpackaged, followed by storage of the packaged product at 70 &#xB0;C (plus or minus 2 &#xB0;C) for 7 days;

(2) Storage of unpackaged bulk product for the maximum amount of time the manufacturer allows the product to remain unpackaged, followed by storage of the packaged product at a selected temperature between 40 and 50 &#xB0;C (plus or minus 2 &#xB0;C) for 90 days; and

(3) Storage of unpackaged bulk product for the maximum amount of time the manufacturer allows the product to remain unpackaged, followed by storage of the packaged product at a monitored or controlled temperature between 15 and 30 &#xB0;C for the lifetime of the product (real time storage).

(e) If a product fails the physical and mechanical integrity tests commonly used by industry after the completion of the accelerated storage tests described in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section, the product expiration date must be demonstrated by real time storage conditions described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section. If all of the products tested after storage at temperatures as described in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section pass the manufacturer's physical and mechanical integrity tests, the manufacturer may label the product with an expiration date of up to 5 years from the date of product packaging. If the extrapolated expiration date under paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section is used, the labeled expiration date must be confirmed by physical and mechanical integrity tests performed at the end of the stated expiration period as described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section. If the data from tests following real time storage described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section fails to confirm the extrapolated expiration date, the manufacturer must, at that time, relabel the product to reflect the actual shelf life.

(f) Products that already have established shelf life data based upon real time storage and testing and have such storage and testing data available for inspection are not required to confirm such data using accelerated and intermediate aging data described in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section. If, however, such real time expiration dates were based upon testing of products that were not first left unpackaged for the maximum amount of time as described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the real time testing must be confirmed by testing products consistent with the requirements of paragraph (d)(3) of this section. This testing shall be initiated no later than the effective date of this regulation. Until the confirmation testing in accordance with paragraph (d)(3) of this section is completed, the product may remain on the market labeled with the expiration date based upon previous real time testing.

(g) If a manufacturer uses testing data from one product to support expiration dating on any variation of that product, the manufacturer must document and provide, upon request, an appropriate justification for the application of the testing data to the variation of the tested product.

(h) If a latex condom contains a spermicide, and the expiration date based on spermicidal stability testing is different from the expiration date based upon latex integrity testing, the product shall bear only the earlier expiration date.

(i) The time period upon which the expiration date is based shall start with the date of packaging.

(j) As provided in part 820 of this chapter, all testing data must be retained in each company's files, and shall be made available upon request for inspection by the Food and Drug Administration.

(k) Any latex condom not labeled with an expiration date as required by paragraph (c) of this section, and initially delivered for introduction into interstate commerce after the effective date of this regulation is misbranded under sections 201(n) and 502(a) and (f) of Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321(n) and 352(a) and (f)).
