
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 803 - MEDICAL DEVICE REPORTING
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 803.3 How does FDA define the terms used in this part?
####### User facility report number

(x)means the number that uniquely identifies each report submitted by a user facility to manufacturers and to us. This number consists of the following three parts:

(1) The user facility's 10-digit Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) number (if the CMS number has fewer than 10 digits, fill the remaining spaces with zeros);

(2) The four-digit calendar year in which the report is submitted; and

(3) The four-digit sequence number of the reports submitted for the year, starting with 0001. (For example, a complete user facility report number will appear as follows: 1234560000-2011-0001. If a user facility has more than one CMS number, it must select one that will be used for all of its MDR reports. If a user facility has no CMS number, it should use all zeros in the appropriate space in its initial report (e.g., 0000000000-2011-0001). We will assign a number for future use and send that number to the user facility. This number is used in our record of the initial report, in subsequent reports, and in any correspondence with the user facility. If a facility has multiple sites, the primary site may submit reports for all sites and use one reporting number for all sites if the primary site provides the name, address, and CMS number for each respective site.)
