
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 803 - MEDICAL DEVICE REPORTING
##### Subpart E - Manufacturer Reporting Requirements
###### § 803.50 If I am a manufacturer, what reporting requirements apply to me?

(a) If you are a manufacturer, you must report to us the information required by § 803.52 in accordance with the requirements of § 803.12(a), no later than 30 calendar days after the day that you receive or otherwise become aware of information, from any source, that reasonably suggests that a device that you market:

(1) May have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or

(2) Has malfunctioned and this device or a similar device that you market would be likely to cause or contribute to a death or serious injury, if the malfunction were to recur.

(b) What information does FDA consider "reasonably known" to me?

(1) You must submit all information required in this subpart E that is reasonably known to you. We consider the following information to be reasonably known to you:

(i) Any information that you can obtain by contacting a user facility, importer, or other initial reporter;

(ii) Any information in your possession; or

(iii) Any information that you can obtain by analysis, testing, or other evaluation of the device.

(2) You are responsible for obtaining and submitting to us information that is incomplete or missing from reports submitted by user facilities, importers, and other initial reporters.

(3) You are also responsible for conducting an investigation of each event and evaluating the cause of the event. If you cannot submit complete information on a report, you must provide a statement explaining why this information was incomplete and the steps you took to obtain the information. If you later obtain any required information that was not available at the time you filed your initial report, you must submit this information in a supplemental report under § 803.56 in accordance with the requirements of § 803.12(a).
