
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 806 - MEDICAL DEVICES; REPORTS OF CORRECTIONS AND REMOVALS
##### Subpart B - Reports and Records
###### ยง 806.10 Reports of corrections and removals.

(a) Each device manufacturer or importer shall submit a written report to FDA of any correction or removal of a device initiated by such manufacturer or importer if the correction or removal was initiated:

(1) To reduce a risk to health posed by the device; or

(2) To remedy a violation of the act caused by the device which may present a risk to health unless the information has already been provided as set forth in paragraph (f) of this section or the corrective or removal action is exempt from the reporting requirements under ยง 806.1(b).

(b) The manufacturer or importer shall submit any report required by paragraph (a) of this section within 10-working days of initiating such correction or removal.

(c) The manufacturer or importer shall include the following information in the report:

(1) The seven digit registration number of the entity responsible for submission of the report of corrective or removal action (if applicable), the month, day, and year that the report is made, and a sequence number (i.e., 001 for the first report, 002 for the second report, 003 etc.), and the report type designation "C" or "R". For example, the complete number for the first correction report submitted on June 1, 1997, will appear as follows for a firm with the registration number 1234567: 1234567-6/1/97-001-C. The second correction report number submitted by the same firm on July 1, 1997, would be 1234567-7/1/97-002-C etc. For removals, the number will appear as follows: 1234567-6/1/97-001-R and 1234567-7/1/97-002-R, etc. Firms that do not have a seven digit registration number may use seven zeros followed by the month, date, year, and sequence number (i.e. 0000000-6/1/97-001-C for corrections and 0000000-7/1/97-001-R for removals). Reports received without a seven digit registration number will be assigned a seven digit central file number by the district office reviewing the reports.

(2) The name, address, and telephone number of the manufacturer or importer, and the name, title, address, and telephone number of the manufacturer or importer representative responsible for conducting the device correction or removal.

(3) The brand name and the common name, classification name, or usual name of the device and the intended use of the device.

(4) Marketing status of the device, i.e., any applicable premarket notification number, premarket approval number, or indication that the device is a preamendments device, and the device listing number. A manufacturer or importer that does not have an FDA establishment registration number shall indicate in the report whether it has ever registered with FDA.

(5) The unique device identifier (UDI) that appears on the device label or on the device package, or the device identifier, universal product code (UPC), model, catalog, or code number of the device and the manufacturing lot or serial number of the device or other identification number.

(6) The manufacturer's name, address, telephone number, and contact person if different from that of the person submitting the report.

(7) A description of the event(s) giving rise to the information reported and the corrective or removal actions that have been, and are expected to be taken.

(8) Any illness or injuries that have occurred with use of the device. If applicable, include the medical device report numbers.

(9) The total number of devices manufactured or distributed subject to the correction or removal and the number in the same batch, lot, or equivalent unit of production subject to the correction or removal.

(10) The date of manufacture or distribution and the device's expiration date or expected life.

(11) The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of all domestic and foreign consignees of the device and the dates and number of devices distributed to each such consignee.

(12) A copy of all communications regarding the correction or removal and the names and addresses of all recipients of the communications not provided in accordance with paragraph (c)(11) of this section.

(13) If any required information is not immediately available, a statement as to why it is not available and when it will be submitted.

(d) If, after submitting a report under this part, a manufacturer or importer determines that the same correction or removal should be extended to additional lots or batches of the same device, the manufacturer or importer shall within 10-working days of initiating the extension of the correction or removal, amend the report by submitting an amendment citing the original report number assigned according to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, all of the information required by paragraph (c)(2), and any information required by paragraphs (c)(3) through (c)(12) of this section that is different from the information submitted in the original report. The manufacturer or importer shall also provide a statement in accordance with paragraph (c)(13) of this section for any required information that is not readily available.

(e) A report submitted by a manufacturer or importer under this section (and any release by FDA of that report or information) does not necessarily reflect a conclusion by the manufacturer, importer, or FDA that the report or information constitutes an admission that the device caused or contributed to a death or serious injury. A manufacturer or importer need not admit, and may deny, that the report or information submitted under this section constitutes an admission that the device caused or contributed to a death or serious injury.

(f) No report of correction or removal is required under this part, if a report of the correction or removal is required and has been submitted under parts 803 or 1004 of this chapter.
