
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 806 - MEDICAL DEVICES; REPORTS OF CORRECTIONS AND REMOVALS
##### Subpart B - Reports and Records
###### ยง 806.20 Records of corrections and removals not required to be reported.

(a) Each device manufacturer or importer who initiates a correction or removal of a device that is not required to be reported to FDA under ยง 806.10 shall keep a record of such correction or removal.

(b) Records of corrections and removals not required to be reported to FDA under ยง 806.10 shall contain the following information:

(1) The brand name, common or usual name, classification, name and product code if known, and the intended use of the device.

(2) The unique device identifier (UDI) of the device, or the device identifier, universal product code (UPC), model, catalog, or code number of the device and the manufacturing lot or serial number of the device or other identification number.

(3) A description of the event(s) giving rise to the information reported and the corrective or removal action that has been, and is expected to be taken.

(4) Justification for not reporting the correction or removal action to FDA, which shall contain conclusions and any followups, and be reviewed and evaluated by a designated person.

(5) A copy of all communications regarding the correction or removal.

(c) The manufacturer or importer shall retain records required under this section for a period of 2 years beyond the expected life of the device, even if the manufacturer or importer has ceased to manufacture or import the device. Records required to be maintained under paragraph (b) of this section must be transferred to the new manufacturer or importer of the device and maintained for the required period of time.
