
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 807 - ESTABLISHMENT REGISTRATION AND DEVICE LISTING FOR MANUFACTURERS AND INITIAL IMPORTERS OF DEVICES
##### Subpart B - Procedures for Device Establishments
###### § 807.21 How to register establishments and list devices.

(a) Owners or operators of establishments that are subject to the registration and listing requirements of this part must provide the following information to us using our electronic device registration and listing system, except as provided in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section:

(1) Initial establishment registration information as required by §§ 807.22(a) and 807.25;

(2) Updates to registration information as required by §§ 807.22(b) and 807.25;

(3) Initial device listing information as required by §§ 807.22(a), 807.25, and 807.28;

(4) Updates to device listing information as required by §§ 807.22(b), 807.25, and 807.28, including updates to reflect the discontinuance or resumption of the commercial distribution of a previously-listed device as specified at paragraphs (d) and (e) of § 807.28.

(b) If the information under § 807.21(a) cannot be submitted electronically, a waiver may be requested. Waivers will be granted only if use of electronic means is not reasonable for the person requesting the waiver. To request a waiver, applicants must send a letter to the Imports and Registration and Listing Team, Division of Regulatory Programs 2, Office of Regulatory Programs, Office of Product Evaluation and Quality, Center for Devices and Radiological Health, Food and Drug Administration, 10903 New Hampshire Ave., Bldg. 66, Rm.1432, Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002, that includes the following information:

(1) The name and address of the device establishment(s) to be registered, a contact person for the owner or operator of the establishment, and the telephone number at which that person can be reached. If the establishment has already registered in the past, the letter should also include the owner or operator number, registration number, and any listing numbers previously assigned by FDA for devices manufactured at that establishment.

(2) Information about whether the company is an initial importer as defined in § 807.3(g) and, if so, whether it also conducts any other activities or operations relating to devices.

(3) A statement that use of the Internet is not reasonable for the person requesting the waiver, and an explanation of why such use is not reasonable. The statement must be signed by the owner or operator of the establishment, or by a person employed by the owner or operator who is authorized to make the declaration on behalf of the owner or operator.

(c) Those owners or operators who have obtained a waiver from filing registration and listing information electronically should refer to § 807.34 for information on how to submit such information by postal mail.

(d) When additional device listing information (e.g., copies of labeling or advertisements) is requested by FDA as described at § 807.26(e), such information may be submitted by postal mail or electronically by email, but will not be submitted using the FDA electronic device registration and listing system.
