
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 808 - EXEMPTIONS FROM FEDERAL PREEMPTION OF STATE AND LOCAL MEDICAL DEVICE REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart B - Exemption Procedures
###### § 808.35 Revocation of an exemption.

(a) An exemption from preemption pursuant to a regulation under this part shall remain effective until the Commissioner revokes such exemption.

(b) The Commissioner may by regulation, in accordance with § 808.25, revoke an exemption from preemption for any of the following reasons:

(1) An exemption may be revoked upon the effective date of a newly established requirement under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act which, in the Commissioner's view, addresses the objectives of an exempt requirement and which is described, when issued, as preempting a previously exempt State or local requirement.

(2) An exemption may be revoked upon a finding that there has occurred a change in the bases listed in § 808.20(c)(4) upon which the exemption was granted.

(3) An exemption may be revoked if it is determined that a condition placed on the exemption by the regulation under which the exemption was granted has not been met or is no longer being met.

(4) An exemption may be revoked if a State or local jurisdiction fails to submit records as provided in § 808.20(c)(6).

(5) An exemption may be revoked if a State or local jurisdiction to whom the exemption was originally granted requests revocation.

(6) An exemption may be revoked if it is determined that it is no longer in the best interests of the public health to continue the exemption.

(c) An exemption that has been revoked may be reinstated, upon request from the State or political subdivision, if the Commissioner, in accordance with the procedures in § 808.25, determines that the grounds for revocation are no longer applicable except that the Commissioner may permit abbreviated submissions of the documents and materials normally required for an application for exemption under § 808.20.
