
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 808 - EXEMPTIONS FROM FEDERAL PREEMPTION OF STATE AND LOCAL MEDICAL DEVICE REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart B - Exemption Procedures
###### ยง 808.20 Application.

(a) Any State or political subdivision may apply to the Food and Drug Administration for an exemption from preemption for any requirement that it has enacted and that is preempted. An exemption may only be granted for a requirement that has been enacted, promulgated, or issued in final form by the authorized body or official of the State or political subdivision so as to have the force and effect of law. However, an application for exemption may be submitted before the effective date of the requirement.

(b) An application for exemption shall be in the form of a letter to the Commissioner of Food and Drugs and shall be signed by an individual who is authorized to request the exemption on behalf of the State or political subdivision. An original and two copies of the letter and any accompanying material, as well as any subsequent reports or correspondence concerning an application, shall be submitted to the Division of Dockets Management (HFA-305), Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852. The outside wrapper of any application, report, or correspondence should indicate that it concerns an application for exemption from preemption of device requirements.

(c) For each requirement for which an exemption is sought, the application shall include the following information to the fullest extent possible, or an explanation of why such information has not been included:

(1) Identification and a current copy of any statute, rule, regulation, or ordinance of the State or political subdivision considered by the State or political subdivision to be a requirement which is preempted, with a reference to the date of enactment, promulgation, or issuance in final form. The application shall also include, where available, copies of any legislative history or background materials pertinent to enactment, promulgation, or issuance of the requirement, including hearing reports or studies concerning development or consideration of the requirement. If the requirement has been subject to any judicial or administrative interpretations, the State or political subdivision shall furnish copies of such judicial or administrative interpretations.

(2) A comparison of the requirement of the State or political subdivision and any applicable Federal requirements to show similarities and differences.

(3) Information on the nature of the problem addressed by the requirement of the State or political subdivision.

(4) Identification of which (or both) of the following bases is relied upon for seeking an exemption from preemption:

(i) The requirement is more stringent than a requirement applicable to a device under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. If the State or political subdivision relies upon this basis for exemption from preemption, the application shall include information, data, or material showing how and why the requirement of the State or political subdivision is more stringent than requirements under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.

(ii) The requirement is required by compelling local conditions, and compliance with the requirement would not cause the device to be in violation of any applicable requirement under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. If the State or political subdivision relies upon this basis for exemption from preemption, the application shall include information, data, or material showing why compliance with the requirement of the State or political subdivision would not cause a device to be in violation of any applicable requirement under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and why the requirement is required by compelling local conditions. The application shall also explain in detail the compelling local conditions that justify the requirement.

(5) The title of the chief administrative or legal officers of that State or local agency that has primary responsibility for administration of the requirement.

(6) When requested by the Food and Drug Administration, any records concerning administration of any requirement which is the subject of an exemption or an application for an exemption from preemption.

(7) Information on how the public health may be benefitted and how interstate commerce may be affected, if an exemption is granted.

(8) Any other pertinent information respecting the requirement voluntarily submitted by the applicant.

(d) If litigation regarding applicability of the requirement is pending, the State or political subdivision may so indicate in its application and request expedited action on such application.
