
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 809 - IN VITRO DIAGNOSTIC PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE
##### Subpart C - Requirements for Manufacturers and Producers
###### ยง 809.30 Restrictions on the sale, distribution and use of analyte specific reagents.

(a) Analyte specific reagents (ASR's) (ยง 864.4020 of this chapter) are restricted devices under section 520(e) of the Federal Food, Drugs, and Cosmetic Act (the act) subject to the restrictions set forth in this section.

(b) ASR's may only be sold to:

(1) In vitro diagnostic manufacturers;

(2) Clinical laboratories regulated under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA), as qualified to perform high complexity testing under 42 CFR part 493 or clinical laboratories regulated under VHA Directive 1106 (available from Department of Veterans Affairs, Veterans Health Administration, Washington, DC 20420); and

(3) Organizations that use the reagents to make tests for purposes other than providing diagnostic information to patients and practitioners, e.g., forensic, academic, research, and other nonclinical laboratories.

(c) ASR's must be labeled in accordance with ยง 809.10(e).

(d) Advertising and promotional materials for ASR's:

(1) Shall include the identity and purity (including source and method of acquisition) of the analyte specific reagent and the identity of the analyte;

(2) Shall include the statement for class I exempt ASR's: "Analyte Specific Reagent. Analytical and performance characteristics are not established";

(3) Shall include the statement for class II or III ASR's: "Analyte Specific Reagent. Except as a component of the approved/cleared test (name of approved/cleared test), analytical and performance characteristics are not established"; and

(4) Shall not make any statement regarding analytical or clinical performance.

(e) The laboratory that develops an in-house test using the ASR shall inform the ordering person of the test result by appending to the test report the statement: "This test was developed and its performance characteristics determined by (Laboratory Name). It has not been cleared or approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration." This statement would not be applicable or required when test results are generated using the test that was cleared or approved in conjunction with review of the class II or III ASR.

(f) Ordering in-house tests that are developed using analyte specific reagents is limited under section 520(e) of the act to physicians and other persons authorized by applicable State law to order such tests.

(g) The restrictions in paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section do not apply when reagents that otherwise meet the analyte specific reagent definition are sold to:

(1) In vitro diagnostic manufacturers; or

(2) Organizations that use the reagents to make tests for purposes other than providing diagnostic information to patients and practitioners, e.g., forensic, academic, research, and other nonclinical laboratories.
