
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 810 - MEDICAL DEVICE RECALL AUTHORITY
##### Subpart B - Mandatory Medical Device Recall Procedures
###### ยง 810.14 Cease distribution and notification or mandatory recall strategy.
####### Elements of the strategy.

(c)A proposed strategy shall meet all of the following requirements:

(1)(i) The person named in the order shall specify the level in the chain of distribution to which the cease distribution and notification order or mandatory recall order is to extend as follows:

(A) Consumer or user level, e.g., health professionals, consignee, or device user facility level, including any intermediate wholesale or retail level; or

(B) Retail level, to the level immediately preceding the consumer or user level, and including any intermediate level; or

(C) Wholesale level.

(ii) The person named in the order shall not recall a device from individuals; and

(iii) The person named in the order shall not recall a device from device user facilities if FDA notifies the person not to do so because of a risk determination under ยง 810.13(c)(2).

(2) The person named in a recall order shall ensure that the strategy provides for notice to individuals subject to the risks associated with use of the recalled device. The notice may be provided through the individuals' health professionals if FDA determines that such consultation is appropriate and would be the most effective method of notifying patients.

(3) Effectiveness checks by the person named in the order are required to verify that all health professionals, device user facilities, consignees, and individuals, as appropriate, have been notified of the cease distribution and notification order or mandatory recall order and of the need to take appropriate action. The person named in the cease distribution and notification order or the mandatory recall order shall specify in the strategy the method(s) to be used in addition to written communications as required by ยง 810.15, i.e., personal visits, telephone calls, or a combination thereof to contact all health professionals, device user facilities, consignees, and individuals, as appropriate. The agency may conduct additional audit checks where appropriate.
