
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 814 - PREMARKET APPROVAL OF MEDICAL DEVICES
##### Subpart B - Premarket Approval Application (PMA)
###### ยง 814.20 Application.

(a) The applicant or an authorized representative shall sign the PMA. If the applicant does not reside or have a place of business within the United States, the PMA shall be countersigned by an authorized representative residing or maintaining a place of business in the United States and shall identify the representative's name and address.

(b) Unless the applicant justifies an omission in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, a PMA shall include in electronic format:

(1) The name and address of the applicant.

(2) A table of contents that specifies the volume and page number for each item referred to in the table. A PMA shall include separate sections on nonclinical laboratory studies and on clinical investigations involving human subjects. A PMA shall be submitted as a single version. The applicant shall include information that it believes to be trade secret or confidential commercial or financial information in the PMA and identify the information that it believes to be trade secret or confidential commercial or financial information.

(3) A summary in sufficient detail that the reader may gain a general understanding of the data and information in the application. The summary shall contain the following information:
