
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 860 - MEDICAL DEVICE CLASSIFICATION PROCEDURES
##### Subpart C - Reclassification
###### § 860.130 General procedures under section 513(e) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.

(a) Section 513(e) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act applies to reclassification proceedings under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act based upon new information.

(b) A proceeding to reclassify a device under section 513(e) may be initiated:

(1) On the initiative of the Commissioner alone;

(2) On the initiative of the Commissioner in response to a request for change in classification based upon new information, under section 514(b) or 515(b) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (see § 860.132); or

(3) In response to the petition of an interested person, based upon new information, filed in accordance with § 860.123.

(c) By administrative order published under this section, the Commissioner may change the classification from:

(1) Class I or class II to class III if the Commissioner determines that the device meets the criteria set forth in § 860.3(c)(3) for a class III device; or

(2) Class III or class I to class II if the Commissioner determines that the device meets the criteria set forth in § 860.3(c)(2) for a class II device; or

(3) Class III or class II to class I if the Commissioner determines that the device meets the criteria set forth in § 860.3(c)(1) for a class I device.

(d)(1) The Commissioner shall consult with a classification panel and may secure a recommendation with respect to reclassification of a device from a classification panel. The panel will consider reclassification in accordance with the consultation procedures of § 860.125. A recommendation submitted to the Commissioner by the panel will be published in thewhen the Commissioner publishes an administrative order under this section.

(2) The Commissioner may change the classification of a device by administrative order published in thefollowing publication of a proposed reclassification order in thea meeting of a device classification panel described in section 513(b) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, and consideration of comments to a public docket.

(e) Within 180 days after the filing of a petition for reclassification under this section, the Commissioner will either deny the petition by order published in theor give notice of the intent to initiate a change in the classification of the device.

(f) If a device is reclassified under this section, the administrative order effecting the reclassification may revoke any special control or premarket approval requirement that previously applied to the device but that is no longer applicable because of the change in classification.

(g) An administrative order under this section changing the classification of a device to class II may provide that such reclassification will not take effect until the effective date of a performance standard for the device established under section 514 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act or other special controls established under the order. An order under this section changing the classification of a device to class II may also establish the special controls necessary to provide reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of the device.
