
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 860 - MEDICAL DEVICE CLASSIFICATION PROCEDURES
##### Subpart D - De Novo Classification
###### ยง 860.230 Accepting a De Novo request.

(a) The acceptance of a De Novo request means that FDA has made a threshold determination that the De Novo request contains the information necessary to permit a substantive review. Within 15 days after a De Novo request is received by FDA, FDA will notify the requester whether the De Novo request has been accepted.

(b) If FDA does not find that any of the reasons in paragraph (c)(1) of this section for refusing to accept the De Novo request apply or FDA fails to complete the acceptance review within 15 days, FDA will accept the De Novo request for review and will notify the requester. The notice will include the De Novo request reference number and the date FDA accepted the De Novo request. The date of acceptance is the date that an accepted De Novo request was received by FDA.

(c)(1) FDA may refuse to accept a De Novo request if any of the following applies:

(i) The requester has an open or pending premarket submission or reclassification petition for the device;

(ii) The De Novo request is incomplete because it does not on its face contain all the information required under section 513(f)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act or does not contain each of the items required under this part, or a justification for omission of any item;

(iii) The De Novo request is not formatted as required under ยง 860.210;

(iv) The De Novo request is for multiple devices and those devices are of more than one type; or

(v) The requester has not responded to, or has failed to provide a rationale for not responding to, deficiencies identified by FDA in previous submissions for the same device, including those submissions described in ยง 860.220(a)(3).

(2) If FDA refuses to accept a De Novo request, FDA will notify the requester of the reasons for the refusal. The notice will identify the deficiencies in the De Novo request that prevent accepting and will include the De Novo request reference number.

(3) If FDA refuses to accept a De Novo request, the requester may submit the additional information necessary to comply with the requirements of section 513(f)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and this part. The additional information must include the De Novo request reference number of the original submission. If the De Novo request is subsequently accepted, the date of acceptance is the date FDA receives the additional information.
