
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 862 - CLINICAL CHEMISTRY AND CLINICAL TOXICOLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart B - Clinical Chemistry Test Systems
###### ยง 862.1356 Interoperable automated glycemic controller.
####### e.g.,

(iv) Connectivity events (establishment or loss of communications).

(5) The device must only receive glucose input from devices cleared under ยง 862.1355 (integrated continuous glucose monitoring system), unless FDA determines an alternate type of glucose input device is designed appropriately to allow the controller to meet the special controls contained within this section.

(6) The device must only command drug delivery from devices cleared under ยง 880.5730 of this chapter (alternate controller enabled infusion pump), unless FDA determines an alternate type of drug infusion pump device is designed appropriately to allow the controller to meet the special controls contained within this section.

(7) An appropriate, as determined by FDA, training plan must be established for users and healthcare providers to assure the safety and performance of the device when used. This may include, but not be limited to, training on device contraindications, situations in which the device should not be used, notable differences in device functionality or features compared to similar alternative therapies, and information to help prescribers identify suitable candidate patients, as applicable.

(8) The labeling required under ยง 809.10(b) of this chapter must include:

(i) A contraindication for use in pediatric populations except to the extent clinical performance data or other available information demonstrates that it can be safely used in pediatric populations in whole or in part.

(ii) A prominent statement identifying any populations for which use of this device has been determined to be unsafe.

(iii) A prominent statement identifying by name the therapeutic agents that are compatible with the controller, including their identity and concentration, as appropriate.

(iv) The identity of those digitally connected devices with which the controller can be used, including descriptions of the specific system configurations that can be used, per the detailed strategy submitted under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section.

(v) A comprehensive description of representative clinical performance in the hands of the intended user, including information specific to use in the pediatric use population, as appropriate.

(vi) A comprehensive description of safety of the device, including, for example, the incidence of severe hypoglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, and other relevant adverse events observed in a study conducted to satisfy paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.

(vii) For wireless connection enabled devices, a description of the wireless quality of service required for proper use of the device.

(viii) For any controller with hardware components intended for multiple patient reuse, instructions for safely reprocessing the hardware components between uses.
