
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 862 - CLINICAL CHEMISTRY AND CLINICAL TOXICOLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart B - Clinical Chemistry Test Systems
###### ยง 862.1622 Prognostic test for assessment of liver related disease progression.
####### e.g.,

(i) Information demonstrating clinical performance in a population of patients with liver disease for the different risk categories (at lower risk, at higher risk) for progression of their disease using well characterized clinical specimens representing the intended use population collected from multiple intended clinical sites, or an alternative study design determined to be appropriate by FDA.

(ii) Information demonstrating that the outcomes measured and the length of followup are clinically relevant for the progression of the specified liver disease.

(iii) Information demonstrating that the clinical criteria for determining whether the target disease is present and that the exclusion and inclusion criteria for subjects who have the target disease are appropriate.

(iv) Information demonstrating test performance of the complete test system, including any sample collection and processing steps.

(v) Information, provided or referenced, generated in samples from non-diseased individuals, that demonstrate the upper and lower reference intervals for the output provided by the device.

(2) The labeling required under 21 CFR 809.10(b) must include:

(i) A warning statement that test results are not intended to diagnose disease or for monitoring the effect of any therapeutic product.

(ii) A warning statement that test results are intended to be used in conjunction with other clinical and diagnostic findings, consistent with professional standards of practice, including information obtained by alternative methods, and clinical evaluation, as appropriate.

(iii) A warning statement that describes any limitations on the clinical interpretation(s) of the test results.
