
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 862 - CLINICAL CHEMISTRY AND CLINICAL TOXICOLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart B - Clinical Chemistry Test Systems
###### ยง 862.1840 Total 25-hydroxyvitamin D mass spectrometry test system.
####### Classification.

(b)Class II (special controls). The device is exempt from the premarket notification procedures in part 807, subpart E, of this chapter subject to the limitations in ยง 862.9. The device must comply with the following special controls:

(1) The device must have initial and annual standardization verification by a certifying vitamin D standardization organization deemed acceptable by FDA.

(2) The 21 CFR 809.10(b) compliant labeling must include detailed descriptions of performance testing conducted to evaluate precision, accuracy, linearity, interference, including the following:

(i) Performance testing of device precision must, at a minimum, use intended sample type with Vitamin D concentrations at medically relevant decision points. At least one sample in the precision studies must be an unmodified patient sample. This testing must evaluate repeatability and reproducibility using a protocol from an FDA-recognized standard.

(ii) Performance testing of device accuracy must include a minimum of 115 serum or plasma samples that span the measuring interval of the device and compare results of the new device to results of a reference method or a legally marketed standardized mass spectrometry based vitamin D assay. The results must be described in the 21 CFR 809.10(b)(12) compliant labeling of the device.

(iii) Interference from vitamin D analogs and metabolites including vitamin D2, vitamin D3, 1-hydroxyvitamin D2, 1-hydroxyvitamin D3, 3-Epi-25-Hydroxyvitamin D2, 3-Epi-25-Hydroxyvitamin D3, 1,25-Dihydroxyvitamin D2, 1,25-Dihydroxyvitamin D3, 3-Epi-1,25-Dihydroxyvitamin D2, and 3-Epi-1,25-Dihydroxyvitamin D3, 25, 26-Dihydroxyvitamin-D3, 24 (R), 25-dihydroxyvitamin-D3, 23 (R), 25-dihydroxyvitamin-D3 must be described in the 21 CFR 809.10(b)(7) compliant labeling of the device.

(3) The 21 CFR 809.10(b) compliant labeling must be supported by a reference range study representative of the performance of the device. The study must be conducted using samples collected from apparently healthy male and female adults at least 21 years of age and older from at least 3 distinct climatic regions within the United States in different weather seasons. The ethnic, racial, and gender background of this study population must be representative of the U.S. population demographics.

(4) The results of the device as provided in the 21 CFR 809.10(b) compliant labeling and any test report generated must be reported as only total 25-hydroxyvitamin D.
