
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 862 - CLINICAL CHEMISTRY AND CLINICAL TOXICOLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart C - Clinical Laboratory Instruments
###### ยง 862.2265 High throughput genomic sequence analyzer for clinical use.
####### e.g.,

(B) Accuracy data for all claimed specimen types and nucleic acid types generated by testing a panel of well characterized samples to query all claimed sequence variation types, types of sequencing, and sequences located in varying sequence context (different chromosomes, GC-rich regions). The well-characterized sample panel shall include samples from at least two sources that have highly confident sequence based on well-validated sequencing methods. At least one reference source shall have sequence generated independently of the manufacturer with respect to technology and analysis. Percent agreement and percent disagreement with the reference sequences must be described for all regions queried by the instrument.

(C) If applicable, data describing endogenous or exogenous substances that may interfere with the instrument system.

(D) If applicable, data demonstrating the ability of the system to consistently generate an accurate result for a given sample across different indexing primer combinations.

(ix) The upper and lower limit of input nucleic acid that will achieve the claimed accuracy and reproducibility. Data supporting such claims must also be summarized.
