
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 862 - CLINICAL CHEMISTRY AND CLINICAL TOXICOLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart D - Clinical Toxicology Test Systems
###### ยง 862.3590 Meprobamate test system.
####### Classification.

(b)Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:

(1) Design verification and validation must include:

(i) Robust data demonstrating the accuracy of the device when used in the intended specimen matrix. The accuracy data must include a comparison between the meprobamate test system results and meprobamate results that are measured on an FDA-accepted measurement method that is specific and accurate (e.g., gas or liquid chromatography combined with tandem mass spectrometry).

(ii) Robust analytical data demonstrating the performance characteristics of the device, including, but not limited to, specificity, cross-reactivity to relevant endogenous and exogenous substances, and the reproducibility of analyte detection around the cutoff(s).

(2) The intended use of the device must not include an indication for use in monitoring therapeutic drug concentrations or informing dosing adjustment decisions.

(3) Your 21 CFR 809.10 labeling must include the following:

(i) If indicated for use as a screening test to identify preliminary results for further confirmation, the intended use must state "This assay provides only a preliminary analytical result. A more specific alternative chemical confirmatory method (e.g., gas or liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry) must be used to obtain a confirmed analytical result. Clinical consideration and professional judgment must be exercised with any drug of abuse test, particularly when the preliminary test result is positive."

(ii) A limiting statement that reads as follows: "This test should not be used to monitor therapeutic drug concentrations or to inform dosing adjustment decisions."
