
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 864 - HEMATOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart B - Biological Stains
###### ยง 864.1865 Cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) test system.
####### e.g.,

(i) The indications for use must specify the biomarker that is intended to be identified and its adjunct use (adjunct to examination of H&E stained slides) to improve consistency in the diagnosis of CIN.

(ii) Summary of professional society recommendations, as applicable.

(iii) A detailed device description including:

(A) A detailed description of all test components, including all provided reagents and required, but not provided, ancillary reagents.

(B) A detailed description of instrumentation and equipment, including illustrations or photographs of non-standard equipment or manuals.

(C) If applicable, detailed documentation of the device software, including, but not limited to, stand-alone software applications and hardware-based devices that incorporate software.

(D) A detailed description of appropriate positive and negative controls that are recommended or provided.

(E) Detailed specifications for sample collection, processing, and storage.

(F) A detailed description of methodology and assay procedure.

(G) A description of the assay cutoff (the medical decision point between positive and negative) or other relevant criteria that distinguishes positive and negative results, including the rationale for the chosen cutoff or other relevant criteria and results supporting validation of the cutoff.

(H) Detailed specification of the criteria for test results interpretation and reporting.

(iv) Detailed information demonstrating the performance characteristics of the device, including:
