
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 864 - HEMATOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart B - Biological Stains
###### § 864.1865 Cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) test system.
####### e.g.,,e.g.,,i.e.,,i.e.,,i.e.,,i.e.,

(F) Data from a clinical study demonstrating clinical validity using well-characterized prospectively or retrospectively obtained clinical specimens, as appropriate, representative of the intended use population. The study must evaluate the consistency of the diagnosis of CIN, for example, by comparing the levels of agreements of diagnoses rendered by community pathologists to those rendered by a panel of expert pathologists. Agreement for each CIN diagnostic category (No CIN, CIN1, CIN2, CIN3, cancer) and for alternate diagnostic categories (No CIN, low grade squamous intraepithelial lesion (LSIL)-histology, high grade squamous intraepithelial lesion (HSIL)-histology, cancer) between reference diagnosis by expert pathologist and community pathologist must be evaluated, as applicable. In addition, agreements for CIN binary categories as ≥CIN2 (CIN2 or CIN3 or cancer) and &#x2264;CIN1 (No CIN or CIN1) between reference diagnosis by expert pathologist with H&E staining and community pathologist with H&E staining and agreements for alternate CIN binary categories as ≥HSIL-histology (HSIL-histology or cancer) and &#x2264;LSIL-histology (No CIN or LSIL-histology) between reference diagnosis by an expert pathologist with H&E + [biomarker specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section] and a community pathologist with H&E + [biomarker specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section] must be evaluated and compared, as applicable.

(G) The staining performance of the device as determined by the community pathologists during review of the study slides must be evaluated. The staining performance criteria assessed must include overall staining acceptability, background staining acceptability, and morphology acceptability, as applicable.

(H) Appropriate training requirements for users, including interpretation manual, as applicable.

(I) Identification of risk mitigation elements used by the device, including a description of all additional procedures, methods, and practices incorporated into the instructions for use that mitigate risks associated with testing.

(2) The device's 21 CFR 809.10(b) compliant labeling must include a detailed description of the protocol, including the information described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, as applicable, and a detailed description of the performance studies performed and the summary of the results, including those that relate to paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, as applicable.
