
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 864 - HEMATOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart B - Biological Stains
###### ยง 864.1866 Lynch syndrome test systems.
####### e.g.,

(B) Appropriate device reproducibility data investigating all sources of variance (for distributed tests, data generated using a minimum of three sites, of which at least two sites must be external sites). Each site must perform testing over a minimum of 5 nonconsecutive days evaluating a sample panel that spans the claimed measuring range, and includes the clinical threshold. Pre-specified acceptance criteria must be provided and followed.

(C) Data demonstrating reader reproducibility, both within-reader and between-reader, assessed by three readers over 3 nonconsecutive days at each site, including a 2 week washout period between reads, as appropriate.

(D) Device precision data using clinical samples spanning the measuring range and controls to evaluate the within-lot, between-lot, within-run, between run, and total variation.

(E) Analytical specificity studies including as appropriate, western blots, peptide inhibition, testing in normal tissues and neoplastic tissues, interference by endogenous and exogenous substances, and cross-reactivity and cross contamination testing.

(F) Device analytical sensitivity data generated by testing an adequate number of samples from individuals with the target condition such that prevalence of the biomarker in the target population is established.

(G) Device stability data, including real-time stability and in-use stability, and stability evaluating various storage times, temperatures, and freeze-thaw conditions, as appropriate.

(H) The staining performance criteria assessed must include overall staining acceptability, background staining acceptability, and morphology acceptability, as appropriate.

(I) Appropriate training requirements for users, including interpretation manual, as applicable.

(J) Identification of risk mitigation elements used by the device, including a description of all additional procedures, methods, and practices incorporated into the instructions for use that mitigate risks associated with testing.

(2) The device's ยง 809.10(b) of this chapter compliant labeling must include a detailed description of the protocol, including the information described in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section, as appropriate, and a detailed description of the performance studies performed and the summary of the results, including those that relate to paragraph (b)(1)(ix) of this section, as appropriate.
