
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 864 - HEMATOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart D - Pathology Instrumentation and Accessories
###### ยง 864.3700 Whole slide imaging system.
####### Classification.

(b)Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:

(1) Premarket notification submissions must include the following information:

(i) The indications for use must specify the tissue specimen that is intended to be used with the whole slide imaging system and the components of the system.

(ii) A detailed description of the device and bench testing results at the component level, including for the following, as appropriate:

(A) Slide feeder;

(B) Light source;

(C) Imaging optics;

(D) Mechanical scanner movement;

(E) Digital imaging sensor;

(F) Image processing software;

(G) Image composition techniques;

(H) Image file formats;

(I) Image review manipulation software;

(J) Computer environment; and

(K) Display system.

(iii) Detailed bench testing and results at the system level, including for the following, as appropriate:

(A) Color reproducibility;

(B) Spatial resolution;

(C) Focusing test;

(D) Whole slide tissue coverage;

(E) Stitching error; and

(F) Turnaround time.

(iv) Detailed information demonstrating the performance characteristics of the device, including, as appropriate:

(A) Precision to evaluate intra-system and inter-system precision using a comprehensive set of clinical specimens with defined, clinically relevant histologic features from various organ systems and diseases. Multiple whole slide imaging systems, multiple sites, and multiple readers must be included.

(B) Reproducibility data to evaluate inter-site variability using a comprehensive set of clinical specimens with defined, clinically relevant histologic features from various organ systems and diseases. Multiple whole slide imaging systems, multiple sites, and multiple readers must be included.
