
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 864 - HEMATOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart H - Hematology Kits and Packages
###### ยง 864.7010 Flow cytometric test system for hematopoietic neoplasms.
####### Classification.

(b)Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:

(1) Premarket notification submissions must include the following information:

(i) The indications for use must indicate the clinical hematopoietic neoplasms for which the assay was designed and validated, for example, chronic leukemia or lymphoma.

(ii) A detailed device description including the following:

(A) A detailed description of all test components, all required reagents, and all instrumentation and equipment, including illustrations or photographs of nonstandard equipment or methods.

(B) Detailed documentation of the device software including, but not limited to, standalone software applications and hardware-based devices that incorporate software.

(C) A detailed description of methodology and assay procedure.

(D) A description of appropriate internal and external quality control materials that are recommended or provided. The description must identify those control elements that are incorporated into the testing procedure, if applicable.

(E) Detailed specifications for sample collection, processing, and storage.

(F) Detailed specification of the criteria for test results interpretation and reporting including pre-established templates.

(G) If applicable, based on the output of the results, a description of the specific number of events to collect, result outputs, and analytical sensitivity of the assay that will be reported.

(iii) Information that demonstrates the performance characteristics of the test, including:

(A) Device performance data from either a method comparison study comparing the specific lymphocyte cell markers to a predicate device or data collected through a clinical study demonstrating clinical validity using well-characterized clinical specimens. Samples must be representative of the intended use population of the device including hematologic neoplasms and the specific sample types for which the test is indicated for use.

(B) If applicable, device performance data from a clinical study demonstrating clinical validity for parameters not established in a predicate device of this generic type using well-characterized prospectively obtained clinical specimens including all hematologic neoplasms and the specific sample types for which the device is indicated for use.

(C) Device precision data using clinical samples to evaluate the within-lot, between-lot, within-run, between run, site-to-site and total variation using a minimum of three sites, of which at least two sites must be external sites. Results shall be reported as the standard deviation and percentage coefficient of variation for each level tested.

(D) Reproducibility data generated using a minimum of three lots of reagents to evaluate mean fluorescence intensity and variability of the recovery of the different markers and/or cell populations.
