
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 864 - HEMATOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart H - Hematology Kits and Packages
###### ยง 864.7010 Flow cytometric test system for hematopoietic neoplasms.
####### e.g.,

(E) Data from specimen and reagent carryover testing performed using well-established methods (CLSI H26-A2).

(F) Specimen and prepared sample stability data established for each specimen matrix in the anticoagulant combinations and storage/use conditions that will be indicated.

(G) A study testing anticoagulant equivalency in all claimed specimen type/anticoagulant combinations using clinical specimens that are representative of the intended use population of the device.

(H) Analytic sensitivity data using a dilution panel created from clinical samples.

(I) Analytical specificity data, including interference and cross-contamination.

(J) Device stability data, including real-time stability of reagents under various storage times and temperatures.

(K) For devices that include polyclonal antibodies, Fluorescence Minus One (FMO) studies to evaluate non-specific binding for all polyclonal antibodies. Each FMO tube is compared to reagent reference to demonstrate that no additional population appears when one marker is absent. Pre-specified acceptance criteria must be provided and followed.

(L) For devices indicated for use as a semi-quantitative test, linearity data using a dilution panel created from clinical samples.

(M) For devices indicated for use as a semi-quantitative test, clinically relevant analytical sensitivity data, including limit of blank, limit of detection, and limit of quantification.

(iv) Identification of risk mitigation elements used by the device, including a detailed description of all additional procedures, methods, and practices incorporated into the instructions for use that mitigate risks associated with testing the device.

(2) The 21 CFR 809.10 compliant labeling must include the following:

(i) The intended use statement in the 21 CFR 809.10(a)(2) and (b)(2) compliant labeling must include a statement that the results should be interpreted by a pathologist or equivalent professional in conjunction with other clinical and laboratory findings. The intended use statement must also include information on what the device detects and measures, whether the device is qualitative, semi-quantitative, and/or quantitative, the clinical indications for which the device is to be used, and the specific population(s) for which the device is intended.

(ii) A detailed description of the performance studies conducted to comply with paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section and a summary of the results.

(3) As part of the risk management activities performed under 21 CFR 820.30 design controls, product labeling and instruction manuals must include clear examples of all expected phenotypic patterns and gating strategies using well-defined clinical samples representative of both abnormal and normal cellular populations. These samples must be selected based upon the indications described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
