
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 866 - IMMUNOLOGY AND MICROBIOLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart C - Microbiology Devices
###### ยง 866.2190 Automated image assessment system for microbial colonies on solid culture media.
####### Classification.

(b)Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:

(1) Premarket notification submissions must include a detailed description of the device, including the technology employed, components and software modules, as well as a detailed explanation of the result algorithms and any expert rules that are used to assess colony characteristics and enumerate colonies from image capture through end result.

(2) Premarket notification submissions must include detailed documentation of the analytical studies performed to characterize device performance to support the intended use, as appropriate.

(3) Premarket notification submissions must include detailed documentation from clinical studies performed on a population that is consistent with the intended use population.

(i) The clinical studies must establish the device performance based on comparison to results obtained by an acceptable reference method, as appropriate.

(ii) The clinical study documentation must include the study protocol with a predefined statistical analysis plan and the final report documenting support for the Indications for Use and the results of the statistical analysis, as appropriate.

(4) Premarket notification submissions must include detailed documentation for device software, including but not limited to software applications and hardware based components that incorporate software, and any decision-making thresholds used to generate results for the device. If a part of a Total Laboratory Automation System, the premarket notification submission must include detailed documentation addressing the instrument and software system integration.

(5) Premarket notification submissions must include detailed documentation of appropriate instructions for use regarding the intended user's device quality control procedures for the instrument system and components, as appropriate.

(6) The 21 CFR 809.10 compliant device labeling must include:

(i) Detailed user instructions to mitigate the risk of failure to operate the instrument correctly.

(ii) A detailed explanation of the interpretation of results and limitations regarding the need for review of culture plates by a qualified microbiologist, as appropriate.

(iii) A summary of performance data obtained from the analytical studies used to support device performance, as appropriate.

(iv) A summary of performance data obtained from clinical studies performed on a population that is consistent with the intended use population, as appropriate.

(7) Under 21 CFR 820.30 compliant design control, device manufacturers must, as appropriate:

(i) Conduct human factors/usability validation testing with the final version of the labeling and related materials to adequately mitigate the risk of failure to operate the instrument correctly.

(ii) Document a device training program that will be offered to the end user to adequately mitigate the risk of failure to operate the instrument correctly.
