
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 866 - IMMUNOLOGY AND MICROBIOLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart D - Serological Reagents
###### ยง 866.3169 Hepatitis C virus antibody tests.
####### Classification.

(b)Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:

(1) The labeling required under ยง 809.10(b) of this chapter must include:

(i) A prominent statement that the test is not intended for the screening of blood, plasma, and cell or tissue donors.

(ii) Limitations, which must be updated to reflect current clinical practice and disease presentation and management. The limitations must include, but are not limited to, statements that indicate:

(A) When appropriate, the performance characteristics of the test have not been established in populations of immunocompromised or immunosuppressed patients or, other special populations where test performance may be affected.

(B) The detection of HCV antibodies indicates a present or past infection with hepatitis C virus, but does not differentiate between acute, chronic, or resolved infection.

(C) The specimen types for which the device has been cleared, and that use of the test with specimen types other than those specifically cleared for this device may result in inaccurate test results.

(D) Test results are to be interpreted by qualified licensed healthcare professionals in conjunction with the individual's clinical presentation, history, and other laboratory results.

(E) A non-reactive test result may occur early during acute infection, prior to development of a host antibody response to infection, or when analyte levels are below the limit of detection of the test.

(iii) A detailed explanation of the principles of operation and procedures for performing the test.

(2) Design verification and validation must include the following:

(i) A detailed device description, including all parts that make up the device, ancillary reagents required but not provided, an explanation of the device methodology, and design of the antigen(s) and capture antibody(ies) sequences, rationale for the selected epitope(s), degree of amino acid sequence conservation of the target, and the design and nature of all primary, secondary, and subsequent standards used for calibration.
