
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 866 - IMMUNOLOGY AND MICROBIOLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart D - Serological Reagents
###### ยง 866.3169 Hepatitis C virus antibody tests.
####### e.g.,

(ii) Documentation and characterization (supplier, determination of identity, and stability) of all critical reagents (including description of the antigen(s) and capture antibody(ies)), and protocols for maintaining product integrity throughout its labeled shelf life.

(iii) Risk analysis and management strategies, such as Failure Modes Effects Analysis and/or Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points summaries and their impact on test performance.

(iv) Final release criteria to be used for manufactured test lots with appropriate evidence that lots released at the extremes of the specifications will meet the claimed analytical and clinical performance characteristics as well as the stability claims.

(v) Stability studies for reagents must include documentation of an assessment of real-time stability for multiple reagent lots using the indicated specimen types and must use acceptance criteria that ensure that analytical and clinical performance characteristics are met when stability is assigned based on the extremes of the acceptance range.

(vi) All stability protocols, including acceptance criteria.

(vii) Final release test results for each lot used in clinical studies.

(viii) Multisite reproducibility study that includes the testing of three independent production lots.

(ix) Analytical performance studies and results for determining the limit of blank (LoB), limit of detection (LoD), cutoff, precision (reproducibility) including lot-to-lot and/or instrument-to-instrument precision, interference, cross reactivity, carryover, hook effect, seroconversion panel testing, matrix equivalency, specimen stability, reagent stability, and cross-genotype antibody detection sensitivity, when appropriate.

(x) Analytical sensitivity of the test is the same or better than that of other cleared or approved tests.

(xi) Detailed documentation of clinical performance testing from a multisite clinical study. Performance must be analyzed relative to an FDA cleared or approved HCV antibody test, or a comparator that FDA has determined is appropriate. This study must be conducted using appropriate patient samples, with an acceptable number of HCV positive and negative samples in applicable risk categories. Additional relevant patient groups must be validated as appropriate. The samples may be a combination of fresh and repository samples, sourced from geographically diverse areas. The study designs, including number of samples tested, must be sufficient to meet the following criteria:

(A) Clinical sensitivity of the test must have a lower bound of the 95 percent confidence interval of greater than or equal to 95 percent.

(B) Clinical specificity of the test must have a lower bound of the 95 percent confidence interval of greater than or equal to 96 percent.

(3) For any HCV antibody test intended for Point of Care (PoC) use, the following special controls, in addition to those listed in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, apply:

(i) Clinical studies must be conducted at PoC sites.

(ii) Additional labeling must include a brief summary of the instructions for use that are appropriate for use in a PoC environment.
