
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 866 - IMMUNOLOGY AND MICROBIOLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart D - Serological Reagents
###### ยง 866.3215 Device to detect and measure non-microbial analyte(s) in human clinical specimens to aid in assessment of patients with suspected sepsis.
####### Classification.

(b)Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:

(1) Premarket notification submissions must include the device's detailed Indications for Use statement describing what the device detects and measures, the results provided to the user, whether the measure is qualitative and/or quantitative, the clinical indications for which the test is to be used, and the specific population(s) for which the device use is intended.

(2) Premarket notification submissions must include detailed documentation of the device description, including (as applicable), all device components, software, ancillary reagents required but not provided, explanation of the device principle and methodology, and for molecular devices include detailed documentation of the primer/probe sequence, design, and rationale for sequence selection.

(3) Premarket notification submissions must include detailed documentation of applicable analytical studies, such as, analytical sensitivity (Limit of Detection, Limit of Blank, and Limit of Quantitation), precision, reproducibility, analytical measuring range, interference, cross-reactivity, and specimen stability.

(4) Premarket notification submissions must include detailed documentation of a prospective clinical study or, if appropriate, results from an equivalent sample set. This detailed documentation must include the following information:

(i) Results must demonstrate adequate device performance relative to a well-accepted comparator.

(ii) Clinical sample results must demonstrate consistency of device output throughout the device measuring range likely to be encountered in the Intended Use population.

(iii) Clinical study documentation must include the original study protocol (including predefined statistical analysis plan), study report documenting support for the Indications for Use(s), and results of all statistical analyses.
