
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 866 - IMMUNOLOGY AND MICROBIOLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart D - Serological Reagents
###### ยง 866.3309 Herpes virus nucleic acid-based cutaneous and mucocutaneous lesion panel.
####### Classification.

(b)Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:

(1) Premarket notification submissions must include detailed documentation for the device description, including the device components, ancillary reagents required but not provided, and a detailed explanation of the methodology including primer design and selection.

(2) Premarket notification submissions must include detailed documentation from the following analytical and clinical performance studies: Analytical sensitivity (Limit of Detection), reactivity, inclusivity, precision, reproducibility, interference, cross reactivity, carry-over, and cross contamination.

(3) Premarket notification submissions must include detailed documentation of a clinical study using lesion samples in which Herpes Simplex Virus 1, Herpes Simplex Virus 2, or Varicella Zoster Virus DNA detection was requested. The study must compare the device performance to an appropriate well established reference method.

(4) A detailed explanation of the interpretation of results and acceptance criteria must be included in the device's 21 CFR 809.10(b)(9) compliant labeling.

(5) The device labeling must include a limitation statement that reads: "The device is not intended for use with cerebrospinal fluid or to aid in the diagnosis of HSV or VZV infections of the central nervous system (CNS)."

(6) Premarket notification submissions must include quality assurance protocols and a detailed documentation for device software, including, but not limited to, standalone software applications and hardware-based devices that incorporate software.

(7) The risk management activities performed as part of the manufacturer's 21 CFR 820.30 design controls must document an appropriate end user device training program that will be offered as part of efforts to mitigate the risk of failure to correctly operate the instrument.
