
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 866 - IMMUNOLOGY AND MICROBIOLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart D - Serological Reagents
###### ยง 866.3373 Nucleic acid-based in vitro diagnostic devices for the detection of Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex (MTB-complex) and the genetic mutations associated with MTB-complex antibiotic resistance in respiratory specimens.
####### Mycobacterium tuberculosis

(1) The FDA document entitled "Class II Special Controls Guideline: Nucleic Acid-Based In Vitro Diagnostic Devices for the Detection ofComplex and Genetic Mutations Associated with Antibiotic Resistance in Respiratory Specimens," which addresses the mitigation of risks specific to the detection of MTB-complex. For availability of the document, see ยง 866.1(e).

(2) The following items, which address the mitigation of risks specific to the detection of the genetic mutations associated with antibiotic resistance of MTB-complex:

(i) The device must include an external positive assay control as appropriate. Acceptable positive assay controls include MTB-complex isolates containing one or more antibiotic-resistance associated target sequences detected by the device.

(ii) The device must include internal controls as appropriate. An acceptable internal control may include human nucleic acid co-extracted with MTB-complex containing nucleic acid sequences associated with antibiotic resistance and primers amplifying human housekeeping genes (e.g., RNaseP, &#x3B2;-actin).

(iii) The device's intended use must include a description of the scope of antibiotic resistance targeted by the assay, i.e., the specific drugs and/or drug classes.

(iv) The specific performance characteristics section of the device's labeling must include information regarding the specificity of the assay oligonucleotides for detecting mutations associated with antibiotic resistance of MTB-complex, and any information indicating the potential for non-specific binding (e.g., BLAST search).

(v) In demonstrating device performance you must perform:

(A) Pre-analytical studies that evaluate:
