
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 866 - IMMUNOLOGY AND MICROBIOLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart D - Serological Reagents
###### ยง 866.3956 Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) serological diagnostic and/or supplemental test.
####### e.g.,

(iii) Manufacturers must submit a log of all complaints. The log must include the following information regarding each complaint if available: The type of event (false negative/false nonreactive or false positive/false reactive), lot, date, population, and whether or not the complaint was reported under part 803 of this chapter (Medical Device Reporting). The log must be submitted annually on the anniversary of clearance for 5 years following clearance of a traditional premarket notification.

(2) If the test is intended for Point of Care (PoC) use, the following special controls, in addition to those listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section apply:

(i) The PoC labeling must include a statement that the test is intended for PoC use.

(ii) The PoC labeling must include the following information near the statement of the intended use:

(A) That the test is for distribution to clinical laboratories that have an adequate quality assurance program, including planned systematic activities that provide adequate confidence that requirements for quality will be met and where there is assurance that operators will receive and use the instructional materials.

(B) That the test is for use only by an agent of a clinical laboratory.

(C) Instructions for individuals to receive the "Subject Information Notice" prior to specimen collection and appropriate information when test results are provided.

(iii) PoC labeling must include instructions to follow current guidelines for informing the individual of the test result and its interpretation.

(iv) The instructions in the labeling must state that reactive results are considered preliminary and should be confirmed following current guidelines.

(v) Device verification and validation for PoC use must include:
