
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 866 - IMMUNOLOGY AND MICROBIOLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart D - Serological Reagents
###### ยง 866.3956 Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) serological diagnostic and/or supplemental test.
####### 5

() A test result that is nonreactive does not exclude the possibility of exposure to or infection with HIV. Nonreactive results in this assay may be due to analyte levels that are below the limit of detection of this assay.

(ii) Device verification and validation must include:

(A) Detailed device description, including the device components, ancillary reagents required but not provided, and an explanation of the methodology. Additional information appropriate to the technology must be included, such as the amino acid sequence of antigen(s) and design of capture antibodies.

(B) For devices with assay calibrators, the design of all primary, secondary, and subsequent quantitation standards used for calibration as well as their traceability to a reference material. In addition, analytical testing must be performed following the release of a new lot of the standard material that was used for device clearance, or when there is a transition to a new calibration standard.

(C) Detailed documentation of analytical performance studies conducted as appropriate to the technology, specimen types tested, and intended use of the device, including, but not limited to, limit of blank, limit of detection, cutoff determination, precision, endogenous and exogenous interferences, cross reactivity, carryover, quality control, matrix equivalency, and sample and reagent stability. Samples selected for use in analytical studies or used to prepare samples for use in analytical studies must be from subjects with clinically relevant circulating genotypes in the United States.

(D) Multisite reproducibility study that includes the testing of three independent production lots.

(E) Analytical sensitivity of the test must be the same as or better than that of other cleared or approved tests. Samples tested must include appropriate numbers and types of samples, including real clinical samples near the lower limit of detection. Analytical specificity of the test must be the same as or better than that of other cleared or approved tests. Samples must include appropriate numbers and types of samples from patients with different underlying illnesses or infections and from patients with potential endogenous interfering substances.

(F) Detailed documentation of performance from a multisite clinical study. Performance must be analyzed relative to an FDA-cleared or approved comparator. This study must be conducted using patient samples, with an appropriate number of HIV positive and HIV negative samples in applicable risk categories. Additional subgroups or types must be validated using appropriate numbers and types of samples. The samples may be a combination of fresh and repository samples, sourced from within and outside the United States, as appropriate. The study designs, including number of samples tested, must be sufficient to meet the following criteria:
