
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 866 - IMMUNOLOGY AND MICROBIOLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart D - Serological Reagents
###### ยง 866.3956 Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) serological diagnostic and/or supplemental test.
####### 2

() Clinical specificity of the test must have a lower bound of the 95 percent confidence interval of greater than or equal to 98 percent.

(B) Premarket notification submissions must include the information contained in paragraph (b)(2)(v)(A) of this section.

(3) If the test is intended for supplemental use in addition to use as an aid in initial diagnosis, the following special controls, in addition to those listed in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, as appropriate, apply:

(i) The labeling must include a statement that the test is intended for use as an additional test to confirm the presence of HIV antibodies or antigens in specimens found to be repeatedly reactive by a diagnostic screening test.

(ii) Device validation and verification for supplemental use must include a clinical study, including samples that were initially reactive and repeatedly reactive on a diagnostic test but were negative or indeterminate on a different confirmatory test. Premarket notification submissions must include this information.

(4) If the test is intended solely as a supplemental test, the following special controls, in addition to those listed in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, except those in paragraphs (b)(1)(ii)(F) and (b)(2)(v)(A) of this section, as appropriate, apply:

(i) The labeling must include a statement that the test is intended for use as an additional test to confirm the presence of HIV antibodies or antigens in specimens found to be repeatedly reactive by a diagnostic screening test.

(ii) The labeling must clearly state that the test is not for use for initial diagnosis or is not intended as a first-line test.

(iii) Device validation and verification must include a clinical study including samples that were initially reactive and repeatedly reactive on a diagnostic test but were negative or indeterminate on a confirmatory test. Premarket notification submissions must include this information.

(5) If the test is intended to differentiate different HIV types, the following special controls, in addition to those listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section, as appropriate, apply:

(i) The labeling must include the statement that the test is intended for the confirmation of initial results from a diagnostic test and differentiation of different HIV types.

(ii) The results interpretation in the labeling must include instructions for the user on how to interpret the results, including un-typeable and co-infection results.

(iii) Device validation and verification must include evaluation of analytical and clinical sensitivity and specificity for each of the HIV types, strains, and subtypes of HIV intended to be differentiated. Premarket notification submissions must include this information.
