
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 866 - IMMUNOLOGY AND MICROBIOLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart D - Serological Reagents
###### ยง 866.3958 Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) viral load monitoring test.
####### Classification.

(b)Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:

(1) The labeling must include:

(i) An intended use that states that the device is not intended for use as an aid in diagnosis or for use in screening donors of blood or blood products, or HCT/Ps.

(ii) A detailed explanation of the principles of operation and procedures used for assay performance.

(iii) A detailed explanation of the interpretation of results and that recommended actions should be based on current clinical guidelines.

(iv) Limitations, which must be updated to reflect current clinical practice and patient management. The limitations must include, but are not limited to, statements that indicate:

(A) The matrices and sample types with which the device has been cleared and that use of this test with specimen types other than those specifically cleared for this device may cause inaccurate test results.

(B) Mutations in highly conserved regions may affect binding of primers and/or probes resulting in the under-quantitation of virus or failure to detect the presence of virus.

(C) All test results should be interpreted in conjunction with the individual's clinical presentation, history, and other laboratory results.

(2) Device verification and validation must include:

(i) Detailed device description, including the device components, ancillary reagents required but not provided, and an explanation of the device methodology. Additional information appropriate to the technology must be included, such as detailed information on the design of primers and probes.

(ii) For devices with assay calibrators, the design and nature of all primary, secondary, and subsequent quantitation standards used for calibration as well as their traceability to a reference material. In addition, analytical testing must be performed following the release of a new lot of the standard material that was used for device clearance, or when there is a transition to a new calibration standard.

(iii) Detailed documentation of analytical performance studies conducted as appropriate to the technology, specimen types tested, and intended use of the device, including but not limited to, limit of blank, limit of detection, limit of quantitation, cutoff determination, precision, linearity, endogenous and exogenous interferences, cross-reactivity, carry-over, quality control, matrix equivalency, sample and reagent stability. Samples selected for use in analytical studies or used to prepare samples for use in analytical studies must be from subjects with clinically relevant genotypes circulating in the United States.

(iv) Multisite reproducibility study that includes the testing of three independent production lots.

(v) Analytical sensitivity of the device must demonstrate acceptable performance at current clinically relevant medical decision points. Samples tested to demonstrate analytical sensitivity must include appropriate numbers and types of samples, including real clinical samples near the lower limit of quantitation and any clinically relevant medical decision points. Analytical specificity of the device must demonstrate acceptable performance. Samples tested to demonstrate analytical specificity must include appropriate numbers and types of samples from patients with different underlying illnesses and infection and from patients with potential interfering substances.

(vi) Detailed documentation of performance from a multisite clinical study or a multisite analytical method comparison study.

(A) For devices evaluated in a multisite clinical study, the study must use specimens from individuals living with HIV being monitored for changes in viral load, and the test results must be compared to the clinical status of the patients.

(B) For tests evaluated in a multisite analytical method comparison study, the performance of the test must be compared to an FDA-cleared or approved comparator. The multisite method comparison study must include appropriate numbers and types of samples with analyte concentrations across the measuring range of the assay, representing clinically relevant genotypes. The multisite method comparison study design, including number of samples tested, must be sufficient to meet the following criteria:
