
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 866 - IMMUNOLOGY AND MICROBIOLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart D - Serological Reagents
###### ยง 866.3958 Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) viral load monitoring test.
####### 1,2

(vii) Detailed documentation of a single-site analytical method comparison study between the device and an FDA-cleared or approved comparator if a multisite clinical study is performed under paragraph(b)(2)(vi) of this section. The analytical method comparison study must use appropriate numbers and types of samples with analyte concentrations across the measuring range of the assay, representing clinically relevant genotypes. The results must meet the criteria in paragraphs (b)(2)(vi)(B)() and () of this section.

(viii) Strategies for detection of new strains, types, subtypes, genotypes, and genetic mutations as they emerge.

(ix) Risk analysis and management strategies, such as Failure Modes Effects Analysis and/or Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points summaries and their impact on test performance.

(x) Final release criteria to be used for manufactured device lots with an appropriate justification that lots released at the extremes of the specifications will meet the claimed analytical and clinical performance characteristics as well as the stability claims.

(xi) All stability protocols, including acceptance criteria.

(xii) Appropriate and acceptable procedure(s) for addressing complaints and other device information that determines when to submit a medical device report.

(xiii) Premarket notification submissions must include the information contained in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (xii) of this section.
