
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 866 - IMMUNOLOGY AND MICROBIOLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart D - Serological Reagents
###### ยง 866.3960 Nucleic acid-based device for the amplification, detection, and identification of microbial pathogens directly from whole blood specimens.
####### Classification.

(b)Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:

(1) Premarket notification submissions must include detailed device description documentation, including the device components, ancillary reagents required but not provided, and a detailed explanation of the methodology, including primer/probe sequence, design, and rationale for sequence selection.

(2) Premarket notification submissions must include detailed documentation from the following analytical and clinical performance studies: Analytical sensitivity (limit of detection), reactivity, inclusivity, precision, reproducibility, interference, cross reactivity, carryover, and cross contamination.

(3) Premarket notification submissions must include detailed documentation from a clinical study. The study, performed on a study population consistent with the intended use population, must compare the device performance to results obtained from well-accepted reference methods.

(4) Premarket notification submissions must include detailed documentation for device software, including, but not limited to, software applications and hardware-based devices that incorporate software.

(5) The device labeling must include limitations regarding the need for culture confirmation of negative specimens, as appropriate.

(6) A detailed explanation of the interpretation of results and acceptance criteria must be included in the device's 21 CFR 809.10(b)(9) compliant labeling.

(7) Premarket notification submissions must include details on an end user device training program that will be offered while marketing the device, as appropriate.

(8) As part of the risk management activities performed as part of your 21 CFR 820.30 design controls, you must document an appropriate end user device training program that will be offered as part of your efforts to mitigate the risk of failure to correctly operate the instrument.
