
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 866 - IMMUNOLOGY AND MICROBIOLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart D - Serological Reagents
###### ยง 866.3985 Device to detect and identify microorganisms and associated resistance marker nucleic acids directly in respiratory specimens.
####### Classification.

(b)Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:

(1) The intended use for the 21 CFR 809.10 labeling must include a detailed description of what the device detects, the type of results provided to the user, the clinical indications appropriate for test use, and the specific population(s) for which the device is intended.

(2) The 21 CFR 809.10(b) labeling must include:

(i) A detailed device description, including all device components, control elements incorporated into the test procedure, instrument requirements, ancillary reagents required but not provided, and a detailed explanation of the methodology, including all pre-analytical methods for processing of specimens.

(ii) Performance characteristics from analytical studies, including, but not limited to, limit of detection, inclusivity, reproducibility, cross reactivity, interfering substances, competitive inhibition, carryover/cross contamination, specimen stability, and linearity, as applicable.

(iii) A limiting statement that the device is intended to be used in conjunction with clinical history, signs and symptoms, and results of other diagnostic tests, including culture and antimicrobial susceptibility testing.

(iv) A detailed explanation of the interpretation of test results for clinical specimens and acceptance criteria for any quality control testing.

(v) A limiting statement that negative results for microorganisms do not preclude the possibility of infection, and should not be used as the sole basis for diagnosis, treatment, or other patient management decisions.

(vi) If applicable, a limiting statement that detected microorganisms may not be the cause of lower respiratory tract infection and may be indicative of colonizing or normal respiratory flora.

(vii) If applicable, a limiting statement that detection of resistance markers cannot be definitively linked to specific microorganisms and that the source of a detected resistance marker may be an organism not detected by the assay, including colonizing flora.

(viii) If applicable, a limiting statement that detection of antibiotic resistance markers may not correlate with phenotypic gene expression.

(3) The 21 CFR 809.10(b) labeling and any test report generated by the device must include a limiting statement that negative results for resistance markers do not indicate susceptibility of detected microorganisms.

(4) Design verification and validation must include:

(i) Performance characteristics from clinical studies that include prospective (sequential) samples and, if appropriate, additional characterized samples. The study must be performed on a study population consistent with the intended use population and compare the device performance to results obtained from an FDA accepted reference method and/or FDA accepted comparator method, as appropriate. Results from the clinical studies must include the clinical study protocol (including predefined statistical analysis plan, if applicable), clinical study report, and results of all statistical analyses.

(ii) A detailed device description including the following:

(A) Thorough description of the assay methodology including, but not limited to, primer/probe sequences, primer/probe design, and rationale for target sequence selection, as applicable.

(B) Algorithm used to generate a final result from raw data (e.g., how raw signals are converted into a reported result).

(iii) A detailed description of device software, including, but not limited to, validation activities and outcomes.

(iv) As part of the risk management activities, an appropriate end user device training program must be offered as an effort to mitigate the risk of failure from user error.
