
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 866 - IMMUNOLOGY AND MICROBIOLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart F - Immunological Test Systems
###### ยง 866.5665 Aquaporin-4 autoantibody immunological test system.
####### Classification.

(b)Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:

(1) Premarket notification submissions must include the following information:

(i) A detailed device description including:

(A) A detailed description of all components including all required ancillary reagents in the test;

(B) If applicable, a detailed description of instrumentation and equipment, including illustrations or photographs of non-standard equipment or manuals;

(C) If applicable, detailed documentation of the device software, including, but not limited to, standalone software applications and hardware-based devices that incorporate software;

(D) A detailed description of appropriate internal and external quality controls that are recommended or provided. The description must identify those control elements that are incorporated into the specified testing procedures;

(E) Detailed specifications for sample collection, processing, and storage;

(F) A detailed description of methodology and assay procedure;

(G) A description of how the assay cutoff (the medical decision point between positive and negative) was established and validated as well as supporting data; and

(H) Detailed specification of the criteria for test results interpretation and reporting.

(ii) Detailed information demonstrating the performance characteristics of the device, including:

(A) Device precision/reproducibility data generated from within-run, between-run, between-day, between-lot, between-site, and total precision for multiple nonconsecutive days, as applicable. A well characterized panel of patient samples or pools from the indicated population that covers the device measuring range must be used.

(B) Device linearity data generated from samples covering the device measuring range, if applicable.

(C) Information on traceability to a reference material and description of value assignment of calibrators and controls, if applicable.

(D) Device analytical sensitivity data, including limit of blank, limit of detection, and limit of quantitation, if applicable.

(E) Device analytical specificity data, including interference by endogenous and exogenous substances, as well as cross-reactivity with samples derived from patients with other autoimmune diseases or conditions.

(F) Device instrument carryover data, when applicable.

(G) Device stability data, including real-time stability under various storage times and temperatures.

(H) Specimen stability data, including stability under various storage times, temperatures, freeze-thaw, and transport conditions, where appropriate.

(I) Method comparison data generated by comparison of the results obtained with the device to those obtained with a legally marketed predicate device with similar indications of use. A well-characterized panel of patient samples from the indicated population covering the device measuring range must be used.

(J) Specimen matrix comparison data, if more than one specimen type or anticoagulant can be tested with the device. Samples used for comparison must be from well-characterized patient samples covering the device measuring range.

(K) Clinical performance must be established by comparing data generated by testing samples from the indicated population and the differential diagnosis or non-target disease groups with the device to the clinical diagnostic standard.
