
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 866 - IMMUNOLOGY AND MICROBIOLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart F - Immunological Test Systems
###### ยง 866.5940 Autosomal recessive carrier screening gene mutation detection system.
####### Classification.

(b)Class II (special controls). The device is exempt from the premarket notification procedures in subpart E of part 807 of this chapter subject to the limitations in ยง 866.9, except ยง 866.9(c)(2). Autosomal recessive carrier screening gene mutation detection system must comply with the following special controls:

(1) If the device is offered over-the-counter, the device manufacturer must provide information to a potential purchaser or actual test report recipient about how to obtain access to a board-certified clinical molecular geneticist or equivalent to assist in pre- and post-test counseling.

(2) The device must use a collection device that is FDA cleared, approved, or classified as 510(k) exempt, with an indication for in vitro diagnostic use in DNA testing.

(3) The device's labeling must include a prominent hyperlink to the manufacturer's public Web site where the manufacturer shall make the information identified in this section publicly available. The manufacturer's home page, as well as the primary part of the manufacturer's Web site that discusses the device, must provide a prominently placed hyperlink to the Web page containing this information and must allow unrestricted viewing access. If the device can be purchased from the Web site or testing using the device can be ordered from the Web site, the same information must be found on the Web page for ordering the device or provided in a prominently placed and publicly accessible hyperlink on the Web page for ordering the device. Any changes to the device that could significantly affect safety or effectiveness would require new data or information in support of such changes, which would also have to be posted on the manufacturer's Web site. The information must include:

(i) A detailed device description including:

(A) Gene (or list of the genes if more than one) and variants the test detects (using standardized nomenclature, Human Genome Organization (HUGO) nomenclature, and coordinates).
