
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 866 - IMMUNOLOGY AND MICROBIOLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart F - Immunological Test Systems
###### ยง 866.5940 Autosomal recessive carrier screening gene mutation detection system.
####### 3,i.e.,,e.g.,

() Information provided shall include the number and type of specimens, broken down by clinically relevant variants, that were compared to bidirectional sequencing or other methods identified as appropriate by FDA. The accuracy, defined as positive percent agreement (PPA) and negative percent agreement (NPA), must be measured; accuracy point estimates must be greater than 99 percent (both per reported variant and overall) and uncertainty of the point estimate must be presented using the 95 percent confidence interval. Clinical specimens must include both homozygous wild type and heterozygous genotypes. The number of clinical specimens for each variant reported that must be included in the accuracy study must be based on the variant prevalence. Common variants (greater than 0.1 percent allele frequency in ethnically relevant population) must have at least 20 unique heterozygous clinical specimens tested. Rare variants (less than or equal to 0.1 percent allele frequency in ethnically relevant population) shall have at least three unique mutant heterozygous specimens tested. Any no calls (absence of a result) or invalid calls (failed quality control) in the study must be included in accuracy study results and reported separately. Variants that have a point estimate for PPA or NPA of less than 99 percent (incorrect test results as compared to bidirectional sequencing or other methods identified as appropriate by FDA) must not be incorporated into test claims and reports. Accuracy measures generated from clinical specimens versus contrived samples or cell lines must be presented separately. Results must be summarized and presented in tabular format, by sample and by genotype. Point estimate of PPA should be calculated as the number of positive results divided by the number of specimens known to harbor variants (mutations) without "no calls" or invalid calls. The point estimate of NPA should be calculated as the number of negative results divided by the number of wild type specimens tested without "no calls" or invalid calls, for each variant that is being reported. Point estimates should be calculated along with 95 percent two-sided confidence intervals.
