
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 866 - IMMUNOLOGY AND MICROBIOLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart F - Immunological Test Systems
###### ยง 866.5940 Autosomal recessive carrier screening gene mutation detection system.
####### e.g.,i.e.,,i.e.,

(B) Precision (reproducibility): Precision data must be generated using multiple instruments and multiple operators, on multiple non-consecutive days, and using multiple reagent lots. The sample panel must include specimens with claimed sample type (saliva samples) representing different genotypes (wild type, heterozygous). Performance criteria must be predefined. A detailed study protocol must be created in advance of the study and then followed. The "failed quality control" rate must be indicated. It must be clearly documented whether results were generated from clinical specimens, contrived samples, or cell lines. The study results shall state, in a tabular format, the variants tested in the study and the number of replicates for each variant, and what testing conditions were studied (number of runs, days, instruments, reagent lots, operators, specimens/type, etc). The study must include all nucleic acid extraction steps from the claimed specimen type or matrix, unless a separate extraction study for the claimed sample type is performed. If the device is to be used at more than one laboratory, different laboratories must be included in the precision study (and reproducibility must be evaluated). The percentage of "no calls" or invalid calls, if any, in the study must be provided as a part of the precision (reproducibility) study results.

(C) Analytical specificity data: Data must be generated evaluating the effect on test performance of potential endogenous and exogenous interfering substances relevant to the specimen type, evaluation of cross-reactivity of known cross-reactive alleles and pseudogenes, and assessment of cross-contamination.

(D) Analytical sensitivity data: Data must be generated demonstrating the minimum amount of DNA that will enable the test to perform accurately in 95 percent of runs.

(E) Device stability data: The manufacturer must establish upper and lower limits of input nucleic acid and sample stability that will achieve the claimed accuracy and reproducibility. Data supporting such claims must be described.

(F) Specimen type and matrix comparison data: Specimen type and matrix comparison data must be generated if more than one specimen type or anticoagulant can be tested with the device, including failure rates for the different specimen types.

(iii) If the device is offered over-the-counter, including cases in which the test results are provided direct-to-consumer, the manufacturer must conduct a study that assesses user comprehension of the device's labeling and test process and provide a concise summary of the results of the study. The following items must be included in the user study:

(A) The test manufacturer must perform pre- and post-test user comprehension studies to assess user ability to understand the possible results of a carrier test and their clinical meaning. The comprehension test questions must directly evaluate the material being presented to the user in the test reports.

(B) The test manufacturer must provide a carrier testing education module to potential and actual test report recipients. The module must define terms that are used in the test reports and explain the significance of carrier status.

(C) The user study must meet the following criteria:
