
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 866 - IMMUNOLOGY AND MICROBIOLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart F - Immunological Test Systems
###### ยง 866.5950 Genetic health risk assessment system.
####### Classification.,e.g.,

(b)Class II (special controls). The genetic health risk assessment system device, when it has previously received a first-time FDA marketing authorization (510(k) clearance) for the genetic health risk assessment system (a "one-time FDA reviewed genetic health risk assessment system"), is exempt from the premarket notification procedures in part 807, subpart E, of this chapter subject to the limitations in ยง 866.9. The device must comply with the following special controls:

(1) The 21 CFR 809.10 compliant labeling and any prepurchase page and test report generated, unless otherwise specified, must include:

(i) A section addressed to users with the following information:

(A) The limiting statement explaining that this test provides genetic risk information based on assessment of specific genetic variants but does not report on a user's entire genetic profile. This test [does not/may not, as appropriate] detect all genetic variants related to a given disease, and the absence of a variant tested does not rule out the presence of other genetic variants that may be related to the disease.

(B) The limiting statement explaining that other companies offering a genetic risk test may be detecting different genetic variants for the same disease, so the user may get different results using a test from a different company.

(C) The limiting statement explaining that other factors such as environmental and lifestyle risk factors may affect the risk of developing a given disease.

(D) The limiting statement explaining that some people may feel anxious about getting genetic test health results. This is normal. If the potential user feels very anxious, such user should speak to his or her doctor or other health care professional prior to collection of a sample for testing. This test is not a substitute for visits to a doctor or other health care professional. Users should consult with their doctor or other health care professional if they have any questions or concerns about the results of their test or their current state of health.

(E) Information about how to obtain access to a genetic counselor, board-certified clinical molecular geneticist, or equivalent health care professional about the results of a user's test.

(F) The limiting statement explaining that this test is not intended to diagnose a disease, tell you anything about your current state of health, or be used to make medical decisions, including whether or not you should take a medication or how much of a medication you should take.

(G) A limiting statement explaining that the laboratory may not be able to process a sample, and a description of the next steps to be taken by the manufacturer and/or the customer, as applicable.

(ii) A section in your 21 CFR 809.10 labeling and any test report generated that is for health care professionals who may receive the test results from their patients with the following information:

(A) The limiting statement explaining that this test is not intended to diagnose a disease, determine medical treatment, or tell the user anything about their current state of health.

(B) The limiting statement explaining that this test is intended to provide users with their genetic information to inform lifestyle decisions and conversations with their doctor or other health care professional.

(C) The limiting statement explaining that any diagnostic or treatment decisions should be based on testing and/or other information that you determine to be appropriate for your patient.

(2) The genetic test must use a sample collection device that is FDA-cleared, -approved, or -classified as 510(k) exempt, with an indication for in vitro diagnostic use in over-the-counter DNA testing.

(3) The device's labeling must include a hyperlink to the manufacturer's public Web site where the manufacturer shall make the information identified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section publicly available. The manufacturer's home page, as well as the primary part of the manufacturer's Web site that discusses the device, must provide a hyperlink to the Web page containing this information and must allow unrestricted viewing access. If the device can be purchased from the Web site or testing using the device can be ordered from the Web site, the same information must be found on the Web page for ordering the device or provided in a publicly accessible hyperlink on the Web page for ordering the device. Any changes to the device that could significantly affect safety or effectiveness would require new data or information in support of such changes, which would also have to be posted on the manufacturer's Web site. The information must include:

(i) An index of the material being provided to meet the requirements in paragraph (b)(3) of this section and its location.

(ii) A section that highlights summary information that allows the user to understand how the test works and how to interpret the results of the test. This section must, at a minimum, be written in plain language understandable to a lay user and include:

(A) Consistent explanations of the risk of disease associated with all variants included in the test. If there are different categories of risk, the manufacturer must provide literature references that support the different risk categories. If there will be multiple test reports and multiple variants, the risk categories must be defined similarly among them. For example, "increased risk" must be defined similarly between different test reports and different variant combinations.

(B) Clear context for the user to understand the context in which the cited clinical performance data support the risk reported. This includes, but is not limited to, any risks that are influenced by ethnicity, age, gender, environment, and lifestyle choices.

(C) Materials that explain the main concepts and terminology used in the test that include:
