
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 866 - IMMUNOLOGY AND MICROBIOLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart F - Immunological Test Systems
###### ยง 866.5940 Autosomal recessive carrier screening gene mutation detection system.
####### 3

() Completion rate, non-responder rate, and reasons for non-response/data exclusion, as well as a summary table of comprehension rates regarding comprehension concepts (purpose of test, test results, test limitations, ethnicity relevance for the test results, etc.) for each study report.

(4) Your 21 CFR 809.10 compliant labeling and any test report generated must include the following warning and limitation statements, as applicable:

(i) A warning that reads "The test is intended only for autosomal recessive carrier screening in adults of reproductive age."

(ii) A statement accurately disclosing the genetic coverage of the test in lay terms, including, as applicable, information on variants not queried by the test, and the proportion of incident disease that is not related to the gene(s) tested. For example, where applicable, the statement would have to include a warning that the test does not or may not detect all genetic variants related to the genetic disease, and that the absence of a variant tested does not rule out the presence of other genetic variants that may be disease-related. Or, where applicable, the statement would have to include a warning that the basis for the disease for which the genetic carrier status is being tested is unknown or believed to be non-heritable in a substantial number of people who have the disease, and that a negative test result cannot rule out the possibility that any offspring may be affected with the disease. The statement would have to include any other warnings needed to accurately convey to consumers the degree to which the test is informative for carrier status.

(iii) For prescription use tests, the following warnings that read:

(A) "The results of this test are intended to be interpreted by a board-certified clinical molecular geneticist or equivalent and should be used in conjunction with other available laboratory and clinical information."

(B) "This device is not intended for disease diagnosis, prenatal testing of fetuses, risk assessment, prognosis or pre-symptomatic testing, susceptibility testing, or newborn screening."

(iv) For over-the-counter tests, a statement that reads "This test is not intended to diagnose a disease, or tell you anything about your risk for developing a disease in the future. On its own, this test is also not intended to tell you anything about the health of your fetus, or your newborn child's risk of developing a particular disease later on in life."

(v) For over-the-counter tests, the following warnings that read:

(A) "This test is not a substitute for visits to a healthcare provider. It is recommended that you consult with a healthcare provider if you have any questions or concerns about your results."

(B) "The test does not diagnose any health conditions. Results should be used along with other clinical information for any medical purposes."

(C) "The laboratory may not be able to process your sample. The probability that the laboratory cannot process your saliva sample can be up to [actual probability percentage]."

(D) "Your ethnicity may affect how your genetic health results are interpreted."

(vi) For a positive result in an over-the-counter test when the positive predictive value for a specific population is less than 50 percent and more than 5 percent, a warning that reads "The positive result you obtained may falsely identify you as a carrier. Consider genetic counseling and followup testing."

(vii) For a positive result in an over-the-counter test when the positive predictive value for a specific population is less than 5 percent, a warning that reads "The positive result you obtained is very likely to be incorrect due to the rarity of this variant. Consider genetic counseling and followup testing."

(5) The testing done to comply with paragraph (b)(3) of this section must show the device meets or exceeds each of the following performance specifications:

(i) The accuracy must be shown to be equal to or greater than 99 percent for both PPA and NPA. Variants that have a point estimate for PPA or NPA of less than 99 percent (incorrect test results as compared to bidirectional sequencing or other methods identified as appropriate by FDA) must not be incorporated into test claims and reports.

(ii) Precision (reproducibility) performance must meet or exceed 99 percent for both positive and negative results.

(iii) The user comprehension study must obtain values of 90 percent or greater user comprehension for each comprehension concept.

(6) The distribution of this device, excluding the collection device described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, shall be limited to the manufacturer, the manufacturer's subsidiaries, and laboratories regulated under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments.
