
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 866 - IMMUNOLOGY AND MICROBIOLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart F - Immunological Test Systems
###### § 866.5950 Genetic health risk assessment system.
####### iii

() Test specimens must include all genotypes that will be included in the tests and reports. The number of samples tested in the accuracy study for each variant reported must be based on the variant frequency using either the minimum numbers of samples identified in this paragraph or, when determined appropriate and identified by FDA, a minimum number of samples determined using an alternative method. When appropriate, the same samples may be used in testing to demonstrate the accuracy of testing for multiple genotypes by generating sequence information at multiple relevant genetic locations. At least 20 unique samples representing the wild-type genotype must be tested. To test samples that are heterozygous for the reported variant(s), common variants (>0.1 percent variant frequency in the relevant population) must be tested with at least 20 unique samples. Rare variants (&#x2264;0.1 percent variant frequency in the relevant population) must be tested with at least three unique samples. To test samples that are homozygous for the reported variant(s), variants with ≥2 percent variant frequency in a relevant population must be tested with at least 20 unique samples. Variants with a frequency in the relevant population <2 percent and ≥0.5 percent must be tested with at least 10 unique samples. Variants with a frequency in the relevant population <0.5 percent must be tested with at least three unique samples. If variants with a frequency of <0.5 percent are not found within the relevant population and homozygous samples are not tested, then the test results for this homozygous rare variant must not be reported to the user.
