
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 866 - IMMUNOLOGY AND MICROBIOLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart F - Immunological Test Systems
###### ยง 866.5950 Genetic health risk assessment system.
####### 2,e.g.,,e.g.,,i.e.,,i.e.,,e.g.,

() Precision and reproducibility data must be provided using multiple instruments and multiple operators, on multiple non-consecutive days, and using multiple reagent lots. The sample panel must either include specimens from the claimed sample type (saliva) representing all genotypes for each variant (wild type, heterozygous, and homozygous) or, if an alternative panel composition of specimens is identified by FDA as appropriate, a panel composed of those specimens FDA identified as appropriate. A detailed study protocol must be created in advance of the study and must include predetermined acceptance criteria for performance results. The percentage of samples that failed quality control must be indicated (the total number of sample replicates for which a sequence variant cannot be called (no calls) or that fail sequencing quality control criteria divided by the total number of replicates tested). It must be clearly documented whether results were generated from clinical specimens, contrived samples, or cell lines. The study results shall report the variants tested in the study and the number of replicates for each variant, and what conditions were tested (number of runs, days, instruments, reagent lots, operators, specimens/type, etc.). Results must be evaluated and presented in tabular format and stratified by study parameter (by site, instrument(s), reagent lot, operator, and sample variant). The study must include all extraction steps from the claimed specimen type or matrix, unless a separate extraction reproducibility study for the claimed sample type is performed. If the device is to be used at more than one laboratory, different laboratories must be included in the reproducibility study and reproducibility across sites must be evaluated. Any no calls or invalid calls in the study must be listed as a part of the precision and reproducibility study results.
