
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 866 - IMMUNOLOGY AND MICROBIOLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart G - Tumor Associated Antigen immunological Test Systems
###### ยง 866.6080 Next generation sequencing based tumor profiling test.
####### e.g.,

(A) Data that adequately supports the intended specimen type (formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tumor tissue), specimen handling protocol, and nucleic acid purification for specific tumor types or for a pan-tumor claim.

(B) A summary of the empirical evidence obtained to demonstrate how the analytical quality metrics and thresholds were optimized.

(C) Device precision data using clinical samples to adequately evaluate intra-run, inter-run, and total variability. The samples must cover all mutation types tested (both positive and negative samples) and include samples near the limit of detection of the device. Precision must be assessed by agreement within replicates on the assay final result for each representative mutation, as applicable, and also supported by sequencing quality metrics for targeted regions across the panel.

(D) Description of the protocols and/or data adequately demonstrating the interchangeability of reagent lots and multiplexing barcodes.

(E) A description of the nucleic acid assay input concentration range and the evidence to adequately support the range.

(F) A description of the data adequately supporting the limit of detection of the device.

(G) A description of the data to adequately support device accuracy using clinical specimens representing the intended specimen type and range of tumor types, as applicable.
