
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 868 - ANESTHESIOLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart F - Therapeutic Devices
###### ยง 868.5105 External negative pressure airway aid.
####### Classification.

(b)Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:

(1) Clinical performance testing must document any adverse events observed during clinical use, including impaired blood flow, and demonstrate that the device performs as intended under anticipated conditions.

(2) Non-clinical performance testing must demonstrate that the device performs as intended under anticipated patient positions, does not fail during use, and does not lose negative pressure capability. The following testing should be performed:

(i) Ability of the device to maintain a seal during various patient positions;

(ii) Device leakage testing to demonstrate the device maintains vacuum;

(iii) Drop testing to ensure the device does not incur functional damage after dropping the device; and

(iv) Functional testing after high and low storage temperature.

(3) All patient contacting components must be demonstrated to be biocompatible.

(4) Labeling must include:

(i) A summary of clinical testing results, including any adverse events and evidence that effectiveness has been achieved.

(ii) Technical specifications of the device, including collar sizes, maximum duration of use, operating temperature, and storage temperature range.

(iii) Technical specifications of the vacuum source, including maximum vacuum level and operational vacuum level.

(iv) Instructions for use that includes how to place the device, determination of size, verification of suction, reference to training materials, and information on troubleshooting the device if it does not attach properly.

(v) A warning to screen patients for carotid artery disease due to the probable risk of the device to dislodge arterial plaques in the carotid artery.

(vi) A warning to exclude patients with anatomical abnormalities.

(vii) A warning not to use the device during medical procedures involving medications that contain propofol.
