
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 868 - ANESTHESIOLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart F - Therapeutic Devices
###### ยง 868.5273 Positive airway pressure delivery system.
####### Classification.

(b)Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:

(1) The patient-contacting components of the device must be demonstrated to be biocompatible.

(2) Non-clinical performance testing must demonstrate that the device performs as intended under anticipated conditions of use, including the following:

(i) Waveform testing must simulate breathing conditions and evaluate pressure and airflow response over a range and combination of high and low breath rates and tidal volumes.

(ii) Use life testing must demonstrate adequate device performance over the labeled use life of the device.

(iii) Device integrity testing must demonstrate that the device can withstand typical forces expected during use.

(iv) Carbon dioxide rebreathing testing must be performed.

(v) System flow rate, maximum expiratory pressure, inhalation pressure, and intra-mask static pressure testing must be performed.

(vi) Air bolus testing must demonstrate that the device can withstand worst-case scenario air pressures.

(vii) Maximum limited pressure testing of the flow generator in single fault condition must be performed.

(viii) Maximum output temperature testing of delivered gas, if humidified, must be performed.

(3) Performance data must validate reprocessing instructions for any reusable components of the device.

(4) Performance data must demonstrate the electrical, thermal, and mechanical safety and the electromagnetic compatibility of the device.

(5) Software verification, validation, and hazard analysis must be performed.

(6) Labeling must include the following:

(i) Therapy pressure range;

(ii) Use life and replacement schedule for all components;

(iii) Cleaning instructions; and

(iv) Instructions for assembly and connection of device components.
