
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - GENERAL ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### Subpart J - Establishment, Maintenance, and Availability of Records
###### General Provisions
####### § 1.327 Who is excluded from all or part of the regulations in this subpart?
######## et seq.,et seq.,et seq.

(g) Persons who manufacture, process, pack, transport, distribute, receive, hold, or import food in the United States that is within the exclusive jurisdiction of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) under the Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 601), the Poultry Products Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 451), or the Egg Products Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 1031) are excluded from all of the requirements in this subpart with respect to that food while it is under the exclusive jurisdiction of USDA.

(h) Foreign persons, except for foreign persons who transport food in the United States, are excluded from all of the requirements of this subpart.

(i) Persons who manufacture, process, pack, transport, distribute, receive, hold, or import food are subject to §§ 1.361 and 1.363 with respect to its packaging (the outer packaging of food that bears the label and does not contact the food). All other persons who manufacture, process, pack, transport, distribute, receive, hold, or import packaging are excluded from all of the requirements of this subpart.

(j) Persons who manufacture, process, pack, transport, distribute, receive, hold, or import food contact substances other than the finished container that directly contacts food are excluded from all of the requirements of this subpart, except §§ 1.361 and 1.363.

(k) Persons who place food directly in contact with its finished container are subject to all of the requirements of this subpart as to the finished container that directly contacts that food. All other persons who manufacture, process, pack, transport, distribute, receive, hold, or import the finished container that directly contacts the food are excluded from the requirements of this subpart as to the finished container, except §§ 1.361 and 1.363.

(l) Nonprofit food establishments are excluded from all of the requirements in this subpart, except §§ 1.361 and 1.363.

(m) Persons who manufacture, process, pack, transport, distribute, receive, hold, or import food for personal consumption are excluded from all of the requirements of this subpart.

(n) Persons who receive or hold food on behalf of specific individual consumers and who are not also parties to the transaction and who are not in the business of distributing food are excluded from all of the requirements of this subpart.
