
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 876 - GASTROENTEROLOGY-UROLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart B - Diagnostic Devices
###### ยง 876.1310 Magnetically maneuvered capsule endoscopy system.
####### Classification.

(b)Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:

(1) Clinical performance testing with the device under anticipated conditions of use must evaluate visualization of the intended region and document the adverse event profile.

(2) Non-clinical testing data must demonstrate the optical, mechanical, and functional integrity of the device under physically stressed conditions. The following performance characteristics must be tested, and detailed protocols must be provided for each test:

(i) A bite test must be performed to ensure that the capsule can withstand extreme cases of biting;

(ii) A pH resistance test must be performed to evaluate integrity of the capsule when exposed to a physiological relevant range of pH values;

(iii) A battery life test must be performed to demonstrate that the capsule's operating time is not constrained by the battery capacity;

(iv) A shelf life test must be performed to demonstrate that the device performs as intended at the proposed shelf life date;

(v) Optical testing must be performed to evaluate fundamental image quality characteristics such as resolution, field of view, depth of field, geometric distortion, signal to noise ratio, dynamic range, and image intensity uniformity;

(vi) A color performance test must be performed to compare the color differences between the input scene and output image;

(vii) A photobiological safety analysis must be performed based on maximum (worst-case) light exposure to internal gastrointestinal mucosa, and covering ultraviolet, visible, and near-infrared ranges, as appropriate. A mitigation analysis must be provided;

(viii) Performance testing must demonstrate that the viewing software clearly presents the current frame rate, which is either adjustable manually by the user or automatically by the device. Testing must demonstrate that the viewing software alerts the user when the video quality is reduced from nominal due to imaging data communication or computation problems;

(ix) A data transmission test must be performed to verify the robustness of the data transmission between the capsule and the receiver. This test must include controlled signal attenuation for simulating a non-ideal environment; and

(x) Magnetic field strength testing characterization must be performed to identify the distances from the magnet that are safe for patients and users with ferromagnetic implants, devices, or objects.

(3) Software validation, verification, and hazard analysis must be provided.

(4) Electrical safety, thermal safety, mechanical safety, and electromagnetic compatibility testing must be performed.

(5) The patient-contacting components of the device must be demonstrated to be biocompatible.

(6) Performance data must validate the reprocessing instructions for the reusable components of the device.

(7) Performance data must demonstrate the sterility of any device components labeled sterile.

(8) Human factors testing must demonstrate that the intended users can safely and correctly use the device, based solely on reading the instructions for use.

(9) Clinician labeling must include:

(i) Specific instructions and the clinical and technical expertise needed for the safe use of the device;

(ii) A detailed summary of the clinical testing pertinent to use of the device, including information on effectiveness and device- and procedure-related complications;

(iii) The patient preparation procedure;

(iv) A detailed summary of the device technical parameters;

(v) Magnetic field safe zones;

(vi) A screening checklist to ensure that all patients and operating staff are screened from bringing ferromagnetic implants, devices, or objects near the external magnet;

(vii) Reprocessing instructions for reusable components;

(viii) Shelf life for single use components; and

(ix) Use life for reusable components.

(10) Patient labeling must include:

(i) An explanation of the device and the mechanism of operation;

(ii) The patient preparation procedure;

(iii) A brief summary of the clinical study; and

(iv) A summary of the device- and procedure-related complications pertinent to use of the device.
