
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 876 - GASTROENTEROLOGY-UROLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart E - Surgical Devices
###### ยง 876.4340 High intensity ultrasound system for prostate tissue ablation.
####### Classification.

(b)Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:

(1) Non-clinical performance data must demonstrate that the device performs as intended under anticipated conditions of use. The following performance characteristics must be tested:

(i) Characterization of acoustic pressure and power output at clinically relevant levels;

(ii) Measurement of targeting accuracy and reproducibility of high intensity ultrasound output;

(iii) Ultrasound-induced heating verification testing at target and non-target tissues;

(iv) Electrical safety testing; and

(v) Electromagnetic compatibility testing.

(2) Software verification, validation, and hazard analysis must be performed.

(3) The elements of the device that may contact the patient's mucosal tissue must be demonstrated to be biocompatible.

(4) Performance data must demonstrate the sterility of the device components that contact the patient's mucosal tissue.

(5) Performance data must support shelf life by demonstrating continued sterility of the device or the sterile components, package integrity, and device functionality over the identified shelf life.

(6) Performance data must support the instructions for reprocessing all reusable components.
