
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 876 - GASTROENTEROLOGY-UROLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart F - Therapeutic Devices
###### ยง 876.5540 Blood access device and accessories.
####### Classification.

(b)(1) Class II (special controls) for the implanted blood access device. The special controls for this device are:

(i) Components of the device that come into human contact must be demonstrated to be biocompatible. Material names and specific designation numbers must be provided.

(ii) Performance data must demonstrate that the device performs as intended under anticipated conditions of use. The following performance characteristics must be tested:

(A) Pressure versus flow rates for both arterial and venous lumens, from the minimum flow rate to the maximum flow rate in 100 milliliter per minute increments, must be established. The fluid and its viscosity used during testing must be stated.

(B) Recirculation rates for both forward and reverse flow configurations must be established, along with the protocol used to perform the assay, which must be provided.

(C) Priming volumes must be established.

(D) Tensile testing of joints and materials must be conducted. The minimum acceptance criteria must be adequate for its intended use.

(E) Air leakage testing and liquid leakage testing must be conducted.

(F) Testing of the repeated clamping of the extensions of the catheter that simulates use over the life of the device must be conducted, and retested for leakage.

(G) Mechanical hemolysis testing must be conducted for new or altered device designs that affect the blood flow pattern.

(H) Chemical tolerance of the device to repeated exposure to commonly used disinfection agents must be established.

(iii) Performance data must demonstrate the sterility of the device.

(iv) Performance data must support the shelf life of the device for continued sterility, package integrity, and functionality over the requested shelf life that must include tensile, repeated clamping, and leakage testing.

(v) Labeling of implanted blood access devices for hemodialysis must include the following:

(A) Labeling must provide arterial and venous pressure versus flow rates, either in tabular or graphical format. The fluid and its viscosity used during testing must be stated.

(B) Labeling must specify the forward and reverse recirculation rates.

(C) Labeling must provide the arterial and venous priming volumes.

(D) Labeling must specify an expiration date.

(E) Labeling must identify any disinfecting agents that cannot be used to clean any components of the device.

(F) Any contraindicated disinfecting agents due to material incompatibility must be identified by printing a warning on the catheter. Alternatively, contraindicated disinfecting agents must be identified by a label affixed to the patient's medical record and with written instructions provided directly to the patient.

(G) Labeling must include a patient implant card.

(H) The labeling must contain comprehensive instructions for the following:
