
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 876 - GASTROENTEROLOGY-UROLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart F - Therapeutic Devices
###### ยง 876.5540 Blood access device and accessories.
####### 6

() Qualifications for clinical providers performing the insertion, maintenance, and removal of the devices.

(vi) In addition to Special Controls in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (v) of this section, implanted blood access devices that include subcutaneous ports must include the following:

(A) Labeling must include the recommended type of needle for access as well as detailed instructions for care and maintenance of the port, subcutaneous pocket, and skin overlying the port.

(B) Performance testing must include results on repeated use of the ports that simulates use over the intended life of the device.

(C) Clinical performance testing must demonstrate safe and effective use and capture any adverse events observed during clinical use.

(vii) In addition to Special Controls in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (v) of this section, implanted blood access devices with coatings or additives must include the following:

(A) A description and material characterization of the coating or additive material, the purpose of the coating or additive, duration of effectiveness, and how and where the coating is applied.

(B) An identification in the labeling of any coatings or additives and a summary of the results of performance testing for any coating or material with special characteristics, such as decreased thrombus formation or antimicrobial properties.

(C) A Warning Statement in the labeling for potential allergic reactions including anaphylaxis if the coating or additive contains known allergens.

(D) Performance data must demonstrate efficacy of the coating or additive and the duration of effectiveness.

(viii) The following must be included for A-V shunt cannulae (with vessel tips):

(A) The device must comply with Special Controls in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (v) of this section with the exception of paragraphs (b)(1)(ii)(B), (b)(1)(ii)(C), (b)(1)(v)(B), and (b)(1)(v)(C), which do not apply.

(B) Labeling must include Warning Statements to address the potential for vascular access steal syndrome, arterial stenosis, arterial thrombosis, and hemorrhage including exsanguination given that the device accesses the arterial circulation.

(C) Clinical performance testing must demonstrate safe and effective use and capture any adverse events observed during clinical use.

(2) Class II (performance standards) for the nonimplanted blood access device.

(3) Class II (performance standards) for accessories for both the implanted and the nonimplanted blood access devices not listed in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.

(4) Class I for the cannula clamp, disconnect forceps, crimp plier, tube plier, crimp ring, and joint ring, accessories for both the implanted and nonimplanted blood access device. The devices subject to this paragraph (b)(4) are exempt from the premarket notification procedures in subpart E of part 807 of this chapter subject to the limitations in ยง 876.9.
