
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 876 - GASTROENTEROLOGY-UROLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart F - Therapeutic Devices
###### § 876.5820 Hemodialysis system and accessories.
####### Identification.

(a)A hemodialysis system and accessories is a device that is used as an artificial kidney system for the treatment of patients with renal failure or toxemic conditions and that consists of an extracorporeal blood system, a conventional dialyzer, a dialysate delivery system, and accessories. Blood from a patient flows through the tubing of the extracorporeal blood system and accessories to the blood compartment of the dialyzer, then returns through further tubing of the extracorporeal blood system to the patient. The dialyzer has two compartments that are separated by a semipermeable membrane. While the blood is in the blood compartment, undesirable substances in the blood pass through the semipermeable membrane into the dialysate in the dialysate compartment. The dialysate delivery system controls and monitors the dialysate circulating through the dialysate compartment of the dialyzer.

(1) The extracorporeal blood system and accessories consists of tubing, pumps, pressure monitors, air foam or bubble detectors, and alarms to keep blood moving safely from the blood access device and accessories for hemodialysis (§ 876.5540) to the blood compartment of the dialyzer and back to the patient.

(2) The conventional dialyzer allows a transfer of water and solutes between the blood and the dialysate through the semipermeable membrane. The semipermeable membrane of the conventional dialyzer has a sufficiently low permeability to water that an ultrafiltration controller is not required to prevent excessive loss of water from the patient's blood. This conventional dialyzer does not include hemodialyzers with the disposable inserts (Kiil type) (§ 876.5830) or dialyzers of high permeability (§ 876.5860).

(3) The dialysate delivery system consists of mechanisms that monitor and control the temperature, conductivity, flow rate, and pressure of the dialysate and circulates dialysate through the dialysate compartment of the dialyzer. The dialysate delivery system includes the dialysate concentrate for hemodialysis (liquid or powder) and alarms to indicate abnormal dialysate conditions. This dialysate delivery system does not include the sorbent regenerated dialysate delivery system for hemodialysis (§ 876.5600), the dialysate delivery system of the peritoneal dialysis system and accessories (§ 876.5630), or the controlled dialysate delivery system of the high permeability hemodialysis system § 876.5860).

(4) Remote accessories to the hemodialysis system include the unpowered dialysis chair without a scale, the powered dialysis chair without a scale, the dialyzer holder set, dialysis tie gun and ties, and hemodialysis start/stop tray.
