
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 878 - GENERAL AND PLASTIC SURGERY DEVICES
##### Subpart E - Surgical Devices
###### ยง 878.4454 Non-absorbable, hemostatic gauze for temporary internal use.
####### Classification.

(b)Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:

(1) Animal performance testing must demonstrate that the device performs as intended under anticipated conditions of use. Specifically testing must:

(i) Demonstrate that the device is able to achieve hemostasis;

(ii) Demonstrate that the device can be radiographically detected; and

(iii) Assess pertinent safety endpoints including vascular obstruction and adhesion formation.

(2) The device must be demonstrated to be biocompatible.

(3) Non-clinical performance data must demonstrate that the device performs as intended under anticipated conditions of use. The following tests must be performed:

(i) In vitro clot assessment;

(ii) Particulate release testing;

(iii) Physical characterization, including swelling percent and particulate size;

(iv) Chemical characterization;

(v) Radiopacity testing; and

(vi) Mechanical integrity testing, including tensile strength and tear strength.

(4) Performance data must demonstrate the sterility of the device.

(5) Performance data must support the shelf life of the device by demonstrating continued sterility, package integrity, and device functionality over the identified shelf life.

(6) Labeling must include the following:

(i) Instructions for use, including an instruction to remove all visible device components by irrigation;

(ii) The maximum amount of time the device may be left within the body;

(iii) A shelf life;

(iv) A contraindication for intravascular use of the device; and

(v) A warning regarding the potential for adhesion formation.
