
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 878 - GENERAL AND PLASTIC SURGERY DEVICES
##### Subpart E - Surgical Devices
###### ยง 878.4740 Surgical stapler.
####### Classification.

(2)Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:

(i) Performance testing must demonstrate that the stapler, when used with compatible staples, performs as intended under anticipated conditions of use. Performance testing must include the following:

(A) Evaluation of staple formation characteristics in the maximum and minimum tissue thicknesses for each staple type;

(B) For manual staplers only, measurement of the worst-case deployment pressures on stapler firing force;

(C) Measurement of staple line strength;

(D) Confirmation of staple line integrity; and

(E) In vivo confirmation of staple line hemostasis.

(ii) For powered staplers only, appropriate analysis/testing must demonstrate the electromagnetic compatibility and electrical, thermal, and mechanical safety of the device.

(iii) For powered staplers only, appropriate software verification, validation, and hazard analysis must be performed.

(iv) Human factors testing must demonstrate that the clinician can correctly select and safely use the device, as identified in the labeling, based on reading the directions for use.

(v) The elements of the device that may contact the patient must be demonstrated to be biocompatible.

(vi) Performance data must demonstrate the sterility of the device.

(vii) Validation of cleaning and sterilization instructions must demonstrate that any reusable device components can be safely and effectively reprocessed per the recommended cleaning and sterilization protocol in the labeling.

(viii) Performance data must support the shelf life of the device by demonstrating continued device functionality, sterility, and package integrity over the identified shelf life.

(ix) Labeling of the device must include the following:

(A) Unless data demonstrates the safety of doing so, contraindications must be identified regarding use of the device on tissues for which the risk of stapling outweighs any reasonably foreseeable benefit due to known complications, including the stapling of tissues that are necrotic, friable, or have altered integrity.

(B) Unless available information demonstrates that the specific warnings do not apply, the labeling must provide appropriate warnings regarding how to avoid known hazards associated with device use including:
