
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 878 - GENERAL AND PLASTIC SURGERY DEVICES
##### Subpart E - Surgical Devices
###### ยง 878.4783 Negative pressure wound therapy device for reduction of wound complications.
####### Classification.

(b)Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:

(1) Clinical data must demonstrate that the device performs as intended under anticipated conditions of use and evaluate the following:

(i) Wound complication rates; and

(ii) All adverse events.

(2) The patient-contacting components of the device must be demonstrated to be biocompatible.

(3) Performance data must demonstrate the sterility of the patient-contacting components of the device.

(4) Performance data must support the shelf life of the device by demonstrating continued sterility, package integrity, and device functionality over the labeled shelf life.

(5) Usability testing must demonstrate that intended users can correctly use the device, based solely on reading the instructions for use.

(6) Non-clinical performance data must demonstrate that the device performs as intended under anticipated conditions of use. The following performance characteristics must be tested in a worst-case scenario for the intended use life:

(i) Ability to maintain pressure levels at the wound site under a worst-case scenario for the intended use life;

(ii) Fluid removal rate consistent with the wound types specified in the indications for use; and

(iii) Timely triggering of all alarms.

(7) Performance data must demonstrate the electrical safety and electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) of the device.

(8) Software verification, validation, and hazard analysis must be performed.

(9) Labeling must include the following:

(i) Instructions for use;
