
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 878 - GENERAL AND PLASTIC SURGERY DEVICES
##### Subpart E - Surgical Devices
###### ยง 878.4805 Manual percutaneous surgical set assembled in the abdomen.
####### Classification.

(b)Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:

(1) The patient-contacting components of the device must be demonstrated to be biocompatible.

(2) Performance data must demonstrate the sterility of patient-contacting components of the device.

(3) Performance data must support the shelf life of the device by demonstrating continued sterility, package integrity, and device functionality over the requested shelf life.

(4) Non-clinical performance testing must demonstrate that the device performs as intended under anticipated conditions of use. The following performance characteristics must be tested:

(i) Dimensional verification testing must be conducted.

(ii) Force verification testing must be conducted. The force testing must demonstrate the forces necessary to insert and operate each component of the device during use as intended.

(iii) Functional verification testing of the device components must be conducted.

(5) Simulated use testing in an anatomically relevant animal model must demonstrate the device's ability to penetrate soft tissue, be assembled in situ, and to grasp, hold and manipulate soft tissues in the intended treatment area.

(6) The labeling must include the following:

(i) Instructions for use, including detailed instructions for instrument assembly, disassembly, and removal; and

(ii) A shelf life.
