
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 878 - GENERAL AND PLASTIC SURGERY DEVICES
##### Subpart E - Surgical Devices
###### ยง 878.4825 General laparoscopic power morcellation containment system.
####### Classification.

(b)Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:

(1) The patient-contacting components of the device must be demonstrated to be biocompatible.

(2) Performance testing must demonstrate the sterility of patient-contacting components of the device.

(3) Performance data must support the shelf life of the device by demonstrating continued sterility, package integrity, and device functionality over the intended shelf life.

(4) Non-clinical performance data must demonstrate that the device performs as intended under anticipated conditions of use. The following performance characteristics must be tested:

(i) Demonstration of the device impermeability to tissue, cells, and fluids;

(ii) Demonstration that the device allows for the insertion/withdrawal of laparoscopic instruments while maintaining pneumoperitoneum;

(iii) Demonstration that the containment system provides adequate space to perform morcellation and adequate visualization of the laparoscopic instruments and tissue specimen relative to the external viscera;

(iv) Demonstration that compatible laparoscopic instruments and morcellators do not compromise the integrity of the containment system; and

(v) Demonstration that users can adequately deploy the device, morcellate a specimen without compromising the integrity of the device, and remove the device without spillage of contents.

(5) Training must be developed and validated to ensure users can follow the instructions for use.

(6) Labeling must include:

(i) A contraindication for use in gynecological procedures;

(ii) A contraindication against use of tissue that is known or suspected to contain malignancy;

(iii) The following boxed warning: "Warning: Information regarding the potential risks of a procedure with this device should be shared with patients. The use of laparoscopic power morcellators may spread cancer. The use of this containment system has not been clinically demonstrated to reduce this risk;"

(iv) A statement limiting use of device to physicians who have completed the training program; and

(v) A shelf life.
