
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 878 - GENERAL AND PLASTIC SURGERY DEVICES
##### Subpart E - Surgical Devices
###### ยง 878.4961 Mountable electromechanical surgical system for transluminal approaches.
####### Classification.

(b)Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:

(1) The device manufacturer must develop, and update as necessary, a device-specific use training program that ensures proper device setup/use/shutdown, accurate control of instruments to perform the intended surgical procedures, troubleshooting and handling during unexpected events or emergencies, and safe practices to mitigate use error.

(2) The device manufacturer may only distribute the device to facilities that implement and maintain the device-specific use training program and ensure that users of the device have completed the device-specific use training program.

(3) The device manufacturer must conduct and complete post-market surveillance, including an impact of the training program on user learning, behavior, and performance, in accordance with an FDA-agreed-upon protocol. The device manufacturer must submit post-market surveillance reports that contain current data and findings in accordance with the FDA-agreed-upon protocol.

(4) The device manufacturer must submit a report to FDA annually on the anniversary of initial marketing authorization for the device, until such time as FDA may terminate such reporting, which comprises the following information:

(i) Cumulative summary, by year, of complaints and adverse events since date of initial marketing authorization; and

(ii) Identification and rationale for changes made to the device, labeling or device-specific use training program, which did not require submission of a premarket notification during the reporting period.

(5) Labeling must include:

(i) A detailed summary of clinical performance testing conducted with the device, including study population, results, adverse events, and comparisons to any comparator groups identified;

(ii) A statement in the labeling that the safety and effectiveness of the device has not been evaluated for outcomes related to the treatment or prevention of cancer, including but not limited to risk reduction, overall survival, disease-free survival and local recurrence, unless FDA determines that it can be removed or modified based on clinical performance data submitted to FDA;

(iii) Identification of compatible devices;

(iv) The list of surgical procedures for which the device has been determined to be safe with clinical justification;

(v) Reprocessing instructions for reusable components;

(vi) A shelf life for any sterile components;

(vii) A description of the device-specific use training program;

(viii) A statement that the device is only for distribution to facilities that implement and maintain the device-specific use training program and ensure that users of the device have completed the device-specific use training program; and

(ix) A detailed summary of the post-market surveillance data collected under paragraph (b)(3) of this section and any necessary modifications to the labeling to accurately reflect outcomes based upon the post-market surveillance data collected under paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(6) Clinical performance testing must demonstrate that the device performs as intended under anticipated conditions of use.

(7) Human factors validation testing must be performed and must demonstrate that the user interfaces of the system support safe use in an operating room environment.

(8) Non-clinical performance testing must demonstrate that the device performs as intended under anticipated conditions of use and must include:

(i) Device motion accuracy and precision;

(ii) System testing;

(iii) Instrument reliability;

(iv) Thermal effects on tissue;

(v) Human-device interface;

(vi) Mounting hardware testing;

(vii) Workspace access testing; and

(viii) Performance testing with compatible devices.

(9) Software verification, validation, and hazard analysis must be performed. Software documentation must include an assessment of the impact of threats and vulnerabilities on device functionality and end users/patients as part of cybersecurity review.

(10) Electromagnetic compatibility and electrical, thermal, and mechanical safety testing must be performed.

(11) Performance data must demonstrate the sterility of all patient-contacting device components.

(12) Performance data must support the shelf life of the device components provided sterile by demonstrating continued sterility and package integrity over the labeled shelf life.

(13) Performance data must validate the reprocessing instructions for the reusable components of the device.

(14) Performance data must demonstrate that all patient-contacting components of the device are biocompatible.

(15) Performance data must demonstrate that all patient-contacting components of the device are non-pyrogenic.
