
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 878 - GENERAL AND PLASTIC SURGERY DEVICES
##### Subpart E - Surgical Devices
###### ยง 878.5050 Surgical smoke precipitator.
####### Classification.

(b)Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:

(1) Adverse tissue reaction must be mitigated through the following:

(i) Chemical characterization and toxicological risk assessment of the treated surgical smoke.

(ii) Demonstration that the elements of the device that may contact the patient are biocompatible.

(2) Electrical safety and electromagnetic compatibility testing must demonstrate that the device performs as intended.

(3) Software verification, validation, and hazard analysis must be performed.

(4) Performance data must demonstrate the sterility of the patient contacting components of the device.

(5) Performance data must support the shelf life of the sterile components of the device by demonstrating continued functionality, sterility, and package integrity over the identified shelf life.

(6) Animal simulated-use testing must demonstrate that the device performs as intended under anticipated conditions of use. The following performance characteristics must be tested:

(i) Device must be demonstrated to be effectively inserted, positioned, and removed from the site of use.

(ii) Device must be demonstrated to precipitate surgical smoke particulates to clear the visual field for laparoscopic surgeries.

(iii) Device must be demonstrated to be non-damaging to the site of use and animal subject.

(7) Labeling must identify the following:

(i) Detailed instructions for use.

(ii) Electrical safety and electromagnetic compatibility information.

(iii) A shelf life.
