
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 880 - GENERAL HOSPITAL AND PERSONAL USE DEVICES
##### Subpart F - General Hospital and Personal Use Therapeutic Devices
###### ยง 880.5730 Alternate controller enabled infusion pump.
####### e.g.,

(iii) Validation testing results demonstrating compatibility with drugs that may be used with the pump based on its labeling. Testing must include assessment of drug stability under reasonably foreseeable use conditions that may affect drug stability (temperature, light exposure, or other factors as needed).

(iv) The device parts that directly or indirectly contact the patient must be demonstrated to be biocompatible. This shall include chemical and particulate characterization on the final, finished, fluid contacting device components demonstrating that risk of harm from device-related residues is reasonably low.

(v) Evidence verifying and validating that the device is reliable over the ACE pump use life, as specified in the design file, in terms of all device functions and in terms of pump performance.

(vi) The device must be designed and tested for electrical safety, electromagnetic compatibility, and radio frequency wireless safety and availability consistent with patient safety requirements in the intended use environment.

(vii) For any device that is capable of delivering more than one drug, the risk of cross-channeling drugs must be adequately mitigated.

(viii) For any devices intended for multiple patient use, testing must demonstrate validation of reprocessing procedures and include verification that the device meets all functional and performance requirements after reprocessing.

(2) Design verification and validation activities must include appropriate design inputs and design outputs that are essential for the proper functioning of the device that have been documented and include the following:

(i) Risk control measures shall be implemented to address device system hazards and the design decisions related to how the risk control measures impact essential performance shall be documented.

(ii) A traceability analysis demonstrating that all hazards are adequately controlled and that all controls have been validated in the final device design.

(3) The device shall include validated interface specifications for digitally connected devices. These interface specifications shall, at a minimum, provide for the following:

(i) Secure authentication (pairing) to external devices.

(ii) Secure, accurate, and reliable means of data transmission between the pump and connected devices.
