
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 880 - GENERAL HOSPITAL AND PERSONAL USE DEVICES
##### Subpart F - General Hospital and Personal Use Therapeutic Devices
###### ยง 880.5730 Alternate controller enabled infusion pump.
####### e.g.,

(v) Connectivity events (establishment or loss of communications)

(6) Design verification and validation must include results obtained through a human factors study that demonstrates that an intended user can safely use the device for its intended use.

(7) Device labeling must include the following:

(i) A prominent statement identifying the drugs that are compatible with the device, including the identity and concentration of those drugs as appropriate.

(ii) A description of the minimum and maximum basal rates, minimum and maximum bolus volumes, and the increment size for basal and bolus delivery, or other similarly applicable information about drug delivery parameters.

(iii) A description of the pump accuracy at minimum, intermediate, and maximum bolus delivery volumes and the method(s) used to establish bolus delivery accuracy. For each bolus volume, pump accuracy shall be described in terms of the number of bolus doses measured to be within a given range as compared to the commanded volume. An acceptable accuracy description (depending on the drug delivered and bolus volume) may be provided as follows for each bolus volume tested, as applicable: Number of bolus doses with volume that is <25 percent, 25 percent to <75 percent, 75 percent to <95 percent, 95 percent to <105 percent, 105 percent to <125 percent, 125 percent to <175 percent, 175 to 250 percent, and >250 percent of the commanded amount.

(iv) A description of the pump accuracy at minimum, intermediate, and maximum basal delivery rates and the method(s) used to establish basal delivery accuracy. For each basal rate, pump accuracy shall be described in terms of the amount of drug delivered after the basal delivery was first commanded, without a warmup period, up to various time points. The information provided must include typical pump performance, as well as worst-case pump performance observed during testing in terms of both over-delivery and under-delivery. An acceptable accuracy description (depending on the drug delivered) may be provided as follows, as applicable: The total volume delivered 1 hour, 6 hours, and 12 hours after starting delivery for a typical pump tested, as well as for the pump that delivered the least and the pump that delivered the most at each time point.

(v) A description of delivery hazard alarm performance, as applicable. For occlusion alarms, performance shall be reported at minimum, intermediate, and maximum delivery rates and volumes. This description must include the specification for the longest time period that may elapse before an occlusion alarm is triggered under each delivery condition, as well as the typical results observed during performance testing of the pumps.

(vi) For wireless connection enabled devices, a description of the wireless quality of service required for proper use of the device.

(vii) For any infusion pumps intended for multiple patient reuse, instructions for safely reprocessing the device between uses.
