
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 882 - NEUROLOGICAL DEVICES
##### Subpart B - Neurological Diagnostic Devices
###### ยง 882.1450 Brain injury adjunctive interpretive electroencephalograph assessment aid.
####### Classification.

(b)Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:

(1) The technical parameters of the device, hardware and software, must be fully characterized and include the following information:

(i) Hardware specifications must be provided. Appropriate verification, validation, and hazard analysis must be performed.

(ii) Software, including any proprietary algorithm(s) used by the device to arrive at its interpretation of the patient's condition, must be described in detail in the software requirements specification (SRS) and software design specification (SDS). Appropriate software verification, validation, and hazard analysis must be performed.

(2) The device parts that contact the patient must be demonstrated to be biocompatible.

(3) The device must be designed and tested for electrical safety, electromagnetic compatibility (EMC), thermal, and mechanical safety.

(4) Clinical performance testing must demonstrate the accuracy, precision-repeatability and reproducibility, of determining the EEG-based interpretation, including any specified equivocal zones (cutoffs).

(5) Clinical performance testing must demonstrate the ability of the device to function as an assessment aid for the medical condition for which the device is indicated. Performance measures must demonstrate device performance characteristics per the intended use in the intended use environment. Performance measurements must include sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV), and negative predictive value (NPV) with respect to the study prevalence per the device intended use.
