
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 882 - NEUROLOGICAL DEVICES
##### Subpart B - Neurological Diagnostic Devices
###### ยง 882.1471 Computerized cognitive assessment aid for concussion.
####### Classification.

(b)Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:

(1) Software, including any proprietary algorithm(s) used by the device to arrive at its interpretation of the patient's cognitive function, must be described in detail in the software requirements specification (SRS) and software design specification (SDS). Software verification, validation, and hazard analysis must be performed.

(2) Clinical performance data must be provided that demonstrates how the device functions as an interpretation of the current level of cognitive function in an individual that has recently received an injury that causes concern about a possible concussion. The testing must:

(i) Evaluate device output and clinical interpretation.

(ii) Evaluate device test-retest reliability of the device output.

(iii) Evaluate construct validity of the device cognitive assessments.

(iv) Describe the construction of the normative database, which includes the following:

(A) How the clinical workup was completed to establish a "normal" population, including the establishment of inclusion and exclusion criteria.

(B) Statistical methods and model assumptions used.

(3) The labeling must include:

(i) A summary of any clinical testing conducted to demonstrate how the device functions as an interpretation of the current level of cognitive function in a patient that has recently received an injury that causes concern about a possible concussion. The summary of testing must include the following:

(A) Device output and clinical interpretation.

(B) Device test-retest reliability of the device output.

(C) Construct validity of the device cognitive assessments.

(D) A description of the normative database, which includes the following:
