
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 882 - NEUROLOGICAL DEVICES
##### Subpart B - Neurological Diagnostic Devices
###### ยง 882.1455 Traumatic brain injury eye movement assessment aid.
####### Classification.

(b)Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:

(1) Clinical performance data under anticipated conditions of use must evaluate tracked eye movement in supporting the indications for use and include the following:

(i) Evaluation of sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value using a reference method of diagnosis;

(ii) Evaluation of device test-retest reliability; and

(iii) A description of the development of the reference method of diagnosis, which may include a normative database, to include the following:

(A) A discussion of how the clinical work-up was completed to establish the reference method of diagnosis, including the establishment of inclusion and exclusion criteria; and

(B) If using a normative database, a description of how the "normal" population was established, and the statistical methods and model assumptions used.

(2) Software verification, validation, and hazard analysis must be performed. Software documentation must include a description of the algorithms used to generate device output.

(3) Performance testing must demonstrate the electrical safety and electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) of the device.

(4) The patient-contacting components of the device must be demonstrated to be biocompatible.

(5) A light hazard assessment must be performed for all eye-tracking and visual display light sources.

(6) Labeling must include:

(i) A summary of clinical performance testing conducted with the device, including sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value, and test-retest reliability;

(ii) A description of any normative database that includes the following:

(A) The clinical definition used to establish a "normal" population and the specific selection criteria;

(B) The format for reporting normal values;

(C) Examples of screen displays and reports generated to provide the user results and normative data;

(D) Statistical methods and model assumptions; and

(E) Any adjustments for age and gender.

(iii) A warning that the device should only be used by trained healthcare professionals;

(iv) A warning that the device does not identify the presence or absence of traumatic brain injury or other clinical diagnoses;

(v) A warning that the device is not a standalone diagnostic; and

(vi) Any instructions to convey to patients regarding the administration of the test and collection of test data.
