
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 882 - NEUROLOGICAL DEVICES
##### Subpart F - Neurological Therapeutic Devices
###### ยง 882.5802 Transcranial magnetic stimulation system for neurological and psychiatric disorders and conditions.
####### Classification.

(b)Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:

(1) Performance testing must demonstrate electromagnetic compatibility, electrical safety, and thermal safety.

(2) Software verification, validation, and hazard analysis must be performed.

(3) The patient-contacting components of the device must be demonstrated to be biocompatible.

(4) Non-clinical performance testing must demonstrate that the device performs as intended under anticipated conditions of use. The following performance characteristics must be tested:

(i) Magnetic pulse output testing;

(ii) Magnetic and electrical field testing;

(iii) Testing of the safety features built into the device; and

(iv) Testing of the sound levels patients are exposed to during device use.

(5) The physician and patient labeling must include the following:

(i) The risks and benefits associated with use of the device;

(ii) Detailed instructions to prevent seizures, to monitor the patient for seizure activity during treatment, and to provide seizure management care if one were to occur during treatment; and

(iii) A description of the ear protection to be worn by the patient during use of the device, including the type of protection and its noise reduction rating.
