
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 882 - NEUROLOGICAL DEVICES
##### Subpart F - Neurological Therapeutic Devices
###### ยง 882.5800 Cranial electrotherapy stimulator.
####### Classification.

(b)(1) Class II (special controls) when intended to treat insomnia and/or anxiety. The special controls for this device are:

(i) A detailed summary of the clinical testing pertinent to use of the device to demonstrate the effectiveness of the device to treat insomnia and/or anxiety.

(ii) Components of the device that come into human contact must be demonstrated to be biocompatible.

(iii) The device must be designed and tested for electrical safety and electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) in its intended use environment.

(iv) Appropriate software verification, validation, and hazard analysis must be performed.

(v) The technical parameters of the device, including waveform, output mode, pulse duration, frequency, train delivery, maximum charge, and energy, must be fully characterized and verified.

(vi) The labeling for the device must include the following:

(A) The intended use population and the intended use environment;

(B) A warning that patients should be monitored by their physician for signs of worsening;

(C) A warning that instructs patients on how to mitigate the risk of headaches, and what to do should a headache occur;

(D) A warning that instructs patients on how to mitigate the risk of dizziness, and what to do should dizziness occur;

(E) A detailed summary of the clinical testing, which includes the clinical outcomes associated with the use of the device, and a summary of adverse events and complications that occurred with the device;

(F) Instructions for use that address where to place the electrodes, what stimulation parameters to use, and duration and frequency of treatment sessions. This information must be based on the results of clinical studies for the device;

(G) A detailed summary of the device technical parameters, including waveform, output mode, pulse duration, frequency, train delivery, and maximum charge and energy; and

(H) Information on validated methods for reprocessing any reusable components between uses.

(vii) Cranial electrotherapy stimulator devices marketed prior to the effective date of this reclassification must have an amendment submitted to the previously cleared premarket notification (510(k)) demonstrating compliance with these special controls.

(2) Class III (premarket approval) when intended to treat depression.

(c) Date premarket approval application (PMA) or notice of completion of product development protocol (PDP) is required. A PMA or notice of completion of a PDP is required to be filed with the Food and Drug Administration on or before March 19, 2020, for any cranial electrotherapy stimulator device with an intended use described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, that was in commercial distribution before May 28, 1976, or that has, on or before March 19, 2020, been found to be substantially equivalent to any cranial electrotherapy stimulator device with an intended use described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, that was in commercial distribution before May 28, 1976. Any other cranial electrotherapy stimulator device with an intended use described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall have an approved PMA or declared completed PDP in effect before being placed in commercial distribution.
