
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 882 - NEUROLOGICAL DEVICES
##### Subpart F - Neurological Therapeutic Devices
###### § 882.5891 Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulator to treat headache.
####### Classification.

(b)Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:

(1) The patient-contacting components of the device must be demonstrated to be biocompatible.

(2) Appropriate analysis/testing must validate electromagnetic compatibility and electrical, mechanical, and thermal safety.

(3) The technical parameters of the device, including waveform, output modes, maximum output voltage and current (with 500, 2,000, and 10,000 ohm loads), pulse duration, frequency, net charge (µC) per pulse, maximum phase charge at 500 ohms, maximum current density (mA/cm, r.m.s.), maximum average current (mA), maximum average power density (W/cm), and the type of impedance monitoring system must be fully characterized.

(4) Electrical performance, adhesive integrity, shelf life, reusability, and current distribution testing of the electrodes must be conducted.

(5) Appropriate software verification, validation, and hazard analysis must be performed.

(6) Clinical performance data must demonstrate that the device is safe and effective as a treatment for headache in the indicated patient population.

(7) Labeling must include the following:

(i) Appropriate contraindications such as not for use in subjects with an implanted metallic or electronic device in the head, a cardiac pacemaker, or an implanted or wearable defibrillator.

(ii) Appropriate warnings such as not to apply the device on the neck or chest, not to use the device in the presence of electronic monitoring equipment, not to use in the bath or shower, not to use while sleeping, not to use while driving, not to use while operating machinery.

(iii) Appropriate precautions such as the long-term effects of chronic use of the device are unknown.

(iv) A summary of the expected risks and benefits of using the device.

(v) A summary of the clinical performance data, including information on the patient population for which the device has and has not been demonstrated to be effective, and any adverse events and complications.

(vi) Information on how the device operates and the typical sensations experienced during treatment.

(vii) A detailed summary of the device technical parameters.

(viii) An expiration date/shelf life for the electrodes and the number of times they can be reused.

(ix) Disposal instructions.
