
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 882 - NEUROLOGICAL DEVICES
##### Subpart F - Neurological Therapeutic Devices
###### ยง 882.5897 External upper limb tremor stimulator.
####### Classification.

(b)Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:

(1) Non-clinical performance testing must assess the following:

(i) Characterization of the electrical stimulation, including the following, must be performed: Waveforms, output modes, maximum output voltage, maximum output current, pulse duration, frequency, net charge per pulse, maximum phase charge at 500 ohms, maximum current density, maximum average current, and maximum average power density.

(ii) Impedance testing, current distribution across the electrode surface area, adhesive integrity, and shelf life testing of the electrodes and gels must be conducted.

(iii) Simulated use testing of sensor performance and the associated algorithms that determine the stimulation output must be conducted.

(2) Patient-contacting components of the device must be demonstrated to be biocompatible.

(3) Performance testing must demonstrate electrical, thermal, and mechanical safety along with electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) of the device in the intended use environment.

(4) Software verification, validation, and hazard analysis must be performed.

(5) Physician and patient labeling must include:

(i) Summaries of electrical stimulation parameters;

(ii) Instructions on how to correctly use and maintain the device;

(iii) Instructions and explanations of all user-interface components;

(iv) Instructions on how to clean the device;

(v) A shelf life for the electrodes and gel; and

(vi) Reuse information.
