
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 882 - NEUROLOGICAL DEVICES
##### Subpart F - Neurological Therapeutic Devices
###### ยง 882.5940 Electroconvulsive therapy device.
####### Classification.

(b)(1) Class II (special controls) when the device is intended to treat catatonia or a severe major depressive episode (MDE) associated with major depressive disorder (MDD) or bipolar disorder (BPD) in patients age 13 years and older who are treatment-resistant or who require a rapid response due to the severity of their psychiatric or medical condition. The special controls for this device are:

(i) The technical parameters of the device, including waveform, output mode, pulse duration, frequency, train delivery, maximum charge and energy, and the type of impedance monitoring system must be fully characterized to ensure that the device performance characteristics are consistent with existing clinical performance data.

(ii) Non-clinical testing data must confirm the electrical characteristics of the output waveform.

(iii) Components of the device that come into human contact must be demonstrated to be biocompatible.

(iv) Performance data must demonstrate electrical and mechanical safety and the functioning of all safety features built into the device including the static and dynamic impedance monitoring system.

(v) Appropriate analysis/testing must validate electromagnetic compatibility.

(vi) Appropriate software verification, validation, and hazard analysis must be performed.

(vii) Performance data must demonstrate electrical performance, adhesive integrity, and physical and chemical stability of the stimulation electrodes.

(viii) The labeling for the device must include the following:

(A) Information related to generic adverse events associated with electroconvulsive therapy device (ECT) treatment;

(B) Instructions must contain the following specific recommendations to the user of the device:
