
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 884 - OBSTETRICAL AND GYNECOLOGICAL DEVICES
##### Subpart E - Obstetrical and Gynecological Surgical Devices
###### ยง 884.4520 Obstetric-gynecologic general manual instrument.
####### Identification.

(a)An obstetric-gynecologic general manual instrument is one of a group of devices used to perform simple obstetric and gynecologic manipulative functions. This generic type of device consists of the following:

(1) An episiotomy scissors is a cutting instrument, with two opposed shearing blades, used for surgical incision of the vulvar orifice for obstetrical purposes.

(2) A fiberoptic metal vaginal speculum is a metal instrument, with fiberoptic light, used to expose and illuminate the interior of the vagina.

(3) A metal vaginal speculum is a metal instrument used to expose the interior of the vagina.

(4) An umbilical scissors is a cutting instrument, with two opposed shearing blades, used to cut the umbilical cord.

(5) A uterine clamp is an instrument used to hold the uterus by compression.

(6) A uterine packer is an instrument used to introduce dressing into the uterus or vagina.

(7) A vaginal applicator is an instrument used to insert medication into the vagina.

(8) A vaginal retractor is an instrument used to maintain vaginal exposure by separating the edges of the vagina and holding back the tissue.

(9) A gynecological fibroid hook is an instrument used to exert traction upon a fibroid.

(10) A pelvimeter (external) is an instrument used to measure the external diameters of the pelvis.
