
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 884 - OBSTETRICAL AND GYNECOLOGICAL DEVICES
##### Subpart F - Obstetrical and Gynecological Therapeutic Devices
###### ยง 884.5340 Single-use internal condom.
####### Classification.

(b)Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:

(1) Clinical performance testing must evaluate the following:

(i) Rate of clinical failure of the device and rate of individual failure modes of the device based on an acute failure modes study evaluating the intended use (vaginal and/or anal intercourse); and

(ii) Cumulative pregnancy rate when using the device based on a contraceptive effectiveness study (when the device is indicated for vaginal intercourse).

(2) Viral penetration testing must demonstrate the device is an effective barrier to sexually transmitted infections.

(3) Nonclinical performance testing must demonstrate that the device performs as intended under anticipated conditions of use. The following performance characteristics must be evaluated:

(i) Mechanical testing must demonstrate the device can withstand forces under anticipated use conditions, include evaluation of tensile, tear, and burst properties of the device; and

(ii) Compatibility testing with personal lubricants must determine whether the physical properties of the device are adversely affected by use of additional lubricants.

(4) The device must be demonstrated to be biocompatible.

(5) Shelf-life testing must demonstrate that the device maintains its performance characteristics and the packaging of the device must maintain integrity for the duration of the shelf-life.

(6) Labeling of the device must include:

(i) Contraceptive effectiveness table comparing typical use and perfect use pregnancy rates with the device to other available methods of birth control;

(ii) Statement regarding the adverse events associated with the device, including potential transmission of infection, adverse tissue reaction, and ulceration or other physical trauma;

(iii) Expiration date; and

(iv) Statement regarding compatibility with additional types of personal lubricants.
