
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 886 - OPHTHALMIC DEVICES
##### Subpart F - Therapeutic Devices
###### ยง 886.5305 Electromechanical tear stimulator.
####### Classification.

(b)Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:

(1) Clinical performance testing under anticipated conditions of use must evaluate tear production and all adverse events, including tissue damage, pain, headache, and discomfort.

(2) Non-clinical performance testing must demonstrate that the device performs as intended under anticipated conditions of use. The following must be conducted:

(i) An assessment of mechanical output specifications, including vibration amplitude and frequency, pressure and force, and acoustic (noise level) properties;

(ii) Mechanical safety testing to validate safeguards related to the pressure aspects of the device; and

(iii) Use life testing.

(3) Performance data must demonstrate the electrical safety, thermal safety, and electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) of all electrical components of the device.

(4) All patient-contacting components of the device must be demonstrated to be biocompatible.

(5) Software verification, validation, and hazard analysis must be performed.

(6) Physician and patient labeling must include:

(i) A detailed summary of the device's technical parameters;

(ii) Instructions for use, including an explanation of all user-interface components and information regarding proper device placement;

(iii) Information related to electromagnetic compatibility classification;

(iv) Instructions on how to clean and maintain the device;

(v) A summary of the clinical performance testing conducted with the device;

(vi) Language to direct end users to contact the device manufacturer and MedWatch if they experience any adverse events with this device; and

(vii) Information on how the device operates and the typical sensations experienced during treatment.
