
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 886 - OPHTHALMIC DEVICES
##### Subpart F - Therapeutic Devices
###### ยง 886.5905 Oral electronic vision aid.
####### Classification.

(b)Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:

(1) Clinical performance testing must demonstrate an acceptable adverse event profile, including adverse events involving the mouth, tongue, and gums and demonstrate the effect of the stimulation to provide clinically meaningful outcomes. The clinical performance testing must also investigate the anticipated conditions of use, including potential use error, intended environment of use, and duration of use.

(2) Non-clinical performance testing must demonstrate that the device performs as intended under anticipated conditions of use, including simulated moisture ingress, device durability, and battery reliability.

(3) Software verification, validation, and hazard analysis must be performed.

(4) Analysis/testing must validate electromagnetic compatibility.

(5) Analysis/testing must validate electrical safety.

(6) Analysis/testing must assess and validate wireless coexistence concerns.

(7) Any elements of the device that contact the patient must be demonstrated to be biocompatible.

(8) Training must include elements to ensure that the healthcare provider and user can identify the safe environments for device use, use all safety features of the device, and operate the device in the intended environment of use.
