
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 888 - ORTHOPEDIC DEVICES
##### Subpart D - Prosthetic Devices
###### ยง 888.3023 In vivo cured intramedullary fixation rod.
####### Classification.

(b)Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:

(1) Non-clinical performance testing must demonstrate that the device performs as intended under anticipated conditions of use. The following performance characteristics must be tested:

(i) Mechanical testing must be conducted on the final device to assess burst, abrasion, bending, and torsion in static and dynamic conditions.

(ii) Mechanical testing must demonstrate the integrity of the balloon including testing for leaks, ruptures, and release of cured/uncured material.

(iii) Performance testing must demonstrate that the device can be inserted and removed.

(iv) Performance testing must demonstrate the ability, in the event of a leak, to remove the uncured material from its in vivo location.

(v) Performance testing must demonstrate the reliability and accuracy of the curing method used.

(vi) Thermal safety testing must be conducted to evaluate the temperature rise during curing.

(2) Electrical safety, electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) testing, and electromagnetic interference (EMI) testing must be conducted for all electrical components.

(3) All patient-contacting components must be demonstrated to be biocompatible.

(4) Performance data must demonstrate the sterility and pyrogenicity of patient contacting components of the device that are provided sterile.

(5) Performance data must validate the reprocessing instructions for any reusable components or instruments.

(6) Performance data must support the shelf life of the system by demonstrating continued sterility, package integrity, and system functionality over the established shelf life.

(7) Technological characterization of the device must include materials, curing agents, and a description of the operating principles of the device, including the delivery system and devices which initiate the curing process.

(8) Labeling must include the following:

(i) A detailed summary of the device technical parameters.

(ii) Information describing all materials of the device.

(iii) Information describing how to perform the procedure and use the device, including the delivery system and devices which initiate the curing process, as well as how to remove the device and any uncured materials.

(iv) A shelf life.

(v) Validated methods and instructions for reprocessing any reusable components or instruments.
