
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 888 - ORTHOPEDIC DEVICES
##### Subpart D - Prosthetic Devices
###### ยง 888.3070 Thoracolumbosacral pedicle screw system.
####### Classification.

(b)(1) Class II (special controls), when intended to provide immobilization and stabilization of spinal segments in skeletally mature patients as an adjunct to fusion in the treatment of the following acute and chronic instabilities or deformities of the thoracic, lumbar, and sacral spine: severe spondylolisthesis (grades 3 and 4) of the L5-S1 vertebra; degenerative spondylolisthesis with objective evidence of neurologic impairment; fracture; dislocation; scoliosis; kyphosis; spinal tumor; and failed previous fusion (pseudarthrosis). These pedicle screw spinal systems must comply with the following special controls:

(i) Compliance with material standards;

(ii) Compliance with mechanical testing standards;

(iii) Compliance with biocompatibility standards; and

(iv) Labeling that contains these two statements in addition to other appropriate labeling information:

(2) Class II (special controls), when a rigid pedicle screw system is intended to provide immobilization and stabilization of spinal segments in the thoracic, lumbar, and sacral spine as an adjunct to fusion in the treatment of degenerative disc disease and spondylolisthesis other than either severe spondylolisthesis (grades 3 and 4) at L5-S1 or degenerative spondylolisthesis with objective evidence of neurologic impairment. These pedicle screw systems must comply with the following special controls:

(i) The design characteristics of the device, including engineering schematics, must ensure that the geometry and material composition are consistent with the intended use.

(ii) Non-clinical performance testing must demonstrate the mechanical function and durability of the implant.

(iii) Device components must be demonstrated to be biocompatible.

(iv) Validation testing must demonstrate the cleanliness and sterility of, or the ability to clean and sterilize, the device components and device-specific instruments.

(v) Labeling must include the following:

(A) A clear description of the technological features of the device including identification of device materials and the principles of device operation;

(B) Intended use and indications for use, including levels of fixation;

(C) Identification of magnetic resonance (MR) compatibility status;

(D) Cleaning and sterilization instructions for devices and instruments that are provided non-sterile to the end user; and

(E) Detailed instructions of each surgical step, including device removal.

(3) Class II (special controls), when a semi-rigid system is intended to provide immobilization and stabilization of spinal segments in the thoracic, lumbar, and sacral spine as an adjunct to fusion for any indication. In addition to complying with the special controls in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (v) of this section, these pedicle screw systems must comply with the following special controls:

(i) Demonstration that clinical performance characteristics of the device support the intended use of the product, including assessment of fusion compared to a clinically acceptable fusion rate.

(ii) Semi-rigid systems marketed prior to the effective date of this reclassification must submit an amendment to their previously cleared premarket notification (510(k)) demonstrating compliance with the special controls in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (v) and paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section.
