
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 888 - ORTHOPEDIC DEVICES
##### Subpart D - Prosthetic Devices
###### ยง 888.3510 Knee joint femorotibial metal/polymer constrained cemented prosthesis.
####### Identification.

(a)A knee joint femorotibial metal/polymer constrained cemented prosthesis is a device intended to be implanted to replace part of a knee joint. The device limits translation or rotation in one or more planes and has components that are linked together or affined. This generic type of device includes prostheses composed of a ball-and-socket joint located between a stemmed femoral and a stemmed tibial component and a runner and track joint between each pair of femoral and tibial condyles. The ball-and-socket joint is composed of a ball at the head of a column rising from the stemmed tibial component. The ball, the column, the tibial plateau, and the stem for fixation of the tibial component are made of an alloy, such as cobalt-chromium-molybdenum. The ball of the tibial component is held within the socket of the femoral component by the femoral component's flat outer surface. The flat outer surface of the tibial component abuts both a reciprocal flat surface within the cavity of the femoral component and flanges on the femoral component designed to prevent distal displacement. The stem of the femoral component is made of an alloy, such as cobalt-chromium-molybdenum, but the socket of the component is made of ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene. The femoral component has metallic runners which align with the ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene tracks that press-fit into the metallic tibial component. The generic class also includes devices whose upper and lower components are linked with a solid bolt passing through a journal bearing of greater radius, permitting some rotation in the transverse plane, a minimal arc of abduction/adduction. This generic type of device is limited to those prostheses intended for use with bone cement (ยง 888.3027).
