
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 888 - ORTHOPEDIC DEVICES
##### Subpart D - Prosthetic Devices
###### ยง 888.3670 Shoulder joint metal/polymer/metal nonconstrained or semi-constrained porous-coated uncemented prosthesis.
####### Identification.

(a)A shoulder joint metal/polymer/metal nonconstrained or semi-constrained porous-coated uncemented prosthesis is a device intended to be implanted to replace a shoulder joint. The device limits movement in one or more planes. It has no linkage across-the-joint. This generic type of device includes prostheses that have a humeral component made of alloys such as cobalt-chromium-molybdenum (Co-Cr-Mo) and titanium-aluminum-vanadium (Ti-6Al-4V) alloys, and a glenoid resurfacing component made of ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene, or a combination of an articulating ultra-high molecular weight bearing surface fixed in a metal shell made of alloys such as Co-Cr-Mo and Ti-6Al-4V. The humeral component and glenoid backing have a porous coating made of, in the case of Co-Cr-Mo components, beads of the same alloy or commercially pure titanium powder, and in the case of Ti-6Al-4V components, beads or fibers of commercially pure titanium or Ti-6Al-4V alloy, or commercially pure titanium powder. The porous coating has a volume porosity between 30 and 70 percent, an average pore size between 100 and 1,000 microns, interconnecting porosity, and a porous coating thickness between 500 and 1,500 microns. This generic type of device is designed to achieve biological fixation to bone without the use of bone cement.
