
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 890 - PHYSICAL MEDICINE DEVICES
##### Subpart D - Physical Medicine Prosthetic Devices
###### ยง 890.3450 Upper extremity prosthesis including a simultaneously powered elbow and/or shoulder with greater than two simultaneous powered degrees of freedom and controlled by non-implanted electrical components.
####### Classification.

(b)Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:

(1) Appropriate analysis/testing must validate electronic compatibility, electrical safety, thermal safety, mechanical safety, battery performance and safety, and wireless performance, if applicable.

(2) Appropriate software verification, validation, and hazard analysis must be performed.

(3) Non-clinical performance data must demonstrate that the device performs as intended under anticipated conditions of use. Performance testing must include:

(i) Mechanical bench data, including durability testing, to demonstrate that the device will withstand forces, conditions, and environments encountered during use.

(ii) Simulated use testing to demonstrate performance of arm commands and available safeguard(s) under worst case conditions and after durability testing.

(iii) Verification and validation of force sensors and hand release button, if applicable, are necessary.

(iv) Device functionality in terms of flame retardant materials, liquid/particle ingress prevention, sensor and actuator performance, and motor and brake performance.

(v) The accuracy of the device features and safeguards.

(4) Non-clinical and clinical performance testing must demonstrate the accuracy of device features and safeguards.

(5) Elements of the device that may contact the patient must be demonstrated to be biocompatible.

(6) Documented clinical experience and human factors testing must demonstrate safe and effective use, capture any adverse events observed during clinical use and demonstrate the accuracy of device features and safeguards.

(7) Labeling for the Prosthetist and User Guide must include:
