
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 890 - PHYSICAL MEDICINE DEVICES
##### Subpart D - Physical Medicine Prosthetic Devices
###### ยง 890.3890 Stair-climbing wheelchair.
####### Classification.

(b)Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:

(1) The design characteristics of the device must ensure that the geometry and material composition are consistent with the intended use.

(2) Performance testing must demonstrate adequate mechanical performance under simulated use conditions and environments. Performance testing must include the following:

(i) Fatigue testing;

(ii) Resistance to dynamic loads (impact testing);

(iii) Effective use of the braking mechanism and how the device stops in case of an electrical brake failure;

(iv) Demonstration of adequate stability of the device on inclined planes (forward, backward, and lateral);

(v) Demonstration of the ability of the device to safely ascend and descend obstacles (i.e., stairs, curb); and

(vi) Demonstration of ability to effectively use the device during adverse temperatures and following storage in adverse temperatures and humidity conditions.

(3) The skin-contacting components of the device must be demonstrated to be biocompatible.

(4) Software design, verification, and validation must demonstrate that the device controls, alarms, and user interfaces function as intended.

(5) Appropriate analysis and performance testing must be conducted to verify electrical safety and electromagnetic compatibility of the device.

(6) Performance testing must demonstrate battery safety and evaluate longevity.

(7) Performance testing must evaluate the flammability of device components.

(8) Patient labeling must bear all information required for the safe and effective use of the device, specifically including the following:

(i) A clear description of the technological features of the device and the principles of how the device works;

(ii) A clear description of the appropriate use environments/conditions, including prohibited environments;

(iii) Preventive maintenance recommendations;

(iv) Operating specifications for proper use of the device such as patient weight limitations, device width, and clearance for maneuverability; and

(v) A detailed summary of the device-related adverse events and how to report any complications.

(9) Clinician labeling must include all the information in the Patient labeling noted in paragraph (b)(8) of this section but must also include the following:

(i) Identification of patients who can effectively operate the device; and

(ii) Instructions on how to fit, modify, or calibrate the device.

(10) Usability studies of the device must demonstrate that the device can be used by the patient in the intended use environment with the instructions for use and user training.
