
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter H - Medical Devices
#### PART 892 - RADIOLOGY DEVICES
##### Subpart F - Therapeutic Devices
###### ยง 892.5725 Absorbable perirectal spacer.
####### Classification.

(b)Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:

(1) The premarket notification submission must include methodology and results of the following non-clinical and clinical performance testing. For all clinical investigations used to support premarket notification submissions for this type of device, line listings of the study data must be provided.

(i) Performance bench testing must demonstrate appropriate perirectal space creation and maintenance for the duration of prostate radiotherapy.

(ii) Performance bench testing must demonstrate that therapeutic radiation levels do not alter the performance of the device.

(iii) Performance in vivo testing must demonstrate appropriate deployment of spacer as indicated in the accompanying labeling, and demonstrate appropriate expansion and absorption characteristics in a clinically relevant environment.

(iv) Clinical study must demonstrate appropriate spacer stability and lack of migration for the entire course of radiotherapy, complete absorption, and lack of long term toxicity.

(v) Sterility testing must demonstrate the sterility of the device and the effects of the sterilization process on the physical characteristics of the spacer.

(vi) Shelf-life testing must demonstrate the stability of the physical characteristics of the spacer throughout the shelf-life as indicated in the accompanying labeling.

(vii) The device must be demonstrated to be biocompatible.

(2) The risk management activities performed as part of the manufacturer's ยง 820.30 design controls must document an appropriate end user initial training program which will be offered as part of efforts to mitigate the risk of failure to correctly operate the device, including, but not limited to, documentation of an appropriate end user initial training program on the proper spacer deployment technique.

(3) The device labeling must include the following:

(i) A detailed summary of reported or observed complications related to the use of the device;

(ii) Appropriate warnings;

(iii) Detailed instructions for system preparations and detailed implant procedure instructions; and

(iv) An expiration date that is supported by performance data as specified in paragraph (b)(1)(vi) of this section.
