
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter I - Mammography Quality Standards Act
#### PART 900 - MAMMOGRAPHY
##### Subpart A - Accreditation
###### ยง 900.4 Standards for accreditation bodies.
####### Reports of mammography equipment evaluation, surveys, and quality control.

(e)The following requirements apply to all facility equipment covered by the provisions of subparts A and B:

(1) The accreditation body shall require every facility applying for accreditation to submit:

(i) With its initial accreditation application, a mammography equipment evaluation that was performed by a medical physicist no earlier than 6 months before the date of application for accreditation by the facility. Such evaluation shall demonstrate compliance of the facility's equipment with the requirements in ยง 900.12(e).

(ii) Prior to accreditation, a survey that was performed no earlier than 6 months before the date of application for accreditation by the facility. Such survey shall assess the facility's compliance with the facility standards referenced in paragraph (b) of this section.

(2) The accreditation body shall require that all facilities undergo an annual survey to ensure continued compliance with the standards referenced in paragraph (b) of this section and to provide continued oversight of facilities' quality control programs as they relate to such standards. The accreditation body shall require for all facilities that:

(i) Such surveys be conducted annually;

(ii) Facilities take reasonable steps to ensure that they receive reports of such surveys within 30 days of survey completion; and

(iii) Facilities submit the results of such surveys and any other information that the body may require to the body at least annually.

(3) The accreditation body shall review and analyze the information required in this section and use it to identify necessary corrective measures for facilities and to determine whether facilities should remain accredited by the body.
