
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter I - Mammography Quality Standards Act
#### PART 900 - MAMMOGRAPHY
##### Subpart A - Accreditation
###### ยง 900.6 Withdrawal of approval.
####### Minor deficiencies.

(b)If FDA determines that an accreditation body has demonstrated deficiencies in performing accreditation functions and responsibilities that are less serious or more limited than the deficiencies in paragraph (a) of this section, FDA shall notify the body that it has a specified period of time to take particular corrective measures directed by FDA or to submit to FDA for approval the body's own plan of corrective action addressing the minor deficiencies. FDA may place the body on probationary status for a period of time determined by FDA, or may withdraw approval of the body as an accreditation body if corrective action is not taken.

(1) If FDA places an accreditation body on probationary status, the body shall notify all facilities accredited or seeking accreditation by it of its probationary status within a time period and in a manner approved by FDA.

(2) Probationary status shall remain in effect until such time as the body can demonstrate to the satisfaction of FDA that it has successfully implemented or is implementing the corrective action plan within the established schedule, and that the corrective actions have substantially eliminated all identified problems.

(3) If FDA determines that an accreditation body that has been placed on probationary status is not implementing corrective actions satisfactorily or within the established schedule, FDA may withdraw approval of the accreditation body. The accreditation body shall notify all facilities accredited or seeking accreditation by it of its loss of FDA approval, within a time period and in a manner approved by FDA.
