
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 74 - LISTING OF COLOR ADDITIVES SUBJECT TO CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart A - Foods
###### ยง 74.102 FD&C Blue No. 2.
####### Identity.,H,H,H,H,H,H,N

(a)(1) The color additive FD&C Blue No. 2 is principally the disodium salt of 2-(1,3-dihydro-3-oxo-5-sulfo-2-indol-2-ylidene)-2,3-dihydro-3-oxo-1-indole-5-sulfonic acid (CAS Reg. No. 860-22-0) with smaller amounts of the disodium salt of 2-(1,3-dihydro-3-oxo-7-sulfo-2-indol-2-ylidene)-2,3-dihydro-3-oxo-1-indole-5-sulfonic acid (CAS Reg. No. 54947-75-0) and the sodium salt of 2-(1,3-dihydro-3-oxo-2-indol-2-ylidene)-2,3-dihydro-3-oxo-1-indole-5-sulfonic acid (CAS Reg. No. 605-18-5). Additionally, FD&C Blue No. 2 is obtained by heating indigo (or indigo paste) in the presence of sulfuric acid. The color additive is isolated and subjected to purification procedures. The indigo (or indigo paste) used above is manufactured by the fusion of-phenylglycine (prepared from aniline and formaldehyde) in a molten mixture of sodamide and sodium and potassium hydroxides under ammonia pressure. The indigo is isolated and subjected to purification procedures prior to sulfonation.

(2) Color additive mixtures for food use (including dietary supplements) made with FD&C Blue No. 2 may contain only those diluents that are suitable and that are listed in part 73 of this chapter as safe for use in color additive mixtures for coloring foods.
