
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter I - Mammography Quality Standards Act
#### PART 900 - MAMMOGRAPHY
##### Subpart B - Quality Standards and Certification
###### ยง 900.15 Appeals of adverse accreditation or reaccreditation decisions that preclude certification or recertification.

(a) The appeals procedures described in this section are available only for adverse accreditation or reaccreditation decisions that preclude certification or recertification by FDA. Agency decisions to suspend or revoke certificates that are already in effect will be handled in accordance with ยง 900.14.

(b) Upon learning that a facility has failed to become accredited or reaccredited, FDA will notify the facility that the agency is unable to certify that facility without proof of accreditation.

(c) A facility that has been denied accreditation or reaccreditation is entitled to an appeals process from the accreditation body, in accordance with ยง 900.7. A facility must avail itself of the accreditation body's appeal process before requesting reconsideration from FDA.

(d) A facility that cannot achieve satisfactory resolution of an adverse accreditation decision through the accreditation body's appeal process is entitled to further appeal in accordance with procedures set forth in this section and in regulations published in 42 CFR part 498.

(1) References to the Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA) in 42 CFR part 498 should be read as the Division of Mammography Quality and Radiation Programs (DMQRP), Center for Devices and Radiological Health, Food and Drug Administration.

(2) References to the Appeals Council of the Social Security Administration in 42 CFR part 498 should be read as references to the Departmental Appeals Board.

(3) In accordance with the procedures set forth in subpart B of 42 CFR part 498, a facility that has been denied accreditation following appeal to the accreditation body may request reconsideration of that adverse decision from DMQRP.

(i) A facility must request reconsideration by DMQS within 60 days of the accreditation body's adverse appeals decision, at the following address: Food and Drug Administration, Center for Devices and Radiological Health, Division of Mammography Quality Standards, Attn: Facility Accreditation Review Committee, 10903 New Hampshire Ave., Bldg. 66, Rm. 3621, Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002.

(ii) The request for reconsideration shall include three copies of the following records:

(A) The accreditation body's original denial of accreditation.

(B) All information the facility submitted to the accreditation body as part of the appeals process;

(C) A copy of the accreditation body's adverse appeals decision; and

(D) A statement of the basis for the facility's disagreement with the accreditation body's decision.

(iii) DMQRP will conduct its reconsideration in accordance with the procedures set forth in subpart B of 42 CFR part 498.

(4) A facility that is dissatisfied with DMQRP's decision following reconsideration is entitled to a formal hearing in accordance with procedures set forth in subpart D of 42 CFR part 498.

(5) Either the facility or FDA may request review of the hearing officer's decision. Such review will be conducted by the Departmental Appeals Board in accordance with subpart E of 42 CFR part 498.

(6) A facility cannot perform mammography services while an adverse accreditation decision is being appealed.
