
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter I - Mammography Quality Standards Act
#### PART 900 - MAMMOGRAPHY
##### Subpart B - Quality Standards and Certification
###### ยง 900.18 Alternative requirements for ยง 900.12 quality standards.
####### Ruling on applications.

(d)(1) FDA may approve or deny, in whole or in part, a request for approval of an alternative standard or any amendment or extension thereof, and shall inform the applicant in writing of this action. The written notice shall state the manner in which the requested alternative standard differs from the agency standard and a summary of the reasons for approval or denial of the request. If the request is approved, the written notice shall also include the effective date and the termination date of the approval and a summary of the limitations and conditions attached to the approval and any other information that may be relevant to the approved request. Each approved alternative standard shall be assigned an identifying number.

(2) Notice of an approved request for an alternative standard or any amendment or extension thereof shall be placed in the public docket file in the Division of Dockets Management and may also be in the form of a notice published in theThe notice shall state the name of the applicant, a description of the published agency standard, and a description of the approved alternative standard, including limitations and conditions attached to the approval of the alternative standard.

(3) Summaries of the approval of alternative standards, including information on their nature and number, shall be provided to the National Mammography Quality Assurance Advisory Committee.

(4) All applications for approval of alternative standards and for amendments and extensions thereof and all correspondence (including written notices of approval) on these applications shall be available for public disclosure in the Division of Dockets Management, excluding patient identifiers and confidential commercial information.
