
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 74 - LISTING OF COLOR ADDITIVES SUBJECT TO CERTIFICATION
##### Subpart A - Foods
###### ยง 74.203 FD&C Green No. 3.
####### Identity.,N,N-,N,N-,N,N-,N,N-

(a)(1) The color additive FD&C Green No. 3 is principally the inner salt disodium salt of-ethyl-[4-[[4-[ethyl[(3-sulfophenyl)methyl]amino]phenyl](4-hydroxy-2-sulfophenyl)methylene]-2,5-cyclohexadien-1-ylidene]-3-sulfobenzenemethanaminium hydroxide (CAS Reg. No. 2353-45-9); with smaller amounts of the isomeric inner salt disodium salt of-ethyl-[4-[[4-[ethyl[(3-sulfophenyl)methyl] amino]phenyl](4-hydroxy-2-sulfophenyl)methylene]-2,5-cyclohexadien-1-ylidene]-4-sulfobenzenemethanaminium hydroxide; of-ethyl-[4-[[4-[ethyl[(4-sulfophenyl)methyl]amino]phenyl](4-hydroxy-2-sulfophenyl)methylene]-2,5-cyclohexadien-1-ylidene]-4-sulfobenzenemethanaminium hydroxide and of-ethyl-[4-[[4-[ethyl[(2-sulfophenyl)methyl]amino]phenyl](4-hydroxy-2-sulfophenyl)methylene]-2,5-cyclohexadien-1-ylidene]-3-sulfobenzenemethanaminium hydroxide. Additionally, FD&C Green No. 3 is manufactured by the acid catalyzed condensation of one molecule of 2-formyl-5-hydroxybenzenesulfonic acid with two molecules from a mixture consisting principally of 3-[(ethylphenylamino)methyl]

(2) Color additive mixtures for food use (including dietary supplements) made with FD&C Green No. 3 may contain only those diluents that are suitable and that are listed in part 73 of this chapter as safe for use in color additive mixtures for coloring food.
