
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter J - Radiological Health
#### PART 1010 - PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR ELECTRONIC PRODUCTS: GENERAL
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 1010.4 Variances.
####### Ruling on applications.

(c)(1) The Director, Center for Devices and Radiological Health, may approve or deny, in whole or in part, a requested variance or any amendment or extension thereof, and the director shall inform the applicant in writing of this action on a requested variance or amendment or extension. The written notice will state the manner in which the variance differs from the standard, the effective date and the termination date of the variance, a summary of the requirements and conditions attached to the variance, any other information that may be relevant to the application or variance, and, if appropriate, the number of units or other similar limitations for which the variance is approved. Each variance will be assigned an identifying number.

(2) The Director, Center for Devices and Radiological Health, shall amend or withdraw a variance whenever the Director determines that this action is necessary to protect the public health or otherwise is justified by this subchapter. Such action will become effective on the date specified in the written notice of the action sent to the applicant, except that it will become effective immediately upon notification to the applicant when the Director determines that such action is necessary to prevent an imminent health hazard.

(3) All applications for variances and for amendments and extensions thereof and all correspondence (including written notices of approval) on these applications will be available for public disclosure in the office of the Division of Dockets Management, except for information regarded as confidential under section 537(e) of the act.
