
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter J - Radiological Health
#### PART 1020 - PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR IONIZING RADIATION EMITTING PRODUCTS
##### ยง 1020.33 Computed tomography (CT) equipment.
###### c,b,b

() Along lines parallel to the axis of rotation and 1.0 centimeter interior to the surface of the phantom at positions 90, 180, and 270 degrees from the position in paragraph (c)(2)(i)() of this section. The CT conditions of operation shall be the typical values suggested by the manufacturer for CT of the head or body. The location of the position where the CTDI is maximum as specified in paragraph (c)(2)(i)() of this section shall be given by the manufacturer with respect to the housing of the scanning mechanism or other readily identifiable feature of the CT x-ray system in such a manner as to permit placement of the dosimetry phantom in this orientation.

(ii) The CTDI in the center location of the dosimetry phantom for each selectable CT condition of operation that varies either the rate or duration of x-ray exposure. This CTDI shall be presented as a value that is normalized to the CTDI in the center location of the dosimetry phantom from paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, with the CTDI of paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section having a value of one. As each individual CT condition of operation is changed, all other independent CT conditions of operation shall be maintained at the typical values described in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section. These data shall encompass the range of each CT condition of operation stated by the manufacturer as appropriate for CT of the head or body. When more than three selections of a CT condition of operation are available, the normalized CTDI shall be provided, at least, for the minimum, maximum, and mid-range value of the CT condition of operation.

(iii) The CTDI at the location coincident with the maximum CTDI at 1 centimeter interior to the surface of the dosimetry phantom for each selectable peak tube potential. When more than three selections of peak tube potential are available, the normalized CTDI shall be provided, at least, for the minimum, maximum, and a typical value of peak tube potential. The CTDI shall be presented as a value that is normalized to the maximum CTDI located at 1 centimeter interior to the surface of the dosimetry phantom from paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, with the CTDI of paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section having a value of one.

(iv) The dose profile in the center location of the dosimetry phantom for each selectable nominal tomographic section thickness. When more than three selections of nominal tomographic section thicknesses are available, the information shall be provided, at least, for the minimum, maximum, and midrange value of nominal tomographic section thickness. The dose profile shall be presented on the same graph and to the same scale as the corresponding sensitivity profile required by paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section.

(v) A statement of the maximum deviation from the values given in the information provided according to paragraph (c)(2) (i), (ii), (iii), and (iv) of this section. Deviation of actual values may not exceed these limits.
