
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter J - Radiological Health
#### PART 1020 - PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR IONIZING RADIATION EMITTING PRODUCTS
##### ยง 1020.33 Computed tomography (CT) equipment.
###### Imaging performance information.

(3)The following performance data shall be provided for the CT conditions of operation used to provide the information required by paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section. All other aspects of data collection, including the x-ray attenuation properties of the material in the tomographic section, shall be similar to those used to provide the dose information required by paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section. For any CT x-ray system designed to image both the head and body, separate imaging performance information shall be provided for each application.

(i) A statement of the noise.

(ii) A graphical presentation of the modulation transfer function for the same image processing and display mode as that used in the statement of the noise.

(iii) A statement of the nominal tomographic section thickness(es).

(iv) A graphical presentation of the sensitivity profile, at the location corresponding to the center location of the dosimetry phantom, for each selectable nominal tomographic section thickness for which the dose profile is given according to paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section.

(v) A description of the phantom or device and test protocol or procedure used to determine the specifications and a statement of the maximum deviation from the specifications provided in accordance with paragraphs (c)(3) (i), (ii), (iii), and (iv) of this section. Deviation of actual values may not exceed these limits.
