
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter J - Radiological Health
#### PART 1020 - PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR IONIZING RADIATION EMITTING PRODUCTS
##### ยง 1020.33 Computed tomography (CT) equipment.
###### Tomographic plane indication and alignment.

(g)(1) For any single tomogram system, means shall be provided to permit visual determination of the tomographic plane or a reference plane offset from the tomographic plane.

(2) For any multiple tomogram system, means shall be provided to permit visual determination of the location of a reference plane. The relationship of the reference plane to the planes of the tomograms shall be provided to the user in addition to other information provided according to ยง 1020.30(h). This reference plane can be offset from the location of the tomographic planes.

(3) The distance between the indicated location of the tomographic plane or reference plane and its actual location may not exceed 5 millimeters.

(4) For any offset alignment system, the manufacturer shall provide specific instructions with respect to the use of this system for patient positioning, in addition to other information provided according to ยง 1020.30(h).

(5) If a mechanism using a light source is used to satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (g) (1) and (2) of this section, the light source shall allow visual determination of the location of the tomographic plane or reference plane under ambient light conditions of up to 500 lux.
