
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter J - Radiological Health
#### PART 1020 - PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR IONIZING RADIATION EMITTING PRODUCTS
##### ยง 1020.40 Cabinet x-ray systems.
###### Controls and indicators for all cabinet x-ray systems.

(6)For all systems to which this section is applicable there shall be provided:

(i) A key-actuated control to insure that x-ray generation is not possible with the key removed.

(ii) A control or controls to initiate and terminate the generation of x-rays other than by functioning of a safety interlock or the main power control.

(iii) Two independent means which indicate when and only when x-rays are being generated, unless the x-ray generation period is less than one-half second, in which case the indicators shall be activated for one-half second, and which are discernible from any point at which initiation of x-ray generation is possible. Failure of a single component of the cabinet x-ray system shall not cause failure of both indicators to perform their intended function. One, but not both, of the indicators required by this subdivision may be a milliammeter labeled to indicate x-ray tube current. All other indicators shall be legibly labeled "X-RAY ON".

(iv) Additional means other than milliammeters which indicate when and only when x-rays are being generated, unless the x-ray generation period is less than one-half second in which case the indicators shall be activated for one-half second, as needed to insure that at least one indicator is visible from each door, access panel, and port, and is legibly labeled "X-RAY ON".
