
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter J - Radiological Health
#### PART 1020 - PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR IONIZING RADIATION EMITTING PRODUCTS
##### ยง 1020.40 Cabinet x-ray systems.
###### Additional controls and indicators for cabinet x-ray systems designed to admit humans.

(7)For cabinet x-ray systems designed to admit humans there shall also be provided:

(i) A control within the cabinet for preventing and terminating x-ray generation, which cannot be reset, overridden or bypassed from the outside of the cabinet.

(ii) No means by which x-ray generation can be initiated from within the cabinet.

(iii) Audible and visible warning signals within the cabinet which are actuated for at least 10 seconds immediately prior to the first initiation of x-ray generation after closing any door designed to admit humans. Failure of any single component of the cabinet x-ray system shall not cause failure of both the audible and visible warning signals.

(iv) A visible warning signal within the cabinet which remains actuated when and only when x-rays are being generated, unless the x-ray generation period is less than one-half second in which case the indicators shall be activated for one-half second.

(v) Signs indicating the meaning of the warning signals provided pursuant to paragraphs (c)(7) (iii) and (iv) of this section and containing instructions for the use of the control provided pursuant to paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this section. These signs shall be legible, accessible to view, and illuminated when the main power control is in the "on" position.
