
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter J - Radiological Health
#### PART 1030 - PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR MICROWAVE AND RADIO FREQUENCY EMITTING PRODUCTS
##### ยง 1030.10 Microwave ovens.
###### Safety interlocks.

(2)(i) Microwave ovens shall have a minimum of two operative safety interlocks. At least one operative safety interlock on a fully assembled microwave oven shall not be operable by any part of the human body, or any object with a straight insertable length of 10 centimeters. Such interlock must also be concealed, unless its actuation is prevented when access to the interlock is possible. Any visible actuator or device to prevent actuation of this safety interlock must not be removable without disassembly of the oven or its door. A magnetically operated interlock is considered to be concealed, or its actuation is considered to be prevented, only if a test magnet held in place on the oven by gravity or its own attraction cannot operate the safety interlock. The test magnet shall be capable of lifting vertically at zero air gap at least 4.5 kilograms, and at 1 centimeter air gap at least 450 grams when the face of the magnet, which is toward the interlock when the magnet is in the test position, is pulling against one of the large faces of a mild steel armature having dimensions of 80 millimeters by 50 millimeters by 8 millimeters.

(ii) Failure of any single mechanical or electrical component of the microwave oven shall not cause all safety interlocks to be inoperative.

(iii) Service adjustments or service procedures on the microwave oven shall not cause the safety interlocks to become inoperative or the microwave radiation emission to exceed the power density limits of this section as a result of such service adjustments or procedures.

(iv) Microwave radiation emission in excess of the limits specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall not be caused by insertion of an insulated wire through any opening in the external surfaces of a fully assembled oven into the cavity, waveguide, or other microwave-energy-containing spaces while the door is closed, provided the wire, when inserted, could consist of two straight segments forming an obtuse angle of not less than 170 degrees.

(v) One (the primary) required safety interlock shall prevent microwave radiation emission in excess of the requirement of paragraph (c)(1) of this section; the other (secondary) required safety interlock shall prevent microwave radiation emission in excess of 5 milliwatts per square centimeter at any point 5 centimeters or more from the external surface of the oven. The two required safety interlocks shall be designated as primary or secondary in the service instructions for the oven.

(vi) A means of monitoring one or both of the required safety interlocks shall be provided which shall cause the oven to become inoperable and remain so until repaired if the required safety interlock(s) should fail to perform required functions as specified in this section. Interlock failures shall not disrupt the monitoring function.
