
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter J - Radiological Health
#### PART 1030 - PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR MICROWAVE AND RADIO FREQUENCY EMITTING PRODUCTS
##### ยง 1030.10 Microwave ovens.
###### Measurement and test conditions.

(3)(i) Compliance with the power density limit in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall be determined by measurement of the equivalent plane-wave power density made with an instrument which reaches 90 percent of its steady-state reading within 3 seconds, when the system is subjected to a step-function input signal. Tests for compliance shall account for all measurement errors and uncertainties to ensure that the equivalent plane-wave power density does not exceed the limit prescribed by paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(ii) Microwave ovens shall be in compliance with the power density limits if the maximum reading obtained at the location of greatest microwave radiation emission, taking into account all measurement errors and uncertainties, does not exceed the limit specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, when the emission is measured through at least one stirrer cycle. As provided in ยง 1010.13 of this chapter, a manufacturer may request alternative test procedures if, as a result of the stirrer characteristics of a microwave oven, such oven is not susceptible to testing by the procedures described in this paragraph.

(iii) Measurements shall be made with the microwave oven operating at its maximum output and containing a load of 275 +/-15 milliliters of tap water initially at 20 +/-5 &#xB0;centigrade placed within the cavity at the center of the load-carrying surface provided by the manufacturer. The water container shall be a low form 600-milliliter beaker having an inside diameter of approximately 8.5 centimeters and made of an electrically nonconductive material such as glass or plastic.

(iv) Measurements shall be made with the door fully closed as well as with the door fixed in any other position which allows the oven to operate.
