
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter J - Radiological Health
#### PART 1030 - PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR MICROWAVE AND RADIO FREQUENCY EMITTING PRODUCTS
##### ยง 1030.10 Microwave ovens.
###### Warning labels.

(6)Except as provided in paragraph (c)(6)(iv) of this section, microwave ovens shall have the following warning labels:

(i) A label, permanently attached to or inscribed on the oven, which shall be legible and readily viewable during normal oven use, and which shall have the title emphasized and be so located as to elicit the attention of the user. The label shall bear the following warning statement:

(ii) A label, permanently attached to or inscribed on the external surface of the oven, which shall be legible and readily viewable during servicing, and which shall have the word "CAUTION" emphasized and be so located as to elicit the attention of service personnel. The label shall bear the following warning statement:

(iii) The labels provided in accordance with paragraphs (c)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section shall bear only the statements specified in that paragraph, except for additional radiation safety warnings or instructions which may be necessary for particular oven designs or models, as determined by the Director, Center for Devices and Radiological Health or the manufacturer.

(iv) Upon application by a manufacturer, the Director, Center for Devices and radiological Health, Food and Drug Administration, may grant an exemption from one or more of the statements (radiation safety warnings) specified in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section. Such exemption shall be based upon a determination by the Director that the microwave oven model for which the exemption is sought should continue to comply with paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section under the adverse condition of use addressed by such precautionary statement(s). An application shall be submitted to the Dockets Management Staff (HFA-305), Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, Rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852. Copies of the written portion of the application, including supporting data and information, and the Director's action on the application will be maintained by the Dockets Management Branch for public review. The application shall include:
