
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter J - Radiological Health
#### PART 1040 - PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR LIGHT-EMITTING PRODUCTS
##### ยง 1040.10 Laser products.
###### Labels for defeatably interlocked protective housings.

(7)For each laser product, labels shall be provided for each defeatably interlocked (as described in paragraph (f)(2)(iv) of this section) portion of the protective housing which is designed to be displaced or removed during operation, maintenance, or service, and which upon interlock defeat could permit human access to laser or collateral radiation in excess of the limits of Class I or table VI. Such labels shall be visible on the product prior to and during interlock defeat and in close proximity to the opening created by the removal or displacement of such portion of the protective housing, and shall include the wording:

(i) "CAUTION-Laser radiation when open and interlock defeated. DO NOT STARE INTO BEAM." for Class II accessible laser radiation.

(ii) "CAUTION-Laser radiation when open and interlock defeated. DO NOT STARE INTO BEAM OR VIEW DIRECTLY WITH OPTICAL INSTRUMENTS." for Class IIIa accessible laser radiation with an irradiance less than or equal to 2.5 x 10W cm

(iii) "DANGER-Laser radiation when open and interlock defeated. AVOID DIRECT EYE EXPOSURE." for Class IIIa accessible laser radiation when an irradiance greater than 2.5 x 10W cm

(iv) "DANGER-Laser radiation when open and interlock defeated. AVOID DIRECT EXPOSURE TO BEAM." for Class IIIb accessible laser radiation.

(v) "DANGER-Laser radiation when open and interlock defeated. AVOID EYE OR SKIN EXPOSURE TO DIRECT OR SCATTERED RADIATION." for Clas IV accessible laser radiation.

(vi) "CAUTION-Hazardous electromagnetic radiation when open and interlock defeated." for collateral radiation in excess of the accessible emission limits in table VI. item 1 of paragraph (d) of this section.

(vii) "CAUTION-Hazardous x-rays when open and interlock defeated." for collateral radiation in excess of the accesible emission limits in table VI. item 2 of paragraph (d) of this section.
