
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter J - Radiological Health
#### PART 1040 - PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR LIGHT-EMITTING PRODUCTS
##### ยง 1040.10 Laser products.
###### Labels for noninterlocked protective housings.

(6)For each laser product, labels shall be provided for each portion of the protective housing which has no safety interlock and which is designed to be displaced or removed during operation, maintenance, or service, and thereby could permit human access to laser or collateral radiation in excess of the limits of Class I and table VI. Such labels shall be visible on the protective housing prior to displacement or removal of such portion of the protective housing and visible on the product in close proximity to the opening created by removal or displacement of such portion of the protective housing, and shall include the wording:

(i) "CAUTION-Laser radiation when open. DO NOT STARE INTO BEAM." for Class II accessible laser radiation.

(ii) "CAUTION-Laser radiation when open. DO NOT STARE INTO BEAM OR VIEW DIRECTLY WITH OPTICAL INSTRUMENTS." for Class IIIa accessible laser radiation with an irradiance less than or equal to 2.5 x 10W cm

(iii) "DANGER-Laser radiation when open. AVOID DIRECT EYE EXPOSURE." for Class IIIa accessible laser radiation with an irradiance greater than 2.5 x 10W cm

(iv) "DANGER-Laser radiation when open. AVOID DIRECT EXPOSURE TO BEAM." for Class IIIb accessible laser radiation.

(v) "DANGER-Laser radiation when open. AVOID EYE OR SKIN EXPOSURE TO DIRECT OR SCATTERED RADIATION." for Class IV accessible laser radiation.

(vi) "CAUTION-Hazardous electromagnetic radiation when open." for collateral radiation in excess of the accessible emission limits in table VI, item 1 of paragraph (d) of this section.

(vii) "CAUTION-Hazardous x-rays when open." for collateral radiation in excess of the accessible emission limits in table VI, item 2 of paragraph (d) of this section.
