
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter J - Radiological Health
#### PART 1040 - PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR LIGHT-EMITTING PRODUCTS
##### ยง 1040.20 Sunlamp products and ultraviolet lamps intended for use in sunlamp products.
###### Labels for sunlamp products.

(1)Each sunlamp product shall have a label(s) which contains:

(i) A warning statement with the words "DANGER-Ultraviolet radiation. Follow instructions. Avoid overexposure. As with natural sunlight, overexposure can cause eye and skin injury and allergic reactions. Repeated exposure may cause premature aging of the skin and skin cancer. WEAR PROTECTIVE EYEWEAR; FAILURE TO MAY RESULT IN SEVERE BURNS OR LONG-TERM INJURY TO THE EYES. Medications or cosmetics may increase your sensitivity to the ultraviolet radiation. Consult physician before using sunlamp if you are using medications or have a history of skin problems or believe yourself especially sensitive to sunlight. If you do not tan in the sun, you are unlikely to tan from the use of this product."

(ii) Recommended exposure position(s). Any exposure position may be expressed either in terms of a distance specified both in meters and in feet (or in inches) or through the use of markings or other means to indicate clearly the recommended exposure position.

(iii) Directions for achieving the recommended exposure position(s) and a warning that the use of other positions may result in overexposure.

(iv) A recommended exposure schedule including duration and spacing of sequential exposures and maximum exposure time(s) in minutes.

(v) A statement of the time it may take before the expected results appear.

(vi) Designation of the ultraviolet lamp type to be used in the product.
