
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter J - Radiological Health
#### PART 1040 - PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR LIGHT-EMITTING PRODUCTS
##### § 1040.20 Sunlamp products and ultraviolet lamps intended for use in sunlamp products.
###### Label specifications.

(3)(i) Any label prescribed in this paragraph for sunlamp products shall be permanently affixed or inscribed on an exterior surface of the product when fully assembled for use so as to be legible and readily accessible to view by the person being exposed immediately before the use of the product.

(ii) Any label prescribed in this paragraph for ultraviolet lamps shall be permanently affixed or inscribed on the product so as to be legible and readily accessible to view.

(iii) If the size, configuration, design, or function of the sunlamp product or ultraviolet lamp would preclude compliance with the requirements for any required label or would render the required wording of such label inappropriate or ineffective, or would render the required label unnecessary, the Director, Center for Devices and Radiological Health, on the center's own initiative or upon written application by the manufacturer, may approve alternate means of providing such label(s), alternate wording for such label(s), or deletion, as applicable.

(iv) In lieu of permanently affixing or inscribing tags or labels on the ultraviolet lamp as required by §§ 1010.2(b) and 1010.3(a), the manufacturer of the ultraviolet lamp may permanently affix or inscribe such required tags or labels on the lamp packaging uniquely associated with the lamp, if the name of the manufacturer and month and year of manufacture are permanently affixed or inscribed on the exterior surface of the ultraviolet lamp so as to be legible and readily accessible to view. The name of the manufacturer and month and year of manufacture affixed or inscribed on the exterior surface of the lamp may be expressed in code or symbols, if the manufacturer has previously supplied the Director, Center for Devices and Radiological Health, with the key to such code or symbols and the location of the coded information or symbols on the ultraviolet lamp. The label or tag affixed or inscribed on the lamp packaging may provide either the month and year of manufacture without abbreviation, or information to allow the date to be readily decoded.

(v) A label may contain statements or illustrations in addition to those required by this paragraph if the additional statements are not false or misleading in any particular; e.g., if they do not diminish the impact of the required statements; and are not prohibited by this chapter.
