
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter K - Tobacco Products
#### PART 1107 - EXEMPTION REQUESTS AND SUBSTANTIAL EQUIVALENCE REPORTS
##### Subpart A - Exemptions
###### ยง 1107.3 Recordkeeping.
####### Record maintenance.

(b)(1) Each applicant who submits an abbreviated report under section 905(j)(1)(A)(ii) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and receives a letter acknowledging the receipt of an abbreviated report from FDA must maintain all records (including those created by third parties on the applicant's behalf) that support the submission. Such records may include, but are not limited to:

(i) A copy of the abbreviated report and, if applicable, the exemption request and all amendments thereto.

(ii) A copy of the acknowledgement letter issued in response to an abbreviated report and, if applicable, the exemption order issued by FDA.

(iii) Documents related to formulation of product, design specifications, packaging, and related items.

(iv) Documents showing design specifications are consistently met.

(v) Documents related to product packing and storage conditions.

(vi) Analytical test method records, including:

(A) Performance criteria.

(B) Validation or verification documentation; and

(C) Reports/results from these test methods.

(vii) Source data and related summaries.

(2) An applicant that submits an abbreviated report for a modification to a Pre-Existing Tobacco Product must also maintain records demonstrating that the Pre-Existing Tobacco Product was commercially marketed in the United States as of February 15, 2007, such as the records described in ยง 1100.204 of this chapter.
