
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter K - Tobacco Products
#### PART 1114 - PREMARKET TOBACCO PRODUCT APPLICATIONS
##### Subpart C - FDA Review
###### ยง 1114.27 Review procedure.
####### Application review.

(c)(1) Except as described in this paragraph and ยง 1114.9(b), within 180 days of receipt of an application described in section 910(b)(1) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act meeting the filing requirements set out in 1114.27(b), FDA will complete its review of the PMTA and act on the application.

(2) FDA will begin substantive review of the application after it is filed under paragraph (b) of this section. FDA may communicate with the applicant as set forth under ยง 1114.25 to seek additional or clarifying information.

(3) FDA may refer the PMTA or portions of the PMTA, upon its own initiative or applicant request, to TPSAC for reference and for the submission of a report and recommendation respecting the application, together with all underlying data and the reasons or basis for the recommendation.

(4) FDA may conduct inspections of the applicant's manufacturing sites, and sites and entities involved with clinical and nonclinical research (including third parties and contract research organizations) to support FDA's review of the PMTA. Where an applicant prevents FDA from scheduling and conducting inspections that are necessary for FDA to complete its review of the PMTA in a timely manner, FDA may pause the 180-day review period for the number of days necessary to complete the inspection.

(5) FDA may defer review of a PMTA for a new product that, if introduced or delivered for introduction into interstate commerce, would be adulterated or misbranded due to the manufacturer or importer's failure to comply with user fee payment and reporting requirements under part 1150.
