
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter K - Tobacco Products
#### PART 1140 - CIGARETTES, SMOKELESS TOBACCO, AND COVERED TOBACCO PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Prohibition of Sale and Distribution to Persons Younger Than 18 Years of Age
###### ยง 1140.16 Conditions of manufacture, sale, and distribution.
####### 3

() Any combination of words that would imply to a reasonable observer that the manufacturer, distributor, or retailer has a sponsorship that would violate ยง 1140.34(c).

(iv) Distribution of samples of smokeless tobacco under paragraph (d)(2) of this section permitted to be taken out of the qualified adult-only facility shall be limited to one package per adult consumer containing no more than 0.53 ounces (15 grams) of smokeless tobacco. If such package of smokeless tobacco contains individual portions of smokeless tobacco, the individual portions of smokeless tobacco shall not exceed eight individual portions, and the collective weight of such individual portions shall not exceed 0.53 ounces (15 grams). Any manufacturer, distributor, or retailer who distributes or causes to be distributed free samples also shall take reasonable steps to ensure that the amounts in this paragraph (d)(2)(iv) are limited to one such package per adult consumer per day.

(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(2) of this section, no manufacturer, distributor, or retailer may distribute or cause to be distributed any free samples of smokeless tobacco:

(i) To a sports team or entertainment group; or

(ii) At any football, basketball, baseball, soccer, or hockey event or any other sporting or entertainment event determined by the Secretary to be covered by paragraph (d)(3) of this section.

(4) The Secretary shall implement a program to ensure compliance with paragraph (d) of this section and submit a report to the Congress on such compliance not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act.

(5) Nothing in paragraph (d) of this section shall be construed to authorize any person to distribute or cause to be distributed any sample of a tobacco product to any individual who has not attained the minimum age established by applicable law for the purchase of such product.
