
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter K - Tobacco Products
#### PART 1143 - MINIMUM REQUIRED WARNING STATEMENTS
##### ยง 1143.5 Required warning statements for cigars.
###### Packages.

(a)(1) It is unlawful for any person to manufacture, package, sell, offer to sell, distribute, or import for sale or distribution within the United States any cigar product unless the product package bears one of the following required warning statements on the package label:

(i) WARNING: Cigar smoking can cause cancers of the mouth and throat, even if you do not inhale.

(ii) WARNING: Cigar smoking can cause lung cancer and heart disease.

(iii) WARNING: Cigars are not a safe alternative to cigarettes.

(iv) WARNING: Tobacco smoke increases the risk of lung cancer and heart disease, even in nonsmokers.

(v)(A) WARNING: Cigar use while pregnant can harm you and your baby.; or

(B) SURGEON GENERAL WARNING: Tobacco Use Increases the Risk of Infertility, Stillbirth and Low Birth Weight.

(vi) WARNING: This product contains nicotine. Nicotine is an addictive chemical.

(2) Each required warning statement must appear directly on the package and must be clearly visible underneath any cellophane or other clear wrapping as follows:

(i) Be located in a conspicuous and prominent place on the two principal display panels of the package and the warning area must comprise at least 30 percent of each of the principal display panels;

(ii) Appear in at least 12-point font size and ensure that the required warning statement occupies the greatest possible proportion of the warning area set aside for the required text;

(iii) Be printed in conspicuous and legible Helvetica bold or Arial bold type (or other similar sans serif fonts) and in black text on a white background or white text on a black background in a manner that contrasts by typography, layout, or color, with all other printed material on the package;

(iv) Be capitalized and punctuated as indicated in paragraph (a)(1) of this section; and

(v) Be centered in the warning area in which the text is required to be printed and positioned such that the text of the required warning statement and the other information on that principal display panel have the same orientation.

(3) No person may manufacture, package, sell, offer to sell, distribute, or import for sale or distribution within the United States any cigar without a required warning statement, except for cigars that are sold individually and not in a product package. For cigars that are sold individually and not in a product package, the required warning statements must be posted at the retailer's point-of-sale in accordance with the following:

(i) All of the warnings in paragraph (a) of this section must be placed on a sign that is a minimum of 8.5 x 11 inches, posted on or within 3 inches of each cash register where payment may be made so that the sign(s) are unobstructed in their entirety and can be read easily by each consumer making a purchase;

(ii) The sign must be clear, legible, and conspicuous and be printed in black Helvetica bold or Arial bold type (or other similar sans serif fonts) against a solid white background in at least 17 point type with appropriate space between the warning statements;

(iii) Be printed in a manner that contrasts by typography, layout, or color, with all other printed material; and

(iv) Be capitalized and punctuated as indicated in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(4) A retailer of any cigar covered by paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section will not be in violation of this section for packaging that:

(i) Contains a health warning;

(ii) Is supplied to the retailer by the tobacco product manufacturer, importer, or distributor who has the required state, local, or Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB)-issued license or permit, if applicable, and

(iii) Is not altered by the retailer in a way that is material to the requirements of this section.
