
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter L - Regulations Under Certain Other Acts Administered by the Food and Drug Administration
#### PART 1230 - REGULATIONS UNDER THE FEDERAL CAUSTIC POISON ACT
##### Subpart E - Imports
###### ยง 1230.48 Relabeling of containers.

(a) If containers are to be released after relabeling, a notice shall be sent by the chief of district direct to the importer, a carbon copy being sent to the District Director of Customs. This notice must state specifically the conditions to be performed, so as to bring the performance thereof under the provisions of the customs bonds on consumption and warehouse entries, these bonds including provisions requiring compliance with all of the requirements of the Federal Caustic Poison Act and all regulations and instructions issued thereunder. The notice will also state the officer to be notified by the importer when the containers are ready for inspection.

(b) The importer must return the notice to the District Director of Customs or chief of district, as designated, with the certificate thereon filled out, stating that he has complied with the prescribed conditions and that the containers are ready for inspection at the place named.

(c) This notice will be delivered to the inspection officer, who, after inspection, will endorse the result thereof on the back of the notice and return the same to the District Director of Customs or to the chief of district, as the case may be.

(d) When the conditions to be complied with are under the supervision of the chief of district, and these conditions have been fully met, he shall release the containers to the importer, sending a copy of the notice of release to the District Director of Customs for his information. If the containers have not been properly relabeled within the period allowed, the chief of district shall immediately give notice in duplicate to the District Director of Customs of the results of inspection. The District Director of Customs shall sign and immediately transmit one copy of the notice to the importer and proceed in the usual manner.

(e) If the containers are detained subject to relabeling to be performed under the supervision of the District Director of Customs, the District Director of Customs, as soon as relabeling is accomplished, will notify the importer that the containers are released.

(f) If the containers have not been properly relabeled within the period allowed, their sale after labeling as required by the act or other disposition must be effected by the District Director of Customs.

(g) When the final action has been taken on containers which have been refused admission, sold, or otherwise disposed of as provided for by the act or which have been relabeled under the supervision of the District Director of Customs, he shall send to the chief of district a notice of such final action, giving the date and disposition.

(h) When relabeling is allowed the importer must furnish satisfactory evidence as to the identity of the containers before release is given. The relabeling must be done at a stated place and apart from other containers of a similar nature.

(i) When containers are shipped to another port for relabeling or exportation, they must be shipped under customs carrier's manifest, in the same manner as shipments in bond.

(j) District Directors of Customs will perform the inspection service whenever containers are to be exported, sold, or otherwise disposed of, and in other cases when there is no officer of the district available.

(k) District Directors of Customs and representatives of the district will confer and arrange the apportionment of the inspection service according to local conditions. Officers of the district will, whenever feasible, perform the inspection service in connection with relabeling.
