
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter L - Regulations Under Certain Other Acts Administered by the Food and Drug Administration
#### PART 1250 - INTERSTATE CONVEYANCE SANITATION
##### Subpart C - Equipment and Operation of Land and Air Conveyances
###### ยง 1250.42 Water systems; constant temperature bottles.

(a) The water system, whether of the pressure or gravity type, shall be complete and closed from the filling ends to the discharge taps, except for protected vent openings. The water system shall be protected against backflow.

(b) Filling pipes or connections through which water tanks are supplied shall be provided on both sides of all new railway conveyances and on existing conveyances when they undergo heavy repairs. All filling connections shall be easily cleanable and so located and protected as to minimize the hazard of contamination of the water supply.

(c) On all new or reconstructed conveyances, water coolers shall be an integral part of the closed system.

(d) Water filters if used on dining cars and other conveyances will be permitted only if they are so operated and maintained at all times as to prevent contamination of the water.

(e) Constant temperature bottles and other containers used for storing or dispensing potable water shall be kept clean at all times and shall be subjected to effective bactericidal treatment as often as may be necessary to prevent the contamination of water so stored and dispensed.
