
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter L - Regulations Under Certain Other Acts Administered by the Food and Drug Administration
#### PART 1250 - INTERSTATE CONVEYANCE SANITATION
##### Subpart C - Equipment and Operation of Land and Air Conveyances
###### ยง 1250.51 Railroad conveyances; discharge of wastes.
####### Requirements of annual report.

(e)Annual reports required by paragraph (d) of this section shall be submitted within 60 days of the end of each calendar year. Each report shall contain at least the following information:

(1) Company name and address.

(2) Name, title, and address of the company's chief operating official.

(3) Name, title, address, and telephone number of the person designated by the company to be directly responsible for compliance with this section.

(4) A statement that all new railroad conveyances placed into service after July 1, 1972 meet the requirements of this section.

(5) A complete, factual, narrative statement explaining why retrofitting of noncomplying nonnew conveyances is incomplete, if it is incomplete.

(6) A statement of the percentage of conveyances retrofitted with waste discharge facilities in compliance with this section as of the reporting date and the percentage expected to be completed by December 31st of the following year.

(7) A tabular report with the following vertical columns: equipment type, e.g., locomotive, caboose, passenger car, and any others having toilets; number of toilets per conveyance; number of each equipment type in operation; and number of each to be retrofitted by December 31st of each year until 100 percent compliance with this section is achieved.
