
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter L - Regulations Under Certain Other Acts Administered by the Food and Drug Administration
#### PART 1250 - INTERSTATE CONVEYANCE SANITATION
##### Subpart E - Sanitation Facilities and Conditions on Vessels
###### ยง 1250.82 Potable water systems.

The following conditions must be met by vessel water systems used for the storage and distribution of water which has met the requirements of ยง 1240.80 of this chapter.

(a) The potable water system, including filling hose and lines, pumps, tanks, and distributing pipes, shall be separate and distinct from other water systems and shall be used for no other purposes.

(b) All potable water tanks shall be independent of any tanks holding nonpotable water or other liquid. All potable water tanks shall be independent of the shell of the ship unless (1) the bottom of the tank is at least 2 feet above the maximum load water line, (2) the seams in the shell are continuously welded, and (3) there are no rivets in that part of the shell which forms a side of a tank. A deck may be used as the top of a tank provided there are no access or inspection openings or rivets therein, and the seams are continuously welded. No toilet or urinal shall be installed immediately above that part of the deck which forms the top of a tank. All potable water tanks shall be located at a sufficient height above the bilge to allow for draining and to prevent submergence in bilge water.

(c) Each potable water tank shall be provided with a means of drainage and, if it is equipped with a manhole, overflow, vent, or a device for measuring depth of water, provision shall be made to prevent entrance into the tank of any contaminating substance. No deck or sanitary drain or pipe carrying any nonpotable water or liquid shall be permitted to pass through the tank.

(d) Tanks and piping shall bear clear marks of identification.

(e) There shall be no backflow or cross connection between potable water systems and any other systems. Pipes and fittings conveying potable water to any fixture, apparatus, or equipment shall be installed in such way that backflow will be prevented. Waste pipes from any part of the potable water system, including treatment devices, discharging to a drain, shall be suitably protected against backflow.

(f) Water systems shall be cleaned, disinfected, and flushed whenever the Commissioner of Food and Drugs shall find such treatment necessary to prevent the introduction, transmission, or spread of communicable diseases.
