
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter L - Regulations Under Certain Other Acts Administered by the Food and Drug Administration
#### PART 1271 - HUMAN CELLS, TISSUES, AND CELLULAR AND TISSUE-BASED PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Procedures for Registration and Listing
###### § 1271.25 What information is required for establishment registration and HCT/P listing?

(a) Your establishment registration must include:

(1) The legal name(s) of the establishment;

(2) Each physical location, including the street address, telephone number, email address, and the postal service ZIP code of the establishment;

(3) The name, address, telephone number, email address, and title of the reporting official;

(4) A dated signature by the reporting official affirming that all information contained in the establishment registration and HCT/P listing form is true and accurate, to the best of his or her knowledge.

(5) Each foreign establishment must also submit the name, address, telephone number, and email address of each importer that is known to the establishment, and the name of each person who imports or offers for import such HCT/P to the United States for purposes of importation; and

(6) Each foreign establishment must also submit the name, address, telephone number, and email address of its United States agent.

(i) The United States agent must reside or maintain a place of business in the United States.

(ii) Upon request from FDA, the United States agent must assist FDA in communications with the foreign establishment, respond to questions concerning the foreign establishment's products that are imported or offered for import into the United States, and assist FDA in scheduling inspections of the foreign establishment. If the Agency is unable to contact the foreign establishment directly or expeditiously, FDA may provide information or documents to the United States agent, and such an action is equivalent to providing the same information or documents to the foreign establishment.

(iii) The foreign establishment or the United States agent must report changes in the United States agent's name, address, telephone number, or email address to FDA within 30 calendar days of the change.

(b) Your HCT/P listing must include all HCT/P's (including the established name and the proprietary name) that you recover, process, store, label, package, distribute, or for which you perform donor screening or testing. You must also state whether each HCT/P meets the criteria set out in § 1271.10.

(c) Your HCT/P listing update must include:

(1) A list of each HCT/P that you have begun recovering, processing, storing, labeling, packaging, distributing, or for which you have begun donor screening or testing, that has not been included in any list previously submitted. You must provide all of the information required by § 1271.25(b) for each new HCT/P.

(2) A list of each HCT/P formerly listed in accordance with § 1271.21(a) for which you have discontinued recovery, processing, storage, labeling, packaging, distribution, or donor screening or testing, including for each HCT/P so listed, the identity by established name and proprietary name, and the date of discontinuance. We request but do not require that you include the reason for discontinuance with this information.

(3) A list of each HCT/P for which a notice of discontinuance was submitted under paragraph (c)(2) of this section and for which you have resumed recovery, processing, storage, labeling, packaging, distribution, or donor screening or testing, including the identity by established name and proprietary name, the date of resumption, and any other information required by § 1271.25(b) not previously submitted.

(4) Any material change in any information previously submitted. Material changes include any change in registration and listing information, submitted, such as whether the HCT/P meets the criteria set out in § 1271.10.

(d) If your HCT/P is described under § 1271.20 and is regulated under a BLA, you must submit the information required under part 207 of this chapter using the procedures under subpart E of part 207.
