
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter L - Regulations Under Certain Other Acts Administered by the Food and Drug Administration
#### PART 1271 - HUMAN CELLS, TISSUES, AND CELLULAR AND TISSUE-BASED PRODUCTS
##### Subpart C - Donor Eligibility
###### § 1271.90 Are there other exceptions and what labeling requirements apply?
####### Required labeling.

(c)As applicable, you must prominently label an HCT/P described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section as follows:

(1) "FOR AUTOLOGOUS USE ONLY," if it is stored for autologous use.

(2) "NOT EVALUATED FOR INFECTIOUS SUBSTANCES," unless you have performed all otherwise applicable screening and testing under §§ 1271.75, 1271.80, and 1271.85. This paragraph does not apply to reproductive cells or tissue labeled in accordance with paragraph (c)(6) of this section.

(3) Unless the HCT/P is for autologous use only, "WARNING: Advise recipient of communicable disease risks,"

(i) When the donor-eligibility determination under § 1271.50(a) is not performed or is not completed; or

(ii) If the results of any screening or testing performed indicate:

(A) The presence of relevant communicable disease agents and/or

(B) Risk factors for or clinical evidence of relevant communicable disease agents or diseases.

(4) With the Biohazard legend shown in § 1271.3(h), if the results of any screening or testing performed indicate:

(i) The presence of relevant communicable disease agents and/or

(ii) Risk factors for or clinical evidence of relevant communicable disease agents or diseases.

(5) "WARNING: Reactive test results for (name of disease agent or disease)," in the case of reactive test results.

(6) "Advise recipient that screening and testing of the donor(s) were not performed at the time of recovery or cryopreservation of the reproductive cells or tissue, but have been performed subsequently," for paragraphs (a)(3) or (a)(4) of this section.
