
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter L - Regulations Under Certain Other Acts Administered by the Food and Drug Administration
#### PART 1271 - HUMAN CELLS, TISSUES, AND CELLULAR AND TISSUE-BASED PRODUCTS
##### Subpart E - Additional Requirements for Establishments Described in ยง 1271.10
###### ยง 1271.350 Reporting.
####### Reports of HCT/P deviations.

(b)(1) You must investigate all HCT/P deviations related to a distributed HCT/P for which you performed a manufacturing step.

(2) You must report any such HCT/P deviation relating to the core CGTP requirements, if the HCT/P deviation occurred in your facility or in a facility that performed a manufacturing step for you under contract, agreement, or other arrangement. Each report must contain a description of the HCT/P deviation, information relevant to the event and the manufacture of the HCT/P involved, and information on all follow-up actions that have been or will be taken in response to the HCT/P deviation (e.g., recalls).

(3) You must report each such HCT/P deviation that relates to a core CGTP requirement on Form FDA 3486 within 45 days of the discovery of the event either electronically using the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research electronic Web-based application or by mail to the Food and Drug Administration, Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, Document Control Center, 10903 New Hampshire Ave., Bldg. 71, Rm. G112, Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002.
