
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter L - Regulations Under Certain Other Acts Administered by the Food and Drug Administration
#### PART 1271 - HUMAN CELLS, TISSUES, AND CELLULAR AND TISSUE-BASED PRODUCTS
##### Subpart F - Inspection and Enforcement of Establishments Described in § 1271.10
###### § 1271.440 Orders of retention, recall, destruction, and cessation of manufacturing.

(a) Upon an agency finding that there are reasonable grounds to believe that an HCT/P is a violative HCT/P because it was manufactured in violation of the regulations in this part and, therefore, the conditions of manufacture of the HCT/P do not provide adequate protections against risks of communicable disease transmission; or the HCT/P is infected or contaminated so as to be a source of dangerous infection to humans; or an establishment is in violation of the regulations in this part and, therefore, does not provide adequate protections against the risks of communicable disease transmission, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) may take one or more of the following actions:

(1) Serve upon the person who distributed the HCT/P a written order that the HCT/P be recalled and/or destroyed, as appropriate, and upon persons in possession of the HCT/P that the HCT/P must be retained until it is recalled by the distributor, destroyed, or disposed of as agreed by FDA, or the safety of the HCT/P is confirmed;

(2) Take possession of and/or destroy the violative HCT/P; or

(3) Serve upon the establishment an order to cease manufacturing until compliance with the regulations of this part has been achieved. When FDA determines there are reasonable grounds to believe there is a danger to health, such order will be effective immediately. In other situations, such order will be effective after one of the following events, whichever is later:

(i) Passage of 5 working days from the establishment's receipt of the order; or

(ii) If the establishment requests a hearing in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section and part 16 of this chapter, a decision in, and in accordance with, those proceedings.

(b) A written order issued under paragraph (a) of this section will state with particularity the facts that justify the order.

(c)(1) A written order issued under paragraph (a)(1) of this section will ordinarily provide that the HCT/P be recalled and/or destroyed within 5 working days from the date of receipt of the order. After receipt of an order issued under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the establishment in possession of the HCT/P must not distribute or dispose of the HCT/P in any manner except to recall and/or destroy the HCT/P consistent with the provisions of the order, under the supervision of FDA.

(2) In lieu of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, other arrangements for assuring the proper disposition of the HCT/P may be agreed upon by the person receiving the written order and FDA. Such arrangements may include, among others, providing FDA with records or other written information that adequately ensure that the HCT/P has been recovered, processed, stored, and distributed in conformance with this part, and that, except as provided under §§ 1271.60, 1271.65, and 1271.90, the donor of the cells or tissue for the HCT/P has been determined to be eligible.

(d) A written order issued under paragraph (a)(3) of this section will specify the regulations with which you must achieve compliance and will ordinarily specify the particular operations covered by the order. After receipt of an order that is in effect and issued under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, you must not resume operations without prior written authorization of FDA.

(e) The recipient of an order issued under this section may request a hearing in accordance with part 16 of this chapter. To request a hearing, the recipient of the written order or prior possessor of such HCT/P must make the request within 5 working days of receipt of a written order for retention, recall, destruction, and/or cessation (or within 5 working days of the agency's possession of an HCT/P under paragraph (a)(2) of this section), in accordance with part 16 of this chapter. An order of destruction will be held in abeyance pending resolution of the hearing request. Upon request under part 16 of this chapter, FDA will provide an opportunity for an expedited hearing for an order of cessation that is not stayed by the Commissioner of Food and Drugs.

(f) FDA will not issue an order for the destruction of reproductive tissue under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, nor will it carry out such destruction itself under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
