
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter L - Regulations Under Certain Other Acts Administered by the Food and Drug Administration
#### PART 1271 - HUMAN CELLS, TISSUES, AND CELLULAR AND TISSUE-BASED PRODUCTS
##### Subpart F - Inspection and Enforcement of Establishments Described in ยง 1271.10
###### ยง 1271.400 Inspections.

(a) If you are an establishment that manufactures HCT/Ps described in ยง 1271.10, whether or not under contract, you must permit the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to inspect any manufacturing location at any reasonable time and in a reasonable manner to determine compliance with applicable provisions of this part. The inspection will be conducted as necessary in the judgment of the FDA and may include your establishment, facilities, equipment, finished and unfinished materials, containers, processes, HCT/Ps, procedures, labeling, records, files, papers, and controls required to be maintained under the part. The inspection may be made with or without prior notification and will ordinarily be made during regular business hours.

(b) The frequency of inspection will be at the agency's discretion.

(c) FDA will call upon the most responsible person available at the time of the inspection of the establishment and may question the personnel of the establishment as necessary to determine compliance with the provisions of this part.

(d) FDA's representatives may take samples, may review and copy any records required to be kept under this part, and may use other appropriate means to record evidence of observations during inspections conducted under this subpart.

(e) The public disclosure of records containing the name or other positive identification of donors or recipients of HCT/Ps will be handled in accordance with FDA's procedures on disclosure of information as set forth in parts 20 and 21 of this chapter.
