
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter II - Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice
### PART 1301 - REGISTRATION OF MANUFACTURERS, DISTRIBUTORS, AND DISPENSERS OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
#### Registration
##### § 1301.19 Special requirements for online pharmacies.

(a) A pharmacy that has been issued a registration under § 1301.13 may request that the Administrator modify its registration to authorize the pharmacy to dispense controlled substances by means of the Internet as an online pharmacy. The Administrator may deny an application for a modification of registration if the Administrator determines that the issuance of a modification would be inconsistent with the public interest. In determining the public interest, the Administrator will consider the factors listed in section 303(f) of the Act (21 U.S.C. 823(f)).

(b) Each online pharmacy shall comply with the requirements of State law concerning licensure of pharmacies in each State from which it, and in each State to which it, delivers, distributes, or dispenses, or offers to deliver, distribute, or dispense controlled substances by means of the Internet.

(c) Application for a modified registration authorizing the dispensing of controlled substances by means of the Internet will be made by an online application process as specified in § 1301.13 of this part. Subsequent online pharmacy registration renewals will be accomplished by an online process.

(d) A pharmacy that seeks to discontinue its modification of registration authorizing it to dispense controlled substances by means of the Internet as an online pharmacy (but continue its business activity as a non-online pharmacy) shall so notify the Administrator by requesting to modify its registration to reflect the appropriate business activity. Once the registration has been so changed, the pharmacy may no longer dispense controlled substances by means of the Internet. A pharmacy that has so changed its registration status back to that of a non-online pharmacy remains responsible for submitting reports in accordance with § 1304.55 of this chapter with respect to any controlled substances that it dispensed while it was registered with a modification authorizing it to operate as an online pharmacy.

(e) Registrants applying for modified registrations under this section must comply with notification and reporting requirements set forth in §§ 1304.40, 1304.45, 1304.50, and 1304.55 of this chapter.

(f) No person (including a registrant) required to obtain a modification of a registration under §§ 1301.11(b) and 1301.13 of this part authorizing it to operate as an online pharmacy may engage in any activity for which such modification of registration is required until the application for such modified registration is granted and an active Certificate of Registration indicating the modification of the registration has been issued by the Administrator to such person.
