
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter II - Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice
### PART 1301 - REGISTRATION OF MANUFACTURERS, DISTRIBUTORS, AND DISPENSERS OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
#### Exceptions to Registration and Fees
##### ยง 1301.28 Exemption from separate registration for practitioners dispensing or prescribing Schedule III, IV, or V narcotic controlled drugs approved by the Food and Drug Administration specifically for use in maintenance or detoxification treatment.

(a) An individual practitioner may dispense or prescribe Schedule III, IV, or V narcotic controlled drugs or combinations of narcotic controlled drugs which have been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) specifically for use in maintenance or detoxification treatment without obtaining the separate registration required by ยง 1301.13(e) if all of the following conditions are met:

(1) The individual practitioner meets the conditions specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(2) The narcotic drugs or combination of narcotic drugs meet the conditions specified in paragraph (c) of this section.

(3) The individual practitioner is in compliance with either paragraph (d) or paragraph (e) of this section.

(b)(1) The individual practitioner must submit notification to the Secretary of Health and Human Services stating the individual practitioner's intent to dispense or prescribe narcotic drugs under paragraph (a) of this section. The notice must contain all of the following certifications:

(i) The individual practitioner is registered under ยง 1301.13 as an individual practitioner and is a "qualifying physician" as defined in section 303(g)(2)(G)(ii) of the Act (21 U.S.C. 823(g)(2)(G)(ii)); a "qualifying other practitioner" as defined in section 303(g)(2)(G)(iv) of the Act (21 U.S.C. 823(g)(2)(G)(iv)) who is a nurse practitioner or physician assistant; or during the period beginning on October 1, 2018 and ending on October 1, 2023, a "qualifying other practitioner" as defined in section 303(g)(2)(G)(iv) of the Act (21 U.S.C. 823(g)(2)(G)(iv)) who is clinical nurse specialist, certified registered nurse anesthetist, or certified nurse midwife. The Secretary of Health and Human Services may, by regulation, revise the requirements for being a qualifying other practitioner.

(ii) With respect to patients to whom the practitioner will provide such drugs or combinations of drugs, the individual practitioner has the capacity to provide directly, by referral, or in such other manner as determined by the Secretary of Health and Human Services:

(A) All drugs approved by the Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of opioid use disorder, including for maintenance, detoxification, overdose reversal, and relapse prevention; and

(B) Appropriate counseling and other appropriate ancillary services.

(iii)(A) The total number of patients to whom the individual practitioner will provide narcotic drugs or combinations of narcotic drugs under this section at any one time will not exceed the applicable number. Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(B) and (C) of this section, the applicable number is 30.

(B) The applicable number is-
