
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter II - Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice
### PART 1301 - REGISTRATION OF MANUFACTURERS, DISTRIBUTORS, AND DISPENSERS OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
#### Action on Application for Registration: Revocation or Suspension of Registration
##### § 1301.35 Certificate of registration; denial of registration.

(a) The Administrator shall issue a Certificate of Registration (DEA Form 223) to an applicant if the issuance of registration or reregistration is required under the applicable provisions of sections 303 or 1008 of the Act (21 U.S.C. 823 and 958). In the event that the issuance of registration or reregistration is not required, the Administrator shall deny the application. Before denying any application, the Administrator shall issue an order to show cause pursuant to § 1301.37 and, if requested by the applicant, shall hold a hearing on the application pursuant to § 1301.41.

(b) If in response to a show cause order a hearing is requested by an applicant for registration or reregistration to manufacture in bulk a basic class of controlled substance listed in Schedule I or II, notice that a hearing has been requested shall be published in theand shall be mailed simultaneously to the applicant and to all persons to whom notice of the application was mailed. Any person entitled to file comments or objections to the issuance of the proposed registration pursuant to § 1301.33(a) may participate in the hearing by filing notice of appearance in accordance with § 1301.43. Such persons shall have 30 days to file a notice of appearance after the date of publication of the notice of a request for a hearing in the

(c) The Certificate of Registration (DEA Form 223) shall contain the name, address, and registration number of the registrant, the activity authorized by the registration, the schedules and/or Administration Controlled Substances Code Number (as set forth in part 1308 of this chapter) of the controlled substances which the registrant is authorized to handle, the amount of fee paid (or exemption), and the expiration date of the registration. The registrant shall maintain the certificate of registration at the registered location in a readily retrievable manner and shall permit inspection of the certificate by any official, agent or employee of the Administration or of any Federal, State, or local agency engaged in enforcement of laws relating to controlled substances.
