
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter II - Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice
### PART 1301 - REGISTRATION OF MANUFACTURERS, DISTRIBUTORS, AND DISPENSERS OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
#### Action on Application for Registration: Revocation or Suspension of Registration
##### § 1301.36 Suspension or revocation of registration; suspension of registration pending final order; extension of registration pending final order.

(a) For any registration issued under section 303 of the Act (21 U.S.C. 823), the Administrator may:

(1) Suspend the registration pursuant to section 304(a) of the Act (21 U.S.C. 824(a)) for any period of time.

(2) Revoke the registration pursuant to section 304(a) of the Act (21 U.S.C. 824(a)).

(b) For any registration issued under section 1008 of the Act (21 U.S.C. 958), the Administrator may:

(1) Suspend the registration pursuant to section 1008(d) of the Act (21 U.S.C. 958(d)) for any period of time.

(2) Revoke the registration pursuant to section 1008(d) of the Act (21 U.S.C. 958(d)) if he/she determines that such registration is inconsistent with the public interest as defined in section 1008 or with the United States obligations under international treaties, conventions, or protocols in effect on October 12, 1984.

(c) The Administrator may limit the revocation or suspension of a registration to the particular controlled substance, or substances, with respect to which grounds for revocation or suspension exist.

(d) Before revoking or suspending any registration, the Administrator shall issue an order to show cause pursuant to § 1301.37 and, if requested by the registrant, shall hold a hearing pursuant to § 1301.41.

(e) The Administrator may suspend any registration simultaneously with or at any time subsequent to the service upon the registrant of an order to show cause why such registration should not be revoked or suspended, in any case where he/she finds that there is an imminent danger to the public health or safety. If the Administrator so suspends, he/she shall serve with the order to show cause pursuant to § 1301.37 an order of immediate suspension which shall contain a statement of his findings regarding the danger to public health or safety.

(f) Upon service of the order of the Administrator suspending or revoking registration, the registrant shall immediately deliver his/her Certificate of Registration, any order forms, and any import or export permits in his/her possession to the nearest office of the Administration. The suspension or revocation of a registration shall suspend or revoke any individual manufacturing or procurement quota fixed for the registrant pursuant to part 1303 of this chapter and any import or export permits issued to the registrant pursuant to part 1312 of this chapter. Also, upon service of the order of the Administrator revoking or suspending registration, the registrant shall, as instructed by the Administrator:

(1) Deliver all controlled substances in his/her possession to the nearest office of the Administration or to authorized agents of the Administration; or

(2) Place all controlled substances in his/her possession under seal as described in sections 304(f) or 1008(d)(6) of the Act (21 U.S.C. 824(f) or 958(d)(6)).

(g) In the event that revocation or suspension is limited to a particular controlled substance or substances, the registrant shall be given a new Certificate of Registration for all substances not affected by such revocation or suspension; no fee shall be required to be paid for the new Certificate of Registration. The registrant shall deliver the old Certificate of Registration and, if appropriate, any order forms in his/her possession to the nearest office of the Administration. The suspension or revocation of a registration, when limited to a particular basic class or classes of controlled substances, shall suspend or revoke any individual manufacturing or procurement quota fixed for the registrant for such class or classes pursuant to part 1303 of this chapter and any import or export permits issued to the registrant for such class or classes pursuant to part 1312 of this chapter. Also, upon service of the order of the Administrator revoking or suspending registration, the registrant shall, as instructed by the Administrator:

(1) Deliver to the nearest office of the Administration or to authorized agents of the Administration all of the particular controlled substance or substances affected by the revocation or suspension which are in his/her possession; or

(2) Place all of such substances under seal as described in sections 304(f) or 958(d)(6) of the Act (21 U.S.C. 824(f) or 958(d)(6)).

(h) Any suspension shall continue in effect until the conclusion of all proceedings upon the revocation or suspension, including any judicial review thereof, unless sooner withdrawn by the Administrator or dissolved by a court of competent jurisdiction. Any registrant whose registration is suspended under paragraph (e) of this section may request a hearing on the revocation or suspension of his/her registration at a time earlier than specified in the order to show cause pursuant to § 1301.37. This request shall be granted by the Administrator, who shall fix a date for such hearing as early as reasonably possible.

(i) In the event that an applicant for reregistration (who is doing business under a registration previously granted and not revoked or suspended) has applied for reregistration at least 45 days before the date on which the existing registration is due to expire, and the Administrator has issued no order on the application on the date on which the existing registration is due to expire, the existing registration of the applicant shall automatically be extended and continue in effect until the date on which the Administrator so issues his/her order. The Administrator may extend any other existing registration under the circumstances contemplated in this section even though the registrant failed to apply for reregistration at least 45 days before expiration of the existing registration, with or without request by the registrant, if the Administrator finds that such extension is not inconsistent with the public health and safety.
