
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter II - Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice
### PART 1301 - REGISTRATION OF MANUFACTURERS, DISTRIBUTORS, AND DISPENSERS OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
#### Security Requirements
##### ยง 1301.72 Physical security controls for non-practitioners; narcotic treatment programs and compounders for narcotic treatment programs; mobile narcotic treatment programs; storage areas.
###### Mobile Narcotic Treatment Programs.

(e)(1) For any conveyance operated as a mobile narcotic treatment program (NTP), a safe must be installed and used to store narcotic drugs in schedules II-V for the purpose of maintenance or detoxification treatment, when not located at the registrant's registered location. The safe must conform to the requirements set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The mobile component must also be equipped with an alarm system that conforms to the requirements set forth in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section. The storage area of the mobile component must conform to the accessibility requirements in paragraph (d) of this section. The storage area for controlled substances in a mobile component of an NTP must not be accessible from outside of the vehicle. Personnel transporting the controlled substances on behalf of the mobile NTP are required to retain control over all controlled substances when transferring them between the registered location and the conveyance, while en route to and from the dispensing location or locations, and when dispensing at the dispensing location or locations. At all other times during transportation, all controlled substances must be properly secured in the safe. Upon completion of the operation of the mobile NTP on a given day, the conveyance must be immediately returned to the registered location, and all controlled substances must be removed from the conveyance and secured within the registered location. After the conveyance has returned to the registered location and the controlled substances have been removed, the conveyance may be parked until its next use at the registered location or any secure, fenced-in area, once the local DEA office has been notified of the location of this secure, fenced-in area. All NTPs with mobile components shall be required to establish a standard operating procedure to ensure, if the mobile component becomes inoperable (mechanical failure, accidents, fire, etc.), that all controlled substances on the inoperable conveyance are accounted for, removed from the inoperable conveyance, and secured at the registered location.

(2) With regard to the requirement of paragraph (e)(1) of this section, that upon completion of the operation of the mobile NTP on a given day, the conveyance must be immediately returned to the registered location, and all controlled substances must be removed from the conveyance and secured within the registered location, an NTP may apply for an exception to this requirement as provided in this paragraph. The application for such an exception must be submitted in accordance with ยง 1307.03 of this chapter and must include the proposed alternate return period, enhanced security measures, and any other factors the applicant wishes the Administrator to consider. The Administrator may grant such an exception in his discretion and will evaluate each application on a case-by-case basis in determining whether the applicant has demonstrated exceptional circumstances that warrant the exception. In making this determination, the Administrator will consider the applicant's security and recordkeeping as well as any other factors he deems relevant to determining whether effective controls against diversion will be maintained.
