
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter II - Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice
### PART 1301 - REGISTRATION OF MANUFACTURERS, DISTRIBUTORS, AND DISPENSERS OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
#### Security Requirements
##### ยง 1301.74 Other security controls for non-practitioners; narcotic treatment programs and compounders for narcotic treatment programs; mobile narcotic treatment programs.
###### e.g.,

(k) All NTPs, including mobile NTPs, must comply with standards established by the Secretary of Health and Human Services (after consultation with the Administration) respecting the quantities of narcotic drugs which may be provided to persons enrolled in a NTP or mobile NTP for unsupervised use (take home or non-directly observed therapy).

(l) DEA may exercise discretion regarding the degree of security required in NTPs, including mobile NTPs, based on such factors as the location of a program, the number of patients enrolled in a program, and the number of practitioners, staff members, and security guards. Personnel that are authorized to dispense controlled substances for narcotic treatment must ensure proper security measures and patient dosage. Similarly, DEA will consider such factors when evaluating existing security or requiring new security at a narcotic treatment program or mobile NTP.

(m) Any controlled substances being transported for disposal from the dispensing location of a mobile NTP shall be secured and disposed of in compliance with part 1317, and all other applicable Federal, State, tribal, and local laws and regulations.

(n) A conveyance used as part of a mobile NTP may only be supplied with narcotic drugs by the registered NTP that operates such conveyance. Persons permitted to dispense controlled substances to mobile NTPs shall not:

(1) Receive controlled substances from other mobile NTPs or any other entity;

(2) Deliver controlled substances to other mobile NTPs or any other entity; or

(3) Conduct reverse distribution of controlled substances on a mobile NTP.

(o) A reverse distributor shall not employ, as an agent or employee who has access to or influence over controlled substances, any person who has been convicted of any felony offense relating to controlled substances or who, at any time, had an application for registration with the DEA denied, had a DEA registration revoked or suspended, or has surrendered a DEA registration for cause. For purposes of this subsection, "for cause" means in lieu of, or as a consequence of, any Federal or State administrative, civil, or criminal action resulting from an investigation of the individual's handling of controlled substances.
