
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter II - Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice
### PART 1304 - RECORDS AND REPORTS OF REGISTRANTS
#### General Information
##### § 1304.03 Persons required to keep records and file reports.

(a) Every registrant, including collectors, shall maintain the records and inventories and shall file the reports required by this part, except as exempted by this section. Any registrant that is authorized to conduct other activities without being registered to conduct those activities, pursuant to §§ 1301.22(b), 1307.11, 1307.13, or part 1317 of this chapter, shall maintain the records and inventories and shall file the reports required by this part for persons registered or authorized to conduct such activities. This latter requirement should not be construed as requiring stocks of controlled substances being used in various activities under one registration to be stored separately, nor that separate records are required for each activity. The intent of the Administration is to permit the registrant to keep one set of records which are adapted by the registrant to account for controlled substances used in any activity. Also, the Administration does not wish to require separate stocks of the same substance to be purchased and stored for separate activities. Otherwise, there is no advantage gained by permitting several activities under one registration. Thus, when a researcher manufactures a controlled item, he must keep a record of the quantity manufactured; when he distributes a quantity of the item, he must use and keep invoices or order forms to document the transfer; when he imports a substance, he keeps as part of his records the documentation required of an importer; and when substances are used in chemical analysis, he need not keep a record of this because such a record would not be required of him under a registration to do chemical analysis. All of these records may be maintained in one consolidated record system. Similarly, the researcher may store all of his controlled items in one place, and every two years take inventory of all items on hand, regardless of whether the substances were manufactured by him, imported by him, or purchased domestically by him, of whether the substances will be administered to subjects, distributed to other researchers, or destroyed during chemical analysis.

(b) A registered individual practitioner is required to keep records, as described in § 1304.04, of controlled substances in Schedules II, III, IV, and V which are dispensed, other than by prescribing or administering in the lawful course of professional practice.

(c) Except as provided in § 1304.06, a registered individual practitioner is not required to keep records of controlled substances in Schedules II, III, IV, and V that are prescribed in the lawful course of professional practice, unless such substances are prescribed in the course of maintenance or detoxification treatment of an individual.

(d) A registered individual practitioner is not required to keep records of controlled substances listed in Schedules II, III, IV and V which are administered in the lawful course of professional practice unless the practitioner regularly engages in the dispensing or administering of controlled substances and charges patients, either separately or together with charges for other professional services, for substances so dispensed or administered. Records are required to be kept for controlled substances administered in the course of maintenance or detoxification treatment of an individual.

(e) Each registered mid-level practitioner shall maintain in a readily retrievable manner those documents required by the state in which he/she practices which describe the conditions and extent of his/her authorization to dispense controlled substances and shall make such documents available for inspection and copying by authorized employees of the Administration. Examples of such documentation include protocols, practice guidelines or practice agreements.

(f) Registered persons using any controlled substances while conducting preclinical research, in teaching at a registered establishment which maintains records with respect to such substances or conducting research in conformity with an exemption granted under section 505(i) or 512(j) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355(i) or 360b(j)) at a registered establishment which maintains records in accordance with either of those sections, are not required to keep records if he/she notifies the Administration of the name, address, and registration number of the establishment maintaining such records. This notification shall be given at the time the person applies for registration or reregistration and shall be made in the form of an attachment to the application, which shall be filed with the application.

(g) A distributing registrant who utilizes a freight forwarding facility shall maintain records to reflect transfer of controlled substances through the facility. These records must contain the date, time of transfer, number of cartons, crates, drums or other packages in which commercial containers of controlled substances are shipped and authorized signatures for each transfer. A distributing registrant may, as part of the initial request to operate a freight forwarding facility, request permission to store records at a central location. Approval of the request to maintain central records would be implicit in the approval of the request to operate the facility. Otherwise, a request to maintain records at a central location must be submitted in accordance with § 1304.04 of this part. These records must be maintained for a period of two years.

(h) A person is required to keep the records and file the reports specified in § 1304.06 and part 1311 of this chapter if they are either of the following:

(1) An electronic prescription application provider.

(2) An electronic pharmacy application provider.
