
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter II - Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice
### PART 1304 - RECORDS AND REPORTS OF REGISTRANTS
#### Inventory Requirements
##### ยง 1304.11 Inventory requirements.
###### General requirements.

(a)Each inventory shall contain a complete and accurate record of all controlled substances on hand on the date the inventory is taken, and shall be maintained in written, typewritten, or printed form at the registered location. An inventory taken by use of an oral recording device must be promptly transcribed. Controlled substances shall be deemed to be "on hand" if they are in the possession of or under the control of the registrant, including substances returned by a customer, ordered by a customer but not yet invoiced, stored in a warehouse on behalf of the registrant, and substances in the possession of employees of the registrant and intended for distribution as complimentary samples. A separate inventory shall be made for each registered location and each independent activity registered, except as provided in paragraph (e)(4) of this section. In the event controlled substances in the possession or under the control of the registrant are stored at a location for which he/she is not registered, the substances shall be included in the inventory of the registered location to which they are subject to control or to which the person possessing the substance is responsible. The inventory may be taken either as of opening of business or as of the close of business on the inventory date and it shall be indicated on the inventory.
