
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter II - Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice
### PART 1305 - ORDERS FOR SCHEDULE I AND II CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
#### Subpart B - DEA Form 222
##### ยง 1305.11 Procedure for obtaining DEA Forms 222.

(a) DEA Forms 222 are issued in mailing envelopes containing a predetermined number of forms based on the business activity of the registrant, each form consisting of one single-sheet. A limit, which is based on the business activity of the registrant, will be imposed on the number of DEA Forms 222 that will be furnished upon a requisition for order forms unless additional forms are specifically requested and a reasonable need for such additional forms is shown.

(b) Any person with an active registration that is authorized to order schedule I and II controlled substances is entitled to obtain a DEA Form 222, which will be supplied at any time after the DEA registration is granted. Any person holding a registration authorizing the person to obtain a DEA Form 222 may requisition the forms through a DEA secured network connection or by contacting any Division Office or the Registration Section of the Administration through the customer service center.

(c) Each requisition must show the name, address, and registration number of the registrant and the number of DEA Forms 222 desired.

(d) DEA Forms 222 will have an order form number and be issued with the name, address and registration number of the registrant, the authorized activity, and schedules of the registrant. This information cannot be altered or changed by the registrant; the registrant must report any errors to the local Division Office or the Registration Section of the Administration to modify the registration.
