
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter II - Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice
### PART 1305 - ORDERS FOR SCHEDULE I AND II CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
#### Subpart B - DEA Form 222
##### ยง 1305.17 Preservation of DEA Forms 222.

(a) The purchaser must retain a copy of each executed DEA Form 222 and all copies of unaccepted or defective forms with each statement attached.

(b) The supplier must retain the original of each DEA Form 222 that it has filled.

(c) DEA Forms 222 must be maintained separately from all other records of the registrant. DEA Forms 222 are required to be kept available for inspection for a period of two years. If a purchaser has several registered locations, the purchaser must retain a copy of the executed DEA Form 222 and any attached statements or other related documents (not including unexecuted DEA Forms 222, which may be kept elsewhere under ยง 1305.12(e)), at the registered location printed on the DEA Form 222.

(d) The supplier of thiafentanil, carfentanil, etorphine hydrochloride, and diprenorphine must maintain DEA Forms 222 for these substances separately from all other DEA Forms 222 and records required to be maintained by the registrant.

(e) Electronic copies of DEA Forms 222 will be deemed to be maintained separately from all other records of the registrant, for the purposes of this section, if such copies are readily retrievable separately from all other records. Electronic copies of DEA Forms 222 may be stored on a system at a location different from the registered location, provided such copies are readily retrievable at the registered location.
