
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter II - Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice
### PART 1305 - ORDERS FOR SCHEDULE I AND II CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
#### Subpart B - DEA Form 222
##### ยง 1305.16 Lost and stolen DEA Forms 222.

(a) If a purchaser ascertains that an unfilled DEA Form 222 has been lost, the purchaser must execute another and attach a statement containing the order form number and date of the lost form, and stating that the goods covered by the first DEA Form 222 were not received through loss of that DEA Form 222. A copy of the second form and a copy of the statement must be retained with a copy of the DEA Form 222 first executed. A copy of the statement must be attached to a copy of the second DEA Form 222 sent to the supplier. If the first DEA Form 222 is subsequently received by the supplier to whom it was directed, the supplier must mark upon the face "Not accepted" and return the original DEA Form 222 to the purchaser, who must attach it to the statement.

(b) Whenever any used or unused DEA Forms 222 are stolen or lost (other than in the course of transmission) by any purchaser or supplier, the purchaser or supplier must immediately upon discovery of the theft or loss, report the theft or loss to the Special Agent in Charge of the Drug Enforcement Administration in the Divisional Office responsible for the area in which the registrant is located, stating the serial number of each form stolen or lost.

(c) If the theft or loss includes any original DEA Forms 222 received from purchasers and the supplier is unable to state the serial numbers of the DEA Forms 222, the supplier must report the date or approximate date of receipt and the names and addresses of the purchasers.

(d) If any DEA Forms 222 are lost or stolen, and the purchaser is unable to state the order form numbers of the DEA Forms 222, the purchaser must report, in lieu of numbers of the forms, the date or approximate date of issuance.

(e) If any unused DEA Form 222 reported stolen or lost is subsequently recovered or found, the Special Agent in Charge of the Drug Enforcement Administration in the Divisional Office responsible for the area in which the registrant is located must immediately be notified.
