
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter II - Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice
### PART 1305 - ORDERS FOR SCHEDULE I AND II CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
#### Subpart B - DEA Form 222
##### ยง 1305.20 Transition provisions allowing continued use of existing stocks of triplicate DEA Forms 222.
###### Procedure for executing triplicate DEA Forms 222.

(b)(1) A purchaser must prepare and execute a triplicate DEA Form 222 simultaneously by means of interleaved carbon sheets that are part of the triplicate DEA Form 222. Triplicate DEA Form 222 must be prepared by use of a typewriter, pen, or indelible pencil.

(2) Only one item may be entered on each numbered line. An item must consist of one or more commercial or bulk containers of the same finished or bulk form and quantity of the same substance. The number of lines completed must be noted on that form at the bottom of the form, in the space provided. Triplicate DEA Forms 222 for carfentanil, etorphine hydrochloride, and diprenorphine must contain only these substances.

(3) The name and address of the supplier from whom the controlled substances are being ordered must be entered on the form. Only one supplier may be listed on any form.

(4) Each triplicate DEA Form 222 must be signed and dated by a person authorized to sign an application for registration or a person granted power of attorney to sign a DEA Form 222 under ยง 1305.05. The name of the purchaser, if different from the individual signing the DEA Form 222, must also be inserted in the signature space.

(5) Unexecuted DEA Forms 222 may be kept and may be executed at a location other than the registered location printed on the form, provided that all unexecuted forms are delivered promptly to the registered location upon an inspection of the location by any officer authorized to make inspections, or to enforce, any Federal, State, or local law regarding controlled substances.
