
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter II - Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice
### PART 1305 - ORDERS FOR SCHEDULE I AND II CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
#### Subpart B - DEA Form 222
##### ยง 1305.20 Transition provisions allowing continued use of existing stocks of triplicate DEA Forms 222.
###### Procedure for filling triplicate DEA Forms 222.

(c)(1) A purchaser must submit Copy 1 and Copy 2 of the triplicate DEA Form 222 to the supplier and retain Copy 3 in the purchaser's files.

(2) A supplier may fill the order, if possible and if the supplier desires to do so, and must record on Copies 1 and 2 the number of commercial or bulk containers furnished on each item and the date on which the containers are shipped to the purchaser. If an order cannot be filled in its entirety, it may be filled in part and the balance supplied by additional shipments within 60 days following the date of the triplicate DEA Form 222. No triplicate DEA Form 222 is valid more than 60 days after its execution by the purchaser, except as specified in paragraph (c)(6) of this section.

(3) The controlled substances must be shipped only to the purchaser and the location printed by the Administration on the triplicate DEA Form 222, except as specified in paragraph (c)(6) of this section.

(4) The supplier must retain Copy 1 of the triplicate DEA Form 222 for his or her files in accordance with paragraph (g)(3) of this section and forward Copy 2 to the Special Agent in Charge of the Drug Enforcement Administration in the area in which the supplier is located. Copy 2 must be forwarded at the close of the month during which the order is filled. If an order is filled by partial shipments, Copy 2 must be forwarded at the close of the month during which the final shipment is made or the 60-day validity period expires.

(5) The purchaser must record on Copy 3 of the triplicate DEA Form 222 the number of commercial or bulk containers furnished on each item and the dates on which the containers are received by the purchaser.

(6) DEA triplicate Forms 222 submitted by registered procurement officers of the Defense Supply Center of the Defense Logistics Agency for delivery to armed services establishments within the United States may be shipped to locations other than the location printed on the triplicate DEA Form 222, and in partial shipments at different times not to exceed six months from the date of the order, as designated by the procurement officer when submitting the order.
