
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter II - Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice
### PART 1305 - ORDERS FOR SCHEDULE I AND II CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
#### Subpart B - DEA Form 222
##### ยง 1305.20 Transition provisions allowing continued use of existing stocks of triplicate DEA Forms 222.
###### Lost and stolen triplicate DEA Forms 222.

(f)(1) If a purchaser ascertains that an unfilled triplicate DEA Form 222 has been lost, the purchaser must execute another in triplicate and attach a statement containing the serial number and date of the lost form, and stating that the goods covered by the first triplicate DEA Form 222 were not received through loss of that triplicate DEA Form 222. Copy 3 of the second form and a copy of the statement must be retained with Copy 3 of the triplicate DEA Form 222 first executed. A copy of the statement must be attached to Copies 1 and 2 of the second triplicate DEA Form 222 sent to the supplier. If the first triplicate DEA Form 222 is subsequently received by the supplier to whom it was directed, the supplier must mark upon the face "Not accepted" and return Copies 1 and 2 to the purchaser, who must attach it to Copy 3 and the statement. However, if the registrant no longer can use triplicate forms, then the registrant shall proceed by issuing a new single-sheet form in accordance with ยง 1305.16.

(2) Whenever any used or unused triplicate DEA Forms 222 are stolen or lost (other than in the course of transmission) by any purchaser or supplier, the purchaser or supplier must immediately upon discovery of the theft or loss, report the theft or loss to the Special Agent in Charge of the Drug Enforcement Administration in the Divisional Office responsible for the area in which the registrant is located, stating the serial number of each form stolen or lost.

(3) If the theft or loss includes any original triplicate DEA Forms 222 received from purchasers and the supplier is unable to state the serial numbers of the triplicate DEA Forms 222, the supplier must report the date or approximate date of receipt and the names and addresses of the purchasers.

(4) If an entire book of triplicate DEA Forms 222 is lost or stolen, and the purchaser is unable to state the serial numbers of the triplicate DEA Forms 222 in the book, the purchaser must report, in lieu of the numbers of the forms contained in the book, the date or approximate date of issuance.

(5) If any unused triplicate DEA Form 222 reported stolen or lost is subsequently recovered or found, the Special Agent in Charge of the Drug Enforcement Administration in the Divisional Office responsible for the area in which the registrant is located must immediately be notified.
