
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter II - Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice
### PART 1305 - ORDERS FOR SCHEDULE I AND II CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
#### Subpart C - Electronic Orders
##### ยง 1305.21 Requirements for electronic orders.

(a) To be valid, the purchaser must sign an electronic order for a Schedule I or II controlled substance with a digital signature issued to the purchaser, or the purchaser's agent, by DEA as provided in part 1311 of this chapter.

(b) The following data fields must be included on an electronic order for Schedule I and II controlled substances:

(1) A unique number the purchaser assigns to track the order. The number must be in the following 9-character format: the last two digits of the year, X, and six characters as selected by the purchaser.

(2) The purchaser's DEA registration number.

(3) The name of the supplier.

(4) The complete address of the supplier (may be completed by either the purchaser or the supplier).

(5) The supplier's DEA registration number (may be completed by either the purchaser or the supplier).

(6) The date the order is signed.

(7) The name (including strength where appropriate) of the controlled substance product or the National Drug Code (NDC) number (the NDC number may be completed by either the purchaser or the supplier).

(8) The quantity in a single package or container.

(9) The number of packages or containers of each item ordered.

(c) An electronic order may include controlled substances that are not in schedules I and II and non-controlled substances.
