
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter II - Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice
### PART 1308 - SCHEDULES OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
#### Exempted Prescription Products
##### § 1308.31 Application for exemption of a nonnarcotic prescription product.

(a) Any person seeking to have any compound, mixture, or preparation containing any nonnarcotic controlled substance listed in § 1308.12(e), or in § 1308.13(b) or (c), or in § 1308.14, or in § 1308.15, exempted from application of all or any part of the Act pursuant to section 201(g)(3)(A), of the Act (21 U.S.C. 811(g)(3)(A)) may apply to the Drug and Chemical Evaluation Section, Diversion Control Division, Drug Enforcement Administration. See the Table of DEA Mailing Addresses in § 1321.01 of this chapter for the current mailing address.

(b) An application for an exemption under this section shall contain the following information:

(1) The complete quantitative composition of the dosage form.

(2) Description of the unit dosage form together with complete labeling.

(3) A summary of the pharmacology of the product including animal investigations and clinical evaluations and studies, with emphasis on the psychic and/or physiological dependence liability (this must be done for each of the active ingredients separately and for the combination product).

(4) Details of synergisms and antagonisms among ingredients.

(5) Deterrent effects of the noncontrolled ingredients.

(6) Complete copies of all literature in support of claims.

(7) Reported instances of abuse.

(8) Reported and anticipated adverse effects.

(9) Number of dosage units produced for the past 2 years.

(c) Within a reasonable period of time after the receipt of an application for an exemption under this section, the Administrator shall notify the applicant of his acceptance or non-acceptance of the application, and if not accepted, the reason therefor. The Administrator need not accept an application for filing if any of the requirements prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section is lacking or is not set forth so as to be readily understood. If the applicant desires, he may amend the application to meet the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. If accepted for filing, the Administrator shall publish in thegeneral notice of this proposed rulemaking in granting or denying the application. Such notice shall include a reference to the legal authority under which the rule is proposed, a statement of the proposed rule granting or denying an exemption, and, in the discretion of the Administrator, a summary of the subjects and issues involved. The Administrator shall permit any interested person to file written comments on or objections to the proposal and shall designate in the notice of proposed rule making the time during which such filings may be made. After consideration of the application and any comments on or objections to his proposed rulemaking, the Administrator shall issue and publish in thehis final order on the application, which shall set forth the findings of fact and conclusions of law upon which the order is based. This order shall specify the date on which it shall take effect, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of publication in theunless the Administrator finds that conditions of public health or safety necessitate an earlier effective date, in which event the Administrator shall specify in the order his findings as to such conditions.

(d) The Administrator may revoke any exemption granted pursuant to section 201(g)(3)(A) of the Act (21 U.S.C. 811(g)(3)(A)) by following the procedures set forth in paragraph (c) of this section for handling an application for an exemption which has been accepted for filing.
