
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter II - Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice
### PART 1310 - RECORDS AND REPORTS OF LISTED CHEMICALS AND CERTAIN MACHINES; IMPORTATION AND EXPORTATION OF CERTAIN MACHINES
#### ยง 1310.02 Substances covered.

The following chemicals have been specifically designated by the Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration as the listed chemicals subject to the provisions of this part and parts 1309 and 1313 of this chapter. Each chemical has been assigned the DEA Chemical Code Number set forth opposite it.

(a) List I chemicals

(b) List II chemicals:

(c) The Administrator may add or delete a substance as a listed chemical by publishing a final rule in thefollowing a proposal which shall be published at least 30 days prior to the final rule.

(d) Any person may petition the Administrator to have any substance added or deleted from paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section.

(e) Any petition under this section shall contain the following information:

(1) The name and address of the petitioner;

(2) The name of the chemical to which the petition pertains;

(3) The name and address of the manufacturer(s) of the chemical (if known);

(4) A complete statement of the facts which the petitioner believes justifies the addition or deletion of the substance from paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section;

(5) The date of the petition.

(f) The Administrator may require the petitioner to submit such documents or written statements of fact relevant to the petition as he deems necessary in making a determination.

(g) Within a reasonable period of time after the receipt of the petition, the Administrator shall notify the petitioner of his decision and the reason therefor. The Administrator need not accept a petition if any of the requirements prescribed in paragraph (e) of this section or requested pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section are lacking or are not clearly set forth as to be readily understood. If the petitioner desires, he may amend and resubmit the petition to meet the requirements of paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section.

(h) If a petition is granted or the Administrator, upon his own motion, proposes to add or delete substances as listed chemicals as set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, he shall issue and publish in thea proposal to add or delete a substance as a listed chemical. The Administrator shall permit any interested person to file written comments regarding the proposal within 30 days of the date of publication of his order in theThe Administrator will consider any comments filed by interested persons and publish a final rule in accordance with his decision in the matter.
