
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter II - Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice
### PART 1310 - RECORDS AND REPORTS OF LISTED CHEMICALS AND CERTAIN MACHINES; IMPORTATION AND EXPORTATION OF CERTAIN MACHINES
#### § 1310.06 Content of records and reports.
##### e.g.,

(1) The name/business name, address/business address, and contact information (telephone number(s), email address (es), etc.), and, if required, DEA registration number of each party to the regulated transaction.

(2) The date of the regulated transaction.

(3) The quantity, chemical name, and, if applicable, National Drug Code (NDC) number. If NDC number is not applicable, the form of packaging of the listed chemical or a description of the tableting machine or encapsulating machine (including make, model, serial number, if any, and whether the machine is manual or electric).

(4) The method of transfer (company truck, picked up by customer, etc.).

(5) The type of identification used by the purchaser and any unique number on that identification.

(b) For purposes of this section, normal business records will be considered adequate if they contain the information listed in paragraph (a) of this section and are readily retrievable from other business records of the regulated person. For prescription drug products, prescription and hospital records kept in the normal course of medical treatment will be considered adequate for satisfying the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section with respect to dispensing to patients, and records required to be maintained pursuant to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration regulations relating to the distribution of prescription drugs, as set forth in 21 CFR part 205, will be considered adequate for satisfying the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section with respect to distributions.

(c)(1) Each report required by § 1310.05(a) must include the information as specified by paragraph (a) of this section, the basis for making the report, and, where obtainable, the registration number of the other party, if such party is registered. A report of an uncommon method of payment or delivery submitted in accordance with § 1310.05(a)(1) must also include a reason why the method of payment or delivery was uncommon.

(2) A suggested format for the reports in § 1310.05(a)(1) is provided below:

(d) Each report of an unusual or excessive loss or disappearance of a listed chemical required by § 1310.05(b)(1) (on DEA Form 107), must include the following information:
