
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter II - Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice
### PART 1310 - RECORDS AND REPORTS OF LISTED CHEMICALS AND CERTAIN MACHINES; IMPORTATION AND EXPORTATION OF CERTAIN MACHINES
#### ยง 1310.06 Content of records and reports.
##### Return information.,e.g.,

(h)(1) Within 30 calendar days after actual receipt of a tableting or encapsulating machine, or within 10 calendar days after receipt of a written request by the Administration to the importer, whichever is sooner, the importer must file a report with the Administration (on DEA Form 452) specifying the particulars of the transaction utilizing the DEA Diversion Control Division secure network application. This report must include the following information: The date on which a customs officer at the port of entry released the machine(s); the date on which the machine(s) arrived at the final destination; the port of entry where the machine(s) were actually released by a customs officer; the actual quantity of machines released by a customs officer; the actual quantity of machines that arrived at the final destination; a description of each tableting or encapsulating machine imported (including make, model, and serial number, if any); any changes in identifying information of the imported machines (name, brand, serial number, if any, etc.) that will take place after importation; and any other information as the Administration may from time to time specify. Upon receipt and review, the Administration will assign a transaction identification number to a completed report. The report will not be deemed filed until the Administration has issued a transaction identification number. A single return declaration may include the particulars of both the importation and distribution. For DEA reporting purposes, import responsibilities are concluded upon the receipt of the machines by the importer. Once machines are received by the importer, domestic transaction reporting requirements commence. Distributions of tableting and encapsulating machines from the importer to their customers must be reported as domestic regulated transactions in accordance with ยง 1310.05(b)(2).

(2) Within 30 calendar days after the tableting or encapsulating machine is released by a customs officer at the port of export, or within 10 calendar days after receipt of a written request by the Administration to the exporter, whichever is sooner, the exporter must file a report with the Administration (on DEA Form 452) through the DEA Diversion Control Division secure network application specifying the particulars of the transaction. This report must include the following information: The date on which the machine(s) was (were) released by a customs officer at the port of export; the actual quantity of machines released; a description of each tableting or encapsulating machine released (including make, model, serial number, if any, and whether the machine is manual or electric); and any other information as the Administration may from time to time specify.

(i) Declared exports of machines which are refused, rejected, or otherwise deemed undeliverable may be returned to the U.S. exporter of record. A brief written report outlining the circumstances must be filed with the Administration through the DEA Diversion Control Division secure network application, following the return at the earliest practicable opportunity after the regulated person becomes aware of the circumstances involved. This provision does not apply to shipments that have cleared foreign customs, been delivered, and accepted by the foreign consignee. Returns to third parties in the United States will be regarded as imports.

(j) Each annual report required by ยง 1310.05(d) must provide the following information for each listed chemical manufactured:
