
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter II - Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice
### PART 1312 - IMPORTATION AND EXPORTATION OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
#### Exportation of Controlled Substances
##### ยง 1312.23 Issuance of export permit.

(a) The Administrator may authorize exportation of any controlled substance listed in Schedule I or II or any narcotic controlled substance listed in Schedule III or IV if he finds that such exportation is permitted by subsections 1003(a), (b), (c), (d), or (f) of the Act (21 U.S.C. 953(a), (b), (c), (d), or (f).

(b) The Administrator may require that such non-narcotic controlled substances in Schedule III as shall be designated by regulation in ยง 1312.30 of this part be exported only pursuant to the issuance of an export permit. The Administrator may authorize the exportation of such substances if he finds that such exportation is permitted by section 1003(e) of the Act (21 U.S.C. 953(e)).

(c) If a non-narcotic substance listed in Schedule IV or V is also listed in Schedule I or II of the Convention on Psychotropic Substances, it shall be exported only pursuant to the issuance of an export permit. The Administrator may authorize the exportation of such substances if he finds that such exportation is permitted by section 1003(e) of the Act (21 U.S.C. 953(e)).

(d) The Administrator may require an applicant to submit such documents or written statements of fact relevant to the application as he deems necessary to determine whether the application should be granted. The failure of the applicant to provide such documents or statements within a reasonable time after being requested to do so shall be deemed to be a waiver by the applicant of an opportunity to present such documents or facts for consideration by the Administrator in granting or denying the application.
