
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter II - Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice
### PART 1312 - IMPORTATION AND EXPORTATION OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
#### Exportation of Controlled Substances
##### ยง 1312.27 Export/reexport declaration.
###### Reexports among members of the European Economic Area.,e.g.,,e.g.,

(ii)Within 30 calendar days after the controlled substance is exported from the first country to the second country, and within 30 calendar days of each subsequent reexport within the European Economic Area, if any, the exporter must file a report with the Administration through the DEA Diversion Control Division secure network application specifying the particulars of the export. These reports must include the name of country to which the controlled substance was reexported to another member of the European Economic Area; the actual quantity of controlled substance shipped; the date shipped from the first country, the name/business name, address/business address, contact information (telephone number(s), email address(es), etc.) and business of the consignee; and the name/business name, address/business address, contact information (telephone number(s), email address(es), etc.) and business of the exporter. Upon receipt and review, the Administration will assign each completed report a transaction identification number. The report will not be deemed filed until the Administration has issued a transaction identification number.

(e) An exporter may amend an export declaration in the same circumstances in which an exporter may request amendment to an export permit, as set forth in ยง 1312.25(a)(1) through (7). Amendments to declarations must be submitted through the DEA Diversion Control Division secure network application. Except as provided in ยง 1312.25(a)(5) exporters must submit all amendments at least one full business day in advance of the date of release by a customs officer. Exporters must specifically note that an amendment is being made; supplementary information submitted by an exporter through the DEA Diversion Control Division secure network application will not automatically be considered an amendment. Upon receipt and review, the Administration will assign each completed amendment a transaction identification number. The amendment will not be deemed filed until the Administration issues a transaction identification number. The DEA and the exporter will distribute the amended declaration in accordance with ยง 1312.28. A filed amendment will not change the date that the declaration becomes void and of no effect in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section.

(f) An export declaration may be canceled after being filed with the Administration, at the request of the exporter, provided no shipment has been made thereunder. Export declarations shall become void and of no effect 180 calendar days after the date the declaration is deemed filed with the Administration.
