
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter II - Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice
### PART 1313 - IMPORTATION AND EXPORTATION OF LIST I AND LIST II CHEMICALS
#### Importation of Listed Chemicals
##### § 1313.12 Notification prior to import.

(a) Each regulated person who seeks to import a listed chemical that meets or exceeds the threshold quantities identified in § 1310.04(f) of this chapter or is a listed chemical for which no threshold has been established as identified in § 1310.04(g) of this chapter, must notify the Administration of the intended import by filing an import declaration (on DEA Form 486/486A) not later than 15 calendar days before the date of release by a customs officer at the port of entry. Regulated persons who seek to import a listed chemical below the threshold quantities identified in § 1310.04(f) are not required to file an import declaration in advance of the release by a customs officer.

(b) A complete and accurate declaration (DEA Form 486/486A) must be filed with the Administration through the DEA Diversion Control Division secure network application not later than 15 calendar days prior to the date of release by a customs officer at the port of entry. The declaration must be signed and dated by the importer and must contain the address of the final destination for the shipment, which for List I chemicals must be a registered location of the importer. Upon receipt and review, the Administration will assign a transaction identification number to each completed declaration. The 15 calendar days shall begin on the date that the regulated person submits a completed declaration, without regard to the date that the Administration assigns a transaction identification number. Listed chemicals meeting or exceeding the threshold quantities identified in § 1310.04(f) of this chapter or for which no threshold has been established may not be imported until a transaction identification number has been issued.

(c) The 15-calendar-day advance notification requirement for listed chemical imports may be waived, in whole or in part, for the following:

(1) Any importation that meets both of the following requirements:

(i) The regulated person has satisfied the requirements for reporting to the Administration as a regular importer of the listed chemicals.

(ii) The importer intends to transfer the listed chemicals to a person who is a regular customer for the chemical, as defined in § 1300.02 of this chapter.

(2) A specific listed chemical, as set forth in paragraph (f) of this section, for which the Administrator determines that advance notification is not necessary for effective chemical diversion control.

(d) For imports meeting the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the declaration (DEA Form 486/486A) must be filed with the Administration through the DEA Diversion Control Division secure network application at least three business days before the date of release by a customs officer at the port of entry. The declaration must be signed and dated by the importer and must contain the address of the final destination for the shipment, which must be a registered location of the importer (for List I chemicals). Upon receipt and review, the Administration will assign a transaction identification number to each completed declaration. The importer may proceed with the import transaction only once the transaction identification number has been issued.

(e) For importations where advance notification is waived pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section no DEA Form 486 is required; however, the regulated person must submit quarterly reports to the Regulatory Section, Diversion Control Division, Drug Enforcement Administration, not later than the 15th day of the month following the end of each quarter. See the Table of DEA Mailing Addresses in § 1321.01 of this chapter for the current mailing address. The report shall contain the following information regarding each individual importation:

(1) The name of the listed chemical;

(2) The quantity and date imported;

(3) The name and full business address of the supplier;

(4) The foreign port of embarkation; and

(5) The port of entry.

(f) The 15 day advance notification requirement set forth in paragraph (a) has been waived for imports of the following listed chemicals:

(1) Acetone.

(2) 2-Butanone (or Methyl Ethyl Ketone or MEK).

(3) Toluene.
