
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter II - Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice
### PART 1314 - RETAIL SALE OF SCHEDULED LISTED CHEMICAL PRODUCTS
#### Subpart B - Sales by Regulated Sellers
##### ยง 1314.30 Recordkeeping for retail transactions.

(a) Except for purchase by an individual of a single sales package containing not more than 60 milligrams of pseudoephedrine, the regulated seller must maintain, in accordance with criteria issued by the Administrator, a written or electronic list of each scheduled listed chemical product sale that identifies the products by name, the quantity sold, the names and addresses of the purchasers, and the dates and times of the sales (referred to as the "logbook").

(b) The regulated seller must not sell a scheduled listed chemical product at retail unless the sale is made in accordance with the following:

(1) The purchaser presents an identification card that provides a photograph and is issued by a State or the Federal Government, or a document that, with respect to identification, is considered acceptable for purposes of 8 CFR 274a.2(b)(1)(v)(A) and 274a.2(b)(1)(v)(B).

(2) The purchaser signs the logbook as follows:

(i) For written logbooks, enters in the logbook his name, address, and the date and time of the sale.

(ii) For electronic logbooks, provides a signature using one of the following means:

(A) Signing a device presented by the seller that captures signatures in an electronic format. The device must display the warning notice in paragraph (d) of this section. Any device used must preserve each signature in a manner that clearly links that signature to the other electronically captured logbook information relating to the prospective purchaser providing that signature.

(B) Signing a bound paper book.
