
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter II - Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice
### PART 1318 - CONTROLS TO SATISFY THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE ACT APPLICABLE TO THE MANUFACTURING OF MARIHUANA
#### ยง 1318.04 Specific control measures applicable to the bulk manufacture of marihuana.

For a registration to manufacture marihuana that involves the cultivation of cannabis, the following provisions must be satisfied:

(a) All registered manufacturers who cultivate cannabis shall deliver their total crops of cannabis to the Administration, except as provided in paragraph (d). The Administration shall purchase and take physical possession of such crops as soon as possible, but not later than four months after the end of the harvest. The Administration may accept delivery and maintain possession of such crops at the registered location of the registered manufacturer authorized to cultivate cannabis consistent with the maintenance of effective controls against diversion. In such cases, the Administration shall designate a secure storage mechanism at the registered location in which the Administration may maintain possession of the cannabis, and the Administration will control access to the stored cannabis. If the Administration determines that no suitable location exists at the registered location of the registered manufacturer authorized to cultivate cannabis, then the Administration shall designate a location for the authorized grower to deliver the crop as soon as possible, but not later than four months after the end of the harvest. However, in all cases the registrant must comply with the security requirements specified in part 1301 of this chapter.

(b) The Administration shall, with respect to cannabis, have the exclusive right of importing, exporting, wholesale trading, and maintaining stocks other than those held by registered manufacturers and distributors of medicinal cannabis or cannabis preparations. Such exclusive right shall not extend to medicinal cannabis or cannabis preparations. The Administration may exercise its exclusive right by authorizing the performance of such activities by appropriately registered persons. The Administration shall require prior written notice of each proposed importation, exportation, or distribution of cannabis that specifies the quantity of cannabis to be imported, exported, or distributed and the name, address, and registration number of the registered manufacturer or researcher to receive the cannabis before authorizing the importation, exportation, or distribution. All importation and exportation shall be performed in compliance with part 1312 of this chapter, as applicable. Under no circumstance shall a registered manufacturer authorized to grow cannabis import, export, or distribute cannabis without the express written authorization of the Administration.

(c) A registered manufacturer authorized to grow cannabis shall notify in writing the Administration of its proposed date of harvest at least 15 days before the commencement of the harvest.

(d) A registered manufacturer authorized to grow cannabis may distribute small quantities of cannabis to a registered analytical lab for chemical analysis by such analytical lab prior to the Administration purchasing and taking physical possession of the crop. The cannabis delivered to the analytical lab under such circumstances need not be delivered to the Administration pursuant to paragraph (a), provided such cannabis is destroyed by the analytical lab upon completion of the testing. Any such distribution of cannabis by a registered manufacturer to a registered analytical lab must comply with all applicable requirements of the Act and this subchapter, including but not limited to security and recordkeeping requirements.
