
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter III - Office of National Drug Control Policy
### PART 1401 - PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION
#### Subpart A - Freedom of Information Act Policies and Procedures
##### ยง 1401.10 Appeal procedures.
###### FOIA@ondcp.eop.gov

(a) An appeal to the ONDCP must explain the reasoning and factual basis for the appeal. It must be received by email ator another method specified on the FOIA page of ONDCP's website within 90 days of the date of the response. The appeal must be in writing, addressed to SSDMD/RDS; ONDCP Office of General Counsel; Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling (JBAB) Bldg. 410/Door 123; 250 Murray Lane SW, Washington, DC 20509. The communication should clearly be labeled as a "Freedom of Information Act Appeal."

(b) The Director or designee will decide the appeal within 20 days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays). If the Director or designee deny an appeal in whole or in part, the written determination will contain the reason for the denial, the name and title of the person responsible for the denial, any FOIA exemptions applied, and the provisions for judicial review of the denial and ruling on appeal provided in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4). The denial will also inform the requester of the dispute resolution services offered by OGIS as a non-exclusive alternate to litigation. If ONDCP agrees to participate in voluntary dispute resolution services provided by OGIS, it will actively engage in an attempt to resolve the dispute.
