
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter III - Office of National Drug Control Policy
### PART 1401 - PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION
#### Subpart A - Freedom of Information Act Policies and Procedures
##### ยง 1401.9 Extension of time.

(a) In unusual circumstances, ONDCP may extend the time limit prescribed in ยง 1401.7(a), (b) or ยง 1401.8 by written notice to the FOIA requester. The notice will state the reasons for the extension.

(b) The phrase "unusual circumstances" means:

(1) The requested records are located in establishments that are separated from the office processing the request;

(2) A voluminous amount of separate and distinct records are demanded in a single request; or

(3) Another agency or two or more components in the same agency have substantial interest in the determination of the request.

(c) Whenever ONDCP cannot meet the statutory time limit for processing a request because of "unusual circumstances," as defined by 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(b)(B), and ONDCP extends the time limit on that basis, the agency must, before expiration of the 20-day period to respond, notify the requester in writing of the unusual circumstances involved and of the date by which ONDCP estimates processing of the request will be completed. Where the extension exceeds 10 working days, ONDCP must, as described by the FOIA, provide the requester with an opportunity to modify the request or arrange an alternative time period for processing the original or modified request. The Agency must make available its designated FOIA contact or its FOIA Public Liaison for this purpose. The Agency must also alert requesters to the availability of the Office of Government Information Services (OGIS) to provide dispute resolution services.

(d) To satisfy unusual circumstances under the FOIA, ONDCP may aggregate requests in cases where it reasonably appears that multiple requests, submitted either by a requester or by a group of requesters acting in concert, constitute a single request that would otherwise involve unusual circumstances. ONDCP cannot aggregate multiple requests that involve unrelated matters.
