
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 81 - GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS AND GENERAL RESTRICTIONS FOR PROVISIONAL COLOR ADDITIVES FOR USE IN FOODS, DRUGS, AND COSMETICS
##### ยง 81.10 Termination of provisional listings of color additives.
###### FD&C Red No. 1.

(c)Results of recent feeding tests of this color additive have demonstrated it to be toxic upon ingestion:

(1) Groups of 50 rats are being fed diets containing FD&C Red No. 1 at levels of 5 percent, 2 percent, 1 percent, 0.5 percent, and 0 percent. At this stage of the tests, which have now been in progress for from 15 months to 18 months, 116 animals from the 250 being fed FD&C Red No. 1 at various levels and 27 of the 100 controls have died. Of these, 11 being fed at the 5 percent level, 16 being fed at the 2 percent level, 11 being fed at the 1 percent level, and 2 being fed at the 0.5 percent level, have shown liver damage. None of the controls that have died have shown liver damage.

(2) Groups of 100 mice are being fed diets containing 2 percent, 1 percent, 0.5 percent, and 0.1 percent FD&C Red No. 1, with 400 mice as controls. All mice on dosage levels of 2 percent and 1 percent died before the seventieth week. Gross liver damage has been observed in all groups fed at the 0.5 percent diet and above.

(3) Groups of 4 dogs are being fed diets containing 2 percent, 1 percent, 0.25 percent, and 0 percent FD&C Red No. 1. Three of the dogs on the 2 percent dosage level died before 32 weeks; the other is living. Three of the dogs on the 1 percent dosage level died or were sacrificed within 13 months. All deceased or sacrificed dogs have shown liver damage grossly and/or microscopically. Deceased dogs on the 1 percent and 2 percent dosage level showed poor physical condition.
