
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 99 - DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION ON UNAPPROVED/NEW USES FOR MARKETED DRUGS, BIOLOGICS, AND DEVICES
##### Subpart D - FDA Action on Submissions, Requests, and Applications
###### ยง 99.303 Extension of time for completing planned studies.

(a) Upon review of a drug or device manufacturer's proposed protocols and schedules for conducting studies needed for the submission of a supplemental application for a new use, FDA may, with or without a request for an extension from the manufacturer, determine that such studies cannot be completed and submitted within 36 months. The agency may exercise its discretion in extending the time period for completing the studies and submitting a supplemental application. Extensions under this paragraph are not subject to any time limit, but shall be made before the manufacturer begins the studies needed for the submission of a supplemental application for the new use.

(b) The manufacturer may, after beginning the studies needed for the submission of a supplemental application for a new use, request in writing that FDA extend the time period for conducting studies needed for the submission of a supplemental application for a new use and submitting a supplemental application to FDA. FDA may grant or deny the request or, after consulting the manufacturer, grant an extension different from that requested by the manufacturer. FDA may grant a manufacturer's request for an extension if FDA determines that the manufacturer has acted with due diligence to conduct the studies needed for the submission of a supplemental application for a new use and to submit such a supplemental application to FDA in a timely manner and that, despite such actions, the manufacturer needs additional time to complete the studies and submit the supplemental application. Extensions under this paragraph shall not exceed 24 months.

(c) If FDA extends the time period for completing the studies and submitting a supplemental application under paragraph (a) of this section after the manufacturer has submitted a certification under ยง 99.201(a)(4)(ii)(B), or if FDA grants a manufacturer's request for an extension under paragraph (b) of this section, the manufacturer shall submit a new certification under ยง 99.201(a)(4)(ii)(B) that sets forth the timeframe within which clinical studies will be completed and a supplemental application will be submitted to FDA.
