
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 100 - GENERAL
##### Subpart A - State and Local Requirements
###### ยง 100.1 Petitions requesting exemption from preemption for State or local requirements.
####### Prerequisites for petitions for exemption from preemption.

(c)The Food and Drug Administration will consider a petition for exemption from preemption on its merits only if the petition demonstrates that:

(1) The State requirement was enacted or was issued as a final rule by an authorized official of the State and is in effect or would be in effect but for the provisions of section 403A of the act.

(2) The State requirement is subject to preemption under section 403A(a) of the act because of a statutory provision listed in that section or because of a Federal standard or other Federal regulation that is in effect, or that has been published as a final rule with a designated effective date, and that was issued under the authority of a statutory provision listed in that section. For the purposes of this subpart, all petitions seeking exemption from preemption under section 403A(a)(3) through (a)(5) of the act submitted before May 8, 1992, will be considered timely even though the applicable statutory provisions or regulations are not yet in effect.

(3) The petitioner is an official of a State having authority to act for, or on behalf of, the Government in applying for an exemption of State requirements from preemption.

(4) The State requirement is subject to preemption under section 403A(a) of the act because it is not identical to the requirement of the preemptive Federal statutory provision or regulation including a standard of identity, quality, and fill. "Not identical to" does not refer to the specific words in the requirement but instead means that the State requirement directly or indirectly imposes obligations or contains provisions concerning the composition or labeling of food, or concerning a food container, that:

(i) Are not imposed by or contained in the applicable provision (including any implementing regulation) of section 401 or 403 of the act; or

(ii) Differ from those specifically imposed by or contained in the applicable provision (including any implementing regulation) of section 401 or 403 of the act.
