
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 100 - GENERAL
##### Subpart A - State and Local Requirements
###### ยง 100.1 Petitions requesting exemption from preemption for State or local requirements.
####### Agency consideration of petitions.

(f)(1) Unless otherwise specified in this section, all relevant provisions and requirements of subpart B of part 10 of this chapter, are applicable to State petitions requesting exemption from Federal preemption under section 403A(b) of the act.

(2) If a petition does not meet the prerequisite requirements of paragraph (c) of this section, the agency will issue a letter to the petitioner denying the petition and stating in what respect the petition does not meet these requirements.

(3) If a petition appears to meet the prerequisite requirements in paragraph (c) of this section, it will be filed by the Division of Dockets Management, stamped with the date of filing, and assigned a docket number. The docket number identifies the file established by the Division of Dockets Management for all submissions relating to the petition, as provided in this part. Subsequent submissions relating to the matter must refer to the docket number and will be filed in the docket file. The Division of Dockets Management will promptly notify the petitioner in writing of the filing and docket number of a petition.

(4) Any interested person may submit written comments to the Division of Dockets Management on a filed petition as provided in ยง 10.30(d) of this chapter.

(5) Within 90 days of the date of filing the agency will furnish a response to the petitioner. The response will either:

(i) State that the agency has tentatively determined that the petition merits the granting of an exemption, and that it intends to publish in thea proposal to grant the exemption through rulemaking;

(ii) Deny the petition and state the reasons for such denial; or

(iii) Provide a tentative response indicating why the agency has been unable to reach a decision on the petition, e.g., because of other agency priorities or a need for additional information.

(g) If a State submitted a petition for exemption of a State requirement from preemption under section 403A(a)(3) through (a)(5) of the act before May 8, 1992, that State requirement will not be subject to preemption until:

(1) November 8, 1992; or

(2) Action on the petition, whichever occurs later.
