
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 101 - FOOD LABELING
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 101.9 Nutrition labeling of food.
####### 1,2

(ii) "Serving size": A statement of the serving size as specified in paragraph (b)(7) of this section which shall immediately follow the "____servings per container" declaration. The information required in this paragraph shall be highlighted in bold or extra bold and be in a type size no smaller than 10 point, except the type size shall be no smaller than 9 point for this information in the tabular displays as shown in paragraphs (d)(11) and (e)(6)(ii) of this section, the tabular display for small packages as shown in paragraph (j)(13)(ii)(A)() of this section, and the linear display for small packages as shown in paragraph (j)(13)(ii)(A)() of this section. The serving size amount must be right justified if adequate space is available. If the "Serving size" declaration does not fit in the allocated space a type size of no smaller than 8 point may be used on packages of any size.

(4) A subheading "Amount per serving" shall be separated from the serving size information by a bar as shown in paragraph (d)(12) of this section, except this information is not required for the dual column formats shown in paragraphs (e)(5), (e)(6)(i), and (e)(6)(ii) of this section.

(5) Information on calories shall immediately follow the subheading "Amount per serving" and shall be declared in one line. If "Calories from saturated fat" is declared, it shall be indented under "Calories" and shall be in a type size no smaller than 8 point.

(6) The column heading "% Daily Value," followed by an asterisk (e.g., "% Daily Value*"), shall be separated from information on calories by a bar as shown in paragraph (d)(12) of this section. The position of this column heading shall allow for a list of nutrient names and amounts as described in paragraph (d)(7) of this section to be to the left of, and below, this column heading. The column headings "Percent Daily Value," "Percent DV," or "% DV" may be substituted for "% Daily Value."
