
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 101 - FOOD LABELING
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 101.12 Reference amounts customarily consumed per eating occasion.
####### e.g.,,e.g.,

(2) If the reference amounts are in compatible units, the weights or volumes must be summed (the reference amount for equal volumes of peanut butter and jelly for which peanut butter is represented as the main ingredient would be 4 tablespoons (tbsp) (2 tbsp peanut butter plus 2 tbsp jelly)). If the reference amounts are in incompatible units, all amounts must be converted to weights and summed,the reference amount for pancakes and syrup would be 110 g (the reference amount for pancakes) plus the weight of the proportioned amount of syrup.

(g) The reference amounts set forth in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section shall be used in determining whether a product meets the criteria for nutrient content claims, such as "low calorie," and for health claims. If the serving size declared on the product label differs from the reference amount, and the product meets the criteria for the claim only on the basis of the reference amount, the claim shall be followed by a statement that sets forth the basis on which the claim is made. That statement shall include the reference amount as it appears in paragraph (b) of this section followed, in parenthesis, by the amount in common household measure if the reference amount is expressed in measures other than common household measures (e.g., for a beverage, "Very low sodium, 35 mg or less per 240 mL (8 fl oz)").

(h) The Commissioner of Food and Drugs, either on his or her own initiative or in response to a petition submitted pursuant to part 10 of this chapter, may issue a proposal to establish or amend a reference amount in paragraph (b) of this section. A petition to establish or amend a reference amount shall include:

(1) Objective of the petition;

(2) A description of the product;

(3) A complete sample product label including nutrition label, using the format established by regulation;

(4) A description of the form (e.g., dry mix, frozen dough) in which the product will be marketed;

(5) The intended dietary uses of the product with the major use identified (e.g., milk as a beverage and chips as a snack);

(6) If the intended use is primarily as an ingredient in other foods, list of foods or food categories in which the product will be used as an ingredient with information on the prioritization of the use;

(7) The population group for which the product will be offered for use (e.g., infants, children under 4 years of age);

(8) The names of the most closely related products (or in the case of foods for special dietary use and imitation or substitute foods, the names of the products for which they are offered as substitutes);

(9) The suggested reference amount (the amount of edible portion of food as consumed, excluding bone, seed, shell, or other inedible components) for the population group for which the product is intended with full description of the methodology and procedures that were used to determine the suggested reference amount. In determining the reference amount, general principles and factors in paragraph (a) of this section should be followed.

(10) The suggested reference amount shall be expressed in metric units. Reference amounts for fluids shall be expressed in milliliters. Reference amounts for other foods shall be expressed in grams except when common household units such as cups, tablespoons, and teaspoons, are more appropriate or are more likely to promote uniformity in serving sizes declared on product labels. For example, common household measures would be more appropriate if products within the same category differ substantially in density, such as frozen desserts.

(i) In expressing the reference amounts in milliliters, the following rules shall be followed:

(A) For volumes greater than 30 milliliters (mL), the volume shall be expressed in multiples of 30 mL.

(B) For volumes less than 30 mL, the volume shall be expressed in milliliters equivalent to a whole number of teaspoons or 1 tbsp, i.e., 5, 10, or 15 mL.

(ii) In expressing the reference amounts in grams, the following general rules shall be followed:

(A) For quantities greater than 10 g, the quantity shall be expressed in the nearest 5-g increment.

(B) For quantities less than 10 g, exact gram weights shall be used.

(11) A petition to create a new subcategory of food with its own reference amount shall include the following additional information:

(i) Data that demonstrate that the new subcategory of food will be consumed in amounts that differ enough from the reference amount for the parent category to warrant a separate reference amount. Data must include sample size; and the mean, standard deviation, median, and modal consumed amount per eating occasion for the petitioned product and for other products in the category, excluding the petitioned product. All data must be derived from the same survey data.

(ii) Documentation supporting the difference in dietary usage and product characteristics that affect the consumption size that distinguishes the petitioned product from the rest of the products in the category.

(12) A claim for categorical exclusion under ยง 25.30 or ยง 25.32 of this chapter or an environmental assessment under ยง 25.40 of this chapter, and

(13) In conducting research to collect or process food consumption data in support of the petition, the following general guidelines should be followed.

(i) Sampled population selected should be representative of the demographic and socioeconomic characteristics of the target population group for which the food is intended.

(ii) Sample size (i.e., number of eaters) should be large enough to give reliable estimates for customarily consumed amounts.

(iii) The study protocol should identify potential biases and describe how potential biases are controlled for or, if not possible to control, how they affect interpretation of results.

(iv) The methodology used to collect or process data should be fully documented and should include: study design, sampling procedures, materials used (e.g., questionnaire, and interviewer's manual), procedures used to collect or process data, methods or procedures used to control for unbiased estimates, and procedures used to correct for nonresponse.

(14) A statement concerning the feasibility of convening associations, corporations, consumers, and other interested parties to engage in negotiated rulemaking to develop a proposed rule consistent with the Negotiated Rulemaking Act (5 U.S.C. 561).
