
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 101 - FOOD LABELING
##### Subpart B - Specific Food Labeling Requirements
###### § 101.22 Foods; labeling of spices, flavorings, colorings and chemical preservatives.
####### Provided,

(v) Review of flavor ingredient records shall be limited to the qualitative formula and shall not include the quantitative formula. The person verifying the certifications may make only such notes as are necessary to enable him to verify such certification. Only such notes or such flavor ingredient records as are necessary to verify such certification or to show a potential or actual violation may be removed or transmitted from the certifying party's place of business:That, where such removal or transmittal is necessary for such purposes the relevant records and notes shall be retained as separate documents in Food and Drug Administration files, shall not be copied in other reports, and shall not be disclosed publicly other than in a judicial proceeding brought pursuant to the act or 18 U.S.C. 1001.

(j) A food to which a chemical preservative(s) is added shall, except when exempt pursuant to § 101.100 bear a label declaration stating both the common or usual name of the ingredient(s) and a separate description of its function, e.g., "preservative", "to retard spoilage", "a mold inhibitor", "to help protect flavor" or "to promote color retention".

(k) The label of a food to which any coloring has been added shall declare the coloring in the statement of ingredients in the manner specified in paragraphs (k)(1) and (k)(2) of this section, except that colorings added to butter, cheese, and ice cream, if declared, may be declared in the manner specified in paragraph (k)(3) of this section, and colorings added to foods subject to §§ 105.62 and 105.65 of this chapter shall be declared in accordance with the requirements of those sections.

(1) A color additive or the lake of a color additive subject to certification under 721(c) of the act shall be declared by the name of the color additive listed in the applicable regulation in part 74 or part 82 of this chapter, except that it is not necessary to include the "FD&C" prefix or the term "No." in the declaration, but the term "Lake" shall be included in the declaration of the lake of the certified color additive (e.g., Blue 1 Lake). Manufacturers may parenthetically declare an appropriate alternative name of the certified color additive following its common or usual name as specified in part 74 or part 82 of this chapter.

(2) Color additives not subject to certification and not otherwise required by applicable regulations in part 73 of this chapter to be declared by their respective common or usual names may be declared as "Artificial Color," "Artificial Color Added," or "Color Added" (or by an equally informative term that makes clear that a color additive has been used in the food). Alternatively, such color additives may be declared as "Colored with ________________" or "________________ color," the blank to be filled in with the name of the color additive listed in the applicable regulation in part 73 of this chapter.

(3) When a coloring has been added to butter, cheese, or ice cream, it need not be declared in the ingredient list unless such declaration is required by a regulation in part 73 or part 74 of this chapter to ensure safe conditions of use for the color additive. Voluntary declaration of all colorings added to butter, cheese, and ice cream, however, is recommended.
