
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 101 - FOOD LABELING
##### Subpart C - Specific Nutrition Labeling Requirements and Guidelines
###### ยง 101.36 Nutrition labeling of dietary supplements.
####### Information on dietary ingredients for which RDI's and DRV's have not been established.

(3)(i) Dietary ingredients for which FDA has not established RDI's or DRV's and that are not subject to regulation under paragraph (b)(2) of this section (hereinafter referred to as "other dietary ingredients") shall be declared by their common or usual name when they are present in a dietary supplement, in a column that is under the column of names described in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section or, as long as the constituents of an other dietary ingredient are not listed, in a linear display, under the heavy bar described in paragraph (e)(6) of this section, except that if no (b)(2)-dietary ingredients are declared, other dietary ingredients shall be declared directly beneath the heading "Amount Per Serving" described in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section.

(ii) The quantitative amount by weight per serving of other dietary ingredients shall be presented in the same manner as the corresponding information required in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section or, when a linear display is used, shall be presented immediately following the name of the other dietary ingredient. The quantitative amount by weight shall be the weight of the other dietary ingredient listed and not the weight of any component, or the source, of that dietary ingredient.

(A) These amounts shall be expressed using metric measures in appropriate units.

(B) For any dietary ingredient that is a liquid extract from which the solvent has not been removed, the quantity listed shall be the volume or weight of the total extract. Information on the condition of the starting material shall be indicated when it is fresh and may be indicated when it is dried. Information may be included on the concentration of the dietary ingredient and the solvent used, e.g., "fresh dandelion root extract, x (y:z) in 70% ethanol," where x is the number of milliliters (mL) or mg of the entire extract, y is the weight of the starting material and z is the volume (mL) of solvent. Where the solvent has been partially removed (not to dryness), the final concentration, when indicated, shall be stated (e.g., if the original extract was 1:5 and 50 percent of the solvent was removed, then the final concentration shall be stated as 1:2.5). Where the name of the solvent used is not included in the nutrition label, it is required to be listed in the ingredient statement in accordance with ยง 101.4(g).

(C) For a dietary ingredient that is an extract from which the solvent has been removed, the weight of the ingredient shall be the weight of the dried extract.

(iii) The constituents of a dietary ingredient described in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section may be listed indented under the dietary ingredient and followed by their quantitative amounts by weight per serving, except that dietary ingredients described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall be listed in accordance with that section. When the constituents of a dietary ingredient described in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section are listed, all other dietary ingredients shall be declared in a column; however, the constituents themselves may be declared in a column or in a linear display.

(iv) Other dietary ingredients shall bear a symbol (e.g., an asterisk) in the column under the heading of "% Daily Value" that refers to the same symbol placed at the bottom of the nutrition label and followed by the statement "Daily Value not established," except that when the heading "% Daily Value" is not used, the symbol shall follow the quantitative amount by weight for each dietary ingredient listed.

(c) A proprietary blend of dietary ingredients shall be included in the list of dietary ingredients described in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section and identified by the term "Proprietary Blend" or other appropriately descriptive term or fanciful name and may be highlighted by bold type. Except as specified in this paragraph, all other requirements for the listing of dietary ingredients in dietary supplements are applicable.

(1) Dietary ingredients contained in the proprietary blend that are listed under paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall be declared in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(2) Dietary ingredients contained in the proprietary blend that are listed under paragraph (b)(3) of this section (i.e., "other dietary ingredients") shall be declared in descending order of predominance by weight, in a column or linear fashion, and indented under the term "Proprietary Blend" or other appropriately descriptive term or fanciful name.

(3) The quantitative amount by weight specified for the proprietary blend shall be the total weight of all other dietary ingredients contained in the proprietary blend and shall be placed on the same line to the right of the term "Proprietary Blend" or other appropriately descriptive term or fanciful name underneath the column of amounts described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section. A symbol (e.g., asterisk), which refers to the same symbol placed at the bottom of the nutrition label that is followed by the statement "Daily Value not established," shall be placed under the heading "% Daily Value," if present, or immediately following the quantitative amount by weight for the proprietary blend.

(4) The sample label shown in paragraph (e)(11)(v) of this section illustrates one method of nutrition labeling a proprietary blend of dietary ingredients.

(d) The source ingredient that supplies a dietary ingredient may be identified within the nutrition label in parentheses immediately following or indented beneath the name of a dietary ingredient and preceded by the words "as" or "from", e.g., "Calcium (as calcium carbonate)," except that manner of presentation is unnecessary when the name of the dietary ingredient (e.g., Oriental ginseng) or its synonym (e.g., ascorbic acid) is itself the source ingredient. When a source ingredient is identified in parentheses within the nutrition label, or when the name of the dietary ingredient or its synonym is the source ingredient, it shall not be required to be listed again in the ingredient statement that appears outside of the nutrition label. When a source ingredient is not identified within the nutrition label, it shall be listed in an ingredient statement in accordance with ยง 101.4(g), which shall appear outside and immediately below the nutrition label or, if there is insufficient space below the nutrition label, immediately contiguous and to the right of the nutrition label.

(1) Source ingredients shall be identified in accordance with ยง 101.4 (i.e., shall be listed by common or usual name, and the listing of botanicals shall specify the part of the plant from which the ingredient is derived) regardless of whether they are listed in an ingredient statement or in the nutrition label.

(2) When source ingredients are listed within the nutrition label, and two or more are used to provide a single dietary ingredient, all of the sources shall be listed within the parentheses in descending order by weight.

(3) Representations that the source ingredient conforms to an official compendium may be included either in the nutrition label or in the ingredient list (e.g., "Calcium (as calcium carbonate USP)").
