
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 101 - FOOD LABELING
##### Subpart C - Specific Nutrition Labeling Requirements and Guidelines
###### ยง 101.36 Nutrition labeling of dietary supplements.
####### e.g.,,e.g.,

(e) Except as provided for small and intermediate sized packages under paragraph (h)(3)(i)(2) of this section, information other than the title, headings, and footnotes shall be in uniform type size no smaller than 8 point. Type size no smaller than 6 point may be used for column headings ("Amount Per Serving" and "% Daily Value") and for footnotes ("Percent Daily Values are based on a 2,000 calorie diet").

(1) The title, "Supplement Facts," shall be set in a type size larger than all other print size in the nutrition label and, unless impractical, shall be set full width of the nutrition label. The title and all headings shall be bolded to distinguish them from other information.

(2) The nutrition information shall be enclosed in a box by using hairlines.

(3) All information within the nutrition label shall utilize:

(i) A single easy-to-read type style,

(ii) All black or one color type, printed on a white or other neutral contrasting background whenever practical,

(iii) Upper- and lowercase letters, except that all uppercase lettering may be utilized for packages that have a total surface area available to bear labeling of less than 12 square inches,

(iv) At least one point leading (i.e., space between lines of text), and

(v) Letters that do not touch.

(4) Except as provided for small and intermediate-sized packages under paragraph (i)(2) of this section, information other than the title, headings, and footnotes shall be in uniform type size no smaller than 8 point. Type size no smaller than 6 point may be used for column headings (e.g., "Amount Per Serving" and "% Daily Value") and for footnotes (e.g., "Percent Daily Values are based on a 2,000 calorie diet").

(5) A hairline rule that is centered between the lines of text shall separate each dietary ingredient required in paragraph (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section from the dietary ingredient above and beneath it, as shown in paragraph (e)(10) of this section.

(6) A heavy bar shall be placed:

(i) Beneath the subheading "Servings Per Container" except that if "Servings Per Container" is not required and, as a result, not declared, the bar shall be placed beneath the subheading "Serving Size,"

(ii) Beneath the last dietary ingredient to be listed under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, if any, and

(iii) Beneath the last other dietary ingredient to be listed under paragraph (b)(3) of this section, if any.

(7) A light bar shall be placed beneath the headings "Amount Per Serving" and "% Daily Value."
