
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 101 - FOOD LABELING
##### Subpart C - Specific Nutrition Labeling Requirements and Guidelines
###### § 101.42 Nutrition labeling of raw fruit, vegetables, and fish.

(a) The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) urges food retailers to provide nutrition information, as provided in § 101.9(c), for raw fruit, vegetables, and fish at the point-of-purchase. If retailers choose to provide such information, they should do so in a manner that conforms to the guidelines in § 101.45.

(b) In § 101.44, FDA has listed the 20 varieties of raw fruit, vegetables, and fish that are most frequently consumed during a year and to which the guidelines apply.

(c) FDA has also defined in § 101.43, the circumstances that constitute substantial compliance by food retailers with the guidelines.

(d) By May 8, 1993, FDA will issue a report on actions taken by food retailers to provide consumers with nutrition information for raw fruit, vegetables, and fish under the guidelines established in § 101.45.

(1) The report will include a determination of whether there is substantial compliance, as defined in § 101.43, with the guidelines.

(2) In evaluating substantial compliance, FDA will consider only the 20 varieties of raw fruit, vegetables, and fish most frequently consumed as identified in § 101.44.

(e) If FDA finds that there is substantial compliance with the guidelines for the nutrition labeling of raw fruit and vegetables or of fish, the agency will so state in the report, and the guidelines will remain in effect. FDA will reevaluate the market place for substantial compliance every 2 years.

(f) If FDA determines that there is not substantial compliance with the guidelines for raw fruit and vegetables or for raw fish, the agency will at that time issue proposed regulations requiring that any person who offers raw fruit and vegetables or fish to consumers provide, in a manner prescribed by regulations, the nutrition information required by § 101.9. Final regulations would have to be issued 6 months after issuance of proposed regulations, and they would become effective 6 months after the date of their promulgation.
