
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 101 - FOOD LABELING
##### Subpart C - Specific Nutrition Labeling Requirements and Guidelines
###### ยง 101.45 Guidelines for the voluntary nutrition labeling of raw fruits, vegetables, and fish.
####### 2

(3) When nutrition labeling information is provided for more than one raw fruit, vegetable, or fish on signs, posters, brochures, notebooks, or leaflets, it may be presented in charts with horizontal or vertical columns or as a compilation of individual nutrition labels. Nutrition labeling that is presented in a linear display (see ยง 101.9(j)(13)(ii)(A)()) will not be considered to be in compliance. The heading "Nutrition Facts" must be in a type size larger than all other print in the nutrition label. The required information (i.e., headings, serving sizes, list of nutrients, quantitative amounts by weight (except for vitamins and minerals), and percent of Daily Values (DV's) (except for sugars and protein) must be clearly presented and of sufficient type size and color contrast to be plainly legible, with numeric values for percent of DV highlighted in contrast to the quantitative amounts by weight and hairlines between all nutrients.

(i) Declaration of the number of servings per container need not be included in the nutrition labeling of raw fruits, vegetables, and fish.

(ii) Except for the statement "Percent Daily Values are based on a 2,000 calorie diet," the footnote required in ยง 101.9(d)(9) is not required. However, when labeling is provided in brochures, notebooks, leaflets, or similar types of materials, retailers are encouraged to include the footnote.
