
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 101 - FOOD LABELING
##### Subpart D - Specific Requirements for Nutrient Content Claims
###### § 101.69 Petitions for nutrient content claims.

(a) This section pertains to petitions for claims, expressed or implied, that:

(1) Characterize the level of any nutrient which is of the type required to be in the label or labeling of food by section 403(q)(1) or (q)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act); and

(2) That are not exempted under section 403(r)(5)(A) through (r)(5)(C) of the act from the requirements for such claims in section 403(r)(2).

(b) Petitions included in this section are:

(1) Petitions for a new (heretofore unauthorized) nutrient content claim;

(2) Petitions for a synonymous term (i.e., one that is consistent with a term defined by regulation) for characterizing the level of a nutrient; and

(3) Petitions for the use of an implied claim in a brand name.

(c) An original and one copy of the petition to be filed under the provisions of section 403(r)(4) of the act shall be submitted, or the petitioner may submit an original and a computer readable disk containing the petition. Contents of the disk should be in a standard format, such as ASCII format. Petitioners interested in submitting a disk should contact the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition for details. If any part of the material submitted is in a foreign language, it shall be accompanied by an accurate and complete English translation. The petition shall state the petitioner's post office address to which published notices as required by section 403 of the act may be sent.

(d) Pertinent information may be incorporated in, and will be considered as part of, a petition on the basis of specific reference to such information submitted to and retained in the files of FDA. However, any reference to unpublished information furnished by a person other than the applicant will not be considered unless use of such information is authorized (with the understanding that such information may in whole or part be subject to release to the public) in a written statement signed by the person who submitted it. Any reference to published information should be accompanied by reprints or photostatic copies of such references.

(e) If nonclinical laboratory studies are included in a petition submitted under section 403(r)(4) of the act, the petition shall include, with respect to each nonclinical study contained in the petition, either a statement that the study has been, or will be, conducted in compliance with the good laboratory practice regulations as set forth in part 58 of this chapter or, if any such study was not conducted in compliance with such regulations, a brief statement of the reason for the noncompliance.

(f) If clinical investigations are included in a petition submitted under section 403(r)(4) of the act, the petition shall include a statement regarding each such clinical investigation relied upon in the petition that the study either was conducted in compliance with the requirements for institutional review set forth in part 56 of this chapter or was not subject to such requirements in accordance with § 56.104 or § 56.105 of this chapter, and that it was conducted in compliance with the requirements for informed consent set forth in part 50 of this chapter.

(g) The availability for public disclosure of petitions submitted to the agency under this section will be governed by the rules specified in § 10.20(j) of this chapter.

(h) All petitions submitted under this section shall include either a claim for a categorical exclusion under § 25.30 or 25.32 of this chapter or an environmental assessment under § 25.40 of this chapter.

(i) The data specified under the several lettered headings should be submitted on separate sheets or sets of sheets, suitably identified. If such data have already been submitted with an earlier application from the petitioner, the present petition may incorporate it by specific reference to the earlier petition.

(j) The petition must be signed by the petitioner or by his attorney or agent, or (if a corporation) by an authorized official.

(k) The petition shall include a statement signed by the person responsible for the petition, that to the best of his knowledge, it is a representative and balanced submission that includes unfavorable information, as well as favorable information, known to him pertinent to the evaluation of the petition.

(l) All applicable provisions of part 10-Administrative Practices and Procedures, may be used by FDA, the petitioner or any outside party with respect to any agency action on the petition.

(m)(1) Petitions for a new nutrient content claim shall include the following data and be submitted in the following form.

(2) Within 15 days of receipt of the petition, the petitioner will be notified by letter of the date on which the petition was received by the agency. Such notice will inform the petitioner:

(i) That the petition is undergoing agency review (in which case a docket number will be assigned to the petition), and the petitioner will subsequently be notified of the agency's decision to file or deny the petition; or

(ii) That the petition is incomplete, e.g., it lacks any of the data required by this part, it presents such data in a manner that is not readily understood, or it has not been submitted in quadruplicate, in which case the petition will be denied, and the petitioner will be notified as to what respect the petition is incomplete.

(3) Within 100 days of the date of receipt of the petition, FDA will notify the petitioner by letter that the petition has either been filed or denied. If denied, the notification shall state the reasons therefor. If filed, the date of the notification letter becomes the date of filing for the purposes of section 403(r)(4)(A)(i) of the act. If FDA does not act within such 100 days, the petition shall be deemed to be denied unless an extension is mutually agreed upon by the FDA and the petitioner. A petition that has been denied, or has been deemed to be denied, without filing shall not be made available to the public. A filed petition shall be available to the public as provided under paragraph (g) of this section.

(4) Within 90 days of the date of filing FDA will by letter of notification to the petitioner:

(i) Deny the petition; or

(ii) Inform the petitioner that a proposed regulation to provide for the requested use of the new term will be published in theFDA will publish the proposal to amend the regulations to provide for the requested use of the nutrient content claim in thewithin 90 days of the date of filing. The proposal will also announce the availability of the petition for public disclosure.

(iii) If FDA does not act within 90 days of the date of filing, the petition shall be deemed to be denied unless an extension is mutually agreed upon by FDA and the petitioner.

(5) If FDA issues a proposal, the rulemaking shall be completed within 540 days of the date of receipt of the petition.

(n)(1) Petitions for a synonymous term shall include the following data and be submitted in the following form.

(2) Within 15 days of receipt of the petition the petitioner will be notified by letter of the date on which the petition was received. Such notice will inform the petitioner:

(i) That the petition is undergoing agency review (in which case a docket number will be assigned to the petition) and the petitioner will subsequently be notified of the agency's decision to grant the petitioner permission to use the proposed term or to deny the petition; or

(ii) That the petition is incomplete, e.g., it lacks any of the data required by this part, it presents such data in a manner that is not readily understood, or it has not been submitted in quadruplicate, in which case the petition will be denied, and the petitioner will be notified as to what respect the petition is incomplete.

(3) Within 90 days of the date of receipt of the petition that is accepted for review (i.e., that has not been found to be incomplete and consequently denied, FDA will notify the petitioner by letter of the agency's decision to grant the petitioner permission to use the proposed term, with any conditions or limitations on such use specified, or to deny the petition, in which case the letter shall state the reasons therefor. Failure of the petition to fully address the requirements of this section shall be grounds for denial of the petition.

(4) As soon as practicable following the agency's decision to either grant or deny the petition, FDA will publish a notice in theinforming the public of his decision. If the petition is granted the Food and Drug Administration will list, the approved synonymous term in the regulations listing terms permitted for use in nutrient content claims.

(o)(1) Petitions for the use of an implied nutrient content claim in a brand name shall include the following data and be submitted in the following form:

(2) Within 15 days of receipt of the petition the petitioner will be notified by letter of the date on which the petition was received. Such notice will inform the petitioner:

(i) That the petition is undergoing agency review (in which case a docket number will be assigned to the petition); or

(ii) That the petition is incomplete, e.g., it lacks any of the data required by this part, it presents such data in a manner that is not readily understood, or it has not been submitted in quadruplicate, in which case the petition will be denied, and the petitioner will be notified as to what respect the petition is incomplete.

(3) FDA will publish a notice of the petition in theannouncing its availability to the public and seeking comment on the petition. The petition shall be available to the public to the extent provided under paragraph (g) of this section. The notice shall allow 30 days for comments.

(4) Within 100 days of the date of receipt of the petition that is accepted for review (i.e., that has not been found to be incomplete and subsequently returned to the petitioner), FDA will:

(i) Notify the petitioner by letter of the agency's decision to grant the petitioner permission to use the proposed brand name if such use is not misleading, with any conditions or limitations on such use specified; or

(ii) Deny the petition, in which case the letter shall state the reasons therefor. Failure of the petition to fully address the requirements of this section shall be grounds for denial of the petition. Should FDA not notify the petitioner of his decision on the petition within 100 days, the petition shall be considered to be granted.

(5) As soon as practicable following the granting of a petition, the Commissioner of Food and Drugs will publish a notice in theinforming the public of such fact.
