
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 101 - FOOD LABELING
##### Subpart E - Specific Requirements for Health Claims
###### ยง 101.73 Health claims: dietary lipids and cancer.
####### Relationship between fat and cancer.

(a)(1) Cancer is a constellation of more than 100 different diseases, each characterized by the uncontrolled growth and spread of abnormal cells. Cancer has many causes and stages in its development. Both genetic and environmental risk factors may affect the risk of cancer. Risk factors include a family history of a specific type of cancer, cigarette smoking, alcohol consumption, overweight and obesity, ultraviolet or ionizing radiation, exposure to cancer-causing chemicals, and dietary factors.

(2) Among dietary factors, the strongest positive association has been found between total fat intake and risk of some types of cancer. Based on the totality of the publicly available scientific evidence, there is significant scientific agreement among experts, qualified by training and experience to evaluate such evidence, that diets high in total fat are associated with an increased cancer risk. Research to date, although not conclusive, demonstrates that the total amount of fats, rather than any specific type of fat, is positively associated with cancer risk. The mechanism by which total fat affects cancer has not yet been established.

(3) A question that has been the subject of considerable research is whether the effect of fat on cancer is site-specific. Neither human nor animal studies are consistent in the association of fat intake with specific cancer sites.

(4) Another question that has been raised is whether the association of total fat intake to cancer risk is independently associated with energy intakes, or whether the association of fat with cancer risk is the result of the higher energy (caloric) intake normally associated with high fat intake. FDA has concluded that evidence from both animal and human studies indicates that total fat intake alone, independent of energy intake, is associated with cancer risk.
