
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 101 - FOOD LABELING
##### Subpart E - Specific Requirements for Health Claims
###### ยง 101.77 Health claims: fruits, vegetables, and grain products that contain fiber, particularly soluble fiber, and risk of coronary heart disease.
####### Relationship between diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol and high in fruits, vegetables, and grain products that contain fiber, particularly soluble fiber, and risk of coronary heart disease.

(a)(1) Cardiovascular disease means diseases of the heart and circulatory system. Coronary heart disease is the most common and serious form of cardiovascular disease and refers to diseases of the heart muscle and supporting blood vessels. High blood total- and low density lipoprotein (LDL)- cholesterol levels are major modifiable risk factors in the development of coronary heart disease. High coronary heart disease rates occur among people with high blood cholesterol levels of 240 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL) (6.21 (mmol/L)) or above and LDL-cholesterol levels of 160 mg/dL (4.13 mmol/L) or above. Borderline high risk blood cholesterol levels range from 200 to 239 mg/dL (5.17 to 6.18 mmol/L) and 130 to 159 mg/dL (3.36 to 4.11 mmol/L) of LDL-cholesterol. Dietary lipids (fats) include fatty acids and cholesterol. Total fat, commonly referred to as fat, is composed of saturated fat (fatty acids containing no double bonds), and monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fat (fatty acids containing one or more double bonds).

(2) The scientific evidence establishes that diets high in saturated fat and cholesterol are associated with increased levels of blood total- and LDL-cholesterol and, thus, with increased risk of coronary heart disease. Diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol are associated with decreased levels of blood total- and LDL-cholesterol, and thus, with decreased risk of developing coronary heart disease.

(3) Populations with relatively low blood cholesterol levels tend to have dietary patterns that are not only low in total fat, especially saturated fat and cholesterol, but are also relatively high in fruits, vegetables, and grain products. Although the specific roles of these plant foods are not yet fully understood, many studies have shown that diets high in plant foods are associated with reduced risk of coronary heart disease. These studies correlate diets rich in fruits, vegetables, and grain products and nutrients from these diets, such as some types of fiber, with reduced coronary heart disease risk. Persons consuming these diets frequently have high intakes of dietary fiber, particularly soluble fibers. Currently, there is not scientific agreement as to whether a particular type of soluble fiber is beneficial, or whether the observed protective effects of fruits, vegetables, and grain products against heart disease are due to other components, or a combination of components, in these diets, including, but not necessarily limited to, some types of soluble fiber, other fiber components, other characteristics of the complex carbohydrate content of these foods, other nutrients in these foods, or displacement of saturated fat and cholesterol from the diet.
