
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 101 - FOOD LABELING
##### Subpart E - Specific Requirements for Health Claims
###### ยง 101.77 Health claims: fruits, vegetables, and grain products that contain fiber, particularly soluble fiber, and risk of coronary heart disease.
####### Optional information.

(d)(1) The claim may identify one or more of the following risk factors for heart disease about which there is general scientific agreement: A family history of coronary heart disease, elevated blood-, total- and LDL-cholesterol, excess body weight, high blood pressure, cigarette smoking, diabetes, and physical inactivity.

(2) The claim may indicate that the relationship of diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol, and high in fruits, vegetables, and grain products that contain fiber to heart disease is through the intermediate link of "blood cholesterol" or "blood total- and LDL-cholesterol."

(3) The claim may include information from paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, which summarize the relationship between diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol and high in fruits, vegetables, and grain products that contain fiber and coronary heart disease, and the significance of the relationship.

(4) In specifying the nutrients, the claim may include the term "total fat" in addition to the terms "saturated fat" and "cholesterol."

(5) The claim may indicate that it is consistent with "Nutrition and Your Health: Dietary Guidelines for Americans," U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS), Government Printing Office (GPO).

(6) The claim may state that individuals with elevated blood total- and LDL-cholesterol should consult their physicians for medical advice and treatment. If the claim defines high or normal blood total- and LDL-cholesterol levels, then the claim shall state that individuals with high blood cholesterol should consult their physicians for medical advice and treatment.

(7) The claim may include information on the number of people in the United States who have heart disease. The sources of this information shall be identified, and it shall be current information from the National Center for Health Statistics, the National Institutes of Health, or "Nutrition and Your Health: Dietary Guidelines for Americans," USDA and DHHS, GPO.
