
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 101 - FOOD LABELING
##### Subpart E - Specific Requirements for Health Claims
###### ยง 101.78 Health claims: fruits and vegetables and cancer.
####### Optional information.

(d)(1) The claim may include information from paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, which summarize the relationship between diets low in fat and high in fruits and vegetables and some types of cancer and the significance of the relationship.

(2) The claim may identify one or more of the following risk factors for development of cancer: Family history of a specific type of cancer, cigarette smoking, alcohol consumption, overweight and obesity, ultraviolet or ionizing radiation, exposure to cancer-causing chemicals, and dietary factors.

(3) The claim may use the word "beta-carotene" in parentheses after the term vitamin A, provided that the vitamin A in the food bearing the claim is beta-carotene.

(4) The claim may indicate that it is consistent with "Nutrition and Your Health: Dietary Guidelines for Americans," U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS), Government Printing Office.

(5) The claim may include information on the number of people in the United States who have cancer. The sources of this information must be identified, and it must be current information from the National Center for Health Statistics, the National Institutes of Health, or "Nutrition and Your Health: Dietary Guidelines for Americans," USDA and DHHS, Government Printing Office.
