
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 101 - FOOD LABELING
##### Subpart E - Specific Requirements for Health Claims
###### ยง 101.80 Health claims: dietary noncariogenic carbohydrate sweeteners and dental caries.
####### Specific requirements,Nature of the claim.

(2)-(i)A health claim relating noncariogenic carbohydrate sweeteners, compared to other carbohydrates, and the nonpromotion of dental caries may be made on the label or labeling of a food described in paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section, provided that:

(A) The claim shall state that frequent between-meal consumption of foods high in sugars and starches can promote tooth decay.

(B) The claim shall state that the noncariogenic carbohydrate sweetener present in the food "does not promote," "may reduce the risk of," "useful [or is useful] in not promoting," or "expressly [or is expressly] for not promoting" dental caries.

(C) In specifying the nutrient, the claim shall state "sugar alcohol," "sugar alcohols," or the name or names of the substances listed in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, e.g., "sorbitol." D-tagatose may be identified as "tagatose."

(D) In specifying the disease, the claim uses the following terms: "dental caries" or "tooth decay."

(E) The claim shall not attribute any degree of the reduction in risk of dental caries to the use of the noncariogenic carbohydrate sweetener-containing food.

(F) The claim shall not imply that consuming noncariogenic carbohydrate sweetener-containing foods is the only recognized means of achieving a reduced risk of dental caries.

(G) Packages with less than 15 square inches of surface area available for labeling are exempt from paragraphs (A) and (C) of this section.

(H) When the substance that is the subject of the claim is a noncariogenic sugar, the claim shall identify the substance as a sugar that, unlike other sugars, does not promote the development of dental caries.
