
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 101 - FOOD LABELING
##### Subpart E - Specific Requirements for Health Claims
###### ยง 101.81 Health claims: Soluble fiber from certain foods and risk of coronary heart disease (CHD).
####### Significance of the relationship between diets that are low in saturated fat and cholesterol and that include soluble fiber from certain foods and the risk of CHD.

(b)(1) CHD is a major public health concern in the United States. It accounts for more deaths than any other disease or group of diseases. Early management of risk factors for CHD is a major public health goal that can assist in reducing risk of CHD. High blood total and LDL-cholesterol are major modifiable risk factors in the development of CHD.

(2) Intakes of saturated fat exceed recommended levels in the diets of many people in the United States. One of the major public health recommendations relative to CHD risk is to consume less than 10 percent of calories from saturated fat and an average of 30 percent or less of total calories from all fat. Recommended daily cholesterol intakes are 300 milligrams (mg) or less per day. Scientific evidence demonstrates that diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol are associated with lower blood total- and LDL-cholesterol levels. Soluble fiber from certain foods, when included in a low saturated fat and cholesterol diet, also helps to lower blood total- and LDL-cholesterol levels.
