
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 101 - FOOD LABELING
##### Subpart E - Specific Requirements for Health Claims
###### ยง 101.81 Health claims: Soluble fiber from certain foods and risk of coronary heart disease (CHD).
####### 5,Whole grain barley and dry milled barley.,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

()Dehulled and hull-less whole grain barley with a &#x3B2;-glucan soluble fiber content of at least 4 percent (dwb) and a total dietary fiber content of at least 10 percent (dwb). Dry milled barley grain products include barley bran, barley flakes, barley grits, pearl barley, barley flour, barley meal, and sieved barley meal that are produced from clean, sound dehulled or hull-less barley grain using standard dry milling techniques, which may include steaming or tempering, and that contain at least 4 percent (dwb) of &#x3B2;-glucan soluble fiber and at least 8 percent (dwb) of total dietary fiber, except barley bran and sieved barley meal for which the minimum &#x3B2;-glucan soluble fiber content is 5.5 percent (dwb) and minimum total dietary fiber content is 15 percent (dwb). Dehulled barley, hull-less barley, barley bran, barley flakes, barley grits, pearl barley, and barley flour are as defined in the Barley Glossary (AACC Method 55-99), published in Approved Methods of the American Association of Cereal Chemists, 10th ed. (2000), pp. 1 and 2, which is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from the American Association of Cereal Chemists, Inc., 3340 Pilot Knob Rd., St. Paul, Minnesota, 55121, or may be examined at the Dockets Management Staff (HFA-305), Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, Rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852, 240-402-7500, between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:Barley meal is unsifted, ground barley grain not subjected to any processing to separate the bran, germ, and endosperm. Sieved barley meal is an endosperm cell wall-enriched fraction of ground barley separated from meal by sieving or by air classification.
