
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 102 - COMMON OR USUAL NAME FOR NONSTANDARDIZED FOODS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Nonstandardized Foods
###### ยง 102.23 Peanut spreads.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(1) Protein quantity: "Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists" (AOAC), 13th Ed. (1980), using the method described in section 27.007, which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(2) Biological quality of protein: AOAC, 13th Ed. (1980), using the method described in sections 43.212-43.216, which is incorporated by reference. The availability of this incorporation by reference is given in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(3) Niacin: AOAC, 13th Ed. (1980), using the method described in sections 43.044-43.046, which is incorporated by reference. The availability of this incorporation by reference is given in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(4) Vitamin B: AOAC, 13th Ed. (1980), using the method described in sections 43.188-43.193, which is incorporated by reference. The availability of this incorporation by reference is given in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
