
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 102 - COMMON OR USUAL NAME FOR NONSTANDARDIZED FOODS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Nonstandardized Foods
###### ยง 102.23 Peanut spreads.
####### Journal of Dairy Research,,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(5) Folic acid: Using the method described in U.S. Department of Agriculture Handbook No. 29, modified by use of ascorbate buffer as described by Ford and Scott,35:85-90 (1968), which is incorporated by reference. Copies are available from the Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition (HFS-800), Food and Drug Administration, 5001 Campus Dr., College Park, MD 20740, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(6) Iron: AOAC, 13th Ed. (1980), using the method described in sections 43.217-43.219, which is incorporated by reference. The availability of this incorporation by reference is given in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(7) Zinc: AOAC, 13th Ed. (1980), using the method described in sections 25.150-25.153, which is incorporated by reference. The availability of this incorporation by reference is given in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(8) Copper: AOAC, 13th Ed. (1980), using the method described in sections 25.038-25.043, which is incorporated by reference. The availability of this incorporation by reference is given in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(9) Magnesium: AOAC, 13th Ed. (1980), using the method described in sections 2.109-2.113, which is incorporated by reference. The availability of this incorporation by reference is given in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
