
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 106 - INFANT FORMULA REQUIREMENTS PERTAINING TO CURRENT GOOD MANUFACTURING PRACTICE, QUALITY CONTROL PROCEDURES, QUALITY FACTORS, RECORDS AND REPORTS, AND NOTIFICATIONS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 106.1 Status and applicability of the regulations in part 106.

(a) The criteria set forth in subparts B, C, and D of this part prescribe the steps that manufacturers shall take under section 412(b)(2) and (b)(3) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 350a(b)(2) and (b)(3)) in processing infant formula. If the processing of the formula does not comply with any regulation in subparts B, C, or D of this part, the formula will be deemed to be adulterated under section 412(a)(3) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.

(b) The criteria set forth in subpart E of this part prescribe the requirements for quality factors that infant formula shall meet under section 412(b)(1) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. If the formula fails to comply with any regulation in subpart E of this part, it will be deemed to be adulterated under section 412(a)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.

(c) The criteria set forth in subpart F of this part prescribe records requirements for quality factors under section 412(b)(1) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and for good manufacturing practices and quality control procedures, including distribution and audit records, under section 412(b)(2). If an infant formula manufacturer fails to comply with the quality factor record requirements in subpart F of this part with respect to an infant formula, the formula will be deemed to be adulterated under section 412(a)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. If an infant formula manufacturer fails to comply with the good manufacturing practices or quality control procedures record requirements in subpart F of this part with respect to an infant formula, the infant formula will be deemed to be adulterated under section 412(a)(3) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. The criteria set forth in subpart F of this part also implement record retention requirements under section 412(b)(4) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. Failure to comply with any regulation in subpart F of this part is a violation of section 301(e) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 331(e)).

(d) The criteria set forth in subpart G of this part describe, in part, certain good manufacturing practices, quality control procedures, and quality factor records requirements under section 412(b)(1) and (b)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. If an infant formula manufacturer fails to comply with such records requirements with respect to an infant formula, the infant formula will be deemed to be adulterated under section 412(a)(2) or (a)(3) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as applicable. The criteria set forth in subpart G of this part also describe the circumstances in which an infant formula manufacturer is required to register with, submit to, or notify the Food and Drug Administration, and the content of a registration, submission, or notification, under section 412(c), (d), and (e) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. Failure to comply with any regulation in subpart G of this part is a violation of section 301(s) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
