
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 106 - INFANT FORMULA REQUIREMENTS PERTAINING TO CURRENT GOOD MANUFACTURING PRACTICE, QUALITY CONTROL PROCEDURES, QUALITY FACTORS, RECORDS AND REPORTS, AND NOTIFICATIONS
##### Subpart B - Current Good Manufacturing Practice
###### ยง 106.20 Controls to prevent adulteration caused by facilities.

(a) Buildings used in the manufacture, processing, packing, or holding of infant formula shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition and shall have space for the separation of incompatible operations, such as the handling of raw materials, the manufacture of the product, and packaging and labeling operations.

(b) Separate areas or another system of separation, such as a computerized inventory control, a written card system, or an automated system of segregation, shall be used for holding raw materials, in-process materials, and final infant formula product at the following times:

(1) Pending release for use in infant formula production or pending release of the final product;

(2) After rejection for use in, or as, infant formula; and

(3) After release for use in infant formula production or after release of the final product.

(c) Lighting shall allow easy identification of raw materials, packaging, labeling, in-process materials, and finished products that have been released for use in infant formula production and shall permit the easy reading of instruments and controls necessary in processing, packaging, and laboratory analysis. Any lighting fixtures directly over or adjacent to exposed raw materials, in-process materials, or bulk (unpackaged) finished product shall be protected to prevent glass from contaminating the product in the event of breakage.

(d) A manufacturer shall provide adequate ventilation or control equipment to minimize odors and vapors (including steam and noxious fumes) in areas where they may contaminate the infant formula; and shall minimize the potential for contamination of raw materials, in-process materials, final product infant formula, packing materials, and infant formula-contact surfaces, through the use of appropriate measures, which may include the use of air filtration.

(e) All rodenticides, insecticides, fungicides, fumigating agents, and cleaning and sanitizing agents shall be stored and used in a manner that protects against contamination of infant formula.

(f) Potable water used in the manufacture of infant formula shall meet the standards prescribed in the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA's) Primary Drinking Water regulations in 40 CFR part 141, except that the water used in infant formula manufacturing shall not be fluoridated or shall be defluoridated to a level as low as possible prior to use.

(1) The water shall be supplied under continuous positive pressure in a plumbing system that is free of defects that could contaminate an infant formula.

(2) A manufacturer shall test representative samples of the potable water drawn at a point in the system at which the water is in the same condition that it will be when it is used in infant formula manufacturing.

(3) A manufacturer shall conduct the tests required by paragraph (f)(2) of this section with sufficient frequency to ensure that the water meets the EPA's Primary Drinking Water Regulations but shall not conduct these tests less frequently than annually for chemical contaminants, every 4 years for radiological contaminants, and weekly for bacteriological contaminants.

(4) A manufacturer shall make and retain records, in accordance with ยง 106.100(f)(1), of the frequency and results of testing of the water used in the production of infant formula.

(g) There shall be no backflow from, or cross-connection between, piping systems that discharge waste water or sewage and piping systems that carry water for infant formula manufacturing.

(h) Only culinary steam shall be used at all direct infant formula product contact points. Culinary steam shall be in compliance with the 3-A Sanitary Standards, No. 60903, which is incorporated by reference at ยง 106.160. Boiler water additives in the steam shall be used in accordance with ยง 173.310 of this chapter.

(i) Each infant formula manufacturing site shall provide its employees with readily accessible toilet facilities and hand washing facilities that include hot and cold water, soap or detergent, single-service towels or air dryers in toilet facilities. These facilities shall be maintained in good repair and in a sanitary condition at all times. These facilities shall provide for proper disposal of the sewage. Doors to the toilet facility shall not open into areas where infant formula, ingredients, containers, or closures are processed, handled, or stored, except where alternate means have been taken to protect against contamination.
