
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 106 - INFANT FORMULA REQUIREMENTS PERTAINING TO CURRENT GOOD MANUFACTURING PRACTICE, QUALITY CONTROL PROCEDURES, QUALITY FACTORS, RECORDS AND REPORTS, AND NOTIFICATIONS
##### Subpart B - Current Good Manufacturing Practice
###### ยง 106.35 Controls to prevent adulteration due to automatic (mechanical or electronic) equipment.

(a) For the purposes of this section:

(1) "Hardware" means all automatic equipment, including mechanical and electronic equipment (such as computers), that is used in production or quality control of infant formula.

(2) "Software" means any programs, procedures, rules, and associated documentation used in the operation of a system.

(3) "System" means a collection of components (including software and hardware) organized to accomplish a specific function or set of functions in a specified environment.

(4) "Validation" means establishing documented evidence that provides a high degree of assurance that a system will consistently produce a product meeting its predetermined specifications and quality characteristics. Validation can be accomplished through any suitable means, such as verification studies or modeling.

(b) All systems shall be designed, installed, tested, and maintained in a manner that will ensure that they are capable of performing their intended function and of producing or analyzing infant formula in accordance with this subpart and subpart C of this part.

(1) A manufacturer shall ensure, at any point, step, or stage where control is necessary to prevent adulteration of the infant formula, that all hardware is routinely inspected and checked according to written procedures and that hardware that is capable of being calibrated is routinely calibrated according to written procedures.

(2) A manufacturer shall check and document the accuracy of input into, and output generated by, any system used in the production or quality control of an infant formula to ensure that the infant formula is not adulterated. The degree and frequency of input/output verification shall be based on the complexity and reliability of the system and the level of risk associated with the safe operation of the system.

(3) A manufacturer shall ensure that each system is validated prior to the release for distribution of any infant formula manufactured using the system.

(4) A manufacturer shall ensure that any system that is modified is revalidated following the modification and prior to the release for distribution of any infant formula manufactured using the modified system. All modifications to software shall be made by a designated individual and shall be checked by the infant formula manufacturer to ensure that infant formula that is produced or analyzed using the modified software complies with this subpart and with subpart C of this part.

(c) A manufacturer shall make and retain records, in accordance with ยง 106.100(f)(5), concerning mechanical or electronic equipment.
