
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 107 - INFANT FORMULA
##### Subpart C - Exempt Infant Formulas
###### ยง 107.50 Terms and conditions.
####### Infant formulas generally available at the retail level.

(b)(1) These exempt infant formulas can generally be purchased from retail store shelves that are readily available to the public. Such formulas are also typically represented and labeled for use to provide dietary management for diseases or conditions that are not clinically serious or life-threatening, even though such formulas may also be represented and labeled for use in clinically serious or life-threatening disorders.

(2) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(4) and (5) of this section, an infant formula manufacturer shall, with respect to each formula covered by this paragraph, comply with the nutrient requirements of section 412(g) of the act or of regulations promulgated under section 412(a)(2) of the act, the quality control procedure requirements of part 106, and the labeling requirements of subpart B of this part.

(3) To retain the exempt status of an infant formula covered by this paragraph, the manufacturer shall submit to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), at the address specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, on or before May 21, 1986, or on or before the 90th day before the first processing of the infant formula for commercial or charitable distribution, whichever occurs later, the label and other labeling of the infant formula, a complete quantitative formulation for the infant formula, and a detailed description of the medical conditions for which the infant formula is represented. FDA will review the information under paragraph (d) of this section.

(4) To retain the exempt status of an infant formula covered by this paragraph, when any change in ingredients or processes that may result in an adverse impact on levels of nutrients or availability of nutrients is instituted, the manufacturer shall submit to FDA at the address specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, before the first processing of the infant formula, the label and other labeling of the infant formula, a complete quantitative formulation for the infant formula, a detailed description of the reformulation and the rationale for the reformulation, a complete description of the change in processing, and a detailed description of the medical conditions for which the infant formula is represented. FDA will review that information under paragraph (d) of this section.

(5) A manufacturer may deviate from the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) of this section only with respect to those specific requirements for which it submits to FDA, at the address specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the medical, nutritional, scientific, or technological rationale (including any appropriate animal or human clinical studies). FDA will review that information under paragraph (d) of this section.
