
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 107 - INFANT FORMULA
##### Subpart C - Exempt Infant Formulas
###### ยง 107.50 Terms and conditions.
####### Infant formulas not generally available at the retail level.

(c)(1) These exempt infant formulas are not generally found on retail shelves for general consumer purchase. Such formulas typically are prescribed by a physician, and must be requested from a pharmacist or are distributed directly to institutions such as hospitals, clinics, and State or Federal agencies. Such formulas are also generally represented and labeled solely to provide dietary management for specific diseases or conditions that are clinically serious or life-threatening and generally are required for prolonged periods of time. Exempt infant formulas distributed directly to institutions such as hospitals, clinics, and State or Federal agencies that are of the same formulation as those generally available at the retail level are subject to the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section rather than to the requirements of this paragraph.

(2) Except as provided for in paragraph (c)(5) of this section, an infant formula manufacturer shall, with respect to each formula covered by this paragraph, comply with the nutrient requirements of section 412(g) of the act or of regulations promulgated under section 412(a)(2) of the act, and the labeling requirements of subpart B of this part.

(3) Each manufacturer of an infant formula covered by this paragraph shall establish quality control procedures designed to ensure that the infant formula meets applicable nutrient requirements of this section, including any special nutritional characteristics for the specific disorders or conditions for which the formula is represented for use. Each manufacturer shall maintain records of such quality control procedures sufficient to permit a public health evaluation of each manufactured batch of infant formula and shall permit any authorized FDA employee at all reasonable times to have access to and to copy and verify the records referred to in this paragraph.

(4) To retain the exempt status of an infant formula covered by this paragraph, the manufacturer shall submit the information required by paragraphs (b)(3) and (4) of this section.

(5) A manufacturer may deviate from the requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section only with respect to those specific requirements for which it submits to FDA, at the address specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the medical, nutritional, scientific, or technological rationale (including any appropriate animal or human clinical studies). FDA will review that information under paragraph (d) of this section.

(6) The requirements of this section do not apply to an infant formula specially and individually prepared for one or more specific infants on a physician's request.
