
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 107 - INFANT FORMULA
##### Subpart C - Exempt Infant Formulas
###### ยง 107.50 Terms and conditions.
####### FDA review of exempt status.

(d)(1) FDA's Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition will review information submitted by infant formula manufacturers under paragraph (b) (3), (b) (4), or (c)(4) of this section. On the basis of such review and other information available to the agency, the Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition may impose additional conditions on, or modify requirements for, the quality control procedures, nutrient specifications, or labeling of an infant formula, or withdraw a product's exempt status. Such determinations will be made by the Director of the Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition.

(2)(i) If after completing its review of all information submitted, the Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition concludes that additional or modified quality control, nutrient, or labeling requirements are needed, or that a product's exempt status is withdrawn, the Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition will so notify the manufacturer and this notification will specify the reasons therefor. Upon receipt of this notification, the manufacturer has 10 working days to have the decision reviewed under ยง 10.75 by the office of the Commissioner of Food and Drugs. A determination by the Director of the Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition that is not appealed becomes a final agency decision.

(ii) After a final decision by the Director or by the office of the Commissioner that a product's exempt status is withdrawn, the manufacturer shall comply with the nutrient requirements of section 412(g) of the act or of regulations promulgated under section 412(a)(2) of the act, the quality control requirements of part 106, and the labeling requirements of subpart B of this part.

(iii) The compliance date for the withdrawal of a product's exempt status or the imposition of additional or modified quality control, nutrient, or labeling requirements is 60 calendar days after issuance of the final decision except as otherwise provided for reasons stated in the decision. If the agency determines that a health hazard may exist and so notifies the manufacturer, withdrawal of a product's exempt status shall be effective on the date of receipt of notification from the Director of the Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition. Additional or modified requirements, or the withdrawal of an exemption, apply only to those formulas that are manufactured after the compliance date. A postponement of the compliance date may be granted for good cause.

(3) FDA may decide that withdrawal of an exemption is necessary when, on the basis of its review under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, it concludes that quality control procedures are not adequate to ensure that the formula contains all required nutrients, that deviations in nutrient levels are not supported by generally accepted scientific, nutritional, or medical rationale, or that deviations from subpart B of this part are not necessary to provide appropriate directions for preparation and use of the infant formula, or that additional labeling information is necessary.

(4) FDA will use the following criteria in determining whether deviations from the requirements of this subpart are necessary and will adequately protect the public health:

(i) A deviation from the nutrient requirements of section 412(g) of the act or of regulations promulgated under section 412(a)(2) of the act is necessary to provide an infant formula that is appropriate for the dietary management of a specific disease, disorder, or medical condition;

(ii) For exempt infant formulas subject to paragraph (b) of this section, a deviation from the quality control procedures requirements of part 106 is necessary because of unusual or difficult technological problems in manufacturing the infant formula; and

(iii) A deviation from the labeling requirements of subpart B of this part is necessary because label information, including pictograms and symbols required by those regulations, could lead to inappropriate use of the product.
