
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 108 - EMERGENCY PERMIT CONTROL
##### Subpart B - Specific Requirements and Conditions for Exemption From or Compliance With an Emergency Permit
###### ยง 108.25 Acidified foods.
####### Imports.

(j)(1) This section applies to any foreign commercial processor engaged in the processing of acidified foods and offering those foods for import into the United States except that, in lieu of providing for the issuance of an emergency permit under paragraph (a) of this section, the Commissioner will request the Secretary of the Treasury to refuse admission into the United States, under section 801 of the act, to any acidified foods which the Commissioner determines, after investigation, may result in the distribution in interstate commerce of processed foods that may be injurious to health as set forth in paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) Any acidified food so refused admission shall not be admitted until the Commissioner determines that the commercial processor offering the food for import has complied with the requirements of this section and that the food is not injurious to health. To assist the Commissioner in making this determination, a duly authorized employee of the Food and Drug Administration shall be permitted to inspect the commercial processor's manufacturing, processing, and packing facilities.

(k) The following information submitted to the Food and Drug Administration under this section is not available for public disclosure unless it has been previously disclosed to the public as defined in ยง 20.81 of this chapter or it relates to a product or ingredient that has been abandoned and no longer represents a trade secret or confidential commercial or financial information as defined in ยง 20.61 of this chapter:

(1) Manufacturing methods or processes, including quality control information.

(2) Production, sales, distribution, and similar information, except that any compilation of the information aggregated and prepared in a way that does not reveal information which is not available for public disclosure under this provision is available for public disclosure.

(3) Quantitative or semiquantitative formulas.
