
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 109 - UNAVOIDABLE CONTAMINANTS IN FOOD FOR HUMAN CONSUMPTION AND FOOD-PACKAGING MATERIAL
##### Subpart B - Tolerances for Unavoidable Poisonous or Deleterious Substances
###### ยง 109.30 Tolerances for polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB's).
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(c) A barrier is functional for purposes of paragraph (a)(9) of this section if the barrier limits migration of PCB's from the packaging material to food to a level not exceeding the migration which occurs under the same test conditions from packaging material containing 10 parts per million PCB without the use of a barrier. A class of barrier material is functional for purposes of paragraph (a)(9) of this section if a representative barrier of the class limits migration of PCB's from the packaging material to food to a level not exceeding the migration which occurs under the same test conditions from packaging material containing 10 parts per million PCB without the use of a barrier. Migration levels shall be determined for purpose of this paragraph solely by use of testing conditions described in "Test Procedures for Determination of PCB Permeability of Food Packaging, Inner-Wraps, September 1976, revised May 1983", which is incorporated by reference. Copies are available from the Division of Dockets Management (HFA-305), Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:A class of barrier material shall be deemed functional only if the definition of the class and the designation of one or more representative barriers has been approved by the Director, Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, Food and Drug Administration. In the event that the Director, Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, does not approve a proposal made to the Center regarding the definition of a class of barrier material or the designation of representative barriers, the Director shall advise the person making the proposal of the reasons for the Center's disapproval within 90 days of receipt of the proposal. All proposals for definition of classes and determinations of the Food and Drug Administration regarding such proposals shall be on file with the Division of Dockets Management (HFA-305), Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852.

(d) Any person who asserts that a barrier or class of barriers is functional shall submit the results of tests conducted to determine the functionality of the barrier or class of barriers to Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition (HFS-308), Food and Drug Administration, 5001 Campus Dr., College Park, MD 20740. All barriers or classes of barriers shall be tested with the four solid food receptors specified in "Test Procedures for Determination of PCB Permeability of Food Packaging, Inner-Wraps, September 1976, revised May 1983", which is incorporated by reference. The availability of this reference is given in paragraph (c) of this section. The test results as to each barrier shall be accompanied by (1) a description of the barrier's composition adequate to enable identification; and (2) a specific definition of the barrier by relevant technical characteristics. The Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition shall review submitted test results promptly. Within 60 days of the receipt of test results, the Director, Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, shall notify the person submitting the test results whether the tests were conducted in accordance with the "Analytical Methodology for Polychlorinated Biphenyls; June 1979", which is incorporated by reference, or the "Test Procedures for Determination of PCB Permeability of Food Packaging, Inner-Wraps, September 1976, revised May 1983" and whether, therefore, the barrier or class of barriers is deemed functional within the meaning of paragraph (c) of this section. The test results and any response of the Food and Drug Administration shall be placed on file with the Division of Dockets Management, Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852.
