
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 113 - THERMALLY PROCESSED LOW-ACID FOODS PACKAGED IN HERMETICALLY SEALED CONTAINERS
##### Subpart C - Equipment
###### ยง 113.40 Equipment and procedures.
####### Equipment and procedures for pressure processing in steam in still retorts,Temperature-indicating device.

(a)-(1)Each retort shall be equipped with at least one temperature-indicating device that accurately indicates the temperature during processing. Each temperature-indicating device shall have a sensor and a display. Each temperature-indicating device and each reference device that is maintained by the processor shall be tested for accuracy against a reference device for which the accuracy is traceable to a National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), or other national metrology institute, standard reference device by appropriate standard procedures, upon installation and at least once a year thereafter, or more frequently if necessary, to ensure accuracy during processing. Each temperature-indicating device and each reference device that is maintained by the processor shall have a tag, seal, or other means of identity.

(i) The design of the temperature-indicating device shall ensure that the accuracy of the device is not affected by electromagnetic interference and environmental conditions.

(ii) Records of the accuracy of the temperature-indicating device and of a reference device that is maintained by the processor shall be established and maintained in accordance with ยง 113.100(c) and (d).

(iii) A temperature-indicating device that is defective or cannot be adjusted to the accurate calibrated reference device shall be repaired before further use or replaced.

(iv) A temperature-indicating device shall be accurate to 1 &#xB0;F (0.5 &#xB0;C). The temperature range of a mercury-in-glass thermometer shall not exceed 17 &#xB0;F per inch (4 &#xB0;C per centimeter) of graduated scale. A mercury-in-glass thermometer that has a divided mercury column shall be considered defective.

(v) Each temperature-indicating device shall be installed where it can be accurately and easily read. The temperature-indicating device sensor shall be installed either within the retort shell or in external wells attached to the retort. External wells or pipes shall be connected to the retort through at least a-inch (2 centimeters) diameter opening and equipped with a-inch (1.5 millimeters) or larger bleeder opening so located as to provide a full flow of steam past the length of the temperature-indicating device sensor. The bleeders for external wells shall emit steam continuously during the entire processing period. The temperature-indicating device-not the temperature recording device-shall be the reference instrument for indicating the processing temperature.
