
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 118 - PRODUCTION, STORAGE, AND TRANSPORTATION OF SHELL EGGS
##### ยง 118.8 Testing methodology for Salmonella Enteritidis (SE).
###### Testing of environmental samples for SE.,Salmonella,Salmonella,http://www.fda.gov/Food/ScienceResearch/LaboratoryMethods/ucm114716.htm,Salmonella,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(a)Testing to detect SE in environmental samples must be conducted by the method entitled "Environmental Sampling and Detection ofin Poultry Houses," April 2008, or an equivalent method in accuracy, precision, and sensitivity in detecting SE. The April 2008 Environmental Sampling and Detection ofWeb site is located at, current as of June 26, 2009. The Director of the Federal Register approves the incorporation by reference of "Environmental Sampling and Detection ofin Poultry Houses," April 2008, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. FDA will request approval to incorporate by reference any updates to this Web site. FDA will change the date of the Web site in this paragraph with each update. You may obtain a copy from Division of Microbiology (HFS-710), Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, Food and Drug Administration, 5001 Campus Dr., College Park, MD 20740, 301-436-2364, or you may examine a copy at the Food and Drug Administration's Main Library, 10903 New Hampshire Ave., Bldg. 2, Third Floor, Silver Spring, MD 20993, 301-796-2039, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
