
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 129 - PROCESSING AND BOTTLING OF BOTTLED DRINKING WATER
##### Subpart B - Buildings and Facilities
###### ยง 129.35 Sanitary facilities.
####### Product water and operations water from approved sources.,Escherichia coli.,E. coli,E. coli,E. coli,E. coli,E. coli,E. coli,E. coli,E. coli

(3)(i) Samples of source water from each source in use by the plant are to be taken and analyzed by the plant as often as necessary, but at a minimum frequency of once each year for chemical contaminants and once every 4 years for radiological contaminants. Additionally, source water obtained from other than a public water system is to be sampled and analyzed for total coliform at least once each week. If any coliform organisms are detected, follow-up testing must be conducted to determine whether any of the coliform organisms areThis sampling is in addition to any performed by government agencies having jurisdiction. Source water found to containis not considered water of a safe, sanitary quality as required for use in bottled water by paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Before a bottler can use source water from a source that has tested positive for, the bottler must take appropriate measures to rectify or otherwise eliminate the cause ofcontamination of that source in a manner sufficient to prevent its reoccurrence. A source previously found to containwill be considered negative forafter five samples collected over a 24-hour period from the same sampling site that originally tested positive forare tested and found to benegative. Records of approval of the source water by government agencies having jurisdiction, records of sampling and analyses for which the plant is responsible, and records describing corrective measures taken in response to a finding ofare to be maintained on file at the plant.

(ii) Test and sample methods shall be those recognized and approved by the government agency or agencies having jurisdiction over the approval of the water source, and shall be consistent with the minimum requirements set forth in ยง 165.110(b) of this chapter.
