
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 129 - PROCESSING AND BOTTLING OF BOTTLED DRINKING WATER
##### Subpart E - Production and Process Controls
###### ยง 129.80 Processes and controls.
####### Sanitizing operations.

(d)Sanitizing operations, including those performed by chemical means or by any other means such as circulation of live steam or hot water, shall be adequate to effect sanitization of the intended product water-contact surfaces and any other critical area. The plant should maintain a record of the intensity of the sanitizing agent and the time duration that the agent was in contact with the surface being sanitized. The following times and intensities shall be considered a minimum:

(1) Steam in enclosed system: At least 170 &#xB0;F for at least 15 minutes or at least 200 &#xB0;F for at least 5 minutes.

(2) Hot water in enclosed system: At least 170 &#xB0;F for at least 15 minutes or at least 200 &#xB0;F for at least 5 minutes.

(3) Chemical sanitizers shall be equivalent in bactericidal action to a 2-minute exposure of 50 parts per million of available chlorine at 57 &#xB0;F when used as an immersion or circulating solution. Chemical sanitizers applied as a spray or fog shall have as a minimum 100 parts per million of available chlorine at 57 &#xB0;F or its equivalent in bactericidal action.

(4) 0.1 part per million ozone water solution in an enclosed system for at least 5 minutes.

(5) When containers are sanitized using a substance other than one provided for in ยง 178.1010 of this chapter, such substance shall be removed from the surface of the container by a rinsing procedure. The final rinse, prior to filling the container with product water, shall be performed with a disinfected water rinse free of pathogenic bacteria or by an additional sanitizing procedure equivalent in bactericidal action to that required in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.
