
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 131 - MILK AND CREAM
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Milk and Cream
###### ยง 131.111 Acidified milk.
####### Other optional ingredients.,Provided,

(e)(1) Concentrated skim milk, nonfat dry milk, buttermilk, whey, lactose, lactalbumins, lactoglobulins, or whey modified by partial or complete removal of lactose and/or minerals, to increase the nonfat solids content of the food:That the ratio of protein to total nonfat solids of the food, and the protein efficiency ratio of all protein present, shall not be decreased as a result of adding such ingredients.

(2) Nutritive carbohydrate sweeteners. Sugar (sucrose), beet or cane; invert sugar (in paste or sirup form); brown sugar; refiner's sirup; molasses (other than blackstrap); high fructose corn sirup; fructose; fructose sirup; maltose; maltose sirup, dried maltose sirup; malt extract, dried malt extract; malt sirup, dried malt sirup; honey; maple sugar; or any of the sweeteners listed in part 168 of this chapter, except table sirup.

(3) Flavoring ingredients.

(4) Color additives that do not impart a color simulating that of milkfat or butterfat.

(5) Stabilizers.

(6) Butterfat or milkfat, which may or may not contain color additives, in the form of flakes or granules.

(7) Aroma- and flavor-producing microbial culture.

(8) Salt.

(9) Citric acid, in a maximum amount of 0.15 percent by weight of the milk used, or an equivalent amount of sodium citrate, as a flavor precursor.
