
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 131 - MILK AND CREAM
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Milk and Cream
###### ยง 131.112 Cultured milk.
####### Nomenclature.

(f)The name of the food is "cultured milk". The full name of the food shall appear on the principal display panel in type of uniform size, style, and color. The name of the food shall be accompanied by a declaration indicating the presence of any characterizing flavoring as specified in ยง 101.22 of this chapter, and may be accompanied by a declaration such as a traditional name of the food or the generic name of the organisms used, thereby indicating the presence of the characterizing microbial organisms or ingredients, e.g., "kefir cultured milk", "acidophilus cultured milk", or when characterizing ingredients such as those in paragraphs (d) (6), (7), (8), and (9) of this section, and lactic acid-producing organisms are used the food may be named "cultured buttermilk".

(1) The following terms shall accompany the name of the food wherever it appears on the principal display panel or panels of the label in letters not less than one-half of the height of the letters used in such name:

(i) The phrase "vitamin A" or "vitamin A added", or "vitamin D" or "vitamin D added", or "vitamin A and D added", as appropriate. The word "vitamin" may be abbreviated "vit.".

(ii) The word "sweetened" if nutritive carbohydrate sweetener is added without the addition of characterizing flavoring.

(2) The term "homogenized" may appear on the label if the dairy ingredients used are homogenized.
