
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 131 - MILK AND CREAM
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Milk and Cream
###### ยง 131.200 Yogurt.
####### Nomenclature.

(f)The name of the food is "yogurt." The name of the food must be accompanied by a declaration indicating the presence of any characterizing flavoring as specified in ยง 101.22 of this chapter.

(1) The following term(s) must accompany the name of the food wherever it appears on the principal display panel or panels of the label in letters not less than one-half of the height of the letters used in such name:

(i) The word "sweetened" if a nutritive carbohydrate sweetener is added without the addition of characterizing flavor.

(ii) The phrase "does not contain live and active cultures" if the dairy ingredients have been treated after culturing to inactivate viable microorganisms.

(iii) The phrase "vitamin A" or "vitamin A added", or "vitamin D" or "vitamin D added", or "vitamins A and D added", as appropriate. The word "vitamin" may be abbreviated "vit".

(2) The name of the food may be accompanied by the phrase "contains live and active cultures" or another appropriate descriptor if the food contains a minimum level of live and active cultures of 10colony forming units per gram (CFU/g) at the time of manufacture with a reasonable expectation of 10CFU/g through the manufacturer's assigned shelf life of the product.

(3) The term "homogenized" may appear on the label if the dairy ingredients used are homogenized.
