
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 131 - MILK AND CREAM
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Milk and Cream
###### ยง 131.200 Yogurt.
####### Incorporation by reference.,fedreg.legal@nara.gov,www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.

(i)The standards required in this section are incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. To enforce any edition other than that specified in this section, FDA must publish a document in theand the material must be available to the public. All approved material is available for inspection at the Food and Drug Administration's Dockets Management Staff, 5630 Fishers Lane, Rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852, 240-402-7500, and is available from the sources indicated in this paragraph (i). It is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, emailor go to

(1) AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 2275 Research Blvd., Suite 300, Rockville, MD 20850-3250:

(i) AOAC Official Method 947.05, Acidity of Milk Titrimetric Method, Section 33.2.06, Official Methods of Analysis, 21st edition, 2019, Vol. 1.

(ii) AOAC Official Method 989.05, Fat in Milk Modified Mojonnier Ether Extraction Method, Section 33.2.26, Official Methods of Analysis, 21st edition, 2019, Vol. 1.

(iii) AOAC Official Method 990.21, Solids-Not-Fat in Milk by Difference between Total Solids and Fat Contents, Section 33.2.45, Official Methods of Analysis, 21st edition, 2019, Vol. 1.

(2) ISO, ISO Central Secretariat, Chemin de Blandonnet 8, CP 401, 1214 Vernier, Geneva, Switzerland.

(i) ISO 7889:2003(E), Yogurt-Enumeration of Characteristic Microorganisms-Colony-Count Technique at 37 &#xB0;C, First edition, 2003-02-01.

(ii) [Reserved]
