
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 133 - CHEESES AND RELATED CHEESE PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Cheese and Related Products
###### ยง 133.133 Cream cheese.
####### Description.

(a)(1) Cream cheese is the soft, uncured cheese prepared by the procedure set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, or by any other procedure which produces a finished cheese having the same physical and chemical properties. The minimum milkfat content is 33 percent by weight of the finished food, and the maximum moisture content is 55 percent by weight, as determined by the methods described in ยง 133.5. The dairy ingredients used are pasteurized.

(2) One or more of the dairy ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section may be homogenized and is subjected to the action of lactic acid-producing bacterial culture. One or more of the clotting enzymes specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is added to coagulate the dairy ingredients. The coagulated mass may be warmed and stirred and it is drained. The moisture content may be adjusted with one or more of the optional ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section. The curd may be pressed, chilled, and worked and it may be heated until it becomes fluid. It may then be homogenized or otherwise mixed. One or more of the optional dairy ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(1) and the other optional ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section may be added during the procedure.
