
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - GENERAL ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### Subpart B - General Labeling Requirements
###### ยง 1.20 Presence of mandatory label information.
####### package

In the regulations specified in ยง 1.1(c) of this chapter, the termmeans any container or wrapping in which any food, drug, device, or cosmetic is enclosed for use in the delivery or display of such commodities to retail purchasers, but does not include:

(a) Shipping containers or wrappings used solely for the transportation of any such commodity in bulk or in quantity to manufacturers, packers, processors, or wholesale or retail distributors;

(b) Shipping containers or outer wrappings used by retailers to ship or deliver any such commodity to retail customers if such containers and wrappings bear no printed matter pertaining to any particular commodity; or

(c) Containers subject to the provisions of the Act of August 3, 1912 (37 Stat. 250, as amended; 15 U.S.C. 231-233), the Act of March 4, 1915 (38 Stat. 1186, as amended; 15 U.S.C. 234-236), the Act of August 31, 1916 (39 Stat. 673, as amended; 15 U.S.C. 251-256), or the Act of May 21, 1928 (45 Stat. 635, as amended; 15 U.S.C. 257-257i).

(d) Containers used for tray pack displays in retail establishments.

(e) Transparent wrappers or containers which do not bear written, printed, or graphic matter obscuring the label information required by this part.
