
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 133 - CHEESES AND RELATED CHEESE PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Cheese and Related Products
###### ยง 133.138 Edam cheese.
####### Description.

(a)(1) Edam cheese is the food prepared by the procedure set forth in paragraph (a)(3) of this section or by any other procedure which produces a finished cheese having the same physical and chemical properties. The minimum milkfat content is 40 percent by weight of the solids and the maximum moisture content is 45 percent by weight, as determined by the methods described in ยง 133.5. If the dairy ingredients used are not pasteurized, the cheese is cured at a temperature of not less than 35 &#xB0;F for at least 60 days.

(2) If pasteurized dairy ingredients are used, the phenol equivalent value of 0.25 gram of edam cheese is not more than 3 micrograms, as determined by the method described in ยง 133.5.

(3) One or more of the dairy ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section may be warmed and is subjected to the action of a lactic acid-producing bacterial culture. One or more of the clotting enzymes specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is added to set the dairy ingredients to a semisolid mass. After coagulation the mass is cut into small cube-shaped pieces with sides approximately three-eighths-inch long. The mass is stirred and heated to about 90 &#xB0;F. and so handled by further stirring, heating, dilution with water or salt brine, and salting as to promote and regulate the separation of curd and whey. When the desired curd is obtained, it is transferred to forms permitting drainage of whey. During drainage the curd is pressed and turned. After drainage the curd is removed from the forms and is salted and cured. One or more of the other optional ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section may be added during the procedures.
