
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 133 - CHEESES AND RELATED CHEESE PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Cheese and Related Products
###### ยง 133.146 Grated cheeses.
####### Nomenclature.

(d)(1) The name of the food is "grated cheese" or "grated cheeses", as appropriate. The name of the food shall be accompanied by a declaration of the specific variety of cheese(s) used in the food and by a declaration indicating the presence of any added spice or flavoring.

(2) Any cheese varietal names used in the name of the food are those specified by applicable standards of identity, except that the designation "American cheese" may be used for cheddar, washed curd, colby, or granular cheese or for any mixture of these cheeses.

(3) The following terms may be used in place of the name of the food to describe specific types of grated cheese:

(i) If only one variety of cheese is used, the name of the food is "grated ______ cheese", the name of the cheese filling the blank.

(ii) If only parmesan and romano cheeses are used and each is present at a level of not less than 25 percent by weight of the finished food, the name of the food is "grated ______ and ______ cheese", the blanks being filled with the names "parmesan" and "romano" in order of predominance by weight. The name "reggiano" may be used for "parmesan".

(iii) If a mixture of cheese varieties (not including parmesan or romano) is used and each variety is present at a level of not less than 25 percent of the weight of the finished food, the name of the food is "grated ______ cheese", the blank being filled in with the names of the varieties in order of predominance by weight.

(iv) If a mixture of cheese varieties in which one or more varieties (not including parmesan or romano) are each present at a level of not less than 25 percent by weight of the finished food, and one or more other varieties (which may include parmesan and romano cheese) are each present at a level of not less than 2 percent but in the aggregate not more than 10 percent of the weight of the finished food, the name of the food is "grated ______ cheese with other grated cheese" or "grated ______ cheese with other grated cheeses", as appropriate, the blank being filled in with the name or names of those cheese varieties present at levels of not less than 25 percent by weight of the finished food in order of predominance, in letters not more than twice as high as the letters in the phrase "with other grated cheese(s)".

(4) The following terms may be used in place of "grated" to describe alternative forms of cheese:

(i) "Shredded", if the particles of cheese are in the form of cylinders, shreds, or strings.

(ii) "Chipped" or "chopped", if the particles of cheese are in the form of chips.
