
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 133 - CHEESES AND RELATED CHEESE PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Cheese and Related Products
###### ยง 133.152 Limburger cheese.
####### Description.

(a)(1) Limburger cheese is the food prepared by one of the procedures set forth in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, or by any other procedure which produces a finished cheese having the same physical and chemical properties. The minimum milkfat content is 50 percent by weight of the solids and the maximum moisture content is 50 percent by weight, as determined by the methods described in ยง 133.5. If the dairy ingredients used are not pasteurized, the cheese is cured at a temperature of not less than 35 &#xB0;F for at least 60 days.

(2) If pasteurized dairy ingredients are used, the phenol equivalent value of 0.25 gram of limburger cheese is not more than 4 micrograms as determined by the method described in ยง 133.5.

(3) One of the following procedures may be followed for producing limburger cheese:

(i) One or more of the dairy ingredients, unpasteurized, specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is warmed to about 92 &#xB0;F and subjected to the action of a lactic acid-producing bacterial culture. One or more of the clotting enzymes specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is added to set the dairy ingredients to a semisolid mass. The mass is cut into cubes with sides approximately one-half inch long. After a few minutes the mass is stirred and heated, gradually raising the temperature to 96&#xB0; to 98 &#xB0;F. The curd is then allowed to settle, most of the whey is drained off, and the remaining curd and whey dipped into molds. During drainage the curd may be pressed. It is turned at regular intervals. After drainage the curd is cut into pieces of desired size and dry-salted at intervals for 24 to 48 hours. The cheese is then cured with frequent applications of a weak brine solution to the surface, until the proper growth of surface-curing organisms is obtained. It is then wrapped and held in storage for development of as much additional flavor as is desired. One or more of the other optional ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section may be added during the procedure.

(ii) One or more of the dairy ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is pasteurized, brought to a temperature of 89&#xB0; to 90 &#xB0;F. after pasteurization, and is subjected to the action of a lactic acid-producing bacterial culture. The procedure is then the same as in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, except that heating is to 94 &#xB0;F. After most of the whey is drained off, salt brine at a temperature of 66&#xB0; to 70 &#xB0;F is added, so that the pH of the curd is about 4.8. The mixed curd, whey, and brine is dipped into molds, and the remaining procedure specified in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section is followed.
