
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 133 - CHEESES AND RELATED CHEESE PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Cheese and Related Products
###### ยง 133.153 Monterey cheese and monterey jack cheese.
####### Description.

(a)(1) Monterey cheese, monterey jack cheese is the food prepared by the procedure set forth in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, or by any other procedure which produces a finished cheese having the same physical and chemical properties. The minimum milkfat content is 50 percent by weight of the solids, and the maximum moisture content is 44 percent by weight, as determined by the methods described in ยง 133.5. The dairy ingredients used are pasteurized.

(2) The phenol equivalent of 0.25 gram of monterey cheese is not more than 3 micrograms, as determined by the method described in ยง 133.5.

(3) One or more of the dairy ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is subjected to the action of a lactic acid-producing bacterial culture. One or more of the clotting enzymes specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is added to set the dairy ingredients to a semisolid mass. The mass is so cut, stirred, and heated with continued stirring, as to promote and regulate the separation of whey and curd. Part of the whey is drained off, and water or salt brine may be added. The curd is drained and placed in a muslin or sheeting cloth, formed into a ball, and pressed; or the curd is placed in a cheese hoop and pressed. Later, the cloth bandage is removed, and the cheese may be covered with a suitable coating. One or more of the other optional ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section may be added during the procedure.
