
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 133 - CHEESES AND RELATED CHEESE PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Cheese and Related Products
###### ยง 133.156 Low-moisture mozzarella and scamorza cheese.
####### Description.

(a)(1) Low-moisture mozzarella cheese, low-moisture scamorza cheese is the food prepared from dairy ingredients and other ingredients specified in this section by the procedure set forth in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, or by any other procedure which produces a finished cheese having the same physical and chemical properties. It may be molded into various shapes. The minimum milkfat content is 45 percent by weight of the solids and the moisture content is more than 45 percent but not more than 52 percent by weight as determined by the methods described in ยง 133.5. The dairy ingredients are pasteurized.

(2) The phenol equivalent value of 0.25 gram of low-moisture mozzarella cheese is not more than 3 micrograms as determined by the method described in ยง 133.5.

(3) One or more of the dairy ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section may be warmed and is subjected to the action of a lactic acid-producing bacterial culture. One or more of the clotting enzymes specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this action is added to set the dairy ingredients to a semisolid mass. The mass is cut, stirred, and allowed to stand. It may be reheated and again stirred. The whey is drained and the curd may be cut and piled to promote further separation of whey. It may be washed with cold water and the water drained off. The curd may be collected in bundles for further drainage and for ripening. The curd may be iced, it may be held under refrigeration, and it may be permitted to warm to room temperature and ripen further. The curd may be cut. It is immersed in hot water or heated with steam and is kneaded and stretched until smooth and free of lumps. It is then cut and molded. In molding, the curd is kept sufficiently warm to cause proper sealing of the surface. The molded curd is firmed by immersion in cold water and drained. One or more of the other optional ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section may be added during the procedure.
