
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 133 - CHEESES AND RELATED CHEESE PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Cheese and Related Products
###### ยง 133.160 Muenster and munster cheese.
####### Description.

(a)(1) Muenster cheese, munster cheese, is the food prepared by the procedure set forth in paragraph (a)(3) of this section or by any other procedure which produces a finished cheese having the same physical and chemical properties. The minimum milkfat content is 50 percent by weight of the solids and the maximum moisture content is 46 percent by weight, as determined by the methods described in ยง 133.5. The dairy ingredients used are pasteurized.

(2) The phenol equivalent of 0.25 gram of muenster cheese is not more than 3 micrograms, as determined by the methods described in ยง 133.5.

(3) One or more of the dairy ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section may be warmed and is subjected to the action of a harmless lactic acid-producing bacterial culture. One or more of the clotting enzymes specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is added to set the dairy ingredients to a semisolid mass. After coagulation the mass is divided into small portions, stirred, and heated, with or without dilution with water or salt brine, so as to promote and regulate the separation of whey and curd. The curd is transferred to forms permitting drainage of the whey. During drainage the curd may be pressed and turned. After drainage the curd is removed from the forms and is salted. One or more of the other optional ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section may be added during the procedure.
