
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 133 - CHEESES AND RELATED CHEESE PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Cheese and Related Products
###### ยง 133.162 Neufchatel cheese.
####### Description.

(a)(1) Neufchatel cheese is the soft uncured cheese prepared by the procedure set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section or by any other procedure which produces a finished cheese having the same physical and chemical properties. The milkfat content is not less than 20 percent but less than 33 percent by weight of the finished food and the maximum moisture content is 65 percent by weight, as determined by the methods described in ยง 133.5. The dairy ingredients used are pasteurized.

(2) One or more of the dairy ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is subjected to the action of a harmless lactic acid-producing bacterial culture, with or without one or more of the clotting enzymes specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. The mixture is held until the dairy ingredients coagulate. The coagulated mass may be warmed and stirred and it is drained. The moisture content may be adjusted with one of the optional ingredients in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section. The curd may be pressed, chilled, worked, and heated until it becomes fluid. It may then be homogenized or otherwise mixed. One or more of the dairy ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section or the other optional ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section may be added during the procedure.
