
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 133 - CHEESES AND RELATED CHEESE PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Cheese and Related Products
###### ยง 133.178 Pasteurized neufchatel cheese spread with other foods.

(a)(1) Pasteurized neufchatel cheese spread with other foods is the class of foods each of which is prepared by mixing, with the aid of heat, neufchatel cheese with one or a mixture of two or more properly prepared foods (except other cheeses), such as fresh, cooked, canned, or dried fruits or vegetables; cooked or canned meats; relishes, pickles or other foods suitable for blending with neufchatel cheese. It may contain one or any mixture of two or more of the optional ingredients named in paragraph (b) of this section. The amount of the added food or foods must be sufficient to so differentiate the blend that it does not simulate neufchatel cheese. It is spreadable at 70 &#xB0;F.

(2) During its preparation the mixture is heated for not less than 30 seconds at a temperature of not less than 150 &#xB0;F. When tested for phosphatase by the method prescribed in ยง 133.5(c), the phenol equivalent of 0.25 gram of such food is not more than 3 micrograms.

(3)(i) No water other than that contained in the ingredients used is added to this food, but the moisture content in no case is more than 65 percent.

(ii) The milk fat is not less than 20 percent by weight of the finished food.

(b) The optional ingredients referred to in paragraph (a) of this section are:

(1)(i) One or any mixture of two or more of the following: Gum karaya, gum tragacanth, carob bean gum, gelatin, algin (sodium alginate), propylene glycol alginate, guar gum, sodium carboxymethylcellulose (cellulose gum), carrageenan, oat gum, or xanthan gum. The total quantity of any such substances, including that contained in the neufchatel cheese, is not more than 0.8 percent by weight of the finished food.

(ii) When one or more of the optional ingredients in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section are used, dioctyl sodium sulfosuccinate complying with the requirements of ยง 172.810 of this chapter may be used in a quantity not in excess of 0.5 percent by weight of such ingredients.

(2) Artificial coloring, unless such addition conceals damage or inferiority or makes the finished food appear better or of greater value than it is.

(3) An acidifying agent consisting of one or a mixture of two or more of the following: A vinegar, acetic acid, lactic acid, citric acid, phosphoric acid.

(4) A sweetening agent consisting of one or a mixture of two or more of the following: Sugar, dextrose, corn sirup, corn sirup solids, glucose sirup, glucose sirup solids, maltose, malt sirup, hydrolyzed lactose.

(5) Cream, milk, skim milk, buttermilk, cheese whey, any of the foregoing from which part of the water has been removed, anhydrous milkfat, dehydrated cream, and albumin from cheese whey.

(c) The name of the food is "pasteurized Neufchatel cheese spread with ______" or "pasteurized Neufchatel cheese spread and ______", the blank being filled in with the common names of the foods added, in order of predominance by weight. The full name of the food shall appear on the principal display panel of the label in type of uniform size, style, and color. Wherever any word or statement emphasizing the name of any ingredient appears on the label (other than in an ingredient statement as specified in paragraph (d) of this section) so conspicuously as to be easily seen under customary conditions of purchase, the full name of the food shall immediately and conspicuously precede or follow such word or statement in type of at least the same size as the type used in such word or statement.

(d) Each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter.
