
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 133 - CHEESES AND RELATED CHEESE PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Cheese and Related Products
###### ยง 133.182 Soft ripened cheeses.

(a) The cheeses for which definitions and standards of identity are prescribed by this section are soft ripened cheeses for which specifically applicable definitions and standards of identity are not prescribed by other sections of this part. They are made from milk and other ingredients specified in this section, by the procedure set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. Their solids contain not less than 50 percent of milkfat, as determined by the methods prescribed in ยง 133.5(a), (b), and (d). If the milk used is not pasteurized, the cheese so made is cured at a temperature of not less than 35 &#xB0;F for not less than 60 days.

(b) Milk, which may be pasteurized or clarified or both, and which may be warmed, is subjected to the action of harmless lactic-acid-producing bacteria or other harmless flavor-producing bacteria, present in such milk or added thereto. Sufficient rennet, rennet paste, extract of rennet paste, or other safe and suitable milk-clotting enzyme that produces equivalent curd formation, singly or in any combination (with or without purified calcium chloride in a quantity not more than 0.02 percent, calculated as anhydrous calcium chloride, of the weight of the milk) is added to set the milk to a semisolid mass. Harmless artificial coloring may be added. After coagulation the mass is so treated as to promote and regulate the separation of whey and curd. Such treatment may include one or more of the following: Cutting, stirring, heating, dilution with water or brine. The whey, or part of it, is drained off, and the curd is collected and shaped. It may be placed in forms, and may be pressed. Harmless flavor-producing microorganisms may be added. It is cured under conditions suitable for development of biological curing agents on the surface of the cheese, and the curing is conducted so that the cheese cures from the surface toward the center. Salt may be added during the procedure. A harmless preparation of enzymes of animal or plant origin capable of aiding in the curing or development of flavor of soft ripened cheeses may be added, in such quantity that the weight of the solids of such preparation is not more than 0.1 percent of the weight of the milk used.

(c) For the purposes of this section:

(1) The word "milk" means cow's milk or goat's milk or sheep's milk or mixtures of two or all of these. Such milk may be adjusted by separating part of the fat therefrom or (in the case of cow's milk) by adding one or more of the following: Cream, skim milk, concentrated skim milk, nonfat dry milk; (in the case of goat's milk) the corresponding products from goat's milk; (in the case of sheep's milk) the corresponding products from sheep's milk; water, in a quantity sufficient to reconstitute any such concentrated or dried products used.

(2) Milk shall be deemed to have been pasteurized if it has been held at a temperature of not less than 143 &#xB0;F for a period of not less than 30 minutes, or for a time and at a temperature equivalent thereto in phosphatase destruction.

(d) The name of each soft ripened cheese for which a definition and standard of identity is prescribed by this section is "Soft ripened cheese", preceded or followed by:

(1) The specific common or usual name of such soft ripened cheese, if any such name has become generally recognized therefor; or

(2) If no such specific common or usual name has become generally recognized therefor, an arbitrary or fanciful name which is not false or misleading in any particular.

(e) When milk other than cow's milk is used in whole or in part, the name of the cheese includes the statement "made from ______", the blank being filled in with the name or names of the milk used, in order of predominance by weight.

(f) Each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter.
