
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 133 - CHEESES AND RELATED CHEESE PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Cheese and Related Products
###### ยง 133.185 Samsoe cheese.
####### Description.

(a)(1) Samsoe cheese is the food prepared by the procedure set forth in paragraph (a)(3) of this section or by any other procedure which produces a finished cheese having the same physical and chemical properties. It has a small amount of eye formation of approximately uniform size of about five-sixteenths inch (8 millimeters). The minimum milkfat content is 45 percent by weight of the solids and the maximum moisture content is 41 percent by weight, as determined by the methods described in ยง 133.5. The dairy ingredients used may be pasteurized. Samsoe cheese is cured at not less than 35 &#xB0;F for at least 60 days.

(2) If pasteurized dairy ingredients are used, the phenol equivalent value of 0.25 gram of samsoe cheese is not more than 3 micrograms as determined by the method described in ยง 133.5.

(3) One or more of the dairy ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section may be warmed and is subjected to the action of a lactic acid-producing bacterial culture. One or more of the clotting enzymes specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is added to set the dairy ingredients to a semisolid mass. After coagulation the mass is cut into small cube-shaped pieces with sides approximately three-eighths inch (1 centimeter). The mass is stirred and heated to about 102 &#xB0;F, and so handled by further stirring, heating, dilution with water, and salting as to promote and regulate the separation of curd and whey. When the desired curd is obtained, it is transferred to forms permitting drainage of whey. During drainage, the curd is pressed. After drainage, the curd is removed from the forms and is further salted by immersing in a concentrated salt solution for about 3 days. The curd is then cured at a temperature of from 60&#xB0; to 70 &#xB0;F for 3 to 5 weeks to obtain the desired eye formation. Further curing is conducted at a lower temperature. One or more of the other optional ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section may be added during the procedure.
