
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 133 - CHEESES AND RELATED CHEESE PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Cheese and Related Products
###### ยง 133.190 Spiced cheeses.
####### Description.

(a)(1) Spiced cheeses are cheeses for which specifically applicable definitions and standards of identity are not prescribed by other sections of this part. The food is prepared by the procedure set forth in paragraph (a)(3) of this section or by any other procedure which produces a finished cheese having the same physical and chemical properties. The minimum milkfat content is 50 percent by weight of the solids, as determined by the method described in ยง 133.5. The food contains spices, in a minimum amount of 0.015 ounce per pound of cheese, and may contain spice oils. If the dairy ingredients are not pasteurized, the cheese is cured at a temperature of not less than 35 &#xB0;F for at least 60 days.

(2) The phenol equivalent of 0.25 gram of spiced cheese is not more than 3 micrograms, as determined by the method described in ยง 133.5.

(3) One or more of the dairy ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section may be warmed and is subjected to the action of a harmless lactic acid-producing bacterial culture. One or more of the clotting enzymes specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is added to set the dairy ingredients to a semisolid mass. The mass is divided into smaller portions and so handled by stirring, heating, and diluting with water or salt brine as to promote and regulate the separation of whey and curd. The whey is drained off. The curd is removed and may be further drained. The curd is then shaped into forms, and may be pressed. At some time during the procedure, spices are added so as to be evenly distributed throughout the finished cheese. One or more of the other optional ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section may be added during the procedure.
