
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 135 - FROZEN DESSERTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Frozen Desserts
###### ยง 135.130 Mellorine.
####### Description.

(a)(1) Mellorine is a food produced by freezing, while stirring, a pasteurized mix consisting of safe and suitable ingredients including, but not limited to, milk-derived nonfat solids and animal or vegetable fat, or both, only part of which may be milkfat. Mellorine is sweetened with nutritive carbohydrate sweetener and is characterized by the addition of flavoring ingredients.

(2) Mellorine contains not less than 1.6 pounds of total solids to the gallon, and weighs not less than 4.5 pounds to the gallon. Mellorine contains not less than 6 percent fat and 2.7 percent protein having a protein efficiency ratio (PER) not less than that of whole milk protein (108 percent of casein) by weight of the food, exclusive of the weight of any bulky flavoring ingredients used. In no case shall the fat content of the finished food be less than 4.8 percent or the protein content be less than 2.2 percent. The protein to meet the minimum protein requirements shall be provided by milk solids, not fat and/or other milk-derived ingredients.

(3) When calculating the minimum amount of milkfat and protein required in the finished food, the solids of chocolate or cocoa used shall be considered a bulky flavoring ingredient. In order to make allowance for additional sweetening ingredients needed when certain bulky ingredients are used, the weight of chocolate or cocoa solids used may be multiplied by 2.5; the weight of fruit or nuts used may be multiplied by 1.4; and the weight of partially or wholly dried fruits or fruit juices may be multiplied by appropriate factors to obtain the original weights before drying and this weight may be multiplied by 1.4.
