
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 135 - FROZEN DESSERTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Frozen Desserts
###### ยง 135.140 Sherbet.
####### Nomenclature.

(f)(1) The name of each sherbet is as follows:

(i) The name of each fruit sherbet is "______ sherbet", the blank being filled in with the common name of the fruit or fruits from which the fruit ingredients used are obtained. When the names of two or more fruits are included, such names shall be arranged in order of predominance, if any, by weight of the respective fruit ingredients used.

(ii) The name of each nonfruit sherbet is "______ sherbet", the blank being filled in with the common or usual name or names of the characterizing flavor or flavors; for example, "peppermint", except that if the characterizing flavor used is vanilla, the name of the food is "______ sherbet", the blank being filled in as specified by ยง 135.110(e) (2) and (5)(i).

(2) When the optional ingredients, artificial flavoring, or artificial coloring are used in sherbet, they shall be named on the label as follows:

(i) If the flavoring ingredient or ingredients consists exclusively of artificial flavoring, the label designation shall be "artificially flavored".

(ii) If the flavoring ingredients are a combination of natural and artificial flavors, the label designation shall be "artificial and natural flavoring added".

(iii) The label shall designate artificial coloring by the statement "artificially colored", "artificial coloring added", "with added artificial coloring", or "______, an artificial color added", the blank being filled in with the name of the artificial coloring used.
