
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 136 - BAKERY PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Bakery Products
###### ยง 136.110 Bread, rolls, and buns.

(a) Bread, white bread, and rolls, white rolls, or buns, and white buns are the foods produced by baking mixed yeast-leavened dough prepared from one or more of the farinaceous ingredients listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section and one or more of the moistening ingredients listed in paragraphs (c) (2), (6), (7), and (8) of this section and one or more of the leavening agents provided for by paragraph (c)(3) of this section. The food may contain additional ingredients as provided for by paragraph (c) of this section. Each of the finished foods contains not less than 62 percent total solids as determined by the method prescribed in paragraph (d) of this section.

(b) All ingredients from which the food is fabricated shall be safe and suitable.

(c) The following optional ingredients are provided for:

(1) Flour, bromated flour, phosphated flour, or a combination of two or more of these. The potassium bromate in any bromated flour used and the monocalcium phosphate in any phosphated flour used are deemed to be additional optional ingredients in the bread, rolls, or buns. All ingredients in any flour, bromated flour, or phosphated flour used are deemed to be optional ingredients of the bread, rolls, or buns prepared therefrom.

(2) Water.

(3) Yeast-any type which produces the necessary leavening effect.

(4) Salt.

(5) Shortening, in which or in conjunction with which may be used one or any combination of two or more of the following:

(i) Lecithin, hydroxylated lecithin complying with the provisions of part 172 of this chapter, either of which may include related phosphatides derived from the corn oil or soybean oil from which such ingredients were obtained.

(ii) Mono- and diglycerides of fat-forming fatty acids, diacetyl tartaric acid esters of mono- and diglycerides of fat-forming fatty acids, propylene glycol mono- and diesters of fat-forming fatty acids, and other ingredients that perform a similar function.

(6) Milk and/or other dairy products in such quantity and composition as not to meet the requirements for milk and/or other dairy products prescribed for milk bread by ยง 136.130. Whenever nonfat milk solids in any form are used, carrageenan or salts of carrageenan complying with the provisions of part 172 of this chapter may be used in a quantity not in excess of 0.8 percent by weight of such nonfat milk solids.

(7) Egg products.

(8) Nutritive carbohydrate sweeteners.

(9) Enzyme active preparations.

(10) Lactic-acid-producing bacteria.

(11) Nonwheat flours, nonwheat meals, nonwheat grits, wheat and nonwheat starches, any of which may be wholly or in part dextrinized, dextrinized wheat flour, or any combination of 2 or more of these, if the total quantity is not more than 3 parts for each 100 parts by weight of flour used.

(12) Ground dehulled soybeans which may be heat-treated, and from which oil may be removed, but which retain enzymatic activity, if the quantity is not more than 0.5 part for each 100 parts by weight of flour used.

(13) Yeast nutrients and calcium salts, if the total quantity of such ingredients, with the exception of monocalcium phosphate and calcium propionate, is not more than 0.25 part for each 100 parts by weight of flour used. The quantity of monocalcium phosphate, including any quantity in the flour used, is not more than 0.75 part for each 100 parts by weight of flour used. Any calcium propionate used as a preservative in bread, rolls, or buns is not subject to the limitation prescribed in this paragraph.

(14)(i) Potassium bromate, calcium bromate, potassium iodate, calcium iodate, calcium peroxide, or any combination of 2 or more of these if the total quantity, including the potassium bromate in any bromated flour used, is not more than 0.0075 part for each 100 parts by weight of flour used.

(ii) Azodicarbonamide, if the total quantity, including any quantity in the flour used, is not more than 0.0045 part for each 100 parts by weight of flour used.

(15) Dough strengtheners and other dough conditioners not listed or referred to in this paragraph, if the total quantities of such ingredients or combination is not more than 0.5 part for each 100 parts by weight of flour used.

(16) Spices, spice oil, and spice extract.

(17) Coloring may not be added as such or as part of another ingredient except as permitted by paragraph (c)(16) of this section and except that coloring which may be present in butter or margarine if the intensity of the butter or margarine color does not exceed "medium high" (MH) when viewed under diffused light (7400 Kelvin) against the Munsell Butter Color Comparator. The MH designation corresponds to the Munsell renotation of 3.8Y7.9/7.6.

(18) Other ingredients that do not change the basic identity or adversely affect the physical and nutritional characteristics of the food.
