
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 136 - BAKERY PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Bakery Products
###### ยง 136.110 Bread, rolls, and buns.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(d) Total solids are determined by the method prescribed in "Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists," 13th Ed. (1980), section 14.091(a), which is incorporated by reference, except that if the baked unit weighs 454 grams (1 pound) or more, one entire unit is used for the determination; if the baked unit weighs less than 454 grams, enough units to weigh 454 grams or more are used. Copies of the material incorporated by reference may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(e)(1) The name of the food is "bread", "white bread", "rolls", "white rolls", "buns", "white buns", as applicable. When the food contains not less than 2.56 percent by weight of whole egg solids, the name of the food may be "egg bread", "egg rolls", or "egg buns", as applicable, accompanied by the statement "Contains ____ medium-sized egg(s) per pound" in the manner prescribed by ยง 102.5(c)(3) of this chapter, the blank to be filled in with the number which represents the whole egg content of the food expressed to the nearest one-fifth egg but not greater than the amount actually present. For the purpose of this regulation, whole egg solids are the edible contents of eggs calculated on a moisture-free basis and exclusive of any nonegg solids which may be present in standardized and other commercial egg products. One medium-sized egg is equivalent to 0.41 ounce of whole egg solids.

(2) When the label bears any representation, other than in the ingredient listing, of the presence of egg in the food, e.g., the word egg or any phonetic equivalent spelling of the word egg, or a picture of an egg, the food shall contain not less than 2.56 percent of whole egg solids.
