
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 136 - BAKERY PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Bakery Products
###### § 136.115 Enriched bread, rolls, and buns.

(a) Each of the foods enriched bread, enriched rolls, and enriched buns conforms to the definition and standard of identity and is subject to the requirements for label statement of ingredients prescribed for bread, rolls or buns by § 136.110, except that:

(1) Each such food contains in each pound 1.8 milligrams of thiamin, 1.1 milligrams of riboflavin, 15 milligrams of niacin, 0.43 milligrams of folic acid, and 12.5 milligrams of iron.

(2) Each such food may contain added calcium in such quantity that the total calcium content is 600 milligrams per pound. If insufficient calcium is added to meet the 600-milligram level per pound of the finished food, no claim may be made on the label for calcium as a nutrient except as a part of nutrition labeling.

(3) The requirements of paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section will be deemed to have been met if reasonable overages of the vitamins and minerals, within the limits of good manufacturing practice, are present to ensure that the required levels of the vitamins and minerals are maintained throughout the expected shelf life of the food under customary conditions of distribution and storage. The quantitative content of the following vitamins shall be calculated in terms of the following chemically identifiable reference forms:

(4) Each such food may also contain wheat germ or partly defatted wheat germ, but the total quantity thereof, including any wheat germ or partly defatted wheat germ in any enriched flour used, shall not be more than 5 percent of the flour ingredient.

(5) Enriched flour may be used, in whole or in part, instead of flour. As used in this section, the term "enriched flour" includes enriched bromated flour.

(6) The limitation prescribed by § 136.110(c)(6) on the quantity and composition of milk and/or other dairy products does not apply.

(7) The vitamins and minerals added to the food for enrichment purposes may be supplied by any safe and suitable substances. Niacin equivalents as derived from tryptophan content shall not be used in determining total niacin content.

(b) The name of the food is "enriched bread", "enriched rolls", or "enriched buns", as applicable. When the food contains not less than 2.56 percent by weight of whole egg solids, the name of the food may be "enriched egg bread", "enriched egg rolls", or "enriched egg buns", as applicable, accompanied by the statement "Contains __ medium-sized egg(s) per pound" in the manner prescribed by § 102.5(c)(3) of this chapter, the blank to be filled in with the number which represents the whole egg content of the food expressed to the nearest one-fifth egg but not greater than the amount actually present. For the purpose of this regulation, whole egg solids are the edible contents of eggs calculated on a moisture-free basis and exclusive of any non-egg solids which may be present in standardized and other commercial egg products. One medium-sized egg is equivalent to 0.41 ounce of whole egg solids. When the food complies with the requirements for milk and/or other dairy products content in § 136.130 for milk bread, the name of the food may be "enriched milk bread", "enriched milk rolls", or "enriched milk buns", as applicable. When the food complies with the requirements for both enriched egg bread and enriched milk bread in this section, the name of the food may be "enriched milk and egg bread", "enriched milk and egg rolls", or "enriched milk and egg buns", as applicable accompanied by the statement "Contains __ medium-sized egg(s) per pound" in the manner prescribed by § 102.5(c)(3) of this chapter, the blank to be filled in with the number which represents the whole egg content of the food expressed to the nearest one-fifth egg but no greater than the amount actually present. For purposes of this regulation, whole egg solids are the edible contents of eggs calculated on a moisture-free basis and exclusive of any non-egg solids which may be present in standardized or other commercial egg products. One medium-sized egg is equivalent to 0.41 ounce of whole egg solids.
