
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 137 - CEREAL FLOURS AND RELATED PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Cereal Flours and Related Products
###### § 137.105 Flour.
####### Aspergillus oryzae,,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(a) Flour, white flour, wheat flour, plain flour, is the food prepared by grinding and bolting cleaned wheat, other than durum wheat and red durum wheat. To compensate for any natural deficiency of enzymes, malted wheat, malted wheat flour, malted barley flour, or any combination of two or more of these, may be used; but the quantity of malted barley flour so used is not more than 0.75 percent. Harmless preparations of &#x3B1;-amylase obtained fromalone or in a safe and suitable carrier, may be used. When tested for granulation as prescribed in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, not less than 98 percent of the flour passes through a cloth having openings not larger than those of woven wire cloth designated "212 µm (No. 70)" complying with the specifications for such cloth set forth in "Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists" (AOAC), 13th Ed. (1980), Table 1, "Nominal Dimensions of Standard Test Sieves (U.S.A. Standard Series)," under the heading "Definitions of Terms and Explanatory Notes," which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:The flour is freed from bran coat, or bran coat and germ, to such extent that the percent of ash therein, calculated to a moisture-free basis, is not more than the sum ofof the percent of protein therein, calculated to a moisture-free basis, plus 0.35. Its moisture content is not more than 15 percent. It may contain ascorbic acid in a quantity not to exceed 200 parts per million as a dough conditioner. Unless such addition conceals damage or inferiority or makes the flour appear to be better or of greater value than it is, one or any combination of two or more of the following optional bleaching ingredients may be added in a quantity not more than sufficient for bleaching or, in case such ingredient has an artificial aging effect, in a quantity not more than sufficient for bleaching and such artificial aging effect:

(1) Oxides of nitrogen.

(2) Chlorine.

(3) Nitrosyl chloride.

(4) Chlorine dioxide.

(5) One part by weight of benzoyl peroxide mixed with not more than six parts by weight of one or any mixture of two or more of the following: potassium alum, calcium sulfate, magnesium carbonate, sodium aluminum sulfate, dicalcium phosphate, tricalcium phosphate, starch, calcium carbonate.

(6) Acetone peroxides complying with the provisions of § 172.802 of this chapter.

(7) Azodicarbonamide (complying with the requirements of § 172.806 of this chapter, including the quantitative limit of not more than 45 parts per million).
