
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 137 - CEREAL FLOURS AND RELATED PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Cereal Flours and Related Products
###### ยง 137.105 Flour.
####### Aspergillus oryzae,alpha

(2) When ascorbic acid is added, the label shall bear the statement "Ascorbic acid added as a dough conditioner". When the optional ingredient &#x3B1;-amylase obtained from" is used, it may alternatively be declared in the list of ingredients as "Fungal-amylase," "Fungal &#x3B1;-amylase", "Enzyme", or "Enzyme added for improved baking". When any optional bleaching ingredient is used, the label shall bear the word "Bleached". Wherever the name of the food appears on the label so conspicuously as to be easily seen under customary conditions of purchase, the word "Bleached" shall immediately and conspicuously precede or follow such name, without intervening written, printed, or graphic matter; except that where such name is a part of a trademark or brand, other written, printed, or graphic matter, which is also a part of such trademark or brand, may so intervene if the word "Bleached" is in such juxtaposition with such trademark or brand as to be conspicuously related to such name.

(c) For the purposes of this section:

(1) Ash is determined by the method prescribed in the AOAC, 13th Ed. (1980), section 14.006, "Direct Method-Official Final Action," under the heading "Ash (5)," which is incorporated by reference. The availability of this incorporation by reference is given in paragraph (a) of this section. Ash is calculated to a moisture-free basis by subtracting the percent of moisture in the flour from 100, dividing the remainder into the percent of ash, and multiplying the quotient by 100.

(2) Protein is 5.7 times the nitrogen as determined by the method prescribed in section 2.057, "Improved Kjeldahl Methods for Nitrate-Free Samples (20)-Official Final Action," AOAC, 13th Ed. (1980), which is incorporated by reference. The availability of this incorporation by reference is given in paragraph (a) of this section. Protein is calculated to a moisture-free basis by subtracting the percent of moisture in the flour from 100, dividing the remainder into the percent of protein, and multiplying the quotient by 100.

(3) Moisture is determined by the method prescribed in the AOAC, 13th Ed. (1980), sections 14.002 and 14.003, "Vacuum Oven Method (2)-Official Final Action," under the heading "Total Solids Moisture, Indirect Method," which is incorporated by reference. The availability of this incorporation by reference is given in paragraph (a) of this section.

(4) Granulation is determined as follows: Use No. 70 sieve complying with the specifications for "Nominal Dimensions of Standard Test Sieves (U.S.A. Standard Series)" prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section. Attach bottom pan to sieve in Ro-Tap sifter (or an equivalent sifter). Place half of a rubber ball or other sieving aid in the sieve. Pour 100 grams of the sample in the sieve and turn on the sifter with knocker. Sift exactly 5 minutes. Weigh the residue on the No. 70 sieve and convert to percentage.
