
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 137 - CEREAL FLOURS AND RELATED PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Cereal Flours and Related Products
###### ยง 137.180 Self-rising flour.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(c) The method referred to in paragraph (a) of this section is the method prescribed in "Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists" (AOAC), 13th Ed. (1980), section 8.002, "Reagent (Displacement soln.)," and section 8.003, "Chittick apparatus," under the heading "Total Carbon Dioxide (1)-Official Final Action," which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:The following procedure is substituted for the procedure specified in the AOAC, under section 8.004, "Determination":

(1) Weigh 17 grams of the official sample into flask A, add 15-20 glass beads (4-6 mm. diameter), and connect this flask with the apparatus (fig. 22). Open stopcock C and by means of the leveling bulb E bring the displacement solution to the 25 cc. graduation above the zero mark. (This 25 cc. is a partial allowance for the volume of acid to be used in the decomposition.) Allow the apparatus to stand 1-2 minutes to insure that the temperature and pressure within the apparatus are the same as those of the room. Close the stopcock, lower the leveling bulb somewhat to reduce the pressure within the apparatus, and slowly run into the decomposition flask from burette F 45 cc. of sulfuric acid (1 + 5). To prevent the liberated carbon dioxide from escaping through the acid burette into the air, keep the displacement solution in the leveling bulb at all times during the decomposition at a lower level than that in the gas-measuring tube. Rotate and then vigorously agitate the decomposition flask for three minutes to mix the contents intimately. Allow to stand for 10 minutes to bring to equilibrium. Equalize the pressure in the measuring tube by means of the leveling bulb and read the volume of gas from the zero point on the tube. Deduct 20 cc. from this reading (this 20 cc. together with previous allowance of 25 cc. compensates for the 45 cc. acid used in the decomposition). Observe the temperature of the air surrounding the apparatus and also the barometric pressure and multiply the number of mL of gas evolved by the factor given in section 52.007, "Correction factors for gasometric determination of carbon dioxide," AOAC, 13th Ed. (1980), which is incorporated by reference (the availability of this incorporation by reference is given in paragraph (c) of this section), for the temperature and pressure observed. Divide the corrected reading by 100 to obtain the apparent percent by weight of carbon dioxide in the official sample.

(2) Correct the apparent percent of carbon dioxide to compensate for varying atmospheric conditions by immediately assaying a synthetic sample by the same method in the same apparatus.

(3) Prepare the synthetic sample with 16.2 grams of flour, 0.30 gram of monocalcium phosphate, 0.30 gram of salt, and a sufficient quantity of sodium bicarbonate U.S.P. (dried over sulfuric acid) to yield the amount of carbon dioxide recovered in assay of official sample. Determine this quantity by multiplying weight of carbon dioxide recovered in assay of official sample by 1.91.

(4) Divide the weight of carbon dioxide recovered from synthetic sample by weight of carbon dioxide contained in sodium bicarbonate used.

(5) Divide the quotient into the apparent percent of carbon dioxide in official sample to obtain percent of carbon dioxide evolved from the official sample.
