
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 137 - CEREAL FLOURS AND RELATED PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Cereal Flours and Related Products
###### ยง 137.190 Cracked wheat.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

Cracked wheat is the food prepared by so cracking or cutting into angular fragments cleaned wheat other than durum wheat and red durum wheat that, when tested by the method prescribed in ยง 137.200(c)(2), not less than 90 percent passes through a No. 8 sieve and not more than 20 percent passes through a No. 20 sieve. The proportions of the natural constituents of such wheat, other than moisture, remain unaltered. Cracked wheat contains not more than 15 percent of the moisture as determined by the method prescribed in "Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists," 13th Ed. (1980), section 7.002 under "Preparation of Sample-Official Final Action," and section 7.003 under "Moisture-Official Final Action. I. Drying in Vacuo at 95-100&#xB0; (2)," which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
