
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 137 - CEREAL FLOURS AND RELATED PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Cereal Flours and Related Products
###### § 137.200 Whole wheat flour.
####### Aspergillus oryzae,

(a) Whole wheat flour, graham flour, entire wheat flour is the food prepared by so grinding cleaned wheat, other than durum wheat and red durum wheat, that when tested by the method prescribed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, not less than 90 percent passes through a 2.36 mm (No. 8) sieve and not less than 50 percent passes through a 850 µm (No. 20) sieve. The proportions of the natural constituents of such wheat, other than moisture, remain unaltered. To compensate for any natural deficiency of enzymes, malted wheat, malted wheat flour, malted barley flour, or any combination of two or more of these, may be used; but the quantity of malted barley flour so used is not more than 0.75 percent. It may contain harmless preparations of &#x3B1;-amylase obtained fromalone or in a safe and suitable carrier. The moisture content of whole wheat flour is not more than 15 percent. It may contain ascorbic acid in a quantity not to exceed 200 parts per million as a dough conditioner. Unless such addition conceals damage or inferiority or makes the whole wheat flour appear to be better or of greater value than it is, the optional bleaching ingredient azodicarbonamide (complying with the requirements of § 172.806 of this chapter, including the quantitative limit of not more than 45 parts per million) or chlorine dioxide, or chlorine, or a mixture of nitrosyl chloride and chlorine, may be added in a quantity not more than sufficient for bleaching and artificial aging effects.
