
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 137 - CEREAL FLOURS AND RELATED PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Cereal Flours and Related Products
###### ยง 137.200 Whole wheat flour.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(1) Moisture is determined by the method prescribed in "Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists" (AOAC), 13th Ed. (1980), section 14.002. "Vacuum Oven Method-Official Final Action," and section 14.003, "Determination," which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(2) The method referred to in paragraph (a) of this section is as follows: Use No. 8 and No. 20 sieves, having standard 8-inch full-height frames, complying with the specifications set forth in the AOAC, Table 1, "Nominal Dimensions of Standard Test Sieves (U.S.A. Standard Series)," under the heading "Definitions of Terms and Explanatory Notes," which is incorporated by reference. The availability of this incorporation by reference is given in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. Fit a No. 8 sieve into a No. 20 sieve. Attach bottom pan to the No. 20 sieve. Pour 100 gm. of the sample into the No. 8 sieve. Attach cover and hold the assembly in a slightly inclined position with one hand. Shake the sieves by striking the sides against the other hand with an upward stroke, at the rate of about 150 times per minute. Turn the sieves about one-sixth of a revolution each time in the same direction, after each 25 strokes. Continue shaking for 2 minutes. Weigh the material which fails to pass through the No. 8 sieve and the material which passes through the No. 20 sieve.
