
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 137 - CEREAL FLOURS AND RELATED PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Cereal Flours and Related Products
###### ยง 137.211 White corn flour.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(2) The method referred to in paragraph (a) of this section is as follows: Weigh 5 grams of sample into a tared truncated metal cone (top diameter 5 centimeters, bottom diameter 2 centimeters, height 4 centimeters), fitted at bottom with 70-mesh wire cloth complying with the specifications for No. 70 wire cloth in "Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists," 13th Ed. (1980), Table 1, "Nominal Dimensions of Standard Test Sieves (U.S.A. Standard Series)," under the heading "Definitions of Terms and Explanatory Notes," which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:Attach cone to a suction flask. Wash with 150 ml. of petroleum ether applied in a small stream without suction, while gently stirring the sample with a small glass rod. Apply suction for 2 minutes after washing is completed, then shake the cone for 2 minutes with a vigorous horizontal motion, striking the side against the hand, and then weigh. The decrease in weight of sample, calculated as percent by weight of sample shall be considered the percent passing through No. 70 wire cloth. Transfer the residue from cone to a No. 50 sieve having a standard 20.3 centimeter (8-inch) diameter full-height frame, complying with the specifications for wire cloth and sieve frame in "Nominal Dimensions of Standard Test Sieves (U.S.A. Standard Series)." Shake for 2 minutes with a vigorous horizontal motion, striking the side against the hand; remove and weigh the residue; calculate the weight of residue as percent by weight of sample, and subtract from 100 percent to obtain the percent of sample passing through the No. 50 sieve.
