
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 137 - CEREAL FLOURS AND RELATED PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Cereal Flours and Related Products
###### ยง 137.250 White corn meal.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(2) The method referred to in paragraph (a) of this section is as follows: Use No. 12 and No. 25 sieves, having standard 20.3 centimeter (8-inch) diameter full-height frames, complying with the specifications for wire cloth and sieve frames in "Nominal Dimensions of Standard Test Sieves (U.S.A. Standard Series)" prescribed in ยง 137.105(a), which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:A sieve with frame of the same dimensions as the Nos. 12 and 25 and fitted with 72 XXX grits gauze is used as the third sieve. It is referred to hereafter as the No. 72 sieve. The 72 XXX grits gauze has openings equivalent in size with those of No. 70 woven-wire cloth, complying with specifications for such cloth contained in such "Standard Specifications for Sieves." Attach bottom pan to No. 72 sieve. Fit the No. 25 sieve into the No. 72 sieve and the No. 12 sieve into the No. 25 sieve. Pour 100 grams of sample into the No. 12 sieve, attach cover and hold the assembly in a slightly inclined position and shake the assembly of sieves by striking the sides against one hand with an upward stroke, at the rate of about 150 times per minute. Turn the assembly of sieves about one-sixth of a revolution, each time in the same direction, after each 25 strokes. Continue shaking for 2 minutes. Weigh separately the material remaining on each sieve and in the pan, and calculate each weight as percent of sample. Sometimes when meals are tested, fine particles clog the sieve openings. If any sieve is clogged by fine material smaller than its openings, empty the contents onto a piece of paper. Remove the entrapped material on the bottom of the sieve by a hair brush and add to the sieve below. In like manner, clean the adhering material from inside the sieve and add to the material on the paper. Return mixture on the paper to the sieve, reassemble the sieves, and shake in the same manner as before for 1 minute. Repeat cleaning procedure if necessary until a 5-gram or less loss in weight occurs in any sieve during a 1-minute shaking. The percent of sample passing through No. 12 sieve shall be determined by subtracting from 100 percent, the percent of material remaining on the No. 12 sieve. The percent passing through a No. 25 sieve shall be determined by adding the percents remaining on the No. 72 sieve and the percent in pan. The percent in the pan shall be considered as the percent passing through a No. 72 XXX grits gauze.
