
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 137 - CEREAL FLOURS AND RELATED PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Cereal Flours and Related Products
###### ยง 137.255 Bolted white corn meal.

(a) Bolted white corn meal is the food prepared by so grinding and sifting cleaned white corn that:

(1) Its crude fiber content is less than 1.2 percent but its fat content is not less than 2.25 percent; and

(2) When tested by the method prescribed in ยง 137.250(b)(2), except that a No. 20 standard sieve is used instead of the No. 12 sieve, not less than 95 percent passes through a No. 20 sieve, not less than 45 percent through a No. 25 sieve, but not more than 25 percent through No. 72 XXX grits gauze. Its moisture content is not more than 15 percent. In its preparation particles of ground corn which contain germ may be separated, reground, and recombined with all or part of the material from which it was separated, but in any such case the fat content of the finished bolted white corn meal does not exceed by more than 0.3 percent the fat content of the cleaned corn from which it was ground. The contents of crude fiber and fat in all the foregoing provisions relating thereto are on a moisture-free basis.

(b) For the purposes of this section, moisture, fat and crude fiber are determined by the methods therefor referred to in ยง 137.250(b)(1).
