
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 137 - CEREAL FLOURS AND RELATED PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Cereal Flours and Related Products
###### ยง 137.270 Self-rising white corn meal.
####### A,,C,E,F

(1) Weigh 17 grams of the official sample into flaskadd 15-20 glass beads (4-6 mm. diameter), and connect this flask with the apparatus (fig. 25). Open stopcockand by means of the leveling bulkbring the displacement solution to the 25 cc. graduation above the zero mark. (This 25 cc. is a partial allowance for the volume of acid to be used in the decomposition.) Allow the apparatus to stand 1-2 minutes to insure that the temperature and pressure within the apparatus are the same as those of the room. Close the stopcock, lower the leveling bulb somewhat to reduce the pressure within the apparatus, and slowly run into the decomposition flask from burette45 cc. of sulfuric acid (1 + 5). To prevent the liberated carbon dioxide from escaping through the acid burette into the air keep the displacement solution in the leveling bulb at all times during the decomposition at a lower level than that in the gas-measuring tube. Rotate and then vigorously agitate the decomposition flask for 3 minutes to mix the contents intimately. Allow to stand for 10 minutes to bring to equilibrium. Equalize the pressure in the measuring tube by means of the leveling bulb and read the volume of gas from the zero point on the tube. Deduct 20 cc. from this reading (this 20 cc. together with previous allowance of 25 cc. compensates for the 45 cc. acid used in the decomposition). Observe the temperature of the air surrounding the apparatus and also the barometric pressure and multiply the number of mL of gas evolved by the factor given in the AOAC, 13th Ed. (1980), section 52.007 under Reference Tables for the temperature and pressure observed, which is incorporated by reference. The availability of this incorporation by reference is given in paragraph (b) of this section. Divide the corrected reading by 100 to obtain the apparent percent by weight of carbon dioxide in the official sample.

(2) Correct the apparent percent of carbon dioxide to compensate for varying atmospheric conditions by immediately assaying a synthetic sample by the same method in the same apparatus.

(3) Prepare the synthetic sample with 16.2 grams of corn meal, 0.30 gram of monocalcium phosphate, 0.30 gram of salt, and a sufficient quantity of sodium bicarbonate U.S.P. (dried over sulfuric acid) to yield the amount of carbon dioxide recovered in assay of official sample. Determine this quantity by multiplying weight of carbon dioxide recovered in assay of official sample by 1.91.

(4) Divide the weight of carbon dioxide recovered from synthetic sample by weight of carbon dioxide contained in sodium bicarbonate used.

(5) Divide the quotient into the apparent percent of carbon dioxide in official sample to obtain percent of carbon dioxide evolved from the official sample.
