
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 137 - CEREAL FLOURS AND RELATED PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Cereal Flours and Related Products
###### ยง 137.350 Enriched rice.
####### N,N,N,N,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(e) The method referred to in paragraph (c) of this section is as follows: Mix the contents of one or more containers and transferpound thereof to a 4-liter flask containing 2 liters of distilled water at room temperature (but not below 20 &#xB0;C). Stopper the flask and swirl it moderately forminute so that the rice is in motion and in uniform suspension. Allow the rice to settle forminute, then pour off 1,600 milliliters of the water, together with any floating and suspended matter, and discard. To the contents of the flask, add 1,600 milliliters of distilled water and 20 milliliters of 10hydrochloric acid. Agitate vigorously and wash down the sides of the flask with 150 milliliters of 0.1hydrochloric acid. In order to avoid excess foaming during the extraction, heat the mixture slowly to about 100 &#xB0;C, agitate if necessary, and maintain at this temperature until air is expelled. Again wash down the sides of the flask with 150 milliliters of 0.1hydrochloric acid. Heat the mixture in an autoclave at 120 &#xB0;C to 123 &#xB0;C for 30 minutes, remove and cool to room temperature. Dilute the mixture with distilled water so that the total volume is 2,500 milliliters. Swirl the flask, and while the solids are in uniform suspension pour off about 250 milliliters of the mixture for later determination of iron (and calcium, if this is to be determined). With filter paper that has been shown not to adsorb thiamine, riboflavin, or niacin, filter enough of the remaining mixture for determination of thiamine, riboflavin, and niacin. (In the case of a mixture difficult to filter, centrifuging or filtering through fritted glass, or both, using a suitable analytical filter-aid, may be substituted for, or may precede, filtering through paper.) Dilute an aliquot of filtrate with 0.1hydrochloric acid, so that each milliliter contains about 0.2 microgram of thiamine, and determine thiamine by the "Rapid Fluorometric Method-Official Final Action," in section 43.034 of "Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists" (AOAC), 13th Ed. (1980), which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:With a suitable aliquot determine riboflavin by the method prescribed in section 43.041(a) by the "Fluorometric Method-Official Final Action," AOAC, 13th Ed. (1980), beginning with the third sentence of the second paragraph, "Adjust, with vigorous agitation * * *." Determine niacin in a 200-milliliter aliquot of the filtrate by the "Colorimetric Method-Official Final Action," in section 43.045, AOAC, 13th Ed. (1980), beginning with the sixth sentence of the first paragraph, "Adjust to pH 4.5 with * * *." Evaporate to dryness a 100-milliliter aliquot of the nonfiltered material withdrawn while agitating, and determine iron using the method "Iron-Official Final Action," in sections 14.011, 14.012, and 14.013, AOAC, 13th Ed. (1980), and, if required, determine calcium as directed in section 14.014 under the heading "Calcium-Official Final Action," AOAC, 13th Ed. (1980).

(f) When the optional ingredient specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section is added, the statement "Butylated hydroxytoluene added as a preservative" shall be placed on the label prominently and with such conspicuousness (as compared with other words, statements, designs, or devices in the label) as to render it likely to be read and understood by the ordinary individual under customary conditions of purchase.
