
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 139 - MACARONI AND NOODLE PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Macaroni and Noodle Products
###### § 139.115 Enriched macaroni products.
####### Description.

(a)Enriched macaroni products are the class of food each of which conforms to the definition and standard of identity and is subject to the requirements for label statement of ingredients, prescribed for macaroni products by § 139.110(a), (f), and (g), except that:

(1) Each such food contains in each pound not less than 4.0 milligrams (mg) and not more than 5.0 mg of thiamin, not less than 1.7 mg and not more than 2.2 mg of riboflavin, not less than 27 mg and not more than 34 mg of niacin or niacinamide, not less than 0.9 mg and not more than 1.2 mg of folic acid, and not less than 13 mg and not more than 16.5 mg of iron (Fe);

(2) Each such food may also contain as an optional ingredient added vitamin D in such quantity that each pound of the finished food contains not less than 250 U.S.P. units and not more than 1000 U.S.P. units of vitamin D.

(3) Each such food may also contain as an optional ingredient added calcium in such quantity that each pound of the finished food contains not less than 500 mg. and not more than 625 mg. of calcium (Ca);

(4) Each such food may also contain as an optional ingredient partly defatted wheat germ but the amount thereof does not exceed 5 percent of the weight of the finished food;

(5) Each such food may be supplied, wholly or in part, with the prescribed quantity of any substance referred to in paragraphs (a) (1), (2), and (3) of this section through the use of dried yeast, dried torula yeast, partly defatted wheat germ, enriched farina, or enriched flour, or through the direct additions of any of the substances prescribed in paragraphs (a) (1), (2), and (3) of this section.

(b) Enriched macaroni is the enriched macaroni product the units of which conform to the specifications of shape and size prescribed for macaroni by § 139.110(b).

(c) Enriched spaghetti is the enriched macaroni product the units of which conform to the specifications of shape and size prescribed for spaghetti by § 139.110(c).

(d) Enriched vermicelli is the enriched macaroni product the units of which conform to the specifications of shape and size prescribed for vermicelli by § 139.110(d).

(e) The name of each food for which a definition and standard of identity is prescribed by this section is "Enriched Macaroni product"; or alternatively, the name is "Enriched macaroni", "Enriched spaghetti", or "Enriched vermicelli", as the case may be, when the units of the food comply with the requirements of paragraphs (b), (c), or (d) respectively of this section.
