
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 139 - MACARONI AND NOODLE PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Macaroni and Noodle Products
###### ยง 139.117 Enriched macaroni products with fortified protein.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(2) Each such finished food, when tested by the methods described in the cited sections of "Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists," 13th Ed. (1980), which is incorporated by reference (copies may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:), meets the following specifications:

(i) The protein content (N x 6.25) is not less than 20 percent by weight (on a 13 percent moisture basis) as determined by the method in section 14.142. The protein quality is not less than 95 percent that of casein as determined on the cooked food by the method in sections 43.212 through 43.216 of the official methods.

(ii) The total solids content is not less than 87 percent by weight as determined by the method in section 14.133 of the official methods.

(b)(1) Each food covered by this section contains in each pound 5 milligrams of thiamin, 2.2 milligrams of riboflavin, 34 milligrams of niacin or niacinamide, and 16.5 milligrams of iron.

(2) Each pound of such food may also contain 625 milligrams of calcium.

(3) Iron and calcium may be added only in forms which are harmless and assimilable. The enrichment nutrients may be added in a harmless carrier used only in a quantity necessary to effect a uniform distribution of the nutrients in the finished food. The requirements of paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section shall be deemed to have been met if reasonable overages, within the limits of good manufacturing practice, are present to assure that the prescribed levels of the vitamins and mineral(s) are maintained throughout the expected shelf life of the food under customary conditions of distribution.

(c) The safe and suitable ingredients referred to in paragraph (a) of this section are ingredients that serve a useful purpose, e.g., to fortify the protein or facilitate production of the food, but they do not include color additives, artificial flavorings, artificial sweeteners, chemical preservatives, or starches. Ingredients deemed suitable for use by this paragraph are added in amounts that are not in excess of those reasonably required to achieve their intended purposes. Ingredients are deemed to be safe if they are not food additives within the meaning of section 201(s) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or in case they are food additives, if they are used in conformity with regulations established pursuant to section 409 of the act.

(d)(1) The name of any food covered by this section is "Enriched Wheat ______ Macaroni Product-with Fortified Protein", the blank being filled in with appropriate word(s) such as "Soy" to show the source of any flours or meals used that were made from nonwheat cereals or from oilseeds. In lieu of the words "Macaroni Product" the word "Macaroni", "Spaghetti", or "Vermicelli", as appropriate, may be used if the units conform in shape and size to the requirements of ยง 139.110 (b), (c), or (d).

(2) When any ingredient, not designated in the part of the name prescribed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, is added in such proportion as to contribute 10 percent or more of the quantity of protein contained in the finished food, the name shall include the statement "Made with ______", the blank being filled in with the name of each such ingredient, e.g., "Made with nonfat milk".

(3) When, in conformity with paragraph (d) (1) or (2) of this section, two or more ingredients are listed in the name, their designations shall be arranged in descending order of predominance by weight.

(4) In the case of a food made to comply with another section of this part, but which also meets the compositional requirements of this section, it may alternatively bear the name set out in that other section.
