
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 139 - MACARONI AND NOODLE PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Macaroni and Noodle Products
###### § 139.120 Milk macaroni products.

(a) Milk macaroni products are the class of food, each of which conforms to the definition and standard of identity and is subject to the requirements for label statement of ingredients prescribed for macaroni products by § 139.110(a), (f)(2), (f)(3), and (g), except that:

(1) Milk is used as the sole moistening ingredient in preparing the dough; or in lieu of milk one or more of the milk ingredients specified in paragraph (f) of this section is used, with or without water, in such quantity that the weight of milk solids therein is not less than 3.8 percent of the weight of the finished milk macaroni product; and

(2) None of the optional ingredients permitted by § 139.110(a) (1) and (2) is used. When the optional ingredient gum gluten (§ 139.110(a)(5)) is added, the quantity is such that the protein derived therefrom, together with the protein derived from semolina, durum flour, farina, flour, or any combination of these used, does not exceed 13 percent of the weight of the finished food.

(b) Milk macaroni is the milk macaroni product the units of which conform to the specifications of shape and size prescribed for macaroni by § 139.110(b).

(c) Milk spaghetti is the milk macaroni product the units of which conform to the specifications of shape and size prescribed for spaghetti by § 139.110(c).

(d) Milk vermicelli is the milk macaroni product the units of which conform to the specifications of shape and size prescribed for vermicelli by § 139.110(d).

(e) The name of each food for which a definition and standard of identity is prescribed by this section is "Milk Macaroni Product"; or alternatively, the name is "Milk macaroni", "Milk spaghetti", or "Milk vermicelli", as the case may be, when the units of the food comply with the requirements of paragraph (b), (c), or (d), respectively, of this section.

(f) The milk ingredients referred to in paragraph (a)(1) of this section are concentrated milk, evaporated milk, dried milk, and a mixture of butter with skim milk, concentrated skim milk, evaporated skim milk, nonfat dry milk (dried skim milk), or any two or more of these, in such proportion that the weight of nonfat milk solids in such mixture is not more than 2.275 times the weight of milk fat therein.
