
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 139 - MACARONI AND NOODLE PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Macaroni and Noodle Products
###### § 139.122 Enriched nonfat milk macaroni products.

(a) Each of the enriched macaroni products made with nonfat milk for which a definition and standard of identity is prescribed by this section conforms to the definition and standard of identity, and is subject to the requirements for label statement of ingredients, prescribed for macaroni products by § 139.110(a), (f)(2), (f)(3), (f)(4), and (g), except that:

(1)(i) In preparing the dough, nonfat dry milk or concentrated skim milk, or a mixture of these, is used in an amount such that the finished enriched macaroni product made with nonfat milk contains by weight not less than 12 percent and not more than 25 percent of milk solids-not-fat. Carrageenan or the salts of carrageenan conforming to the requirements of § 172.620 and § 172.626 of this chapter may be used in a quantity not in excess of 0.833 percent by weight of the milk solids-not-fat used.

(ii) When the ingredient carrageenan or the salts of carrageenan specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section is used, the label shall bear the statement, "Carrageenan added" or "Salts of carrageenan added" or the statement "With added carrageenan" or "With added salts of carrageenan", in the manner further prescribed by § 139.110(f)(4).

(2) None of the optional ingredients permitted by § 139.110(a) (1), (2), and (5) are used.

(3) Each such food contains in each pound not less than 4.0 milligrams (mg) and not more than 5.0 mg of thiamin, not less than 1.7 mg and not more than 2.2 mg of riboflavin, not less than 27 mg and not more than 34 mg of niacin or niacinamide, not less than 0.9 mg and not more than 1.2 mg of folic acid, and not less than 13 mg and not more than 16.5 mg of iron (Fe). These substances may be added through direct addition or wholly or in part through the use of dried yeast, dried torula yeast, partly defatted wheat germ (as provided for in paragraph (a)(4) of this section), enriched farina, or enriched flour. They may be added in a harmless carrier, such carrier being used only in the quantity reasonably necessary to effect an intimate and uniform distribution of such substances in the finished food. Iron may be added only in a form that is harmless and assimilable.

(4) Each such food may also contain as an optional ingredient partly defatted wheat germ, but the amount thereof does not exceed 5 percent by weight of the finished food.

(b) The name of each food for which a definition and standard of identity is prescribed by this section is "Enriched macaroni product made with nonfat milk" or, alternatively, the name is "Enriched macaroni made with nonfat milk", "Enriched spaghetti made with nonfat milk", or "Enriched vermicelli made with nonfat milk," as the case may be when the units of the food conform to the specifications of shape and size prescribed by § 139.110 (b), (c), or (d), respectively.
