
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 139 - MACARONI AND NOODLE PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Macaroni and Noodle Products
###### ยง 139.150 Noodle products.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

The finished noodle product contains not less than 87 percent of total solids as determined by the method prescribed in "Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists," 13th Ed. (1980), in section 14.133, under the heading "Vacuum Oven Method-Official Final Action," which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:The total solids of noodle products contains not less than 5.5 percent by weight of the solids of egg, or egg yolk.

(b) Noodles, egg noodles, is the noodle product the units of which are ribbon-shaped.

(c) Egg macaroni is the noodle product the units of which are tube-shaped and more than 0.11 inch but not more than 0.27 inch in diameter.

(d) Egg spaghetti is the noodle product the units of which are tube-shaped or cord-shaped (not tubular) and more than 0.06 inch but not more than 0.11 inch in diameter.

(e) Egg vermicelli is the noodle product the units of which are cord-shaped (not tubular) and not more than 0.06 inch in diameter.

(f) The name of each food for which a definition and standard of identity is prescribed by this section is "Noodle product" or "Egg noodle product"; or alternatively, the name is "Noodles" or "Egg noodles", "Egg macaroni", "Egg spaghetti", or "Egg vermicelli", as the case may be, when the units of the food are of the shapes and sizes specified in paragraph (b), (c), (d), or (e), respectively, of this section.

(g)(1) When any ingredient specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is used, the label of the noodle product shall bear the statement "Seasoned with ______", the blank being filled in with the common name of the ingredient; or in the case of bay leaves, the statement "Spiced", "Spice added", or "Spiced with bay leaves".

(2) When the ingredient specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section is used, the label shall bear the statement "Glyceryl monostearate added" or the statement "With added glyceryl monostearate".

(h) Wherever the name of the food appears on such label so conspicuously as to be easily seen under customary conditions of purchase, the words and statements prescribed in this section, showing the ingredients used shall immediately and conspicuously precede or follow, or in part precede and in part follow, such name without intervening written, printed, or other graphic matter.
