
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 145 - CANNED FRUITS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 145.3 Definitions.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(m) The procedure for determining the densities of the packing media means the following: The density of the packing medium, when measured 15 days or more after packing, or the density of the blended homogenized slurry of the comminuted entire contents of the container, when measured less than 15 days after canning, is determined according to "Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists," 13th Ed. (1980), which is incorporated by reference, section 31.F011 (Solids) "By Means of the Refractometer-Official Final Action" (and sections 52.012 and 52.015) with result expressed as percent by weight of sucrose (degrees Brix) with correction for temperature to the equivalent at 20 &#xB0;C, but without correction for invert sugar or other substances. Copies of the material incorporated by reference may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(n) The procedure for determining drained weight is as follows: Tilt the opened container so as to distribute the contents evenly over the meshes of a circular sieve which has previously been weighed. The diameter of the sieve is 20.3 centimeters (8 inches) if the quantity of contents of the container is less than 1.4 kilograms (3 pounds) and 30.5 centimeters (12 inches) if such quantity is 1.4 kilograms (3 pounds) or more. The bottom of the sieve is woven-wire cloth which complies with the specifications for the No. 8 sieve set forth in the "Definitions of Terms and Explanatory Notes" of the "Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists," 13th Ed. (1980), which is incorporated by reference. The availability of this incorporation by reference is given in paragraph (m) of this section. Carefully invert by hand all fruits having cups or cavities if they fall on the sieve with cups or cavities up. Cups or cavities in soft products may be drained by tilting sieve. Without further shifting the material on the sieve, incline the sieve at an angle of 17&#xB0; to 20&#xB0; to facilitate drainage. Two minutes after the drainage begins, weigh the sieve and drained fruit. The weight so found, less the weight of the sieve, shall be considered to be the weight of the drained fruit.

(o) Compliance means the following: Unless otherwise provided in a standard, a lot of canned fruits shall be deemed in compliance for the following factors, to be determined by the sampling and acceptance procedure as provided in paragraph (p) of this section, namely:
