
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 145 - CANNED FRUITS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Canned Fruits
###### ยง 145.110 Canned applesauce.
####### Identity,Definition.,Malus domestica,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(a)-(1)Canned applesauce is the food prepared from comminuted or chopped apples (Borkhausen), which may or may not be peeled and cored, and which may have added thereto one or more of the optional ingredients specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The apple ingredient is heated and, in accordance with good manufacturing practices, bruised apple particles, peel, seed, core material, carpel tissue, and other coarse, hard, or extraneous materials are removed. The food is sealed in containers. It is so processed by heat, either before or after sealing, as to prevent spoilage. The soluble solids content, measured by refractometer and expressed as percent sucrose (degrees Brix) with correction for temperature to the equivalent at 20 &#xB0;C (68 &#xB0;F), is not less than 9 percent (exclusive of the solids of any added optional nutritive carbohydrate sweeteners) as determined by the method prescribed in "Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists," 13th Ed. (1980), section 22.024, "Soluble Solids by Refractometer in Fresh and Canned Fruits, Jams, Marmalades, and Preserves-Official First Action," which is incorporated by reference, but without correction for invert sugar or other substances. Copies may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
