
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 145 - CANNED FRUITS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Canned Fruits
###### ยง 145.115 Canned apricots.
####### Quality.

(b)(1) The standard of quality for canned apricots is as follows:

(i) All units tested in accordance with the method prescribed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section are pierced by a weight of not more than 300 grams.

(ii) In the cases of whole apricots, halves, and quarters, the weight of the largest unit in the container is not more than twice the weight of the smallest unit therein.

(iii) Not more than 20 percent of the units in the container are blemished with scab, hail injury, discoloration, or other abnormalities.

(iv) In the cases of whole apricots, halves, and quarters, all units are untrimmed, or are so trimmed as to preserve normal shape.

(v) Except in the case of mixed pieces of irregular sizes and shapes, not more than 5 percent of the units in a container of 20 or more units, and not more than 1 unit in a container of less than 20 units, are crushed or broken. (A unit which has lost its normal shape because of ripeness and which bears no mark of crushing shall not be considered to be crushed or broken.)

(2) Canned apricots shall be tested by the following method to determine whether or not they meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section: So trim a test piece from the unit as to fit, with peel surface up, into a supporting receptacle. If the unit is of different firmness in different parts of its peel surface, trim the piece from the firmest part. If the piece is unpeeled, remove the peel. The top of the receptacle is circular in shape, of 1inches inside diameter, with vertical sides; or rectangular in shape,inch by 1 inch inside measurements, with ends vertical and sides sloping downward and joining at the center at a vertical depth ofinch. Use the circular receptacle for testing units of such size that a test piece can be trimmed therefrom to fit it. Use the rectangular receptacle for testing other units. Test no unit from which a test piece with rectangular peel surface at leastinch by 1 inch cannot be trimmed. Test the piece by means of a round metal rodinch in diameter. To the upper end of the rod is affixed a device to which weight can be added. The rod is held vertically by a support through which it can freely move upward or downward. The lower end of the rod is a plane surface to which the vertical axis of the rod is perpendicular. Adjust the combined weight of the rod and device to 100 grams. Set the receptacle so that the surface of the test piece is held horizontally. Lower the end of the rod to the approximate center of such surface, and add weight to the device at a uniform, continuous rate of 12 grams per second until the rod pierces the test piece. Weigh the rod and weighted device. Test all units in containers of 50 units or less, except those units too small for testing or too soft for trimming. Test at least 50 units, taken at random, in containers of more than 50 units; but if less than 50 units are of sufficient size and firmness for testing, test those which are of sufficient size and firmness.

(3) If the quality of canned apricots falls below the standard prescribed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the label shall bear the general statement of substandard quality specified in ยง 130.14(a) of this chapter, in the manner and form therein specified; but in lieu of such general statement of substandard quality, the label may bear the alternative statement "Below standard in quality ______", the blank to be filled in with the words specified after the corresponding number of each subparagraph of paragraph (b)(1) of this section which such canned apricots fail to meet, as follows:

(i) "Not tender";

(ii) "Mixed sizes";

(iii) "Blemished";

(iv) "Unevenly trimmed";

(v) "Partly crushed or broken".

Such alternative statement shall immediately and conspicuously precede or follow, without intervening written, printed, or graphic matter, the name "apricots" and any words and statements required or authorized to appear with such name by ยง 145.115(a)(2).
