
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 145 - CANNED FRUITS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Canned Fruits
###### ยง 145.125 Canned cherries.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(ii) Unpitted canned cherries shall be tested by the following method to determine whether or not they comply with the requirements of paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section: Tilt the opened container so as to distribute the contents over the meshes of a circular sieve which has previously been weighed. The diameter of the sieve is 8 inches if the quantity of the contents of the container is less than 3 pounds, or 12 inches if such quantity is 3 pounds or more. The bottom of the sieve is No. 8 woven-wire cloth that complies with the specifications for such cloth set forth in the "Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists," 13th Ed. (1980), Table 1, "Nominal Dimensions of Standard Test Sieves (U.S.A. Standard Series)," under the heading "Definitions of Terms and Explanatory Notes," which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD, 20877-2504, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:Without shifting the cherries, so incline the sieve as to facilitate drainage. Two minutes from the time drainage begins, weigh the sieve and drained cherries. The weight so found, less the weight of the sieve, shall be considered to be the weight of drained cherries. Pit the cherries and wash the pits free from adhering flesh. Drain and weigh the pits by the method prescribed above. Divide the weight of pits so found by the weight of drained cherries, and multiply by 100.

(3) If the quality of canned cherries falls below the standard prescribed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the label shall bear the general statement of substandard quality specified in ยง 130.14(a) of this chapter, in the manner and form therein specified; but in lieu of such general statement of substandard quality, the label may bear the alternative statement "Below Standard in Quality ______", the blank to be filled in with the words specified after the corresponding number of each subparagraph of paragraph (b)(1) of this section which such canned cherries fail to meet, as follows:

(i) "Partially pitted";

(ii) "Small";

(iii) "Mixed sizes";

(iv) "Thin-fleshed";

(v) "Blemished".
