
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 145 - CANNED FRUITS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Canned Fruits
###### ยง 145.130 Canned figs.
####### Packing media.

(c)(1) The optional packing media referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, as defined in ยง 145.3 are:

(i) Water.

(ii) Fruit juice(s) and water.

(iii) Fruit juice(s).

(2) When a sweetener is added as a part of any such liquid packing medium, the density range of the resulting packing medium expressed as percent by weight of sucrose (degrees Brix) as determined by the procedure prescribed in ยง 145.3(m) shall be designated by the appropriate name for the respective density ranges, namely:

(i) When the density of the solution is 11 percent or more but less than 16 percent, the medium shall be designated as "slightly sweetened water"; or "extra light syrup"; "slightly sweetened fruit juice(s) and water"; or "slightly sweetened fruit juice(s)", as the case may be.

(ii) When the density of the solution is 16 percent or more but less than 21 percent, the medium shall be designated as "light sirup"; "lightly sweetened fruit juice(s) and water"; or "lightly sweetened fruit juice(s)", as the case may be.

(iii) When the density of the solution is 21 percent or more but less than 26 percent, the medium shall be designated as "heavy sirup"; "heavily sweetened fruit juice(s) and water"; or "heavily sweetened fruit juice(s)", as the case may be.

(iv) When the density of the solution is 26 percent or more but not more than 35 percent, the medium shall be designated as "extra heavy sirup"; "extra heavily sweetened fruit juice(s) and water"; or "extra heavily sweetened fruit juice(s)", as the case may be.
