
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 145 - CANNED FRUITS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Canned Fruits
###### ยง 145.135 Canned fruit cocktail.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(i) Not more than 20 percent by weight of the units in the container of peach or pear, or of pineapple if the units thereof are diced, are more thaninch in greatest edge dimension, or pass through the meshes of a sieve designated asinch that complies with the specifications for such cloth set forth in the "Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists," 13th Ed. (1980), Table 1, "Nominal Dimensions of Standard Test Sieves (U.S.A. Standard Series)," under the heading "Definitions of Terms and Explanatory Notes," which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:If the units of pineapple are in the form of sectors, not more than 20 percent of such sectors in the container fail to conform to the following dimensions: The length of the outside arc is not more thaninch but is more thaninch; the thickness is not more thaninch but is more thaninch; the length (measured along the radius from the inside arc to the outside arc) is not more than 1inches but is more thaninch.

(ii) Not more than 10 percent of the grapes in a container containing 10 grapes or more, and not more than 1 grape in a container containing less than 10 grapes, are cracked to the extent of being severed into two parts or are crushed to the extent that their normal shape is destroyed.

(iii) Not more than 10 percent of the grapes in a container containing 10 grapes or more, and not more than a grape in a container containing less than 10 grapes, have the cap stem attached.

(iv) There is present in the finished canned fruit cocktail not more than 1 square inch of pear peel per each 1 pound of drained weight of units of pear plus the weight of a proportion of the packing medium which is the same proportion as the drained weight of the units of pear bears to the drained weight of the entire contents of the can. Such drained weights shall be determined by the method prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section.

(v) There is present in the finished canned fruit cocktail not more than 1 square inch of peach peel per each 1 pound of drained weight of units of peach plus the weight of a proportion of the packing medium which is the same proportion as the drained weight of units of peach bears to the drained weight of the entire contents of the can. Such drained weights shall be determined by the method prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section.

(vi) Not more than 15 percent of the units of cherry ingredient, and not more than 20 percent of the units of peach, pear, or grape, in the container are blemished with scab, hail injury, scar tissue or other abnormality.

(vii) If the cherry ingredient is artificially colored, the color of not more than 15 percent of the units thereof in a container containing more than six units and of not more than one unit in a container containing six units or less, is other than evenly distributed in the unit or other than uniform with the color of the other units of the cherry ingredient.

(2) If the quality of canned fruit cocktail falls below the standard prescribed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the label shall bear the general statement of substandard quality specified in ยง 130.14(a) of this chapter, in the manner and form therein specified.
