
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 145 - CANNED FRUITS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Canned Fruits
###### ยง 145.135 Canned fruit cocktail.
####### Fill of container.

(c)(1) The standard of fill of container for canned fruit cocktail is a fill such that the total weight of drained fruit is not less than 65 percent of the water capacity of the container, as determined by the general method for water capacity of containers prescribed in ยง 130.12(a) of this chapter. Such total weight of drained fruit is determined by the following method: Tilt the opened container so as to distribute the contents evenly over the meshes of a circular sieve which has been previously weighed. The diameter of the sieve is 8 inches if the quantity of contents of the container is less than 3 pounds, and 12 inches if such quantity is 3 pounds or more. The bottom of the sieve is woven-wire cloth that complies with the specifications for such cloth set forth under "2.38 mm (No. 8)" in Table 1, "Nominal Dimensions of Standard Test Sieves (U.S.A. Standard Series)," prescribed in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, which is incorporated by reference. The availability of this incorporation by reference is given in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section. Without shifting the material on the sieve so incline the sieve as to facilitate drainage. Two minutes from the time drainage begins, weigh the sieve and drained fruit. The weight so found, less the weight of the sieve, shall be considered to be the total weight of drained fruit.

(2) If canned fruit cocktail falls below the standard of fill of container prescribed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the label shall bear the general statement of substandard fill specified in ยง 130.14(b) of this chapter, in the manner and form therein prescribed.
