
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 145 - CANNED FRUITS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Canned Fruits
###### ยง 145.145 Canned grapefruit.
####### Fill of container.

(c)(1) The standard of fill of container for canned grapefruit is:

(i) The fill of grapefruit and packing medium, as determined by the general method for fill of container prescribed in ยง 130.12(b) of this chapter, is not less than 90 percent of the total capacity of the container.

(ii) The drained weight of grapefruit ingredient is not less than 50 percent of the water capacity of the container, as determined by the method prescribed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section and the general method for water capacity of containers prescribed in ยง 130.12(a) of this chapter.

(2) Drained weight is determined by the following method: Tilt the opened container so as to distribute the contents evenly over the meshes of a circular sieve which has previously been weighed. The diameter of the sieve is 20.3 centimeters (8 inches) if the quantity of contents of the container is less than 1.4 kilograms (3 pounds) and 30.5 centimeters (12 inches) if such quantity is 1.4 kilograms (3 pounds) or more. The bottom of the sieve is woven-wire cloth that complies with the specifications for the No. 8 sieve set forth in the "Definitions of Terms and Explanatory Notes" of the AOAC, 13th Ed. (1980), Table 1, which is incorporated by reference. The availability of this incorporation by reference is given in paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section. Without shifting the material on the sieve, incline the sieve at an angle of 17&#xB0; to 20&#xB0; to facilitate drainage. Two minutes after the drainage begins, weigh the sieve and drained grapefruit. The weight so found, less the weight of the sieve, shall be considered to be the weight of the drained grapefruit.

(3)(i) A container that falls below the requirement for minimum fill prescribed in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section shall be considered a "defective". The food will be deemed to fall below the standard of fill when the number of defectives exceeds the acceptance number (c) in the sampling plans prescribed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(ii) Canned grapefruit will be deemed to fall below the standard of fill when the average drained weight of all containers analyzed when sampled according to the sampling plans prescribed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is less than that prescribed in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.

(4) If canned grapefruit falls below the standard of fill of container prescribed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the label shall bear the statement of substandard fill specified in ยง 130.14(b) of this chapter, in the manner and form therein specified.
