
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 145 - CANNED FRUITS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Canned Fruits
###### ยง 145.170 Canned peaches.
####### Labeling requirements.

(4)(i) The name of the food is "peaches". The optional varietal type as set forth in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section shall be a part of the name. The name of the food shall also include a declaration of any flavoring that characterizes the product as specified in ยง 101.22 of this chapter and a declaration of any spice or seasoning that characterizes the product; for example, "Spice added", or in lieu of the word "Spice", the common name of the spice, "Seasoned with vinegar" or "Seasoned with peach kernels". When two or more of the optional ingredients specified in paragraphs (a)(1) (ii) through (v) of this section are used, such words may be combined as for example, "Seasoned with cider vinegar, cloves, cinnamon oil and peach kernels".

(ii) The color type and style of the peach ingredient as provided for in paragraphs (a)(2) (ii) and (iii) of this section and the name of the packing medium specified in paragraphs (a)(3) (i) and (ii) of this section, preceded by "In" or "Packed in" or the words "Solid pack", where applicable, shall be included as part of the name or in close proximity to the name of the food, except that "Halves" may be alternately designated as "Halved", "Halves and pieces" as "Halved and pieces", "Quarters" as "Quartered", "Slices" as "Sliced", and "Dice" as "Diced". Pieces or irregular pieces shall be designated "Pieces", "Irregular pieces", or "Mixed pieces of irregular sizes and shapes". "Chunky" may be designated as "Chunks". The terms "Cling" and "Free" may be used as optional designations for "Clingstone" and "Freestone", respectively. When the packing medium is prepared with a sweetener(s) which imparts a taste, flavor, or other characteristic to the finished food in addition to sweetness, the name of the packing medium shall be accompanied by the name of such sweetener(s); as for example in the case of a mixture of brown sugar and honey, an appropriate statement would be "______ sirup of brown sugar and honey" the blank to be filled in with the word "light", "heavy", or "extra heavy" as the case may be. When the liquid portion of the packing media provided for in paragraphs (a)(3) (i) and (ii) of this section consists of fruit juices(s), such juice(s) shall be designated in the name of the packing medium as:
