
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 145 - CANNED FRUITS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Canned Fruits
###### ยง 145.175 Canned pears.
####### Labeling requirements.

(4)(i) The name of the food is "pears". The name of the food shall also include a declaration of any flavoring that characterizes the product as specified in ยง 101.22 of this chapter and a declaration of any spice or seasoning that characterizes the product; for example, "Spice added", or in lieu of the word "Spice", the common name of the spice, "Seasoned with vinegar". When two or more of the optional ingredients specified in paragraphs (a)(1) (ii) and (iii) of this section are used, such words may be combined as for example, "Seasoned with cider vinegar, cloves, and cinnamon oil".

(ii) The style and forms of units of the pear ingredient as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section and the name of the packing medium specified in paragraph (a)(3) (i) and (ii) of this section, preceded by "In" or "Packed in" or the words "Solid pack", where applicable, shall be included as part of the name or in close proximity to the name of the food, except that "Halves" may be alternatively designated as "Halved", "Quarters" as "Quartered", "Slices" as "Sliced", and "Dice" as "Diced". "Pieces" or "Irregular pieces" shall be designated as "Pieces", "Irregular pieces", or "Mixed pieces of irregular sizes and shapes". "Chunky" may be designated as "Chunks". The style of the pear ingredient shall be preceded or followed by "Unpeeled" when the units are whole or halves and are unpeeled. When the packing medium is prepared with a sweetener(s) which imparts a taste, flavor or other characteristic to the finished food in addition to sweetness, the name of the packing medium shall be accompanied by the name of such sweetener(s), as for example in the case of a mixture of brown sugar and honey, an appropriate statement would be "______ sirup of brown sugar and honey" the blank to be filled in with the word "light", "heavy", or "extra heavy", as the case may be. When the liquid portion of the packing media provided for in paragraphs (a)(3) (i) and (ii) of this section consists of fruit juice(s), such juice(s) shall be designated in the name of the packing medium as:
