
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 145 - CANNED FRUITS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Canned Fruits
###### ยง 145.175 Canned pears.
####### Seeds in all styles except whole uncored style.

(x)Not more than 8 seeds or the equivalent in pieces of seeds per kilogram (35.3 ounces) of net weight. Seeds included as cored material in paragraph (b)(1) (viii) and (ix) of this section shall not be counted a second time.

(2) Canned pears shall be tested by the following method to determine whether they meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section: So trim a test piece from the unit as to fit, with peel surface up, into a supporting receptacle. If the unit is of different firmness in different parts of its peel surface, trim the piece from the firmest part. If the piece is unpeeled, remove the peel. The top of the receptacle is circular in shape, of 28.6 millimeters (1.12 inches) inside diameter, with vertical sides; or rectangular in shape, 19 millimeters (0.75 inch) by 25.4 millimeters (1 inch) inside measurements, with ends vertical and sides sloping downward and joining at the center at a vertical depth of 19 millimeters (0.75 inch). Use the circular receptacle for testing units of such size that a test piece can be trimmed therefrom to fit it. Use the rectangular receptacle for testing other units. Test no unit from which a test piece with rectangular peel surface at least 13 millimeters (0.51 inch) by 25.4 millimeters (1 inch) cannot be trimmed. Test the piece by means of a round metal rod 4 millimeters (0.16 inch) in diameter. To the upper end of the rod is affixed a device to which weight can be added. The rod is held vertically by the support through which it can freely move upward or downward. The lower end of the rod is a plane surface to which the vertical axis of the rod is perpendicular. Adjust the combined weight of the rod and device to 100 grams (3.5 ounces). Set the receptacle so that the surface of the test piece is held horizontally. Lower the end of the rod to the approximate center of such surface, and add weight to the device at a uniform, continuous rate of 12 grams (0.42 ounce) per second until the rod pierces the test piece. Weigh the rod and weighted device. Test all units in containers of 50 units or less except those units too small for testing or too soft for trimming. Test at least 50 units, taken at random in containers of more than 50 units; but if less than 50 units are of sufficient size and firmness for testing, test those which are of sufficient size and firmness.

(3) Determine compliance as specified in ยง 145.3(o) except that a lot shall be deemed to be in compliance for peel in all styles except unpeeled styles and seeds in all styles except whole uncored style based on the average of all samples analyzed according to the sampling plans set out in ยง 145.3(p).

(4) If the quality of canned pears falls below the standard prescribed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the label shall bear the general statement of substandard quality specified in ยง 130.14(a) of this chapter, in the manner and form therein specified; however, if the quality of the canned pears falls below standard with respect to only one of the factors of quality specified in paragraph (b)(1) (i) through (x) of this section, there may be substituted for the second line of such general statement of substandard quality ("Good Food-Not High Grade") a new line, as specified after the corresponding designation of paragraph (b)(1) of this section which the canned pears fail to meet, as follows:

(i) "Not tender";

(ii) "Small halves" or "small quarters", as the case may be;
