
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 145 - CANNED FRUITS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Canned Fruits
###### ยง 145.180 Canned pineapple.
####### b

(vi) Except in the case of crushed pineapple, segregate and count each unit that is blemished as defined in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section. In the case of crushed pineapple, segregate each fragment of crushed pineapple bearing a blemish and determine the aggregate weight of such fragments to determine compliance with paragraph (b)(1)(iii)() of this section.

(vii) Except in the case of chunks, cubes, pieces, and crushed pineapple, inspect all the units in the container to determine those that have been excessively trimmed, as defined in paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section.

(viii) Except in the case of cubes, pieces, and crushed pineapple, count the total units in the container and the number of mashed units to determine compliance with paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section.

(ix) Determine the total acidity of the drained liquid by titration, using the following method: Measure with a pipette 10 milliliters of the unfiltered drained liquid into a 250-milliliter Erlenmeyer flask. Add 25 milliliters of distilled or deionized water and 0.3 milliliter of 1-percent phenolphthalein solution. Titrate with one-tenth normal sodium hydroxide solution to a faint, permanently pink coloration. Multiply the number of milliliters of one-tenth normal sodium hydroxide required by 0.064 to calculate the number of grams of anhydrous citric acid per 100 milliliters of drained liquid to determine compliance with paragraph (b)(3)(vi) of this section.

(4) If the quality of canned pineapple falls below the standard prescribed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the label shall bear the general statement of substandard quality specified in ยง 130.14(a) of this chapter, in the manner and form specified in that section; however, if the quality of the canned pineapple falls below standard with respect to only one of the factors of quality specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) through (vii) of this section, there may be substituted for the second line of the general statement of substandard quality ("Good Food-Not High Grade") one of the following new lines, placed after the corresponding designation of paragraph (b)(1) of this section that the canned pineapple fails to meet:

(i) "Poorly cored" or "Excessive core".

(ii) "Mixed sizes" or "Irregular small pieces", as appropriate.

(iii) "Blemished" or "Contains blemished pieces".

(iv) "Excessively trimmed".

(v) "Mashed units" or "Contains mashed units".

(vi) "Excessively tart".

(vii) "Contains excess liquid".
