
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 145 - CANNED FRUITS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Canned Fruits
###### ยง 145.190 Canned prunes.
####### Packing media.

(b)(1) The optional packing media referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, as defined in ยง 145.3 are:

(i) Water.

(ii) Fruit juice(s) and water.

(iii) Fruit juice(s).

(2) When a sweetener is added as a part of any such liquid packing medium, the density range of the resulting packing medium expressed as percent by weight of sucrose (degrees Brix) as determined by the procedure prescribed in ยง 145.3(m) shall be designated by the appropriate name for the respective density ranges, namely:

(i) When the density of the solution is less than 20 percent, the medium shall be designated as "slightly sweetened water"; or "extra light sirup"; "slightly sweetened fruit juice(s) and water"; or "slightly sweetened fruit juice(s)", as the case may be.

(ii) When the density of the solution is 20 percent or more but less than 24 percent, the medium shall be designated as "light sirup"; "lightly sweetened fruit juice(s) and water"; or "lightly sweetened fruit juice(s)", as the case may be.

(iii) When the density of the solution is 24 percent or more but less than 30 percent, the medium shall be designated as "heavy sirup"; "heavily sweetened fruit juice(s) and water"; or "heavily sweetened fruit juice(s)", as the case may be.

(iv) When the density of the solution is 30 percent or more but not more than 45 percent, the medium shall be designated as "extra heavy sirup"; "extra heavily sweetened fruit juice(s) and water"; or "extra heavily sweetened fruit juice(s)", as the case may be.
