
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 146 - CANNED FRUIT JUICES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Canned Fruit Juices and Beverages
###### ยง 146.121 Frozen concentrate for artificially sweetened lemonade.

(a) Frozen concentrate for artificially sweetened lemonade conforms to the definition and standard of identity prescribed for frozen concentrate for lemonade by ยง 146.120, except that in lieu of nutritive sweeteners it is sweetened with one or more of the artificial sweetening ingredients listed in and complying with the requirements of parts 172, 180 or 184 of this chapter, and the soluble solids specifications prescribed in ยง 146.120(a) do not apply. When the product is diluted according to directions which shall appear on the label, the acidity of the artificially sweetened lemonade, calculated as anhydrous citric acid, shall be not less than 0.70 gram per 100 milliliters. It may contain one or more safe and suitable dispersing ingredients serving the function of distributing the lemon oil throughout the food. It may also contain one or more safe and suitable thickening ingredients. Such dispersing and thickening ingredients are not food additives as defined in section 201(s) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act; or if they are food additives as so defined, they are used in conformity with regulations established pursuant to section 409 of the act.

(b) [Reserved]

(c) The name of the food is "Frozen concentrate for artificially sweetened lemonade". The words "artificially sweetened" shall be of the same size and style of type as the word "lemonade".

(d) If an optional thickening or dispersing ingredient referred to in paragraph (a) of this section is used, the label shall bear the statement "______ added" or "with added ______", the blank being filled in with the common name of the thickening or dispersing agent used. Such statement shall be set forth on the label with such prominence and conspicuousness as to render it likely to be read and understood by the ordinary individual under customary conditions of purchase.

(e) Frozen concentrate for artificially sweetened lemonade is labeled to conform to the labeling requirements prescribed for foods which purport to be or are represented for special dietary use by regulations promulgated pursuant to section 403(j) of the act.
