
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 146 - CANNED FRUIT JUICES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Canned Fruit Juices and Beverages
###### ยง 146.132 Grapefruit juice.
####### Identity,Description.,Citrus paradisi,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(a)-(1)Grapefruit juice is the unfermented juice, intended for direct consumption, obtained by mechanical process from sound, mature grapefruit (Macfadyen) from which seeds and peel (except embryonic seeds and small fragments of seeds and peel which cannot be separated by good manufacturing practice) and excess pulp are removed and to which may be added not more than 10 percent by volume of the unfermented juice obtained from mature hybrids of grapefruit. The juice may be adjusted by the addition of the optional concentrated grapefruit juice ingredients specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, but the quantity of such concentrated grapefruit juice ingredient added shall not contribute more than 15 percent of the grapefruit juice soluble solids in the finished food. The grapefruit pulp, grapefruit oil, and grapefruit essence (components derived from grapefruit) content may be adjusted in accordance with good manufacturing practice. The juice may have been concentrated and later reconstituted with water suitable for the purpose of maintaining essential composition and quality factors of the juice. It may be sweetened with the dry nutritive sweeteners referred to in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section. If the grapefruit juice is prepared from concentrate, such sweeteners, in liquid form, referred to in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section, also may be used. When prepared from concentrated grapefruit juice, exclusive of added sweeteners, the finished food contains not less than 10 percent, by weight, of soluble solids taken as the refractometric sucrose value (of the filtrate), corrected to 20 &#xB0;C, and corrected for acidity by adding (0.012 + 0.193x-0.0004x), where x equals the percent anhydrous citric acid in the sample, to the refractometrically obtained sucrose value by the first method prescribed in "Correction of Refractometer Sucrose Readings for Citric Acid Content for Lemonade," by Yeatman, Senzel, and Springer, "Journal of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists," vol. 59 p. 368 (1976). Copies are available from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:The food may contain one or any combination of the optional ingredients specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. Grapefruit juice, as defined in this paragraph, may be preserved by heat sterilization (canning), refrigeration, or freezing. When sealed in a container to be held at ambient temperatures, it is so processed by heat, before or after sealing, as to prevent spoilage.
