
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 146 - CANNED FRUIT JUICES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Canned Fruit Juices and Beverages
###### § 146.140 Pasteurized orange juice.
####### Citrus reticulata,Citrus reticulata

(a) Pasteurized orange juice is the food prepared from unfermented juice obtained from mature oranges as specified in § 146.135, to which may be added not more that 10 percent by volume of the unfermented juice obtained from mature oranges of the speciesorhybrids (except that this limitation shall not apply to the hybrid species described in § 146.135). Seeds (except embryonic seeds and small fragments of seeds that cannot be separated by good manufacturing practice) are removed, and pulp and orange oil may be adjusted in accordance with good manufacturing practice. If the adjustment involves the addition of pulp, then such pulp shall not be of the washed or spent type. The solids may be adjusted by the addition of one or more of the optional concentrated orange juice ingredients specified in paragraph (b) of this section. One or more of the optional sweetening ingredients listed in paragraph (c) of this section may be added in a quantity reasonably necessary to raise the Brix or the Brix-acid ratio to any point within the normal range usually found in unfermented juice obtained from mature oranges as specified in § 146.135. The orange juice is so treated by heat as to reduce substantially the enzymatic activity and the number of viable microorganisms. Either before or after such heat treatment, all or a part of the product may be frozen. The finished pasteurized orange juice contains not less than 10.5 percent by weight of orange juice soluble solids, exclusive of the solids of any added optional sweetening ingredients, and the ratio of the Brix hydrometer reading to the grams of anhydrous citric acid per 100 milliliters of juice is not less than 10 to 1.

(b) The optional concentrated orange juice ingredients referred to in paragraph (a) of this section are frozen concentrated orange juice as specified in § 146.146 and concentrated orange juice for manufacturing as specified in § 146.153 when made from mature oranges; but the quantity of such concentrated orange juice ingredients added shall not contribute more than one-fourth of the total orange juice solids in the finished pasteurized orange juice.

(c) The optional sweetening ingredients referred to in paragraph (a) of this section are sugar, invert sugar, dextrose, dried corn sirup, dried glucose sirup.

(d)(1) The name of the food is "Pasteurized orange juice". If the food is filled into containers and preserved by freezing, the label shall bear the name "Frozen pasteurized orange juice". The words "pasteurized" or "frozen pasteurized" shall be shown on labels in letters not less than one-half the height of the letters in the words "orange juice".

(2) If the pasteurized orange juice is filled into containers and refrigerated, the label shall bear the name of the food, "chilled pasteurized orange juice". If it does not purport to be either canned orange juice or frozen pasteurized orange juice, the word "chilled" may be omitted from the name. The words "pasteurized" or "chilled pasteurized" shall be shown in letters not less than one-half the height of the letters in the words "orange juice".

(e)(1) If a concentrated orange juice ingredient specified in paragraph (b) of this section is used in adjusting the orange juice solids of the pasteurized orange juice, the label shall bear the statement "prepared in part from concentrated orange juice" or "with added concentrated orange juice" or "concentrated orange juice added".

(2) If one or more of the sweetening ingredients specified in paragraph (c) of this section are added to the pasteurized orange juice, the label shall bear the statement "______ added", the blank being filled in with the name or an appropriate combination of the names of the sweetening ingredients used. However, for the purpose of this section, the name "sweetener" may be used in lieu of the specific name or names of the sweetening ingredients.

(f) Wherever the name of the food appears on the label so conspicuously as to be easily seen under customary conditions of purchase, the statements specified in this section for naming the optional ingredients used shall immediately and conspicuously precede or follow the name of the food, without intervening written, printed, or graphic matter.
