
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 146 - CANNED FRUIT JUICES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Canned Fruit Juices and Beverages
###### § 146.145 Orange juice from concentrate.

(a) Orange juice from concentrate is the food prepared by mixing water with frozen concentrated orange juice as defined in § 146.146 or with concentrated orange juice for manufacturing as defined in § 146.153 (when made from mature oranges), or both. To such mixture may be added orange juice as defined in § 146.135, frozen orange juice as defined in § 146.137, pasteurized orange juice as defined in § 146.140, orange juice for manufacturing as defined in § 146.151 (when made from mature oranges and preserved by chilling or freezing but not by canning), orange oil, orange pulp, and one or more of the sweetening ingredients listed in paragraph (b) of this section. The finished orange juice from concentrate contains not less than 11.8 percent orange juice soluble solids, exclusive of solids of any added optional sweetening ingredients. It may be so treated by heat as to reduce substantially the enzymatic activity and the number of viable microorganisms.

(b) The sweetening ingredients referred to in paragraph (a) of this section are sugar, sugar sirup, invert sugar, invert sugar sirup, dextrose, corn sirup, dried corn sirup, glucose sirup, dried glucose sirup.

(c) The name of the food is "Orange juice from concentrate". The words "from concentrate" shall be shown in letters not less than one-half the height of the letters in the words "orange juice".

(d) When orange juice from concentrate contains any optional sweetening ingredient as listed in paragraph (b) of this section, whether added directly as such or indirectly as an added ingredient of any orange juice product used, the label shall bear the statement "______ added", the blank being filled in with the name or an appropriate combination of the names of the sweetening ingredients added. However, for the purposes of this section the name "sweetener" may be used in lieu of the specific name or names of the sweetening ingredients.

(e) Wherever the name of the food appears on the label so conspicuously as to be easily seen under customary conditions of purchase, the statements specified in this section for naming the optional ingredients used shall immediately and conspicuously precede or follow the name of the food, without intervening written, printed, or graphic matter.
