
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 146 - CANNED FRUIT JUICES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Canned Fruit Juices and Beverages
###### § 146.146 Frozen concentrated orange juice.
####### Citrus reticulata,,Citrus reticulata,Citrus aurantium,,Citrus reticulata,Citrus reticulata,Citrus aurantium,Citrus reticulata,Citrus aurantium,,Citrus sinensis,Citrus reticulata,Citrus aurantium,,Citrus reticulata,Citrus aurantium

(a) Frozen concentrated orange juice is the food prepared by removing water from the juice of mature oranges as provided in § 146.135, to which may be added unfermented juice obtained from mature oranges of the speciesotherhybrids, or ofor both. However, in the unconcentrated blend, the volume of juice fromorhybrids shall not exceed 10 percent (except that this limitation shall not apply to the hybrid species described in § 146.135) and fromshall not exceed 5 percent. The concentrate so obtained is frozen. In its preparation, seeds (except embryonic seeds and small fragments of seeds that cannot be separated by good manufacturing practice) and excess pulp are removed, and a properly prepared water extract of the excess pulp so removed may be added. Orange oil, orange pulp, orange essence (obtained from orange juice), orange juice and other orange juice concentrate as provided in this section or concentrated orange juice for manufacturing provided in § 146.153 (when made from mature oranges), water, and one or more of the optional sweetening ingredients specified in paragraph (b) of this section may be added to adjust the final composition. The juice ofandas permitted by this paragraph, may be added in single strength or concentrated form prior to concentration of thejuice, or in concentrated form during adjustment of the composition of the finished food. The addition of concentrated juice fromoror both, shall not exceed, on a single-strength basis, the 10 percent maximum forand the 5 percent maximum forprescribed by this paragraph. Any of the ingredients of the finished concentrate may have been so treated by heat as to reduce substantially the enzymatic activity and the number of viable microorganisms. The finished food is of such concentration that when diluted according to label directions the diluted article will contain not less than 11.8 percent by weight of orange juice soluble solids, exclusive of the solids of any added optional sweetening ingredients. The dilution ratio shall be not less than 3 plus 1. For the purposes of this section and § 146.150, the term "dilution ratio" means the whole number of volumes of water per volume of frozen concentrate required to produce orange juice from concentrate having orange juice soluble solids of not less than 11.8 percent by weight exclusive of the solids of any added optional sweetening ingredients.

(b) The optional sweetening ingredients referred to in paragraph (a) of this section are sugar, sugar sirup, invert sugar, invert sugar sirup, dextrose, corn sirup, dried corn sirup, glucose sirup, and dried glucose sirup.

(c) If one or more of the sweetening ingredients specified in paragraph (b) of this section are added to the frozen concentrated orange juice, the label shall bear the statement "______ added", the blank being filled in with the name or an appropriate combination of names of the sweetening ingredients used. However, for the purpose of this section, the name "sweetener" may be used in lieu of the specific name or names of the sweetening ingredients.

(d) The name of the food concentrated to a dilution ratio of 3 plus 1 is "frozen concentrated orange juice" or "frozen orange juice concentrate". The name of the food concentrated to a dilution ratio greater than 3 plus 1 is "frozen concentrated orange juice, ______ plus 1" or "frozen orange juice concentrate, ______ plus 1", the blank being filled in with the whole number showing the dilution ratio; for example, "frozen orange juice concentrate, 4 plus 1". However, where the label bears directions for making 1 quart of orange juice from concentrate (or multiples of a quart), the blank in the name may be filled in with a mixed number; for example, "frozen orange juice concentrate, 4plus 1". For containers larger than 1 pint, the dilution ratio in the name may be replaced by the concentration of orange juice soluble solids in degrees Brix; for example, a 62&#xB0; Brix concentrate in 3-gallon cans may be named on the label "frozen concentrated orange juice, 62&#xB0; Brix".

(e) Wherever the name of the food appears on the label so conspicuously as to be easily seen under customary conditions of purchase, the statements specified in this section for naming the optional ingredients used shall immediately and conspicuously precede or follow the name of the food, without intervening written, printed, or graphic matter.

(f) Nothing in this section is intended to interfere with the adoption and enforcement by any State, in regulating the production of frozen concentrated orange juice in such State, of State standards, consistent with this section, but which impose higher or more restrictive requirements than those set forth in this section.
