
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 146 - CANNED FRUIT JUICES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Canned Fruit Juices and Beverages
###### ยง 146.185 Pineapple juice.
####### Identity.,Ananas comosus

(a)(1) Pineapple juice is the juice, intended for direct consumption, obtained by mechanical process from the flesh or parts thereof, with or without core material, of sound, ripe pineapple (L. Merrill). The juice may have been concentrated and later reconstituted with water suitable for the purpose of maintaining essential composition and quality factors of the juice. Pineapple juice may contain finely divided insoluble solids, but it does not contain pieces of shell, seeds, or other coarse or hard substances or excess pulp. It may be sweetened with any safe and suitable dry nutritive carbohydrate sweetener. However, if the pineapple juice is prepared from concentrate, such sweeteners, in liquid form, also may be used. It may contain added vitamin C in a quantity such that the total vitamin C in each 4 fluid ounces of the finished food amounts to not less than 30 milligrams and not more than 60 milligrams. In the processing of pineapple juice, dimethylpolysiloxane complying with the requirements of ยง 173.340 of this chapter may be employed as a defoaming agent in an amount not greater than 10 parts per million by weight of the finished food. Such food is prepared by heat sterilization, refrigeration, or freezing. When sealed in a container to be held at ambient temperatures, it is so processed by heat, before or after sealing, as to prevent spoilage.

(2) The name of the food is "Pineapple juice" if the juice from which it is prepared has not been concentrated and/or diluted with water. The name of the food is "Pineapple juice from concentrate" if the finished juice has been made from pineapple juice concentrate as specified in paragraph (a) of this section. If a nutritive sweetener is added, the label shall bear the statement "Sweetener added." If no sweetener is added, the word "Unsweetened" may immediately precede or follow the words "Pineapple juice" or "Pineapple juice from concentrate."
