
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 146 - CANNED FRUIT JUICES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Canned Fruit Juices and Beverages
###### ยง 146.185 Pineapple juice.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(i) Determine the degrees Brix of the pineapple juice by the method prescribed in "Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists," 13th Ed. (1980), section 31.009, "Solids by Means of Spindle-Official Final Action," which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(ii) Determine the total acidity of the pineapple juice by titration by the method prescribed in ยง 145.180(b)(2)(ix) of this chapter.

(iii) Divide the degrees Brix determined as prescribed in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section by the grams of anhydrous citric acid per 100 milliliters of juice, determined as prescribed in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, and report the results as ratio of degrees Brix to total acidity.

(iv) Determine the quantity of "insoluble solids" in pineapple juice as follows: Measure 50 milliliters of thoroughly stirred pineapple juice into a cone-shaped graduated tube of the long-cone type, measuring approximately 4inches from tip to top calibration and having a capacity of 50 milliliters. Place the tube in a suitable centrifuge the approximate speed of which is related to diameter of swing in accordance with the table immediately below. The word "diameter" means the over-all distance between the tips of opposing centrifuge tubes in operating position.

(3) If the quality of pineapple juice falls below the standard prescribed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the label shall bear the general statement of substandard quality specified in ยง 130.14 (a) of this chapter, in the manner and form therein specified.
