
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 146 - CANNED FRUIT JUICES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Canned Fruit Juices and Beverages
###### ยง 146.187 Canned prune juice.

(a) Canned prune juice is the food prepared from a water extract of dried prunes and contains not less than 18.5 percent by weight of water-soluble solids extracted from dried prunes. The quantity of prune solids may be adjusted by the concentration, dilution, or both, of the water extract or extracts made. Such food may contain one or more of the optional acidifying ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, in a quantity sufficient to render the food slightly tart; it may contain honey added within the quantitative limits prescribed by paragraph (b)(2) of this section; and it may contain added vitamin C in a quantity prescribed by paragraph (b)(3) of this section. Such food is sealed in a container and so processed by heat, before or after sealing, as to prevent spoilage.

(b) The optional ingredients referred to in paragraph (a) of this section are:

(1) One or any combination of two or more of the following acidifying ingredients:

(i) Lemon juice.

(ii) Lime juice.

(iii) Citric acid.

(2) Honey, in a quantity not less than 2 percent and not more than 3 percent by weight of the finished food.

(3) Vitamin C, in a quantity such that the total vitamin C in each 6 fluid ounces of the finished food amounts to not less than 30 milligrams and not more than 50 milligrams.

(c)(1) The name of the food is "Prune juice-a water extract of dried prunes". For the purposes of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act concerning the label declaration of the name of the food, the explanatory statement "A water extract of dried prunes" may appear immediately below the words "prune juice", but there shall be no intervening written, printed, or graphic matter, and the type used for the words "A water extract of dried prunes" shall be of the same style and not less than half the print size of the type used for the words "prune juice".

(2)(i) When one or more of the acidifying ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section are used, the label shall bear the statement "______ added" or "with added ______", the blank being filled in with the name or names of the optional ingredients used.

(ii) When honey, as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, is used the label shall bear the statement "with ______ honey" or "______ honey added", the blank to be filled in with the percent by weight of the honey in the finished food or with the statement "between 2 and 3%".

(iii) When one or more of the ingredients designated in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and the ingredient designated in paragraph (b)(2) of this section are used, the statements specified in paragraphs (c)(2) (i) and (ii) of this section may be combined, as for example, "with lemon juice and between 2 and 3% honey added".

(iv) When vitamin C is added as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, it shall be designated on the label as "vitamin C added" or "with added vitamin C".

(3) Wherever the name of the food appears on the label so conspicuously as to be easily seen under customary conditions of purchase, the words specified in this paragraph, showing the optional ingredients used, shall immediately and conspicuously precede or follow such name, without intervening written, printed, or graphic matter.
