
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 150 - FRUIT BUTTERS, JELLIES, PRESERVES, AND RELATED PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Fruit Butters, Jellies, Preserves, and Related Products
###### ยง 150.110 Fruit butter.

(a) The fruit butters for which definitions and standards of identity are prescribed by this section are the smooth, semisolid foods each of which is made from a mixture of one or a permitted combination of the optional fruit ingredients specified in paragraph (b) of this section and one or any combination of the optional ingredients specified in paragraph (c) of this section, which meets the specifications in paragraph (d) of this section, and which is labeled in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. Such mixture is concentrated with or without heat. The volatile flavoring materials or essence from such mixture may be captured during concentration, separately concentrated, and added back to any such mixture, together with any concentrated essence accompanying any optional fruit ingredient.

(b)(1) Each of the optional fruit ingredients referred to in paragraph (a) of this section is prepared by cooking one of the following fresh, frozen, canned, and/or dried (evaporated) mature fruits, with or without added water, and screening out skins, seeds, pits, and cores:

(2) The permitted combinations are of two, three, four, and five of the fruit ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section; the weight of each is not less than one-fifth of the weight of the combination. Each such fruit ingredient in any such combination is an optional ingredient.

(c) The following safe and suitable optional ingredients may be used:

(1) Nutritive carbohydrate sweeteners.

(2) Spice.

(3) Flavoring (other than artificial flavoring).

(4) Salt.

(5) Acidifying agents.

(6) Fruit juice or diluted fruit juice or concentrated fruit juice, in a quantity not less than one-half the weight of the optional fruit ingredient.

(7) Preservatives.

(8) Antifoaming agents except those derived from animal fats.

(9) Pectin, in a quantity which reasonably compensates for deficiency, if any, of the natural pectin content of the fruit ingredient.

(d) For the purposes of this section:

(1) The mixture referred to in paragraph (a) of this section shall contain not less than five parts by weight of the fruit ingredient as measured in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section to each two parts by weight of nutritive carbohydrate sweetener as measured in accordance with paragraph (d)(4) of this section.

(2) Any requirement with respect to the weight of any optional fruit ingredient, whether concentrated, unconcentrated, or diluted, means the weight determined by the following method: (i) Determine the percent of soluble solids in the optional fruit ingredient by the method for soluble solids referred to in paragraph (d)(3) of this section; (ii) multiply the percent so found by the weight of such fruit ingredient; (iii) divide the result by 100; (iv) subtract from the quotient the weight of any nutritive sweetener solids or other added solids; and (v) multiply the remainder by the factor for such ingredient prescribed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The result is the weight of the optional fruit ingredient.
