
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 150 - FRUIT BUTTERS, JELLIES, PRESERVES, AND RELATED PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Fruit Butters, Jellies, Preserves, and Related Products
###### ยง 150.110 Fruit butter.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(3) The soluble solids content of the finished fruit butter is not less than 43 percent, as determined by the method prescribed in "Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists" (AOAC), 13th Ed. (1980), section 22.024, under "Soluble Solids by Refractometer in Fresh and Canned Fruits, Fruit Jellies, Marmalades, and Preserves-Official Final Action," which is incorporated by reference, except that no correction is made for water-insoluble solids. Copies may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(4) The weight of any nutritive carbohydrate sweetener means the weight of the solids of such ingredient.

(5) The weight of fruit juice or diluted fruit juice or concentrated fruit juice (optional ingredient, paragraph (c)(6)) from a fruit specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is the weight of such juice, as determined by the method prescribed in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, except that the percent of soluble solids is determined by the method prescribed in the AOAC, 13th Ed. (1980), section 31.011, under "Solids by Means of Refractometer-Official Final Action," which is incorporated by reference; the weight of diluted concentrated juice from any other fruits is the original weight of the juice before it was diluted or concentrated. The availability of this incorporation by reference is given in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.
