
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 150 - FRUIT BUTTERS, JELLIES, PRESERVES, AND RELATED PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Fruit Butters, Jellies, Preserves, and Related Products
###### ยง 150.140 Fruit jelly.

(a) The jellies for which definitions and standards of identity are prescribed by this section are the jelled foods each of which is made from a mixture of one or a permitted combination of the fruit juice ingredients specified in paragraph (b) of this section and one or any combination of the optional ingredients specified in paragraph (c) of this section, which meets the specifications in paragraph (d) of this section and which is labeled in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. Such mixture is concentrated with or without heat. The volatile flavoring materials or essence from such mixture may be captured during concentration, separately concentrated, and added back to any such mixture, together with any concentrated essence accompanying any optional fruit ingredient.

(b)(1) Each of the fruit juice ingredients referred to in paragraph (a) of this section is the filtered or strained liquid extracted with or without the application of heat and with or without the addition of water, from one of the following mature, properly prepared fruits which are fresh, frozen and/or canned:

(2) The permitted combinations are of two, three, four, or five of the fruit juice ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the weight of each is not less than one-fifth of the weight of the combination. Each such fruit juice ingredient in any such combination is an optional ingredient.

(c) The following safe and suitable optional ingredients may be used:

(1) Nutritive carbohydrate sweeteners.

(2) Spice.

(3) Acidifying agents.

(4) Pectin, in a quantity which reasonably compensates for deficiency, if any, of the natural pectin content of the fruit juice ingredient.

(5) Buffering agents.

(6) Preservatives.

(7) Antifoaming agents except those derived from animal fats.

(8) Mint flavoring and artificial green coloring, in case the fruit juice ingredient or combination of fruit juice ingredients is extracted from apple, crabapple, pineapple, or two or all of such fruits.

(9) Cinnamon flavoring, other than artificial flavoring, and artificial red coloring in case the fruit juice ingredient or combination of fruit juice ingredients is extracted from apple or crabapple or both such fruits.

(d) For the purposes of this section:

(1) The mixture referred to in paragraph (a) of this section shall contain not less than 45 parts by weight of the fruit juice ingredients as measured in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section to each 55 parts by weight of saccharine ingredient as measured in accordance with paragraph (d)(4) of this section.

(2) Any requirement with respect to the weight of any fruit juice ingredient, whether prepared from concentrated, unconcentrated, or diluted fruit juice means the weight determined by the following method: (i) Determine the percent of soluble solids in such fruit juice ingredient by the method for soluble solids referred to in paragraph (d)(3) of this section; (ii) multiply the percent so found by the weight of such fruit juice ingredient; (iii) divide the result by 100; (iv) subtract from the quotient the weight of any added saccharine ingredient solids or other added solids; and (v) multiply the remainder by the factor for such fruit juice ingredient prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section. The result is the weight of the fruit juice ingredient.
