
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 150 - FRUIT BUTTERS, JELLIES, PRESERVES, AND RELATED PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Fruit Butters, Jellies, Preserves, and Related Products
###### ยง 150.160 Fruit preserves and jams.

(a) The preserves or jams for which definitions and standards of identity are prescribed by this section are the viscous or semi-solid foods, each of which is made from a mixture composed of one or a permitted combination of the fruit ingredients specified in paragraph (b) of this section and one or any combination of the optional ingredients specified in paragraph (c) of this section which meets the specifications in paragraph (d) of this section, and which is labeled in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. Such mixture, with or without added water, is concentrated with or without heat. The volatile flavoring material from such mixture may be captured during concentration, separately concentrated, and added back to any such mixture, together with any concentrated essence accompanying any optional fruit ingredient.

(b)(1) The fruit ingredients referred to in paragraph (a) of this section are the following mature, properly prepared fruits which are fresh, concentrated, frozen and/or canned:

(2) The following combinations of fruit ingredients may be used:

(i) Any combination of two, three, four, or five of such fruits in which the weight of each is not less than one-fifth of the weight of the combination; except that the weight of pineapple may be not less than one-tenth of the weight of the combination.

(ii) Any combination of apple and one, two, three, or four of such fruits in which the weight of each is not less than one-fifth and the weight of apple is not more than one-half of the weight of the combination; except that the weight of pineapple may be not less than one-tenth of the weight of the combination.

(c) The following safe and suitable optional ingredients may be used:

(1) Nutritive carbohydrate sweeteners.

(2) Spice.

(3) Acidifying agents.

(4) Pectin, in a quantity which reasonably compensates for deficiency, if any, of the natural pectin content of the fruit ingredient.

(5) Buffering agents.

(6) Preservatives.

(7) Antifoaming agents, except those derived from animal fat.

(d) For the purposes of this section:

(1) The mixture referred to in paragraph (a) of this section shall be composed of not less than: (i) In the case of a fruit ingredient consisting of a Group I fruit or a permitted combination exclusively of Group I fruits, 47 parts by weight of the fruit ingredient to each 55 parts by weight of the saccharine ingredient; and (ii) in all other cases, 45 parts by weight of the fruit ingredient to each 55 parts by weight of the saccharine ingredient. The weight of the fruit ingredient shall be determined in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section, and the weight of the saccharine ingredient shall be determined in accordance with paragraph (d)(5) of this section.

(2) Any requirement with respect to the weight of any fruit, combination of fruits, or fruit ingredient means:

(i) The weight of fruit exclusive of the weight of any sugar, water, or other substance added for any processing or packing or canning, or otherwise added to such fruit.

(ii) In the case of fruit prepared by the removal, in whole or in part, of pits, seeds, skins, cores, or other parts; the weight of such fruit, exclusive of the weight of all such substances removed therefrom.

(iii) In the cases of apricots, cherries, grapes, nectarines, peaches, and all varieties of plums, whether or not pits and seeds are removed therefrom; the weight of such fruit, exclusive of the weight of such pits and seeds.

(iv) In the case of concentrated fruit, the weight of the properly prepared fresh fruit used to produce such concentrated fruit.
