
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 152 - FRUIT PIES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Fruit Pies
###### ยง 152.126 Frozen cherry pie.
####### Identity.

(a)(1) Frozen cherry pie (excluding baked and then frozen) is the food prepared by incorporating in a filling contained in a pastry shell mature, pitted, stemmed cherries that are fresh, frozen, and/or canned. The top of the pie may be open or it may be wholly or partly covered with pastry or other suitable topping. Filling, pastry, and topping components of the food consist of optional ingredients as prescribed by paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The finished food is frozen.

(2) The optional ingredients referred to in paragraph (a)(1) of this section consist of suitable substances that are not food additives as defined in section 201(s) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act or color additives as defined in section 201(t) of the act; or if they are food additives or color additives as so defined, they are used in conformity with regulations established pursuant to section 409 or 721 of the act. Ingredients that perform a useful function in the formulation of the filling, pastry, and topping components, when used in amounts reasonably required to accomplish their intended effect, are regarded as suitable except that artificial sweeteners are not suitable ingredients of frozen cherry pie.

(3) The name of the food for which a definition and standard of identity is established by this section is frozen cherry pie; however, if the maximum diameter of the food (measured across opposite outside edges of the pastry shell) is not more than 4 inches, the food alternatively may be designated by the name frozen cherry tart. The word "frozen" may be omitted from the name on the label if such omission is not misleading.
