
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 152 - FRUIT PIES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Fruit Pies
###### ยง 152.126 Frozen cherry pie.
####### b

() Enough containers to provide a total quantity of declared weight of at least 24 pounds if they bear a weight declaration of more than 16 ounces.

(ii) Determine net weight of each frozen pie.

(iii) Temper the pie until the top crust can be removed.

(iv) Remove the filling and cherries from the pie and transfer to the surface of a previously weighed 12-inch diameter U.S. No. 8 sieve (0.094-inch openings) stacked on a U.S. No. 20 sieve (0.033-inch openings).

(v) Distribute evenly over the surface and wash with a gentle spray of water at 70&#xB0;-75 &#xB0;F to free the cherries and cherry fragments from the adhering material.

(vi) Remove the U.S. No. 8 sieve and examine the U.S. No. 20 sieve and transfer all cherry fragments to the U.S. No. 8 sieve.

(vii) Drain the cherry contents on the No. 8 sieve for 2 minutes in an inclined position (15&#xB0;-30&#xB0; slope). Weigh the U.S. No. 8 sieve and the washed and drained cherries to the nearest 0.01 ounce.

(viii) The weight of the washed and drained cherries is the weight of the sieve and the cherry material less the weight of the sieve. Calculate the percent of the cherry content of each pie with the following formula, and then calculate the average percent of the entire random sample:

(3) If the quality of the frozen cherry pie falls below the standard of quality prescribed by paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the label shall bear the general statement of substandard quality specified in ยง 130.14(a) of this chapter, in the manner and form specified therein; but in lieu of the words prescribed for the second line inside the rectangle, the label may bear the alternative statement "Below standard in quality ____________", the blank being filled in with the following words, as applicable: "too few cherries", or "blemished cherries". Such alternative statement shall immediately and conspicuously precede or follow, without intervening written, printed, or graphic matter, the name of the food as prescribed by paragraph (a) of this section.
