
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 155 - CANNED VEGETABLES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Canned Vegetables
###### ยง 155.120 Canned green beans and canned wax beans.
####### c,d,g,Provided,

(i) In the case of cut beans and diagonal cut beans under paragraphs (a)(2)(iii) () and () of this section and mixtures of two or more optional forms under paragraph (a)(2)(iii)() of this section, not more than 60 units per 340 g (12 oz) drained weight are less than 13 mm (0.50 in) long:That where the number of units per 340 g (12 oz) drained weight exceeds 240, not more than 25 percent by count of the total units are less than 13 mm (0.50 in) long.

(ii) In case there are present pods or pieces of pods 10.7 mm (-inch) or more in diameter, there are not more than 12 strings per 340 gm (12 ounces) of drained weight which will support 227 gm (one-half pound) for 5 seconds or longer.

(iii) The deseeded pods contain not more than 0.15 percent by weight of fibrous material.

(iv) There are not more than 10 percent by weight of blemished units of which amount not more than one-half may be materially damaged by insect or pathological injury. A unit is considered blemished when the aggregate blemished area exceeds the area of a circle 3 mm (in) in diameter. Materially damaged means that the unit is damaged to the extent that the appearance or eating quality of the unit is seriously affected.

(v) There are not more than 8 unstemmed units per 340 g (12 oz) drained weight.

(vi) The combined number of leaves, detached stems, and other extraneous vegetable matter shall not average more than 3 pieces per 340 g (12 oz) drained beans.

(2) Canned beans shall be tested by the following method to determine whether they meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section:
