
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 155 - CANNED VEGETABLES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Canned Vegetables
###### ยง 155.120 Canned green beans and canned wax beans.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(i) Determine the gross weight of the container. Open and distribute the contents of the container over the meshes of a U.S. No. 8 circular sieve with openings of 2.36 mm (0.0937 in), which has been previously weighed. The diameter of the sieve is 20.3 cm (8 in) if the quantity of contents of the container is less than 1.36 kg (3 lb) and 30.5 cm (12 in) if such quantity is 1.36 kg (3 lb) or more. The bottom of the sieve is woven-wire cloth that complies with the specifications of such cloth set forth in "Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists," 15th ed. (1990), vol. 2, p. xii, Table 1, "Nominal Dimensions of Standard Test Sieves (USA Standard Series)," under the heading "Definitions of Terms and Explanatory Notes," which is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:Without shifting the material on the sieve, incline the sieve 17 to 20&#xB0; to facilitate drainage. Two minutes after drainage begins, weigh the sieve and the drained material. Record in grams (ounces) the weight so found, less the weight of the sieve, as the drained weight. Dry and weigh the empty container and subtract this weight from the gross weight to obtain the net weight. Calculate the percent of drained liquid in the net weight.

(ii) Pour the drained material from the sieve into a flat tray and spread it in a layer of fairly uniform thickness. Count the total number of units. For the purpose of this count, loose seeds, pieces of seed, loose stems, and extraneous material are not to be included. Divide the number of units by the drained weight recorded in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section and multiply by 340 to obtain the number of units per 340 g (12 oz) drained weight.
