
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 155 - CANNED VEGETABLES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Canned Vegetables
###### ยง 155.190 Canned tomatoes.
####### Quality.

(b)(1) The standard of quality for canned tomatoes is as follows:

(i) The drained weight, as determined by the method prescribed in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, is not less than 50 percent of the weight of water required to fill the container, as determined by the general method for water capacity of containers prescribed in ยง 130.12(a) of this chapter;

(ii) The strength and redness of color as determined by the method prescribed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, are not less than that of the blended color of any combination of the color discs described in such method in which one-third the area of disc 1, and not more than one-third the area of disc 2, is exposed;

(iii) Peel per kilogram (2.2 pounds) of the finished food covers an area of not more than 15 cm(2.3 square inches) which is equivalent to 6.8 cm(1.06 square inches) per pound based on an average of all containers examined provided, however, that the area of peel is not a factor of quality for canned unpeeled tomatoes labeled in accordance with paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section; and

(iv) Blemishes per kilogram (2.2 pounds) of the finished food cover an area of not more than 3.5 cm(0.54 square inch) which is equivalent to 1.6 cm(0.25 square inch) per pound based on an average of all containers examined.

(2) Canned tomatoes shall be tested by the following method to determine whether or not they meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section:

(i) Remove lid from container, but in the case of a container with lid attached by double seam, do not remove or alter the height of the double seam. Tilt the opened container so as to distribute the contents over the meshes of a circular sieve which has previously been weighed. The diameter of the sieve used is 20.3 centimeters (8 inches) if the quantity of the contents of the container is less than 1.4 kilograms (3 pounds) or 30.5 centimeters (12 inches) if such quantity is 1.4 kilograms (3 pounds) or more. The meshes of such sieve are made by so weaving wire of 1.4 mm (0.054 inch) diameter as to form square openings 11.3 mm by 11.3 mm (0.446 inch by 0.446 inch). Without shifting the tomatoes, so incline the sieve as to facilitate drainage of the liquid. Two minutes from the time drainage begins, weigh the sieve and drained tomatoes. The weight so found, less the weight of the sieve, shall be considered to be the drained weight.

(ii) Remove from the sieve the drained tomatoes, cut out and segregate successively those portions of least redness until 50 percent of the drained weight has been so segregated. Comminute the segregated portions to a uniform mixture without removing or breaking the seeds. Fill the mixture into a black container to a depth of at least 25.4 mm (1 inch). Free the mixture from air bubbles, and skim off or press below the surface all visible seeds. Compare the color of the mixture, in full diffused daylight or its equivalent, with the blended color of combinations of the following concentric Munsell color discs of equal diameter, or the color equivalent of such discs:
