
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 158 - FROZEN VEGETABLES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Frozen Vegetables
###### ยง 158.170 Frozen peas.
####### Labeling.

(3)The name of the product is "peas". The term "early", "June", or "early June" shall precede or follow the name in the case of smooth-skin or substantially smooth-skin peas, such as Alaska-type peas. Where the peas are of sweet green wrinkled varieties, the name may include the designation "sweet", "green", "wrinkled", or any combination thereof. The label shall contain the words "frozen" or "quick frozen". The name of the food shall include a declaration of any flavoring that characterizes the product as specified in ยง 101.22 of this chapter and a declaration of any condiment such as spices and mint leaves that characterizes the product, e.g., "Spice added". Where a statement of pea size is made, such statement shall indicate either the size designation as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section or the applicable sieve size. However, the optional descriptive words "petite" or "tiny" may be used in conjunction with the product name when an average of 80 percent or more of the peas will pass through a circular opening of a diameter of 8.75 mm (0.34 in) or less for sweet green wrinkled peas and 8.2 mm (0.32 in) for smooth-skin or substantially smooth-skin peas, such as Alaska-type peas.
