
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 158 - FROZEN VEGETABLES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Frozen Vegetables
###### ยง 158.170 Frozen peas.
####### a,b

(v) Procedure-Transfer frozen contents of package to plastic bag; tie bag securely and immerse in water bath with continuous flow at room temperature. Avoid agitation of bag during thawing by using clamps or weights. When sample completely thaws, remove bag, blot off adhering water, and transfer peas to U.S. No. 8 sieve, using (20 cm.) size for container of less than 3 lb. net weight and (30.5 cm.) for larger quantities. Without shifting peas, incline sieve to aid drainage, drain 2 minutes. With cloth wipe surplus water from lower screen surface. Weigh 250 g. of peas into high-speed blender, add 250 g. of water and blend to smooth paste. For less than 250 g. sample, use entire sample with equal weight of water. Weight 20 g.+/-10 mg. of the paste into 250 ml. distillation flask, add 120 ml. of extracting solutions specified in paragraph (b)(3)(i) () or () of this section, and reflux 30 minutes on steam or water bath or hotplate. Fit into a buchner funnel a filter paper of appropriate size (previously prepared by drying in flatbottom dish for 2 hours in drying oven, covering, cooling in desiccator, and weighing). Apply vacuum to buchner funnel and transfer contents of beaker so as to avoid running over edge of paper. Aspirate to dryness and wash material on filter with 80 percent alcohol until washings are clear and colorless. Transfer paper and alcohol-insoluble solids to drying dish used to prepare paper, dry uncovered for 2 hours in drying oven, cover, cool in desiccator, and weigh at once. From this weight deduct weight of dish, cover, and paper. Calculate percent by weight of alcohol-insoluble solids.
