
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 158 - FROZEN VEGETABLES
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Frozen Vegetables
###### ยง 158.170 Frozen peas.
####### Brine flotation test.

(4)(i) Explanation-The brine flotation test utilizes salt solutions of various specific gravities to separate the peas according to maturity. The brine solutions are based on the percentage by weight of pure salt (NaCl) in solution at 20 &#xB0;C. In making the test the brine solutions are standardized to the proper specific gravity equivalent to the specified "percent of salt solutions at 20 &#xB0;C" by using a salometer spindle accurately calibrated at 20 &#xB0;C. A 250 ml glass beaker or similar receptacle is filled with the brine solution to a depth of approximately 50 mm. The brine solution and sample (100 peas per container) must be at the same temperature and should closely approximate 20 &#xB0;C.

(ii) Procedure-After carefully removing the skins from the peas, place the peas into the solution. Pieces of peas and loose skins should not be used in making the brine flotation test. If cotyledons divide, use both cotyledons in the test and consider the two separated cotyledons as 1 pea; and, if an odd cotyledon sinks, consider it as one pea. Only peas that sink to the bottom of the receptacle within 10 seconds after immersion are counted as "peas that sink".

(5) If the quality of the frozen peas falls below the standard prescribed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the label shall bear the general statement of substandard quality specified in the Code of Federal Regulations but in lieu of the words prescribed in the second line of the rectangle the following words may be used where the frozen peas fall below the standard in only one respect: "Below standard in quality ______", the blank to be filled in with the specific reason for substandard quality as listed in the standard.
