
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 160 - EGGS AND EGG PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Eggs and Egg Products
###### ยง 160.145 Dried egg whites.
####### Salmonella,Salmonella,Salmonella,Salmonella

(a) The food dried egg whites, egg white solids, dried egg albumen, egg albumen solids is prepared by drying liquid egg whites conforming to the requirements of ยง 160.140 (or deviating from that section only by not beingfree). As a preliminary step to drying, the lysozyme and avidin contents may be reduced. If lysozyme and avidin levels are reduced, cation exchange resins regulated for use under ยง 173.25 of this chapter shall be used. As a further preliminary step to drying, the glucose content of the liquid egg whites is reduced by adjusting the pH, where necessary, with food-grade acid and by following one of the optional procedures set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. If the food is prepared from liquid egg whites conforming in all respects to the requirements of ยง 160.140, drying shall be done with such precautions that the finished food is free of viablemicroorganisms. If the food is prepared from liquid egg whites that are notfree, the dried product shall be so treated by heat or otherwise as to render the finished food free of viablemicroorganisms. Dried egg whites may be powdered.

(b) The optional glucose-removing procedures are:
