
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 160 - EGGS AND EGG PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Eggs and Egg Products
###### ยง 160.145 Dried egg whites.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(2) Compliance with the biological quality of protein requirement of paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall be determined by the analytical method prescribed in "Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists," 14th Ed. (1984), section 43.253-43.257, "Protein Efficiency Ratio, Rat Bioassay, Final Action," which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(d) When the dried egg whites are prepared from liquid egg whites containing any optional ingredients added as whipping aids, as provided for in ยง 160.140(a), the common names of such optional ingredients shall be listed on the principal display panel or panels of the label with such prominence and conspicuousness as to render the names likely to be read and understood by ordinary individuals under customary conditions of purchase.

(e) The name of the food for which a definition and standard of identity is prescribed in this section is alternatively "Dried egg whites", Egg white solids", "Dried egg albumen", or "Egg albumen solids". If the lysozyme and avidin content is reduced as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, the name shall be immediately preceded or followed by the statement "lysozyme and avidin reduced" when the dried egg whites are sold as such. When the dried egg whites are used in a fabricated food, the statement "lysozyme and avidin reduced" may be omitted from any declaration of ingredients required under ยง 101.4 of this chapter.
