
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 161 - FISH AND SHELLFISH
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Fish and Shellfish
###### ยง 161.145 Canned oysters.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(3) Drained weight is determined by the following method: Keep the un-opened canned oyster container at a temperature of not less than 68&#xB0; or more than 95 &#xB0;Fahrenheit for at least 12 hours immediately preceding the determination. After opening, tilt the container so as to distribute its contents evenly over the meshes of a circular sieve which has been previously weighed. The diameter of the sieve is 8 inches if the quantity of the contents of the container is less than 3 pounds, and 12 inches if such quantity is 3 pounds or more. The bottom of the sieve is woven-wire cloth that complies with the specifications for such cloth set forth under "2.38 mm (No. 8)" in "Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists," 13th Ed. (1980), Table 1, "Nominal Dimensions of Standard Test Sieves (U.S.A. Standard Series)," under the heading "Definitions of Terms and Explanatory Notes," which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:Without shifting the material on the sieve, so incline the sieve as to facilitate drainage. Two minutes from the time drainage begins, weigh the sieve and the drained oysters. The weight so found, less the weight of the sieve, shall be considered to be the drained weight of the oysters.

(4) If canned oysters fall below the standard of fill of container prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section, the label shall bear the general statement of substandard fill specified in ยง 130.14(b) of this chapter in the manner and form therein specified, followed by the statement, "A can of this size should contain ______ oz. of oysters. This can contains only ______ oz.", the blanks being filled in with the applicable figures.
