
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 161 - FISH AND SHELLFISH
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Fish and Shellfish
###### ยง 161.173 Canned wet pack shrimp in transparent or nontransparent containers.
####### Labeling.

(5)(i) The name of the food is "shrimp" or "shrimps." The word "prawns" may appear on the label in parentheses immediately after the word "shrimp" or "shrimps" if the shrimp are of large or extra large size as designated in paragraph (a)(5)(iv) of this section.

(ii) When the food is of the style described in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section, the words "cleaned," "cleaned (deveined)," or "deveined" may be declared on the label.

(iii) When the food is of the style described in paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section, the words "contain no dark veins" or their equivalent may be declared on the label.

(iv) When the food is whole shrimp within a size range designated in table I as "extra large," "large," "medium," or "small" and does not contain broken shrimp as defined in paragraph (a)(3)(iv) of this section in excess of the amount listed in table II for the applicable size, the appropriate size designation may be declared on the label.

(v) When the food consists of tiny shrimp, as designated in table I in paragraph (a)(5)(iv) of this section and does not contain broken shrimp as defined in paragraph (a)(3)(iv) of this section in excess of 15 percent by weight, the name of the food on the label shall be accompanied by the word "tiny" in type size equal to that used in the name of the food.

(vi) When the food consists of tiny shrimp, as designated in table I in paragraph (a)(5)(iv) of this section and contains more than 15 percent by weight of broken shrimp as defined in paragraph (a)(3)(iv) of this section, the name of the food on the label shall be accompanied by the word "broken" or "pieces" rather than the word "tiny," in type size equal to that used in the name of the food.

(vii) When the food consists wholly or in part of sizes other than tiny, as designated in table I in paragraph (a)(5)(iv) of this section and contains more than 10 percent by weight of broken shrimp as defined in paragraph (a)(3)(iv) of this section, the name of the food on the label shall be accompanied by the word "broken" or "pieces" in type size equal to that used in the name of the food.

(viii) The name of the food shall include a declaration of any flavoring that characterizes the food, as specified in ยง 101.22 of this chapter, and the term "spiced" if spice characterizes the food.
