
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 161 - FISH AND SHELLFISH
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Fish and Shellfish
###### ยง 161.173 Canned wet pack shrimp in transparent or nontransparent containers.
####### Fill of container.,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(c)(1) The standard of fill of transparent or nontransparent containers for canned wet pack shrimp is a fill such that the cut-out weight of shrimp taken from each container is not less than 60 percent of the weight of the water required to fill the container. The weight of the water required to fill the container is determined by the general method provided in ยง 130.12(a) of this chapter. Cut-out weight is determined by the following method: Keep the unopened canned shrimp container at a temperature of not less than 68&#xB0; nor more than 75 &#xB0;Fahrenheit for at least 12 hours immediately preceding the determination. After opening, distribute the shrimp evenly over the meshes of a circular sieve that has been previously weighed. The diameter of the sieve is 20.3 centimeters (8 inches) if the quantity of the contents of the container is less than 1.36 kilograms (3 pounds), and 30.5 centimeters (12 inches), if such quantity is 1.36 kilograms (3 pounds) or more. The bottom of the sieve is woven-wire cloth that complies with the specifications for such cloth set forth as a 2.38 mm (No. 8) sieve in the "Definitions of Terms and Explanatory Notes" of the "Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists," 13th Ed. (1980), which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:Without shifting the material on the sieve, incline the sieve at an angle of approximately 17&#xB0; to 20&#xB0; to facilitate drainage. Allow the shrimp to drain for 2 minutes, measured from the moment the product is poured onto the sieve. Weigh the sieve and the drained shrimp. The weight so found, less the weight of the sieve, shall be considered to be the cut-out weight of the shrimp.

(2) Sampling and acceptance procedure: A container that falls below the requirement for minimum fill prescribed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section is considered a "defective." Determine compliance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section as specified in paragraph (a)(6) of this section except that the sample unit shall be the entire contents of the container.

(3) If canned wet pack shrimp in transparent or nontransparent containers falls below the applicable standard of fill of container prescribed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the label shall bear the general statement of substandard fill provided in ยง 130.14(b) of this chapter, in the manner and form therein specified.
