
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 161 - FISH AND SHELLFISH
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Fish and Shellfish
###### ยง 161.175 Frozen raw breaded shrimp.
####### shrimp

(c) The termmeans the tail portion of properly prepared shrimp of commercial species. Except for composite units, each shrimp unit is individually coated. The optional forms of shrimp are:

(1) Fantail or butterfly: Prepared by splitting the shrimp; the shrimp are peeled, except that tail fins remain attached and the shell segment immediately adjacent to the tail fins may be left attached.

(2) Butterfly, tail off: Prepared by splitting the shrimp; tail fins and all shell segments are removed.

(3) Round: Round shrimp, not split; the shrimp are peeled, except that tail fins remain attached and the shell segment immediately adjacent to the tail fins may be left attached.

(4) Round, tail off: Round shrimp, not split; tail fins and all shell segments are removed.

(5) Pieces: Each unit consists of a piece or a part of a shrimp; tail fins and all shell segments are removed.

(6) Composite units: Each unit consists of two or more whole shrimp or pieces of shrimp, or both, formed and pressed into composite units prior to coating; tail fins and all shell segments are removed; large composite units, prior to coating, may be cut into smaller units.

(d) The batter and breading ingredients referred to in paragraph (a) of this section are the fluid constituents and the solid constituents of the coating around the shrimp. These ingredients consist of suitable substances which are not food additives as defined in section 201(s) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act; or if they are food additives as so defined, they are used in conformity with regulations established pursuant to section 409 of the act. Batter and breading ingredients that perform a useful function are regarded as suitable, except that artificial flavorings, artificial sweeteners, artificial colors, and chemical preservatives, other than those provided for in this paragraph, are not suitable ingredients of frozen raw breaded shrimp. Chemical preservatives that are suitable are:

(1) Ascorbic acid, which may be used in a quantity sufficient to retard development of dark spots on the shrimp; and

(2) The antioxidant preservatives listed in subpart D of part 182 of this chapter that may be used to retard development of rancidity of the fat content of the food, in amounts within the limits prescribed by that section.

(e) The label shall name the food, as prepared from each of the optional forms of shrimp specified in paragraph (c) (1) to (6), inclusive, of this section, and following the numbered sequence of such subparagraph, as follows:

(1) "Breaded fantail shrimp." The word "butterfly" may be used in lieu of "fantail" in the name.

(2) "Breaded butterfly shrimp, tail off."

(3) "Breaded round shrimp."

(4) "Breaded round shrimp, tail off."

(5) "Breaded shrimp pieces."

(6) Composite units:

(i) If the composite units are in a shape similar to that of breaded fish sticks the name is "Breaded shrimp sticks"; if they are in the shape of meat cutlets, the name is "Breaded shrimp cutlets".

(ii) If prepared in a shape other than that of sticks or cutlets, the name is "Breaded shrimp ______", the blank to be filled in with the word or phrase that accurately describes the shape, but which is not misleading.

(f) The names of the optional ingredients used, as provided for in paragraph (d) of this section, shall be listed on the principal display panel or panels of the label with such prominence and conspicuousness as to render them likely to be read and understood by the ordinary individual under customary conditions of purchase. If a spice that also imparts color is used, it shall be designated as "spice and coloring", unless the spice is designated by its specific name. If ascorbic acid is used to retard development of dark spots on the shrimp, it shall be designated as "Ascorbic acid added as a preservative" or "Ascorbic acid added to retard discoloration of shrimp". If any other antioxidant preservative, as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, is used, such preservative shall be designated by its common name followed by the statement "Added as a preservative".

(g) The method for determining percentage of shrimp material for those forms specified in paragraphs (c) (1) through (5) of this section is as follows:
