
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 161 - FISH AND SHELLFISH
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Fish and Shellfish
###### ยง 161.190 Canned tuna.
####### Identity.

(a)(1) Canned tuna is the food consisting of processed flesh of fish of the species enumerated in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, prepared in one of the optional forms of pack specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, conforming to one of the color designations specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, in one of the optional packing media specified in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, and may contain one or more of the seasonings and flavorings specified in paragraph (a)(6) of this section. For the purpose of inhibiting the development of struvite crystals, sodium acid pyrophosphate may be added in a quantity not in excess of 0.5 percent by weight of the finished food. It is packed in hermetically sealed containers and so processed by heat as to prevent spoilage. It is labeled in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a)(8) of this section.

(2) The fish included in the class known as tuna fish are:

(3) The optional forms of processed tuna consist of loins and other striated muscular tissue of the fish. The loin is the longitudinal quarter of the great lateral muscle freed from skin, scales, visible blood clots, bones, gills, viscera and from the nonstriated part of such muscle, which part (known anatomically as the median superficial muscle) is highly vascular in structure, dark in color because of retained blood, and granular in form. Canned tuna is prepared in one of the following forms of pack, the identity of which is determined in accordance with the methods prescribed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(i) Solid or solid pack consists of loins freed from any surface tissue discolored by diffused hemolyzed blood, cut in transverse segments to which no free fragments are added. In containers of 1 pound or less of net contents, such segments are cut in lengths suitable for packing in one layer. In containers of more than 1 pound net contents, such segments may be cut in lengths suitable for packing in one or more layers of equal thickness. Segments are placed in the can with the planes of their transverse cut ends parallel to the ends of the can. A piece of a segment may be added if necessary to fill a container. The proportion of free flakes broken from loins in the canning operation shall not exceed 18 percent.

(ii) Chunk, chunks, chunk style consists of a mixture of pieces of tuna in which the original muscle structure is retained. The pieces may vary in size, but not less than 50 percent of the weight of the pressed contents of a container is retained on a-inch-mesh screen.

(iii) Flake or flakes consist of a mixture of pieces of tuna in which more than 50 percent of the weight of the pressed contents of the container will pass through a-inch-mesh screen, but in which the muscular structure of the flesh is retained.

(iv) Grated consists of a mixture of particles of tuna that have been reduced to uniform size, that will pass through a-inch-mesh screen, and in which the particles are discrete and do not comprise a paste.

(v) Any of the specified forms of pack of canned tuna may be smoked. Canned smoked tuna shall be labeled in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a)(8)(v) of this section.

(4) Canned tuna, in any of the forms of pack specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, falls within one of the following color designations, measured by visual comparison with matte surface neutral reflectance standards corresponding to the specified Munsell units of value, determined in accordance with paragraph (a)(7) of this section.
