
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 161 - FISH AND SHELLFISH
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Fish and Shellfish
###### ยง 161.190 Canned tuna.
####### Blended.

(iv)This color designation may be applied only to tuna flakes specified in paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section, consisting of a mixture of tuna flakes of which not less than 20 percent by weight meet the color standard for either white tuna or light tuna, and the remainder of which fall within the color standard for dark tuna. The color designation for blended tuna is determined in accordance with paragraph (a)(7) of this section.

(5) Canned tuna is packed in one of the following optional packing media:

(i) Any edible vegetable oil other than olive oil, or any mixture of such oils not containing olive oil.

(ii) Olive oil.

(iii) Water.

(6) Canned tuna may be seasoned or flavored with one or more of the following:

(i) Salt.

(ii) Monosodium glutamate.

(iii) Hydrolyzed protein declared in accordance with the applicable provisions of ยง 101.22.

(iv) Spices or spice oils or spice extracts.

(v) Vegetable broth in an amount not in excess of 5 percent of the volume capacity of the container, such broth to consist of a minimum of 0.5 percent by weight of vegetable extractives and to be prepared from two or more of the following vegetables: Beans, cabbage, carrots, celery, garlic, onions, parsley, peas, potatoes, green bell peppers, red bell peppers, spinach, and tomatoes.

(vi) Garlic.

(vii) Lemon flavoring to be prepared from lemon oil and citric acid together with safe and suitable carriers for the lemon oil which are present at nonfunctional and insignificant levels in the finished canned food. When lemon flavoring is added, a safe and suitable solubilizing and dispersing ingredient may be added in a quantity not exceeding 0.005 percent by weight of the finished food. A substance used in accordance with this paragraph is deemed to be suitable if it is used in an amount no greater than necessary to achieve the intended flavor effect, and is deemed to be safe if it is not a food additive as defined in section 201(s) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act), or if it is a food additive as so defined, it is used in conformity with regulations established pursuant to section 409 of the act.

(viii) Edible vegetable oil or partially hydrogenated vegetable oil, excluding olive oil, used alone or in combination in an amount not to exceed 5 percent of the volume capacity of the container, with or without any suitable form of emulsifying and suspending ingredients that has been affirmed as GRAS or approved as a food additive to aid in dispersion of the oil, as seasoning in canned tuna packed in water.
