
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 161 - FISH AND SHELLFISH
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Fish and Shellfish
###### § 161.190 Canned tuna.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(7) For determination of the color designations specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, the following method shall be used: Recombine the separations of pressed cake resulting from the method prescribed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Pass the combined portions through a sieve fitted with woven-wire cloth of-inch mesh complying with the specifications for such cloth set forth in "Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists," 13th Ed. (1980), Table 1, "Nominal Dimensions of Standard Test Sieves (U.S.A. Standard Series)," under the heading "Definitions of Terms and Explanatory Notes," which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:Mix the sieved material and place a sufficient quantity into a 307 x 113 size container (bearing a top seam and having a false bottom approximately-inch deep and painted flat black inside and outside) so that after tamping and smoothing the surface of the sample the material will be-inch to-inch below the top of the container. Within 10 minutes after sieving through the-inch mesh woven-wire cloth, determine the Munsell value of sample surface.

(i) Determine the Munsell value of the sample surface so prepared. The following method may be used, employing an optical comparator, consisting of a lens and prism system which brings two beams of light, reflected from equal areas of sample surface and standard surface, respectively, together, within an eyepiece, so as to show an equally divided optical field. The scanned areas of sample and standard surface are not smaller than 2 square inches. Light reaching the eye is rendered sufficiently diffuse, by design of eyepiece and comparator, so that detail of the sample surface will remain undefined, to a degree such as to avoid visual confusion in observation of a match of over-all intensity of reflected light. The eyepiece contains a color filter centering at a wavelength between 550 mµ and 560 mµ. The filter does not pass appreciable visible radiation of wavelengths below 540 mµ or above 570 mµ. The passed wavelength band is of a monochromaticity sufficient to cause a sample and a neutral standard of equal reflectance to appear of the same hue. The comparator is rigidly mounted on a vertical stand attached to a base in which arrangement is provided for securely and accurately positioning two cans of size 307 x 113 in the two fields of view. Mounted on the base are two shaded lamps, which direct the center of their beams of light at about a 45&#xB0; angle to the plane of the sample and standard surfaces. The lamps are so positioned that light from one bears mainly upon the sample surface and light from the other mainly on the standard surface, and are so placed in relation to sample and standard that no shadows, as from the can rims, appear in the fields of view. The lamps are strong enough to furnish adequate and convenient illumination through eyepiece and filter. Means are provided to alter the light intensity of one lamp in relation to the other, as may conveniently be achieved by using a 100-watt tungsten filament bulb in one lamp and using, in the other, a similar 150-watt bulb connected with the power source through a suitable rheostat. The stand is equipped with non-glossy black curtains on the side of the observer, to exclude variation in extraneous light reflected from the person of the observer.

(ii) To adjust the comparator, place a pair of matte surface standards of Munsell value 5.3, mounted as described in paragraph (a)(7)(iv) of this section, in position in the comparator base, and adjust the intensity of the variable lamp until the two halves of the optical field, viewed through the eyepiece, are of equal brightness. Then remove one of the standards and replace it with the prepared sample. Without altering any other adjustments, observe through the eyepiece whether the sample appears lighter or darker than the standard. In case of examination of albacore designated "white", conduct the procedure using standards of Munsell value 6.3.
