
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 161 - FISH AND SHELLFISH
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Fish and Shellfish
###### ยง 161.190 Canned tuna.
####### Fill of container.

(c)(1) The standard of fill of container for canned tuna is a fill such that the average weight of the pressed cake from 24 cans, as determined by the method prescribed by paragraph (c)(2) of this section, is not less than the minimum value specified for the corresponding can size and form of tuna ingredient in the following table:

(2) The methods referred to in paragraph (c)(1) of this section for determining the weight of the pressed cake and referred to in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section for determining the percent of free flakes and the percent of pieces that pass through a-inch-mesh sieve are as follows:

(i) Have each of the 24 cans and contents at a temperature of 75 &#xB0;F within +/-5 &#xB0;F. Test each can in turn as follows:

(ii) Cut out the top of the can (code end), using a can opener that does not remove nor distort the double seam.

(iii) With the cut top held on the can contents, invert the can, and drain the free liquid by gentle finger pressure on the cut lid so that most of the free liquid drains from the can.

(iv) With the cut lid still in place, cut out the bottom of the can with the can opener, then turn the can upright and remove the cut can top (code end). Scrape off any adhering tuna particles into the tuna mass in the can.

(v) Place the proper size of press cylinder as provided in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section in a horizontal position on a table; then, using the cut bottom of the can as a pusher, gently force the can contents from the can into the cylinder so that the flat side of the can contents lies in contact with the bottom of the cylinder. Remove the bottom of the can that was used as the pusher and scrape any adhering particles from the can body and bottom of the can, and put them in the cylinder.

(vi) Place the cylinder plunger on top of the can contents in the cylinder. Remove the eyebolt and put the cylinder and plunger in position on the press (paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section).

(vii) Begin the operation of the press and as soon as liquid is observed coming from the cylinder start timing the operation. Apply pressure to the plunger slowly and at a uniform rate, so that a full minute is used to reach a pressure of 384 pounds per square inch of plunger face in contact with the can contents. Hold this pressure for 1 additional minute and then release the pressure and disengage the plunger from the press shaft. Tip the press cylinder so that any free liquid is drained out.

(viii) Remove press cylinder with plunger from the press, insert eyebolt in plunger and withdraw it from the cylinder. Loosen the pressed cake from the cylinder with a thin blade and remove the entire pressed cake as gently as possible, to keep the mass in a single cake during this operation. Place the pressed cake and any pieces that adhered to the plunger and cylinder in a tared receiving pan and determine the weight of the pressed material.

(ix) For cans larger than 401 x 206, cut out the top of the can and drain off free liquid from the can contents as in operations described in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section. Determine the gross weight of the can and remaining contents. Using a tared core cutter as provided for in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, cut vertically a core of the drained material in the can. Determine the weight of the core. With a thin spatula transfer the core to the pressing cylinder for 401 x 206 cans. Determine the weight of the pressed cake as in the operations described in paragraphs (c)(2)(v) through (viii) of this section. Remove the remaining drained contents of the can, reserving the contents for the determination of free flakes (paragraph (c)(2)(xi) of this section), weigh the empty can, and calculate the weight of the total drained material. Calculate the weight of pressed cake on the entire can basis by multiplying the weight of the pressed cake of the core by the ratio of the weight of the drained contents of the can to the weight of the core before pressing.

(x) Repeat the determination of weight of pressed cake on the remainder of the 24 cans and determine the average weight of pressed cake for the purpose of paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(xi) Determination of free flakes: If the optional form of tuna ingredient is solid pack, determine the percent of free flakes. Any flakes resulting from the operations described in this paragraph (c)(2)(xi) or in other parts of this paragraph are to be weighed as free flakes. Only fragments that were broken in the canning procedure are considered to be free flakes. If the can is of such size that its entire drained contents were pressed as described in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) to (viii) of this section, inclusive, examine the pressed cake carefully for free flakes. Using a spatula, scrape free flakes gently from the outside of the cake. Weigh the aggregate free flakes that were broken from the loin segments in the canning procedure and calculate their percentage of the total weight of pressed cake. If the can is of such size that a core was cut for pressing as described in paragraph (c)(2)(ix) of this section, make the examination for free flakes on a weighed portion of the drained material remaining after the core was removed. The weight of the portion examined should approximately equal the weight of the core before pressing. Calculate the weight of the free flakes that were broken from the loins in the canning procedure as a percentage of the weight of the portion examined.

(xii) Determination of particle size: If the optional form of tuna ingredient is chunks, flakes, or grated, the pressed cake resulting from the operations described in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) to (ix) of this section, inclusive, is gently separated by hand, care being taken to avoid breaking the pieces. The separated pieces are evenly distributed over the top sieve of the screen separation equipment described in paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section. Beginning with the top sieve, lift and drop each sieve by its open edge three times. Each time, the open edge of the sieve is lifted the full distance permitted by the device. Combine and weigh the material remaining on the three top sieves (1-inch, 1-inch,-inch screens), and determine the combined percentage retention by weight in relation to the total weight of the pressed cake.

(3)(i) The press cylinder and plunger referred to in paragraph (c)(2) of this section are made of stainless steel. The press cylinders are made with a lip to facilitate drainage of the liquid. Plungers have a threaded center hole, about half as deep as the thickness of the plunger, for receiving a ringbolt to assist in removing the plunger from the press cylinder. Dimensions for press cylinders and plungers are as follows:

(ii) The core cutter referred to in paragraph (c)(2) (ix) and (xi) of this section and paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section is made from a previously sealed 300 x 407 can. The cover, including the top seam, is cut out. The edge is smoothed and sharpened. A small hole to permit passage of air is made in the bottom.

(iii) The hydraulic press referred to in paragraph (c)(2) (vi) to (x) of this section, inclusive, is made by so mounting a hydraulic jack, in a strong frame, that it will press horizontally against the center of the plunger in the press cylinder used. The frame is so braced that it does not change shape when pressure is applied. The gauge on the hydraulic jack is so calibrated that it will indicate, for the plunger being used, when the plunger is pressing against the contents of the press cylinder with a pressure of 384 pounds per square inch of plunger face.

(iv) The sieving device referred to in paragraph (c)(2)(xii) of this section consists of three sieves, each approximately 1 foot square, loosely mounted, one above the other, in a metal frame. The mesh in the top sieve complies with the specifications for 1-inch woven-wire cloth as prescribed in paragraph (a)(7) of this section. The meshes in the sieves below comply with similar specifications for 1-inch and-inch woven-wire cloth as set forth in the same publication. The sides of each sieve are formed, in a raised rim, from-inch x-inch metal strap. The frame has tracks made of-inch angle metal to support each sieve under each side. The tracks are so positioned as to permit each sieve a free vertical travel of 1inches.

(4) If canned tuna falls below the applicable standard of fill of container prescribed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the label shall bear the general statement of substandard fill provided in ยง 130.14(b) of this chapter, in the manner and form therein specified.
