
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 163 - CACAO PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Cacao Products
###### ยง 163.111 Chocolate liquor.
####### Nomenclature.

(c)The name of the food is "chocolate liquor", "chocolate", "unsweetened chocolate", "bitter chocolate", "baking chocolate", "cooking chocolate", "chocolate coating", or "unsweetened chocolate coating".

(1) When any optional alkali ingredient specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is used, including those used in the preparation of the cacao nibs and cocoas from which the chocolate liquor was prepared, the name of the food shall be accompanied by the statement "Processed with alkali" or "Processed with ______", the blank being filled in with the common or usual name of the specific alkali ingredient used in the food.

(2) When any optional neutralizing agent specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section is used, including those used in the preparation of the cacao nibs and cocoas from which the chocolate liquor was prepared, the name of the food shall be accompanied by the statement "Processed with neutralizing agent" or "Processed with ______", the blank being filled in with the common or usual name of the specific neutralizing ingredient used in the food.

(3) When one or more spices, flavorings, or seasonings specified in paragraphs (b)(4) and (b)(5) of this section are used in the chocolate liquor, the label shall bear an appropriate statement, e.g., "Spice added", "Flavored with ______", "Seasoned with ______", or "With ______ added", the blank being filled in with the common or usual name of the spice, flavoring, or seasoning used, in accordance with ยง 101.22 of this chapter.

(4) When two or more of the statements set forth in this paragraph are required, such statements may be combined in a manner that is appropriate, but not misleading.

(5) Whenever the name of the food appears on the label so conspicuously as to be easily seen under customary conditions of purchase, the statements prescribed in this section, showing optional ingredients used, shall precede or follow the name without intervening printed or graphic matter.
