
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 163 - CACAO PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Cacao Products
###### ยง 163.112 Breakfast cocoa.
####### Nomenclature.

(c)The name of the food is "breakfast cocoa", or "high fat cocoa".

(1) When any optional alkali ingredient specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is used, including those used in the preparation of the cacao nibs from which the breakfast cocoa was prepared, the name of the food shall be accompanied by the statement "Processed with alkali", or "Processed with ______", the blank being filled in with the common or usual name of the specific alkali ingredient used in the food.

(2) When any optional neutralizing agent specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is used, including those used in the preparation of the cacao nibs from which the breakfast cocoa was prepared, the name of the food shall be accompanied by the statement "Processed with neutralizing agent" or "Processed with ______", the blank being filled in with the common or usual name of the specific neutralizing agent used in the food.

(3) When one or more of the spices, flavorings, or seasonings specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section are used in the breakfast cocoa, the label shall bear an appropriate statement, e.g., "Spice added", "Flavored with ______", or "With ______ added", the blank being filled in with the common or usual name of the spice, flavoring, or seasoning used, in accordance with ยง 101.22 of this chapter.

(4) When two or more of the statements set forth in this paragraph are required, such statements may be combined in a manner that is appropriate, but not misleading.

(5) Whenever the name of the food appears on the label so conspicuously as to be easily seen under customary conditions of purchase, the statements prescribed in this paragraph showing optional ingredients used shall precede or follow the name without intervening printed or graphic matter.
