
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 164 - TREE NUT AND PEANUT PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Tree Nut and Peanut Products
###### ยง 164.110 Mixed nuts.
####### Label declaration.

(e)Each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter, except that:

(1) If the Spanish variety of peanuts is used, it shall be declared as "Spanish peanuts". Other varieties of peanuts shall be declared as "peanuts", or alternatively "______ peanuts", the blank being filled in with the varietal name of the peanuts used.

(2) If the peanut ingredient or ingredients as provided for in paragraph (b)(2) of this section are unblanched, the label shall show that fact by such statement as "Peanuts unblanched", "Peanuts skins on", or words of similar import, unless the vignette clearly depicts peanuts with skins on.

(f) The words and statements specified in paragraph (e) of this section showing the ingredients present shall be listed on the principal display panel or panels or any appropriate information panel without obscuring design, vignettes, or crowding. The declaration shall appear in conspicuous and easily legible letters of boldface print or type the size of which shall be not less than one-half of that required by part 101 of this chapter for the statement of net quantity of contents appearing on the label, but in no case less than one-sixteenth of an inch in height. The entire ingredient statement shall appear on at least one panel of the label. If the label bears any pictorial representation of the mixture of nuts, it shall depict the relative proportions of the nut ingredients of the food. If the label bears a pictorial representation of only one of each nut ingredient present, the nuts shall be depicted in the order of decreasing predominance by weight. A factual statement that the food does not contain a particular nut ingredient or ingredients may be shown on the label if the statement is not misleading and does not result in an insufficiency of label space for the proper declaration of information required by or under authority of the act to appear on the label.
