
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 164 - TREE NUT AND PEANUT PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Tree Nut and Peanut Products
###### ยง 164.120 Shelled nuts in rigid or semirigid containers.
####### Fill of container.

(c)(1) The standard of fill for shelled nuts in rigid or semirigid containers is a fill such that the average volume of nuts, from the number of containers specified in ยง 164.110(d)(1), is not less than 85 percent of the container volume as determined by the method in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(2) The method for determining the percent of fill is as follows:

(i) For the shelled nuts in each container, determine the loose volume, the settled volume, and the average volume in cubic centimeters. For the purposes of this subparagraph, consider volume in milliliters to be numerically equal to volume in cubic centimeters. Open the container and pour the nuts loosely into a vertical graduated cylinder (do not tilt) of appropriate size fitted with a funnel which has been modified, if necessary, to provide a minimum opening of 1-inch diameter. (If the loose volume of the nuts is less than 500 milliliters, use a 500-milliliter cylinder with an inside diameter of approximately 1inches; but if the loose volume is 500 milliliters or more, use a 1,000-milliliter cylinder with an inside diameter of approximately 2inches.) Without shaking the cylinder, estimate the location of a horizontal plane representing the average height of the product, read the volume of the nuts, and record as the loose volume. Raise the cylinder 2 inches and allow it a free vertical drop onto a level, firm, but resilient surface (do not tamp) for a total of 5 times and observe the volume as above. Repeat in successive five-drop increments until the nuts have so settled that the volume decreases less than 2 percent in the last five-drop increment. Read the last volume in the manner described above and record as the settled volume. The arithmetical average of the loose volume and the settled volume equals the average volume of nuts.

(ii) Classify the container by shape and determine its volume in cubic centimeters according to one of the following methods as appropriate:
