
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 164 - TREE NUT AND PEANUT PRODUCTS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Tree Nut and Peanut Products
###### ยง 164.120 Shelled nuts in rigid or semirigid containers.
####### c

() For cylindrical containers, calculate the container volume in cubic centimeters as the product of the height times the square of the diameter, both measured in inches, times 12.87; or as the product of the height times the square of the diameter, both measured in centimeters, times 0.7854. For containers that do not have indented ends, use the inside height and inside diameter as the dimensions. For metal cans with indented ends (that is, metal cans with ends attached by double seams), consider the height to be the outside height at the double seam minus three-eighths inch (0.953 centimeter) and the diameter to be the outside diameter at the double seam minus one-eighth inch (0.318 centimeter). For fiber-bodied containers with indented ends (that is, fiber-bodied cans with metal ends attached by double seams), consider the height to be the outside height at the double seam minus three-eighths inch (0.953 centimeter) and the diameter to be the outside diameter at the double seam minus three-sixteenths inch (0.476 centimeter).

(iii) Calculate the percent fill of the container as follows: Divide the average volume of nuts found according to paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section by the appropriate container volume found according to paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section and multiply by 100. The result shall be considered to be the percent fill of the container.

(3) If shelled nuts fall below the standard of fill of container prescribed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the label shall bear the general statement of substandard fill specified in ยง 130.14(b) of this chapter, in the manner and form therein specified.
