
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 166 - MARGARINE
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Margarine
###### ยง 166.110 Margarine.
####### Optional ingredients.

(b)(1) Vitamin D in such quantity that the finished oleomargarine contains not less than 1,500 international units of vitamin D per pound.

(2) Salt (sodium chloride); potassium chloride for dietary margarine or oleomargarine.

(3) Nutritive carbohydrate sweeteners.

(4) Emulsifiers.

(5) Preservatives including but not limited to the following within these maximum amounts in percent by weight of the finished food: Sorbic acid, benzoic acid and their sodium, potassium, and calcium salts, individually, 0.1 percent, or in combination, 0.2 percent, expressed as the acids; calcium disodium EDTA, 0.0075 percent; propyl, octyl, and dodecyl gallates, BHT, BHA, ascorbyl palmitate, ascorbyl stearate, all individually or in combination, 0.02 percent; stearyl citrate, 0.15 percent; isopropyl citrate mixture, 0.02 percent.

(6) Color additives. For the purpose of this subparagraph, provitamin A (beta-carotene) shall be deemed to be a color additive.

(7) Flavoring substances. If the flavoring ingredients impart to the food a flavor other than in semblance of butter, the characterizing flavor shall be declared as part of the name of the food in accordance with ยง 101.22 of this chapter.

(8) Acidulants.

(9) Alkalizers.
