
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 168 - SWEETENERS AND TABLE SIRUPS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Sweeteners and Table Sirups
###### ยง 168.122 Lactose.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(d) The methods of analysis in paragraphs (d)(1), (d)(2), (d)(3), (d)(4), and (d)(5) of this section are to be used to determine whether the food meets the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3), and (b)(4) of this section. The methods are contained in "Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists", 14th Ed. (1984), including the 4th Supp. (1988), which is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a). Copies of the material incorporated by reference may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(1) Lactose content, sections 31.064 to 31.071, "Purity of Lactose, Liquid Chromatographic Method," First Action, 14th Ed. (1984), pp. 583 and 584.

(2) Lactose content, sections 31.064 to 31.071, "Purity of Lactose, Liquid Chromatographic Method," "Changes in Official Methods of Analysis," 14th Ed., 4th Supp. (1988), p. 212. This reference recognizes the change in status of the method from first action to final action.

(3) Sulfated ash content, section 31.014, "Ash of Sugars and Sirups," Final Action, Sulfated Ash, 14th Ed. (1984), p. 575.

(4) pH, section 14.022, "pH of Flour, Potentiometric Method," Final Action, except that a 10-percent m/m solution of lactose in water is used for the determination, 14th Ed. (1984), p. 252.

(5) Loss on drying at 120 &#xB0;C, section 31.070, 14th Ed. (1984), p. 584.
