
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 168 - SWEETENERS AND TABLE SIRUPS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Sweeteners and Table Sirups
###### ยง 168.180 Table sirup.
####### Label declaration.

(d)(1)Each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter.

(2) A statement (other than in the ingredient listing) or a vignette identifying a flavor may be included on the label only if such flavor contributes the primary recognizable flavor that characterizes the sirup. When maple, honey, or both maple and honey are represented as the characterizing flavors, the total quantity of maple sirup or honey, singly, or of maple sirup and honey in combination, shall be not less than 10 percent by weight of the finished food. The presence of any natural or artificial flavor in the food shall be declared on the label as prescribed by the applicable sections of part 101 of this chapter.

(3) The percentage of any optional ingredient used shall be declared as part of the name of the food as prescribed by part 102 of this chapter when all of the following conditions apply to the use of the ingredient:

(i) It is one of the characterizing ingredients permitted by paragraphs (b)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section.

(ii) The ingredient is either named on the label other than in the list of ingredients or is suggested by vignette or other labeling.
