
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 169 - FOOD DRESSINGS AND FLAVORINGS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Food Dressings and Flavorings
###### ยง 169.175 Vanilla extract.

(a) Vanilla extract is the solution in aqueous ethyl alcohol of the sapid and odorous principles extractable from vanilla beans. In vanilla extract the content of ethyl alcohol is not less than 35 percent by volume and the content of vanilla constituent, as defined in ยง 169.3(c), is not less than one unit per gallon. The vanilla constituent may be extracted directly from vanilla beans or it may be added in the form of concentrated vanilla extract or concentrated vanilla flavoring or vanilla flavoring concentrated to the semisolid form called vanilla oleo-resin. Vanilla extract may contain one or more of the following optional ingredients:

(1) Glycerin.

(2) Propylene glycol.

(3) Sugar (including invert sugar).

(4) Dextrose.

(5) Corn sirup (including dried corn sirup).

(b)(1) The specified name of the food is "Vanilla extract" or "Extract of vanilla".

(2) When the vanilla extract is made in whole or in part by dilution of vanilla oleoresin, concentrated vanilla extract, or concentrated vanilla flavoring, the label shall bear the statement "Made from ______" or "Made in part from ______", the blank being filled in with the name or names "vanilla oleoresin", "concentrated vanilla extract", or "concentrated vanilla flavoring", as appropriate. If the article contains two or more units of vanilla constituent, the name of the food shall include the designation "__-fold", the blank being filled in with the whole number (disregarding fractions) expressing the number of units of vanilla constituent per gallon of the article.

(3) Wherever the name of the food appears on the label so conspicuously as to be easily seen under customary conditions of purchase, the labeling required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall immediately and conspicuously precede or follow such name, without intervening written, printed, or graphic matter.
