
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 169 - FOOD DRESSINGS AND FLAVORINGS
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Specific Standardized Food Dressings and Flavorings
###### ยง 169.179 Vanilla powder.

(a) Vanilla powder is a mixture of ground vanilla beans or vanilla oleoresin or both, with one or more of the following optional blending ingredients:

(1) Sugar.

(2) Dextrose.

(3) Lactose.

(4) Food starch (including food starch-modified as prescribed in ยง 172.892 of this chapter).

(5) Dried corn sirup.

(6) Gum acacia.

(b) The anticaking ingredients referred to in paragraph (a) of this section are:

(1) Aluminum calcium silicate.

(2) Calcium silicate.

(3) Calcium stearate.

(4) Magnesium silicate.

(5) Tricalcium phosphate.

(c)(1) The specified name of the food is "Vanilla powder __-fold" or "__-fold vanilla powder", except that if sugar is the optional blending ingredient used, the word "sugar" may replace the word "powder". The blank in the name is filled in with the whole number (disregarding fractions) expressing the number of units of vanilla constituent per 8 pounds of the article. However, if the strength of the article is less than 2-fold, the term "__-fold" is omitted from the name.

(2) The label of vanilla powder shall bear the common names of any of the optional ingredients specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section that are used, except that where the alternative name "Vanilla sugar" is used for designating the food it is not required that sugar be named as an optional ingredient.

(3) Wherever the name of the food appears on the label so conspicuously as to be easily seen under customary conditions of purchase, the labeling required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section shall immediately and conspicuously precede or follow such name, without intervening written, printed, or graphic matter.
