
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 170 - FOOD ADDITIVES
##### Subpart D - Premarket Notifications
###### ยง 170.104 Action on a premarket notification for a food contact substance (FCN).

(a) If the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) does not object to an FCN within the 120-day period for FDA review, the FCN becomes effective.

(b) If an FCN is complete when received, the 120-day review period begins on the date FDA receives the FCN.

(1) If any element required under ยง 170.101 is missing from an FCN, then FDA will not accept that FCN and FDA will send an FCN nonacceptance letter to the manufacturer or supplier. If the manufacturer or supplier submits the missing information before FDA sends an FCN nonacceptance letter, the 120-day review period begins on the date of receipt of the missing information.

(2) If FDA accepts an FCN, then FDA will acknowledge in writing its receipt of that FCN.

(c) Objection to an FCN:

(1) If FDA objects to an FCN, then FDA will send an FCN objection letter. The date of the letter will be the date of FDA's objection for purposes of section 409(h)(2)(A) of the act.

(2) If FDA objects to an FCN within the 120-day period for FDA review, the FCN will not become effective.

(3) FDA may object to an FCN if any part of FDA's 120-day review occurs during a period when this program is not funded as required in section 409(h)(5) of the act.

(d) If FDA and a manufacturer or supplier agree that the notifier may submit a food additive petition proposing the approval of the food contact substance for the use in the manufacturer's or supplier's FCN, FDA will consider that FCN to be withdrawn by the manufacturer or supplier on the date the petition is received by FDA.
