
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 170 - FOOD ADDITIVES
##### Subpart D - Premarket Notifications
###### ยง 170.105 The Food and Drug Administration's (FDA's) determination that a premarket notification for a food contact substance (FCN) is no longer effective.

(a) If data or other information available to FDA, including data not submitted by the manufacturer or supplier, demonstrate that the intended use of the food contact substance is no longer safe, FDA may determine that the authorizing FCN is no longer effective.

(b) If FDA determines that an FCN is no longer effective, FDA will inform the manufacturer or supplier in writing of the basis for that determination. FDA will give the manufacturer or supplier an opportunity to show why the FCN should continue to be effective and will specify the time that the manufacturer or supplier will have to respond.

(c) If the manufacturer or supplier fails to respond adequately to the safety concerns regarding the notified use, FDA will publish a notice of its determination that the FCN is no longer effective. FDA will publish this notice in thestating that a detailed summary of the basis for FDA's determination that the FCN is no longer effective has been placed on public display and that copies are available upon request. The date that the notice publishes in theis the date on which the notification is no longer effective.

(d) FDA's determination that an FCN is no longer effective is final agency action subject to judicial review.
