
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 172 - FOOD ADDITIVES PERMITTED FOR DIRECT ADDITION TO FOOD FOR HUMAN CONSUMPTION
##### Subpart B - Food Preservatives
###### ยง 172.133 Dimethyl dicarbonate.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(2) The additive contains not more than 2,000 ppm (0.2 percent) dimethyl carbonate as determined by a method entitled "Gas Chromatography Method for Dimethyl Carbonate Impurity in Dimethyl Dicarbonate," which is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a). Copies are available from the Office of Food Additive Safety (HFS-200), Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, Food and Drug Administration, 5001 Campus Dr., College Park, MD 20740, 240-402-1200, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(b) The additive is used or intended for use as a microbial control agent in the following beverages under normal circumstances of bottling, canning, or other forms of final packaging, where the viable microbial load has been reduced to 500 microorganisms per milliliter or less by current good manufacturing practices such as heat treatment, filtration, or other technologies prior to the use of dimethyl dicarbonate:

(1) In wine, dealcoholized wine, and low alcohol wine in an amount not to exceed 200 parts per million.

(2) In ready-to-drink teas in an amount not to exceed 250 parts per million.

(3) In carbonated or noncarbonated, nonjuice-containing (less than or equal to 1 percent juice), flavored or unflavored beverages containing added electrolytes (5-20 milliequivalents/liter sodium ion (Na + ) and 3-7 milliequivalents/liter potassium ion (K + )) in an amount not to exceed 250 parts per million.

(4) In carbonated, dilute beverages containing juice, fruit flavor, or both, with juice content not to exceed 50 percent, in an amount not to exceed 250 parts per million.

(c) To ensure the safe use of the food additive, the label of the package containing the additive shall bear, in addition to other information required by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act:

(1) The name of the additive "dimethyl dicarbonate."

(2) The intended use of the additive.

(3) Adequate directions for use to ensure compliance with this section.
