
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 172 - FOOD ADDITIVES PERMITTED FOR DIRECT ADDITION TO FOOD FOR HUMAN CONSUMPTION
##### Subpart B - Food Preservatives
###### ยง 172.167 Silver nitrate and hydrogen peroxide solution.
####### http://www.usp.org,http://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.

(b) Hydrogen peroxide meets the specifications of the Food Chemicals Codex, 7th ed. (2010), pp. 496-497, which is incorporated by reference. The Director of the Office of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain copies from the United States Pharmacopeial Convention, 12601 Twinbrook Pkwy., Rockville, MD 20852 (Internet address). Copies may be examined at the Dockets Management Staff (HFA-305), Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, Rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852, 240-402-7500, between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030 or go to:

(c) The amount of silver added will not exceed 17 micrograms per kilogram in the treated bottled water, and the amount of hydrogen peroxide will not exceed 23 milligrams per kilogram in the treated bottled water. Analyses for silver and hydrogen peroxide shall be conducted on samples of treated bottled water at the site of bottling, using samples of the water intended for treatment for the blank determination.
