
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 172 - FOOD ADDITIVES PERMITTED FOR DIRECT ADDITION TO FOOD FOR HUMAN CONSUMPTION
##### Subpart B - Food Preservatives
###### ยง 172.167 Silver nitrate and hydrogen peroxide solution.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(2) The amount of hydrogen peroxide in the treated bottled water is determined using a Hydrogen Peroxide Test Kit from the HACH Co., or equivalent. The manual from the Hydrogen Peroxide Test Kit, Model HYP-1, Catalog Number 22917-00, 1991, is incorporated by reference. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain copies of the test kit manual from the HACH Co., P.O. Box 389, Loveland CO, 80359 (1-800-227-4224), Model HYP-1, Catalog Number 22917-00. Copies may be examined at the Dockets Management Staff (HFA-305), Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, Rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852, 240-402-7500, between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030 or go to:

(e) Substances generally recognized as safe in or on food may be used to stabilize the additive to ensure that the additive will perform its intended technical effect.

(f) The additive may not be added to bottled water that has been filtered or is intended to be filtered through a silver-containing water filter.

(g) Bottled water must meet the quality standards for bottled water in ยง 165.110(b)(2) through (b)(5) of this chapter, including the limits specified for total silver and nitrate, unless the water bears a label statement of substandard quality, as provided for under ยง 165.110(c) of this chapter.
