
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 172 - FOOD ADDITIVES PERMITTED FOR DIRECT ADDITION TO FOOD FOR HUMAN CONSUMPTION
##### Subpart D - Special Dietary and Nutritional Additives
###### ยง 172.320 Amino acids.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.

(g) The standards required in this section are incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be examined at the Dockets Management Staff (HFA-305), Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, Rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852, 240-402-7500, between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030 or go to:

(1) AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877:

(i) Sections 43.212-43.216, "Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists," 13th Ed. (1980).

(ii) [Reserved]

(2) National Academy of Sciences, available from the Dockets Management Staff (HFA-305), Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, Rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852, 240-402-7500, between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday:

(i) "Recommended Dietary Allowances," NAS Publication No. 1694, 7th Ed. (1968).

(ii) "Specifications and Criteria for Biochemical Compounds," NAS/NRC Publication, 3rd Ed. (1972).
