
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 172 - FOOD ADDITIVES PERMITTED FOR DIRECT ADDITION TO FOOD FOR HUMAN CONSUMPTION
##### Subpart D - Special Dietary and Nutritional Additives
###### ยง 172.385 Whole fish protein concentrate.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(1) Protein content (N x 6.25) shall not be less than 75 percent by weight of the final product, as determined by the method described in section 2.057 in "Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists" (AOAC), 13th Ed. (1980). Protein quality shall not be less than 100, as determined by the method described in sections 43.212-43.216 of the AOAC. The 13th Ed. is incorporated by reference, and copies may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(2) Moisture content shall not exceed 10 percent by weight of the final product, as determined by the method described in section 24.003 of the AOAC. See paragraph (c)(1) of this section for availability of the material incorporated by reference.

(3) Fat content shall not exceed 0.5 percent by weight of the final product, as determined by the method described in section 24.005 of the AOAC. See paragraph (c)(1) of the this section for availability of the material incorporated by reference.

(4) The additive may contain residues of isopropyl alcohol and ethylene dichloride not in excess of 250 parts per million and 5 parts per million, respectively, when used as solvents in the extraction process.

(5) Microwave radiation meeting the requirements of ยง 179.30 of this chapter may be used to reduce residues of the solvents used in the extraction process.

(6) The additive shall contain not in excess of 100 parts per million fluorides (expressed as F).
