
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 172 - FOOD ADDITIVES PERMITTED FOR DIRECT ADDITION TO FOOD FOR HUMAN CONSUMPTION
##### Subpart D - Special Dietary and Nutritional Additives
###### ยง 172.385 Whole fish protein concentrate.
####### Escherichia coli,Salmonella,

(7) The additive shall be free ofand pathogenic organisms, includingand shall have a total bacterial plate count of not more than 10,000 per gram.

(8) The additive shall have no more than a faint characteristic fish odor and taste.

(d) When the additive is used or intended for use in the household as a protein supplement in food for regular consumption by children up to 8 years of age, the amount of the additive from this source shall not exceed 20 grams per day (about one heaping tablespoon).

(e) When the additive is used as a protein supplement in manufactured food, the total fluoride content (expressed as F) of the finished food shall not exceed 8 ppm based on the dry weight of the food product.

(f) To assure safe use of the additive, in addition to the other information required by the Act:

(1) The label of consumer-sized or bulk containers of the additive shall bear the name "whole fish protein concentrate".

(2) The label or labeling of containers of the additive shall bear adequate directions for use to comply with the limitations prescribed by paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.

(3) Labels of manufactured foods containing the additive shall bear, in the ingredient statement, the name of the additive, "whole fish protein concentrate" in the proper order of decreasing predominance in the finished food.
