
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 172 - FOOD ADDITIVES PERMITTED FOR DIRECT ADDITION TO FOOD FOR HUMAN CONSUMPTION
##### Subpart G - Gums, Chewing Gum Bases and Related Substances
###### ยง 172.665 Gellan gum.
####### http://www.usp.org,http://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.

(2) Residual isopropyl alcohol (IPA) not to exceed 0.075 percent as determined by the procedure described in the "Gellan gum" monograph in the Food Chemicals Codex, 7th ed. (2010), pp. 425-426, which is incorporated by reference. The Director of the Office of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain copies from the United States Pharmacopeial Convention, 12601 Twinbrook Pkwy., Rockville, MD 20852 (Internet address). Copies may be examined at the Dockets Management Staff (HFA-305), Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, Rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852, 240-402-7500, between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030 or go to:

(e) The additive is used or intended for use in accordance with current good manufacturing practice as a stabilizer and thickener as defined in ยง 170.3(o)(28) of this chapter. The additive may be used in foods where standards of identity established under section 401 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act do not preclude such use.

(f) To assure safe use of the additive:

(1) The label of its container shall bear, in addition to other information required by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the name of the additive and the designation "food grade".

(2) The label or labeling of the food additive container shall bear adequate directions for use.
