
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 172 - FOOD ADDITIVES PERMITTED FOR DIRECT ADDITION TO FOOD FOR HUMAN CONSUMPTION
##### Subpart G - Gums, Chewing Gum Bases and Related Substances
###### ยง 172.695 Xanthan gum.
####### Xanthomonas campestris.

(c) The additive is produced by a process that renders it free of viable cells of

(d) The additive meets the following specifications:

(1) Residual isopropyl alcohol not to exceed 750 parts per million.

(2) An aqueous solution containing 1 percent of the additive and 1 percent of potassium chloride stirred for 2 hours has a minimum viscosity of 600 centipoises at 75 &#xB0;F, as determined by Brookfield Viscometer, Model LVF (or equivalent), using a No. 3 spindle at 60 r.p.m., and the ratio of viscosities at 75 &#xB0;F and 150 &#xB0;F is in the range of 1.02 to 1.45.

(3) Positive for xanthan gum when subjected to the following procedure:

(4) Positive for xanthan gum when subjected to the following procedure:

(e) The additive is used or intended for use in accordance with good manufacturing practice as a stabilizer, emulsifier, thickener, suspending agent, bodying agent, or foam enhancer in foods for which standards of identity established under section 401 of the Act do not preclude such use.

(f) To assure safe use of the additive:

(1) The label of its container shall bear, in addition to other information required by the Act, the name of the additive and the designation "food grade".

(2) The label or labeling of the food additive container shall bear adequate directions for use.
