
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 172 - FOOD ADDITIVES PERMITTED FOR DIRECT ADDITION TO FOOD FOR HUMAN CONSUMPTION
##### Subpart I - Multipurpose Additives
###### ยง 172.822 Sodium lauryl sulfate.

The food additive sodium lauryl sulfate may be safely used in food in accordance with the following conditions:

(a) The additive meets the following specifications:

(1) It is a mixture of sodium alkyl sulfates consisting chiefly of sodium lauryl sulfate [CH(CH)CHOSONa].

(2) It has a minimum content of 90 percent sodium alkyl sulfates.

(b) It is used or intended for use:

(1) As an emulsifier in or with egg whites whereby the additive does not exceed the following limits:

(2) As a whipping agent at a level not to exceed 0.5 percent by weight of gelatine used in the preparation of marshmallows.

(3) As a surfactant in:

(i) Fumaric acid-acidulated dry beverage base whereby the additive does not exceed 25 parts per million of the finished beverage and such beverage base is not for use in a food for which a standard of identity established under section 401 of the Act precludes such use.

(ii) Fumaric acid-acidulated fruit juice drinks whereby the additive does not exceed 25 parts per million of the finished fruit juice drink and it is not used in a fruit juice drink for which a standard of identity established under section 401 of the Act precludes such use.

(4) As a wetting agent at a level not to exceed 10 parts per million in the partition of high and low melting fractions of crude vegetable oils and animal fats, provided that the partition step is followed by a conventional refining process that includes alkali neutralization and deodorization of the fats and oils.

(c) To insure the safe use of the additive, the label of the food additive container shall bear, in addition to the other information required by the Act:

(1) The name of the additive, sodium lauryl sulfate.

(2) Adequate use directions to provide a final product that complies with the limitations prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section.
