
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 172 - FOOD ADDITIVES PERMITTED FOR DIRECT ADDITION TO FOOD FOR HUMAN CONSUMPTION
##### Subpart I - Multipurpose Additives
###### ยง 172.833 Sucrose acetate isobutyrate (SAIB).
####### http://www.nap.edu,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(4) Lead: Not to exceed 1.0 milligrams/kilogram determined by the "Atomic Absorption Spectrophotometric Graphite Furnace Method, Method I," in the "Food Chemicals Codex," 4th ed. (1996), pp. 763 and 764, with an attached modification to the sample digestion section in Appendix III.B (July 1996), which is incorporated by reference. Copies are available from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Box 285, Washington, DC 20055 (Internet), or may be examined at the Dockets Management Staff (HFA-305), Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, Rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852, 240-402-7500, between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(5) Triacetin: Not to exceed 0.10 percent determined by gas chromatography as described in the "Guide to Specifications for General Notices, General Analytical Techniques, Identification Tests, Test Solutions, and Other Reference Materials," in the "Compendium of Food Additive Specifications, Addendum 4, FAO Food and Nutrition Paper 5, Revision 2," (1991), pp. 13-26, which is incorporated by reference; see paragraph (b)(2) of this section for availability of the incorporation by reference.

(c) The food additive is used as a stabilizer (as defined in ยง 170.3(o)(28) of this chapter) of emulsions of flavoring oils in nonalcoholic beverages.

(d) The total SAIB content of a beverage containing the additive does not exceed 300 milligrams/kilogram of the finished beverage.
