
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 172 - FOOD ADDITIVES PERMITTED FOR DIRECT ADDITION TO FOOD FOR HUMAN CONSUMPTION
##### Subpart I - Multipurpose Additives
###### ยง 172.844 Calcium stearoyl-2-lactylate.

The food additive calcium stearoyl-2-lactylate may be safely used in or on food in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:

(a) The additive, which is a mixture of calcium salts of stearoyl lactylic acids and minor proportions of other calcium salts of related acids, is manufactured by the reaction of stearic acid and lactic acid and conversion to the calcium salts.

(b) The additive meets the following specifications:

(c) It is used or intended for use as follows:

(1) As a dough conditioner in yeast-leavened bakery products and prepared mixes for yeast-leavened bakery products in an amount not to exceed 0.5 part for each 100 parts by weight of flour used.

(2) As a whipping agent in:

(i) Liquid and frozen egg white at a level not to exceed 0.05 percent.

(ii) Dried egg white at a level not to exceed 0.5 percent.

(iii) Whipped vegetable oil topping at a level not to exceed 0.3 percent of the weight of the finished whipped vegetable oil topping.

(3) As a conditioning agent in dehydrated potatoes in an amount not to exceed 0.5 percent by weight thereof.

(d) To assure safe use of the additive:

(1) The label and labeling of the food additive and any intermediate premix prepared therefrom shall bear, in addition to the other information required by the act, the following:

(i) The name of the additive.

(ii) A statement of the concentration or strength of the additive in any intermediate premixes.

(2) The label or labeling of the food additive shall also bear adequate directions of use to provide a finished food that complies with the limitations prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section.
