
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 172 - FOOD ADDITIVES PERMITTED FOR DIRECT ADDITION TO FOOD FOR HUMAN CONSUMPTION
##### Subpart I - Multipurpose Additives
###### ยง 172.860 Fatty acids.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(2) Chick-edema factor shall be determined by the bioassay method described in "Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists," 13th Ed. (1980), sections 28.127-28.130, which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(3) The gas chromatographic-electron capture method for testing fatty acids for chick-edema shall be the method described in the "Journal of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists," Volume 50 (No. 1), pages 216-218 (1967), or the modified method using a sulfuric acid clean-up procedure, as described in the "Journal of the Association of the Official Analytical Chemists," Volume 51 (No. 2), pages 489-490 (1968), which are incorporated by reference. See paragraph (c)(2) of this section for availability of these references.

(d) It is used or intended for use as follows:

(1) In foods as a lubricant, binder, and as a defoaming agent in accordance with good manufacturing practice.

(2) As a component in the manufacture of other food-grade additives.

(e) To assure safe use of the additive, the label and labeling of the additive and any premix thereof shall bear, in addition to the other information required by the act, the following:

(1) The common or usual name of the acid or acids contained therein.

(2) The words "food grade," in juxtaposition with and equally as prominent as the name of the acid.
