
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 172 - FOOD ADDITIVES PERMITTED FOR DIRECT ADDITION TO FOOD FOR HUMAN CONSUMPTION
##### Subpart I - Multipurpose Additives
###### ยง 172.862 Oleic acid derived from tall oil fatty acids.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(2) The resin acid content does not exceed 0.01 as determined by ASTM method D1240-82, "Standard Test Method for Rosin Acids in Fatty Acids," which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the American Society for Testing Materials, 100 Barr Harbor Dr., West Conshohocken, Philadelphia, PA 19428-2959, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(3) The requirements for absence of chick-edema factor as prescribed in ยง 172.860.

(c) It is used or intended for use as follows:

(1) In foods as a lubricant, binder, and defoaming agent in accordance with good manufacturing practice.

(2) As a component in the manufacture of other food-grade additives.

(d) To assure safe use of the additive, the label and labeling of the additive and any premix thereof shall bear, in addition to the other information required by the Act, the following:

(1) The common or usual name of the acid.

(2) The words "food grade" in juxtaposition with and equally as prominent as the name of the acid.
