
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 172 - FOOD ADDITIVES PERMITTED FOR DIRECT ADDITION TO FOOD FOR HUMAN CONSUMPTION
##### Subpart I - Multipurpose Additives
###### ยง 172.894 Modified cottonseed products intended for human consumption.
####### n-,n-

(2) Decorticated, ground cottonseed kernels, in a process that utilizeshexane as an extracting solvent in such a way that no more than 60 parts per million ofhexane residues and less than 1 percent fat by weight remain in the finished product; or

(3) Glandless cottonseed kernels roasted to attain a temperature of not less than 250 &#xB0;F in the kernel for not less than 5 minutes for use as a snack food, or in baked goods, or in soft candy; or

(4) Raw glandless cottonseed kernels may be used in hard candy where the kernel temperature during cooking will exceed 250 &#xB0;F for not less than 5 minutes.

(b) The additive is prepared to meet the following specifications:

(1) Free gossypol content not to exceed 450 parts per million.

(2) It contains no added arsenic compound and therefore may not exceed a maximum natural background level of 0.2 part per million total arsenic, calculated as As.

(c) To assure safe use of the additive, the label of the food additive container shall bear, in addition to other information required by the act, the name of the additive as follows:

(1) The additive identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section as "partially defatted, cooked cottonseed flour".

(2) The additive identified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section as "defatted cottonseed flour".

(3) The additive identified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section as "roasted glandless cottonseed kernels".

(4) The additive identified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section as "raw glandless cottonseed kernels for use in cooked hard candy".

(d) The Food and Drug Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency have determined that glandless cottonseed kernels permitted for use by this section are a distinct commodity from glanded cottonseed.
