
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 173 - SECONDARY DIRECT FOOD ADDITIVES PERMITTED IN FOOD FOR HUMAN CONSUMPTION
##### Subpart A - Polymer Substances and Polymer Adjuvants for Food Treatment
###### ยง 173.25 Ion-exchange resins.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(2) Sulfonated anthracite coal meeting the requirements of ASTM method D388-38, Class I, Group 2, "Standard Specifications for Classification of Coal by Rank," which is incorporated by reference. Copies are available from University Microfilms International, 300 N. Zeeb Rd., Ann Arbor, MI 48106, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(3) Sulfite-modified cross-linked phenol-formaldehyde, with modification resulting in sulfonic acid groups on side chains.

(4) Methacrylic acid-divinylbenzene copolymer.

(5) Cross-linked polystyrene, first chloromethylated then aminated with trimethylamine, dimethylamine, di-ethylenetriamine, or dimethylethanol-amine.

(6) Diethylenetriamine, triethylene-tetramine, or tetraethylenepentamine cross-linked with epichlorohydrin.

(7) Cross-linked phenol-formaldehyde activated with one or both of the following: Triethylene tetramine and tetraethylenepentamine.

(8) Reaction resin of formaldehyde, acetone, and tetraethylenepentamine.

(9) Completely hydrolyzed copolymers of methyl acrylate and divinylbenzene.

(10) Completely hydrolyzed terpolymers of methyl acrylate, divinylbenzene, and acrylonitrile.

(11) Sulfonated terpolymers of styrene, divinylbenzene, and acrylonitrile or methyl acrylate.

(12) Methyl acrylate-divinylbenzene copolymer containing not less than 2 percent by weight of divinylbenzene, aminolyzed with dimethylaminopro-pylamine.

(13) Methyl acrylate-divinylbenzene copolymer containing not less than 3.5 percent by weight of divinylbenzene, aminolyzed with dimethylaminopro-pylamine.

(14) Epichlorohydrin cross-linked with ammonia.

(15) Sulfonated tetrapolymer of styrene, divinylbenzene, acrylonitrile, and methyl acrylate derived from a mixture of monomers containing not more than a total of 2 percent by weight of acrylonitrile and methyl acrylate.

(16) Methyl acrylate-divinylbenzenediethylene glycol divinyl ether terpolymer containing not less than 3.5 percent by weight of divinylbenzene and not more than 0.6 percent by weight of diethylene glycol divinyl ether, aminolyzed with dimethylaminopropylamine.
