
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 173 - SECONDARY DIRECT FOOD ADDITIVES PERMITTED IN FOOD FOR HUMAN CONSUMPTION
##### Subpart D - Specific Usage Additives
###### ยง 173.315 Chemicals used in washing or to assist in the peeling of fruits and vegetables.

Chemicals may be safely used to wash or to assist in the peeling of fruits and vegetables in accordance with the following conditions:

(a) The chemicals consist of one or more of the following:

(1) Substances generally recognized as safe in food or covered by prior sanctions for use in washing fruits and vegetables.

(2) Substances identified in this subparagraph and subject to such limitations as are provided:

(3) Sodium mono- and dimethyl naphthalene sulfonates (mol. wt. 245-260) may be used in the steam/scald vacuum peeling of tomatoes at a level not to exceed 0.2 percent in the condensate or scald water.

(4) Substances identified in this paragraph (a)(4) for use in flume water for washing sugar beets prior to the slicing operation and subject to the limitations as are provided for the level of the substances in the flume water:

(5) Substances identified in this paragraph (a)(5) for use on fruits and vegetables that are not raw agricultural commodities and subject to the limitations provided:

(b) The chemicals are used in amounts not in excess of the minimum required to accomplish their intended effect.

(c) The use of the chemicals listed under paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), and (a)(4) is followed by rinsing with potable water to remove, to the extent possible, residues of the chemicals.

(d) To assure safe use of the additive:

(1) The label and labeling of the additive container shall bear, in addition to the other information required by the act, the name of the additive or a statement of its composition.

(2) The label or labeling of the additive container shall bear adequate use directions to assure use in compliance with all provisions of this section.
