
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 173 - SECONDARY DIRECT FOOD ADDITIVES PERMITTED IN FOOD FOR HUMAN CONSUMPTION
##### Subpart D - Specific Usage Additives
###### ยง 173.370 Peroxyacids.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(c) The concentrations of peroxyacids and hydrogen peroxide in the additive are determined by a method entitled "Hydrogen Peroxide and Peracid (as Peracetic Acid) Content," July 26, 2000, developed by Ecolab, Inc., St. Paul, MN, which is incorporated by reference. The concentration of 1-hydroxyethylidene-1,1-diphosphonic acid is determined by a method entitled "Determination of 1-hydroxyethylidene-1,1-diphosphonic acid (HEDP) Peroxyacid/Peroxide-Containing Solutions," August 21, 2001, developed by Ecolab, Inc., St. Paul, MN, which is incorporated by reference. The Director of the Office of the Federal Register approves these incorporations by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain copies of these methods from the Office of Food Additive Safety (HFS-200), Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, Food and Drug Administration, 5001 Campus Dr., College Park, MD 20740, 240-402-1200, or you may examine a copy at the Dockets Management Staff (HFA-305), Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, Rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852, 240-402-7500, between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
