
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 175 - INDIRECT FOOD ADDITIVES: ADHESIVES AND COMPONENTS OF COATINGS
##### Subpart B - Substances for Use Only as Components of Adhesives
###### ยง 175.125 Pressure-sensitive adhesives.
####### tert

(7) 2,2&#x2032;-(2,5-Thiophenediyl)-bis(5--butylbenzoxazole) (CAS Reg. No. 7128-64-5) as an optical brightener at a level not to exceed 0.05 percent by weight of the finished pressure-sensitive adhesive.

(8) 2-Hydroxy-1-[4-(2-hydroxyethoxy) phenyl]-2-methyl-1-propanone (CAS Reg. No. 106797-53-9) as a photoinitiator at a level not to exceed 5 percent by weight of the pressure-sensitive adhesive.

(9) Butanedioic acid, sulfo-1,4-di-(C-Calkyl) ester, ammonium salt (also known as butanedioic acid sulfo-1, 4-diisodecyl ester, ammonium salt [CAS Reg. No. 144093-88-9]) as a surface active agent at a level not to exceed 3.0 percent by weight of the finished pressure-sensitive adhesive.

(b) Pressure-sensitive adhesives prepared from one or a mixture of two or more of the substances listed in this paragraph may be used as the food-contact surface of labels and/or tapes applied to raw fruit and raw vegetables.

(1) Substances listed in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(5), (a)(6), (a)(7), (a)(8), and (a)(9) of this section, and those substances prescribed by paragraph (a)(4) of this section that are not identified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(2) Substances identified in this subparagraph and subject to the limitations provided:

(c) Acrylonitrile copolymers identified in this section shall comply with the provisions of ยง 180.22 of this chapter.
