
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - GENERAL ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### Subpart R - Laboratory Accreditation for Analyses of Foods
###### Requirements for Recognized Accreditation Bodies
####### ยง 1.1121 When must a recognized accreditation body require corrective action, suspend a LAAF-accredited laboratory, or reduce the scope of or withdraw the LAAF-accreditation of a laboratory?
######## Suspension.

(b)If a recognized accreditation body determines that a laboratory it LAAF-accredits has not effectively implemented corrective action or otherwise fails to address deficiencies identified, the recognized accreditation body may temporarily suspend the LAAF-accredited laboratory for one or more LAAF-accredited methods, and require corrective action under paragraph (a) of this section.

(1) The recognized accreditation body must notify the LAAF-accredited laboratory of the grounds for the suspension, the LAAF-accredited methods subject to the suspension, and all deficiencies that must be addressed via the process described in paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) The recognized accreditation body must notify FDA of the suspension under this section in accordance with the requirements of ยง 1.1123(d)(5). FDA will provide notice of the LAAF-accredited laboratory's suspension on the website described in ยง 1.1109.

(3) The recognized accreditation body will review the corrective action required under paragraph (b) of this section and will notify the LAAF-accredited laboratory whether the corrective action is acceptable.

(4) A LAAF-accredited laboratory shall remain suspended until it demonstrates to the recognized accreditation body's satisfaction that the LAAF-accredited laboratory has successfully implemented appropriate corrective action.

(5) If the recognized accreditation body determines that a LAAF-accredited laboratory on suspension has failed to implement appropriate corrective action or otherwise fails to address deficiencies identified, the recognized accreditation body may reduce the scope of or withdraw the LAAF-accreditation of the laboratory under paragraph (c) of this section.
