
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 175 - INDIRECT FOOD ADDITIVES: ADHESIVES AND COMPONENTS OF COATINGS
##### Subpart C - Substances for Use as Components of Coatings
###### ยง 175.300 Resinous and polymeric coatings.
####### Analytical methods,Selection of extractability conditions.

(e)-(1)First ascertain the type of food product (table 1, paragraph (d) of this section) that is being packed commercially in the test container and the normal conditions of thermal treatment used in packaging the type of food involved. Using table 2 (paragraph (d) of this section), select the food-simulating solvent or solvents (demineralized distilled water, heptane, and/or 8 percent ethyl alcohol) and the time-temperature exaggerations of the container-use conditions. Aqueous products (Types I, II, IV-B, and VI-B) require only a water-extractability test at the temperature and time conditions shown for the most severe "conditions of use." Aqueous products with free oil or fat, and water-oil emulsions (types III, IV-A, and VII) will require determinations of both water extractability and heptane extractability. Low-moisture fats and oils (type V with no free water) require only the heptane extractability. Alcoholic beverages (type VI-A) require only the 8 percent alcohol extractant. Having selected the appropriate extractant or extractants simulating various types of foods and beverages and the time-temperature exaggerations over normal use, follow the applicable extraction procedure. Adapt the procedure, when necessary, for containers having a capacity of over 1 gallon.
