
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 175 - INDIRECT FOOD ADDITIVES: ADHESIVES AND COMPONENTS OF COATINGS
##### Subpart C - Substances for Use as Components of Coatings
###### ยง 175.300 Resinous and polymeric coatings.
####### Chloroform-soluble extractives residue.,e,e,e,e,a,b,Ex,e,ee,ee,e,a,b

(ii)Add 50 milliliters of chloroform (freshly distilled reagent grade or a grade having an established consistently low blank) to the dried and weighed residue, (), in the platinum dish, obtained in paragraph (e)(5)(i) of this section. Warm carefully, and filter through Whatman No. 41 filter paper in a Pyrex funnel, collecting the filtrate in a clean, tared platinum dish. Repeat the chloroform extraction, washing the filter paper with this second portion of chloroform. Add this filtrate to the original filtrate and evaporate the total down to a few milliliters on a low-temperature hotplate. The last few milliliters should be evaporated in an oven maintained at 212 &#xB0;F. Cool the platinum dish in a desiccator for 30 minutes and weigh to the nearest 0.1 milligram to get the chloroform-soluble extractives residue (&#x2032;). This&#x2032; is substituted forin the equations in paragraph (e)(5)(i)() and () of this section. If the concentration of extractives () still exceeds 50 parts per million or the extractives in milligrams per square inch exceed the limitations prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section for the particular container size, proceed as follows to correct for zinc extractives ("C" enamels only): Ash the residue in the platinum dish by heating gently over a Meeker-type burner to destroy organic matter and hold at red heat for about 1 minute. Cool in the air for 3 minutes, and place the platinum dish in the desiccator for 30 minutes and weigh to the nearest 0.1 milligram. Analyze this ash for zinc by standard Association of Official Agricultural Chemists methods or equivalent. Calculate the zinc in the ash as zinc oleate, and subtract from the weight of chloroform-soluble extractives residue (&#x2032;) to obtain the zinc-corrected chloroform-soluble extractives residue (&#x2032;). This&#x2032; is substituted forin the formulas in paragraph (e)(5)(i)() and () of this section. To comply with the limitations in paragraph (c) of this section, the chloroform-soluble extractives residue (but after correction for the zinc extractives in case of "C" enamels) must not exceed 50 parts per million and must not exceed in milligrams per square inch the limitations for the particular article as prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section.
