
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 175 - INDIRECT FOOD ADDITIVES: ADHESIVES AND COMPONENTS OF COATINGS
##### Subpart C - Substances for Use as Components of Coatings
###### § 175.360 Vinylidene chloride copolymer coatings for nylon film.

Vinylidene chloride copolymer coatings identified in this section and applied on nylon film may be safely used as food-contact surfaces, in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:

(a) The coating is applied as a continuous film over one or both sides of a base film produced from nylon resins complying with § 177.1500 of this chapter.

(b) The coatings are prepared from vinylidene chloride copolymers produced by copolymerizing vinylidene chloride with one or more of the monomers acrylic acid, acrylonitrile, ethyl acrylate, methacrylic acid, methyl acrylate, methyl methacrylate (CAS Reg. No. 80-62-6; maximum use level 6 weight percent) and 2-sulfoethyl methacrylate (CAS Reg. No. 10595-80-9; maximum use level 1 weight percent). The finished copolymers contain at least 50 weight percent of polymer units derived from vinylidene chloride. The finished coating produced from vinylidene chloride copolymers produced by copolymerizing vinylidene chloride with methyl methacrylate and/or 2-sulfoethyl methacrylate, or with methyl methacrylate and/or 2-sulfoethyl methacrylate together with one or more of the other monomers from this section, is restricted to use at or below room temperature.

(c) Optional adjuvant substances employed in the production of the coatings or added thereto to impart desired properties may include sodium dodecylbenzenesulfonate.

(d) The coating in the finished form in which it is to contact food, when extracted with the solvent or solvents characterizing the type of food, and under conditions of time and temperature characterizing the conditions of its intended use as determined from tables 1 and 2 of § 176.170(c) of this chapter, shall yield net chloroform-soluble extractives not to exceed 0.5 milligram per square inch of coated surface when tested by the methods described in § 176.170(d) of this chapter.

(e) Acrylonitrile copolymers identified in this section shall comply with the provisions of § 180.22 of this chapter.
