
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 175 - INDIRECT FOOD ADDITIVES: ADHESIVES AND COMPONENTS OF COATINGS
##### Subpart C - Substances for Use as Components of Coatings
###### § 175.365 Vinylidene chloride copolymer coatings for polycarbonate film.

Vinylidene chloride copolymer coatings identified in this section and applied on polycarbonate film may be safely used as food-contact surfaces, in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:

(a) The coating is applied as a continuous film over one or both sides of a base film produced from polycarbonate resins complying with § 177.1580 of this chapter.

(b) The coatings are prepared from vinylidene chloride copolymers produced by copolymerizing vinylidene chloride with acrylonitrile, methyl acrylate, and acrylic acid. The finished copolymers contain at least 50 weight-percent of polymer units derived from vinyldene chloride.

(c) Optional adjuvant substances employed in the production of the coatings or added thereto to impart desired properties may include sodium dodecylbenzenesulfonate in addition to substances described in § 174.5(d) of this chapter.

(d) The coating in the finished form in which it is to contact food, when extracted with the solvent or solvents characterizing the type of food, and under the conditions of time and temperature characterizing the conditions of its intended use as determined from tables 1 and 2 of § 176.170(c) of this chapter, shall yield net chloroform-soluble extractives in each extracting solvent not to exceed 0.5 milligram per square inch of coated surface as determined by the methods described in § 176.170(d) of this chapter. In testing the finished food-contact articles, a separate test sample is to be used for each required extracting solvent.

(e) Acrylonitrile copolymers identified in this section shall comply with the provisons of § 180.22 of this chapter.
