
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 176 - INDIRECT FOOD ADDITIVES: PAPER AND PAPERBOARD COMPONENTS
##### Subpart B - Substances for Use Only as Components of Paper and Paperboard
###### ยง 176.170 Components of paper and paperboard in contact with aqueous and fatty foods.
####### Provided,,And provided further,

(a) Substances identified in paragraph (a)(1) through (5) of this section may be used as components of the food-contact surface of paper and paperboard. Paper and paperboard products shall be exempted from compliance with the extractives limitations prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section:That the components of the food-contact surface consist entirely of one or more of the substances identified in this paragraph:That if the paper or paperboard when extracted under the conditions prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section exceeds the limitations on extractives contained in paragraph (c) of this section, information shall be available from manufacturing records from which it is possible to determine that only substances identified in this paragraph (a) are present in the food-contact surface of such paper or paperboard.

(1) Substances generally recognized as safe in food.

(2) Substances generally recognized as safe for their intended use in paper and paperboard products used in food packaging.

(3) Substances used in accordance with a prior sanction or approval.

(4) Substances that by regulation in parts 170 through 189 of this chapter may be safely used without extractives limitations as components of the uncoated or coated food-contact surface of paper and paperboard in contact with aqueous or fatty food, subject to the provisions of such regulation.

(5) Substances identified in this paragraph, as follows:

(b) Substances identified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section may be used as components of the food-contact surface of paper and paperboard, provided that the food-contact surface of the paper or paperboard complies with the extractives limitations prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section.

(1) Substances identified in ยง 175.300(b)(3) of this chapter with the exception of those identified in paragraphs (b)(3)(v), (xv), (xx), (xxvi), (xxxi), and (xxxii) of that section and paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) Substances identified in this paragraph (b)(2) follow:

(c) The food-contact surface of the paper and paperboard in the finished form in which it is to contact food, when extracted with the solvent or solvents characterizing the type of food, and under conditions of time and temperature characterizing the conditions of its intended use as determined from tables 1 and 2 of this paragraph, shall yield net chloroform-soluble extractives (corrected for wax, petrolatum, mineral oil and zinc extractives as zinc oleate) not to exceed 0.5 milligram per square inch of food-contact surface as determined by the methods described in paragraph (d) of this section.
