
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 176 - INDIRECT FOOD ADDITIVES: PAPER AND PAPERBOARD COMPONENTS
##### Subpart B - Substances for Use Only as Components of Paper and Paperboard
###### ยง 176.170 Components of paper and paperboard in contact with aqueous and fatty foods.
####### Chloroform-soluble extractives residue.,e,&#x2032;,&#x2032;,e,a,b

(ii)Add 50 milliliters of chloroform (freshly distilled reagent grade or a grade having an established consistently low blank) to the dried and weighed residue, (), in the evaporating dish obtained in paragraph (d)(5)(i) of this section. Warm carefully, and filter through Whatman No. 41 filter paper (or equivalent) in a Pyrex (or equivalent) funnel, collecting the filtrate in a clean, tared evaporating dish (platinum or Pyrex). Repeat the chloroform extraction, washing the filter paper with this second portion of chloroform. Add this filtrate to the original filtrate and evaporate the total down to a few milliliters on a low-temperature hotplate. The last few milliliters should be evaporated in an oven maintained at approximately 221 &#xB0;F. Cool the evaporating dish in a desiccator for 30 minutes and weigh to the nearest 0.1 milligram to get the chloroform-soluble extractives residue (). Thisis substituted forin the equations in paragraph (d)(5)(i)() and () of this section. If the chloroform-soluble extractives in milligrams per square inch still exceeds the limitation prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section, proceed to paragraph (d)(5)(iii) of this section (method for determining corrected chloroform-soluble extractives residue).
