
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 176 - INDIRECT FOOD ADDITIVES: PAPER AND PAPERBOARD COMPONENTS
##### Subpart B - Substances for Use Only as Components of Paper and Paperboard
###### ยง 176.170 Components of paper and paperboard in contact with aqueous and fatty foods.
####### 3,Chromatographing of sample extract,i,For chloroform residues weighing 0.5 gram or less.,b,3,ii,&#x2032;,e&#x2032;,e&#x2032;,e,a,b

()-()To the dried and weighed chloroform-soluble extract residue in the evaporating dish, obtained in paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section, add 20 milliliters of heptane and stir. If necessary, heat carefully to dissolve the residue. Additional heptane not to exceed a total volume of 50 milliliters may be used if necessary to complete dissolving. Cool to room temperature. (If solution becomes cloudy, use the procedure in paragraph (d)(5)(iii)()()() of this section to obtain an aliquot of heptane solution calculated to contain 0.1-0.5 gram of chloroform-soluble extract residue.) Transfer the clear liquid solution to the column (or buret). Rinse the dish with 10 millimeters of additional heptane and add to column. Allow the liquid to pass through the column into a clean, tared evaporating dish (platinum or Pyrex) at a dropwise rate of about 2 milliliters per minute until the liquid surface reaches the top glass wool plug; then close the stopcock temporarily. Rinse the Pyrex flask which contained the filtrate with an additional 10-15 milliliters of heptane and add to the column. Wash (elute) the column with more heptane collecting about 100 milliliters of total eluate including that already collected in the evaporating dish. Evaporate the combined eluate in the evaporating dish to dryness on a steam bath. Dry the residue for 15 minutes in an oven maintained at a temperature of approximately 221 &#xB0;F. Cool the evaporating dish in a desiccator for 30 minutes and weigh the residue to the nearest 0.1 milligram. Subtract the weight of the residue from the weight of chloroform-soluble extractives residue () to obtain the wax-, petrolatum-, and mineral oil-corrected chloroform-soluble extractives residue (). Thisis substituted forin the equations in paragraph (d)(5)(i)() and () of this section.
