
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 176 - INDIRECT FOOD ADDITIVES: PAPER AND PAPERBOARD COMPONENTS
##### Subpart B - Substances for Use Only as Components of Paper and Paperboard
###### ยง 176.200 Defoaming agents used in coatings.

The defoaming agents described in this section may be safely used as components of articles intended for use in producing, manufacturing, packing, processing, preparing, treating, packaging, transporting, or holding food, subject to the provisions of this section.

(a) The defoaming agents are prepared as mixtures of substances described in paragraph (d) of this section.

(b) The quantity of any substance employed in the formulation of defoaming agents does not exceed the amount reasonably required to accomplish the intended physical or technical effect in the defoaming agents or any limitation further provided.

(c) Any substance employed in the production of defoaming agents and which is the subject of a regulation in parts 174, 175, 176, 177, 178 and ยง 179.45 of this chapter conforms with any specification in such regulation.

(d) Substances employed in the formulation of defoaming agents include:

(1) Substances generally recognized as safe in food.

(2) Substances subject to prior sanction or approval for use in defoaming agents and used in accordance with such sanction or approval.

(3) Substances identified in this paragraph (d)(3) and subject to such limitations as are provided:

(e) The defoaming agents are used as follows:

(1) The quantity of defoaming agent or agents used shall not exceed the amount reasonably required to accomplish the intended effect, which is to prevent or control the formation of foam.

(2) The defoaming agents are used in the preparation and application of coatings for paper and paperboard.
