
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - GENERAL ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### Subpart R - Laboratory Accreditation for Analyses of Foods
###### FDA Oversight of Recognized Accreditation Bodies
####### ยง 1.1131 When will FDA require corrective action, put a recognized accreditation body on probation, or revoke the recognition of an accreditation body?
######## Probation.

(b)If FDA determines that a recognized accreditation body has not effectively implemented corrective action or otherwise fails to address deficiencies identified, FDA may put the recognized accreditation body on probation and require corrective action under paragraph (a) of this section.

(1) FDA will notify the recognized accreditation body of the grounds for the probation and all deficiencies requiring corrective action via the process described in paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) FDA will notify all laboratories LAAF-accredited by the recognized accreditation body that the recognized accreditation body is on probation and will provide notice of the probation on the website described in ยง 1.1109.

(3) FDA will review the corrective action and will notify the recognized accreditation body whether the corrective action is acceptable.

(4) A recognized accreditation body shall remain on probation until the recognized accreditation body demonstrates to FDA's satisfaction that it has successfully implemented appropriate corrective action.

(5) If FDA determines that a recognized accreditation body on probation has failed to implement appropriate corrective action or otherwise fails to address deficiencies identified, FDA may revoke recognition of the recognized accreditation body under paragraph (c) of this section.
