
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 177 - INDIRECT FOOD ADDITIVES: POLYMERS
##### Subpart B - Substances for Use as Basic Components of Single and Repeated Use Food Contact Surfaces
###### ยง 177.1360 Ethylene-vinyl acetate-vinyl alcohol copolymers.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(d) The finished food-contact article shall not exceed 0.018 centimeter (0.007 inch) thickness and may contact all foods, except those containing more than 8 percent alcohol, under conditions of use B through H described in table 2 of ยง 176.170(c) of this chapter. Film samples of 0.018 centimeter (0.007 inch) thickness representing the finished articles shall meet the following extractive limitation when tested by ASTM method F34-76 (Reapproved 1980), "Standard Test Methods for Liquid Extraction of Flexible Barrier Materials," which is incorporated by reference. The availability of this incorporation by reference is given in paragraph (b) of this section. The film when extracted with distilled water at 100 &#xB0;C (212 &#xB0;F) for 30 minutes yields ethylene-vinyl acetate-vinyl alcohol oligomers not to exceed 0.093 milligram per square centimeter (0.6 milligram per square inch) of food contact surface as determined by a method entitled "Analytical Method of Determining the Amount of EVOH in the Extractives Residue of EVOH Film," dated March 23, 1987, as developed by the Kuraray Co., Ltd., which is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from the Office of Food Additive Safety (HFS-200)), Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, Food and Drug Administration, 5001 Campus Dr., College Park, MD 20740, 240-402-1200, or may be examined at the Food and Drug Administration's Main Library, 10903 New Hampshire Ave., Bldg. 2, Third Floor, Silver Spring, MD 20993, 301-796-2039, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(e) The provisions of this section are not applicable to ethylene-vinyl acetate-vinyl alcohol copolymers used in the food-packaging adhesives complying with ยง 175.105 of this chapter.
