
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 177 - INDIRECT FOOD ADDITIVES: POLYMERS
##### Subpart B - Substances for Use as Basic Components of Single and Repeated Use Food Contact Surfaces
###### ยง 177.1390 Laminate structures for use at temperatures of 250 &#xB0;F and above.

(a) The high-temperature laminates identified in this section may be safely used for food contact at temperatures not exceeding 135 &#xB0;C (275 &#xB0;F) unless otherwise specified. These articles are layered constructions that are optionally bonded with adhesives. The interior (food-contact) layer(s) may be separated from the exterior layer(s) by a functional barrier, such as aluminum foil. Upon review of the physical properties of a particular construction, the Food and Drug Administration may consider other layers to serve as functional barriers. This regulation is not intended to limit these constructions as to shape, degree of flexibility, thickness, or number of layers. These layers may be laminated, extruded, coextruded, or fused.

(b) When containers subject to this regulation undergo heat sterilization to produce shelf-stable foods, certain control measures (in addition to the food additive requirements in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section) are necessary to ensure proper food sterilization and package integrity. Refer to parts 108, 110, 113, and 114 of this chapter for details.

(c) Subject to the provisions of this paragraph, food-contact articles produced from high-temperature laminates may be safely used to package all food types except those containing more than 8 percent ethyl alcohol.
