
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 177 - INDIRECT FOOD ADDITIVES: POLYMERS
##### Subpart B - Substances for Use as Basic Components of Single and Repeated Use Food Contact Surfaces
###### ยง 177.1390 Laminate structures for use at temperatures of 250 &#xB0;F and above.
####### Volatiles.

(ii)Volatile substances employed in the manufacture of high-temperature laminates must be removed to the greatest extent possible in keeping with good manufacturing practice prescribed in ยง 174.5(a) of this chapter.

(d) Nylon 12/aluminum foil high-temperature laminates: Subject to the provisions of this paragraph, containers constructed of nylon 12 laminated to aluminum foil may be safely used at temperatures no greater than 250 &#xB0;F (121 &#xB0;C) in contact with all food types except those containing more than 8 percent alcohol.

(1) The container is constructed of aluminum foil to which nylon 12 film is fused. Prior to fusing the nylon 12, the aluminum foil may be optionally precoated with a coating complying with ยง 175.300 of this chapter.

(2) Nylon 12 resin complying with ยง 177.1500 and having an average thickness not to exceed 0.0016 inch (41 microns) may be used as the food-contact surface of the container.

(3) Container test specifications. On exposure to distilled water at 250 &#xB0;F (121 &#xB0;C) for 2 hours, extractives from the food-contact side of the nylon 12 multilayered construction shall not exceed 0.05 milligram per square inch (0.0078 milligram per square centimeter) as total nonvolatile extractives.
