
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - GENERAL ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### Subpart R - Laboratory Accreditation for Analyses of Foods
###### Requirements for LAAF-Accredited Laboratories
####### ยง 1.1149 What oversight standards apply to sampling?
######## Documents.

(a)Before analyzing a sample, the LAAF-accredited laboratory must develop (if it collected the sample) or obtain (if another firm collected the sample) the following information to be submitted with test results (see ยง 1.1152(c)):

(1) Written documentation of the sampler's applicable qualifications by training and experience. A LAAF-accredited laboratory only needs to develop or obtain documentation of a sampler's qualifications the first time that sampler collects a sample for the LAAF-accredited laboratory under this subpart. If a LAAF-accredited laboratory has previously submitted the sampler's qualifications to FDA under ยง 1.1152(c), the LAAF-accredited laboratory may refer to its previously submitted qualifications.

(2) The written sampling plan used to conduct the sampling. The written sampling plan must identify the sampler and sampling firm and must list factors that will be controlled to ensure the sampling does not impact the validity of the subsequent analytical testing, including controlling for the representational nature of the sample; and

(3) A written sample collection report for each sample collected. The written sample collection report must include:

(i) The product code of the food product (if product is being sampled) or the location and a description of the environment (if environment is being sampled);

(ii) The date of the sampling;

(iii) The lot number, size, identity, and quantity of the sample;

(iv) Documentation of sample collection procedures and any sample preparation techniques; and

(v) Documentation of the chain of custody of the sample and of measures taken to ensure the validity of the subsequent analytical testing, including controlling for the representational nature of the sample.
