
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 177 - INDIRECT FOOD ADDITIVES: POLYMERS
##### Subpart B - Substances for Use as Basic Components of Single and Repeated Use Food Contact Surfaces
###### ยง 177.1630 Polyethylene phthalate polymers.

Polyethylene phthalate polymers identified in this section may be safely used as, or components of plastics (films, articles, or fabric) intended for use in contact with food in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:

(a) Polyethylene phthalate films consist of a base sheet of ethylene terephthalate polymer, ethylene terephthalate-isophthalate copolymer, or ethylene-1,4-cyclohexylene dimethylene terephthalate copolyesters described in ยง 177.1315(b)(3), to which have been added optional substances, either as constituents of the base sheet or as constituents of coatings applied to the base sheet.

(b) Polyethylene phthalate articles consist of a base polymer of ethylene terephthalate polymer, or ethylene-1,4-cyclohexylene dimethylene terephthalate copolyesters described in ยง 177.1315(b)(3), to which have been added optional substances, either as constituents of the base polymer or as constituents of coatings applied to the base polymer.

(c)(1) Polyethylene phthalate spunbonded nonwoven fabric consist of continuous filaments of ethylene terephthalate polymer and ethylene terephthalate-isophthalate copolymer to which may have been added optional adjuvant substances required in their preparation and finishing.

(2) The ethylene terephthalate-isophthalate copolymer component of the fabric shall not exceed 25 percent by weight. The filaments may be blended with other fibers regulated for the specific use and the spunbonded fabric may be further bonded by application of heat and/or pressure.

(3) The fabric shall be used only in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section.

(d) The quantity of any optional substance employed in the production of polyethylene phthalate plastics does not exceed the amount reasonably required to accomplish the intended physical or technical effect or any limitations further provided. Any substance employed in the production of polyethylene phthalate plastics that is the subject of a regulation in parts 174, 175, 176, 177, 178 and 179 of this chapter conforms with any specification in such regulation.

(e) Substances employed in the production of polyethylene phthalate plastics include:

(1) Substances generally recognized as safe in food.

(2) Substances subject to prior sanction or approval for use in polyethylene phthalate plastics and used in accordance with such sanction or approval.

(3) Substances which by regulation in parts 174, 175, 176, 177, 178 and ยง 179.45 of this chapter may be safely used as components of resinous or polymeric food-contact surfaces subject to the provisions of such regulation.

(4) Substances identified in this paragraph (e)(4) subject to the limitations prescribed:

(i) Base sheet:

(ii) Base sheet and base polymer:

(iii) Coatings:

(iv) Emulsifiers:

(v) Modifier:

(f) Polyethylene phthalate plastics conforming with the specifications prescribed in paragraph (f)(1) of this section are used as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section:
