
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - GENERAL ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
##### Subpart R - Laboratory Accreditation for Analyses of Foods
###### FDA Oversight of LAAF-Accredited Laboratories
####### ยง 1.1161 When will FDA require corrective action, put a LAAF-accredited laboratory on probation, or disqualify a LAAF-accredited laboratory from submitting analytical reports?
######## Probation.

(b)If FDA determines that a LAAF-accredited laboratory has not effectively implemented corrective action or otherwise fails to address deficiencies identified, FDA may put the LAAF-accredited laboratory on probation for one or more methods and require corrective action under paragraph (a) of this section.

(1) FDA will notify the LAAF-accredited laboratory and its recognized accreditation body of the grounds for the probation, the method(s) covered by the probation, and all deficiencies requiring corrective action via the process described in paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) FDA will provide notice of a LAAF-accredited laboratory's probation on the website described in ยง 1.1109.

(3) FDA will review the corrective action and will notify the LAAF-accredited laboratory and its recognized accreditation body whether the corrective action is acceptable.

(4) A LAAF-accredited laboratory will remain on probation until the LAAF-accredited laboratory demonstrates to FDA's satisfaction that it has successfully implemented appropriate corrective action.

(5) If FDA determines that a LAAF-accredited laboratory on probation has failed to implement appropriate corrective action or otherwise fails to address deficiencies identified, FDA may disqualify the LAAF-accredited laboratory under paragraph (c) of this section.
