
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 177 - INDIRECT FOOD ADDITIVES: POLYMERS
##### Subpart C - Substances for Use Only as Components of Articles Intended for Repeated Use
###### ยง 177.2250 Filters, microporous polymeric.

Microporous polymeric filters identified in paragraph (a) of this section may be safely used, subject to the provisions of this section, to remove particles of insoluble matter in producing, manufacturing, processing, and preparing bulk quantities of liquid food.

(a) Microporous polymeric filters consist of a suitably permeable, continuous, polymeric matrix of polyvinyl chloride, vinyl chloride-propylene, or vinyl chloride-vinyl acetate, in which finely divided silicon dioxide is embedded. Cyclohexanone may be used as a solvent in the production of the filters.

(b) Any substance employed in the production of microporous polymeric filters that is the subject of a regulation in parts 170 through 189 of this chapter must conform with any specification in such regulation.

(c) Cyclohexanone when used as a solvent in the production of the filters shall not exceed 0.35 percent by weight of the microporous polymeric filters.

(d) The microporous polymeric filters may be colored with colorants used in accordance with ยง 178.3297 of this chapter.

(e) The temperature of food being processed through the microporous polymeric filters shall not exceed 180 &#xB0;F.

(f) The microporous polymeric filters shall be maintained in a sanitary manner in accordance with good manufacturing practice so as to prevent potential microbial adulteration of the food.

(g) To assure safe use of the microporous polymeric filters, the label or labeling shall include adequate directions for a pre-use treatment, consisting of washing with a minimum of 2 gallons of potable water at a temperature of 180 &#xB0;F for each square foot of filter, prior to the filter's first use in contact with food.
