
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 177 - INDIRECT FOOD ADDITIVES: POLYMERS
##### Subpart C - Substances for Use Only as Components of Articles Intended for Repeated Use
###### ยง 177.2450 Polyamide-imide resins.
####### p,p,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(3) The polyamide-imide resins identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section are heat cured at 600 &#xB0;F for 15 minutes when prepared for extraction tests and the residual monomers:-diphenylmethane diisocyanate should not be present at greater than 100 parts per million and trimellitic anhydride should not be present at greater than 500 parts per million. Residual monomers are determined by gas chromatography (the gas chromatography method titled "Amide-Imide Polymer Analysis-Analysis of Monomer Content," is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a). Copies are available from the Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition (HFS-200), Food and Drug Administration, 5001 Campus Dr., College Park, MD 20740, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:).

(c) Extractive limitations are applicable to the polyamide-imide resins identified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section in the form of films of 1 mil uniform thickness after coating and heat curing at 600 &#xB0;F for 15 minutes on stainless steel plates, each having such resin-coated surface area of 100 square inches. The cured-resin film coatings shall be extracted in accordance with the method described in ยง 176.170(d)(3) of this chapter, using a plurality of spaced, coated stainless steel plates, exposed to the respective food simulating solvents. The resin shall meet the following extractive limitations under the corresponding extraction conditions:

(1) Distilled water at 250 &#xB0;F for 2 hours: Not to exceed 0.01 milligram per square inch.

(2) Three percent acetic acid at 212 &#xB0;F for 2 hours: Not to exceed 0.05 milligram per square inch.

(3) Fifty percent ethyl alcohol at 160 &#xB0;F for 2 hours: Not to exceed 0.03 milligram per square inch.
