
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 177 - INDIRECT FOOD ADDITIVES: POLYMERS
##### Subpart C - Substances for Use Only as Components of Articles Intended for Repeated Use
###### ยง 177.2490 Polyphenylene sulfide resins.
####### p-

(3) Maximum residualdichlorobenzene: 0.8 ppm.

(b) Subject to any limitations prescribed in parts 170 through 189 of this chapter, the following optional substances may be added to the polyphenylene sulfide basic resins in an amount not to exceed that reasonably required to accomplish the intended physical or technical effect.

(1) Substances generally recognized as safe in food.

(2) Substances used in accordance with prior sanction or approval.

(3) Substances the use of which is permitted in coatings under regulations in parts 170 through 189 of this chapter.

(c) The finished coatings are thermally cured at temperatures of 700 &#xB0;F and above.

(d) Polyphenylene sulfide resin coatings may be used in contact with food at temperatures not to exceed the boiling point of water; provided that the finished cured coating, when extracted at reflux temperatures for 8 hours separately with distilled water, 50 percent ethanol in water, and 3 percent acetic acid, yields total extractives in each extracting solvent not to exceed 0.02 milligram per square inch of surface and when extracted at reflux temperature for 8 hours with heptane yields total extractives not to exceed 0.1 milligram per square inch of surface.

(e) Polyphenylene sulfide resin coatings containing perfluorocarbon resins complying with ยง 177.1550 may be used in contact with food at temperatures up to and including normal baking and frying temperatures; provided that the finished cured coating, when extracted at reflux temperatures for 2 hours separately with distilled water, 50 percent ethanol in water, 3 percent acetic acid and heptane, yields total extractives in each extracting solvent not to exceed 0.2 milligram per square inch of surface and when extracted at reflux temperature for 1 hour with diphenyl ether yields total extractives not to exceed 4.5 milligrams per square inch of surface.
