
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 177 - INDIRECT FOOD ADDITIVES: POLYMERS
##### Subpart C - Substances for Use Only as Components of Articles Intended for Repeated Use
###### ยง 177.2550 Reverse osmosis membranes.
####### Identity.

(a)For the purpose of this section, reverse osmosis membranes may consist of either of the following formulations:

(1) A cross-linked high molecular weight polyamide reaction product of 1,3,5-benzenetricarbonyl trichloride with 1,3-benzenediamine (CAS Reg. No. 83044-99-9) or piperazine (CAS Reg. No. 110-85-0). The membrane is on the food-contact surface, and its maximum weight is 62 milligrams per square decimeter (4 milligrams per square inch) as a thin film composite on a suitable support.

(2) A cross-linked polyetheramine (CAS Reg. No. 101747-84-6), identified as the copolymer of epichlorohydrin, 1,2-ethanediamine and 1,2-dichloroethane, whose surface is the reaction product of this copolymer with 2,4-toluenediisocyanate (CAS Reg. No. of the final polymer is 99811-80-0) for use as the food-contact surface of reverse osmosis membranes used in processing liquid food. The composite membrane is on the food-contact surface and its maximum weight is 4.7 milligrams per square decimeter (0.3 milligrams per square inch) as a thin film composite on a suitable support. The maximum weight of the 2,4-toluenediisocyanate component of the thin film composite is 0.47 milligrams per square decimeter (0.03 milligrams per square inch).

(3) For the purpose of this section, the reverse osmosis membrane consists of a polyaramide identified as 2,4-diaminobenzenesulfonic acid, calcium salt (2:1) polymer with 1,3-benzenediamine, 1,3-benzenedicarbonyl dichloride, and 1,4-benzenedicarbonyl dichloride (CAS Reg. No. 39443-76-0). The membrane is the food contact surface and may be applied as a film on a suitable support. Its maximum weight is 512 milligrams per square decimeter (33 milligrams per square inch).
