
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 177 - INDIRECT FOOD ADDITIVES: POLYMERS
##### Subpart C - Substances for Use Only as Components of Articles Intended for Repeated Use
###### ยง 177.2600 Rubber articles intended for repeated use.

Rubber articles intended for repeated use may be safely used in producing, manufacturing, packing, processing, preparing, treating, packaging, transporting, or holding food, subject to the provisions of this section.

(a) The rubber articles are prepared from natural and/or synthetic polymers and adjuvant substances as described in paragraph (c) of this section.

(b) The quantity of any substance employed in the production of rubber articles intended for repeated use shall not exceed the amount reasonably required to accomplish the intended effect in the rubber article and shall not be intended to accomplish any effect in food.

(c) Substances employed in the preparation of rubber articles include the following, subject to any limitations prescribed:

(1) Substances generally recognized as safe for use in food or food packaging.

(2) Substances used in accordance with the provisions of a prior sanction or approval.

(3) Substances that by regulation in parts 170 through 189 of this chapter may be safely used in rubber articles, subject to the provisions of such regulation.

(4) Substances identified in this paragraph (c)(4), provided that any substance that is the subject of a regulation in parts 174, 175, 176, 177, 178 and ยง 179.45 of this chapter conforms with any specification in such regulation.
