
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 177 - INDIRECT FOOD ADDITIVES: POLYMERS
##### Subpart C - Substances for Use Only as Components of Articles Intended for Repeated Use
###### ยง 177.2910 Ultra-filtration membranes.

Ultra-filtration membranes identified in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), and (a)(4) of this section may be safely used in the processing of food, under the following prescribed conditions;

(a)(1) Ultra-filtration membranes that consist of paper impregnated with cured phenol-formaldehyde resin, which is used as a support and is coated with a vinyl chloride-acrylonitrile copolymer.

(2) Ultra-filtration membranes that consist of a sintered carbon support that is coated with zirconium oxide (CAS Reg. No. 1314-23-4) containing up to 12 percent yttrium oxide (CAS Reg. No. 1314-36-9).

(3) Ultra-filtration membranes that consist of an aluminum oxide support that is coated with zirconium oxide (CAS Reg. No. 1314-23-4) containing up to 5 percent yttrium oxide (CAS Reg. No. 1314-36-9).

(4) Ultrafiltration membranes that consist of a microporous poly(vinylidene fluoride) membrane with a hydrophilic surface modifier consisting of hydroxypropyl acrylate/tetraethylene glycol diacrylate copolymer.

(b) Any substance employed in the production of ultra-filtration membranes that is the subject of a regulation in parts 174, 175, 176, 177, 178 and ยง 179.45 of this chapter conforms with the specifications of such regulation.

(c) Ultra-filtration membranes are used in the physical separation of dissolved or colloidally suspended varying molecular size components of liquids during the commercial processing of bulk quantities of food.

(d) Ultra-filtration membranes shall be maintained in a sanitary manner in accordance with good manufacturing practice so as to prevent potential microbial adulteration of the food.

(e) Ultrafiltration membranes identified in paragraph (a)(4) may be used to filter aqueous or acidic foods containing up to 13 percent of alcohol at temperatures not to exceed 21 &#xB0;C (70 &#xB0;F).

(f) To assure safe use of the ultra-filtration membranes, the label or labeling shall include adequate directions for a pre-use treatment, consisting of conditioning and washing with a minimum of 8 gallons of potable water prior to their first use in contact with food.

(g) Acrylonitrile copolymers identified in this section shall comply with the provisions of ยง 180.22 of this chapter.
