
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 178 - INDIRECT FOOD ADDITIVES: ADJUVANTS, PRODUCTION AIDS, AND SANITIZERS
##### Subpart B - Substances Utilized To Control the Growth of Microorganisms
###### ยง 178.1010 Sanitizing solutions.
####### n-,n-

(11) An aqueous solution containing equal amounts ofalkyl (C-C) benzyl dimethyl ammonium chloride andalkyl (C-C) dimethyl ethylbenzyl ammonium chloride (having an average molecular weight of 384). In addition to use on food-processing equipment and utensils, this solution may be used on food-contact surfaces in public eating places.

(12) An aqueous solution containing the sodium salt of sulfonated oleic acid, polyoxyethylene-polyoxypropylene block polymers (having an average molecular weight of 2,000 and 27 to 31 moles of polyoxypropylene). In addition to use on food-processing equipment and utensils, this solution may be used on glass bottles and other glass containers intended for holding milk. All equipment, utensils, glass bottles, and other glass containers treated with this sanitizing solution shall have a drainage period of 15 minutes prior to use in contact with food.

(13) An aqueous solution containing elemental iodine and alkyl (C-C) monoether of mixed (ethylene-propylene) polyalkylene glycol, having a cloud-point of 70&#xB0;-77 &#xB0;C in 1 percent aqueous solution and an average molecular weight of 807.

(14) An aqueous solution containing iodine, butoxy monoether of mixed (ethylene-propylene) polyalkylene glycol, having a cloud-point of 90&#xB0;-100 &#xB0;C in 0.5 percent aqueous solution and an average molecular weight of 3,300, and polyoxyethylene-polyoxypropylene block polymers (having a minimum average molecular weight of 2,000).

(15) An aqueous solution containing lithium hypochlorite.
