
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 178 - INDIRECT FOOD ADDITIVES: ADJUVANTS, PRODUCTION AIDS, AND SANITIZERS
##### Subpart B - Substances Utilized To Control the Growth of Microorganisms
###### ยง 178.1010 Sanitizing solutions.
####### alpha,p,omega-,alpha,omega

(24) An aqueous solution containing elemental iodine (CAS Reg. No. 7553-56-2),-[-(1,1,3,3-tetramethylbutyl)-phenyl]-hydroxypoly-(oxyethylene) produced with one mole of the phenol and 4 to 14 moles ethylene oxide, and-alkyl(C-C)--hydroxy[poly(oxyethylene) poly(oxypropylene)] (having an average molecular weight of 965).

(25) An aqueous solution containing elemental iodine (CAS Reg. No. 7553-56-2), potassium iodide (CAS Reg. No. 7681-11-0), and isopropanol (CAS Reg. No. 67-63-0). In addition to use on food processing equipment and utensils, this solution may be used on beverage containers, including milk containers and equipment and on food-contact surfaces in public eating places.

(26) [Reserved]

(27) An aqueous solution containing decanoic acid (CAS Reg. No. 334-48-5), octanoic acid (CAS Reg. No. 124-07-2), and sodium 1-octanesulfonate (CAS Reg. No. 5324-84-5). Additionally, the aqueous solution may contain isopropyl alcohol (CAS Reg. No. 67-63-0) as an optional ingredient.

(28) An aqueous solution containing sulfonated 9-octadecenoic acid (CAS Reg. No. 68988-76-1) and sodium xylenesulfonate (CAS Reg. No. 1300-72-7).

(29) An aqueous solution containing dodecyldiphenyloxidedisulfonic acid (CAS Reg. No. 30260-73-2), sulfonated tall oil fatty acid (CAS Reg. No. 68309-27-3), and neo-decanoic acid (CAS Reg. No. 26896-20-8). In addition to use on food-processing equipment and utensils, this solution may be used on glass bottles and other glass containers intended for holding milk.

(30) An aqueous solution containing hydrogen peroxide (CAS Reg. No. 7722-84-1), peracetic acid (CAS Reg. No. 79-21-0), acetic acid (CAS Reg. No. 64-19-7), and 1-hydroxyethylidene-1,1-diphosphonic acid (CAS Reg. No. 2809-21-4).
