
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 178 - INDIRECT FOOD ADDITIVES: ADJUVANTS, PRODUCTION AIDS, AND SANITIZERS
##### Subpart B - Substances Utilized To Control the Growth of Microorganisms
###### ยง 178.1010 Sanitizing solutions.
####### n,n,alpha,p,omega,alpha,omega

(33) An aqueous solution containing (i) di--alkyl-(C-C)-dimethylammonium chloride compounds having average molecular weights of 332 to 361; (ii)-alkyl(C-C) -benzyldimethylammonium chloride compounds having molecular weights of 351 to 380 and consisting principally of alkyl groups with 12 to 16 carbon atoms with no more than 1 percent of the groups with 8 to 10; and (iii) tetrasodium ethylenediamine tetraacetate. Additionally, the aqueous solution contains either-(-nonylphenyl)--hydroxypoly-(oxyethylene) or-alkyl(C-C)--hydroxypoly-(oxyethylene), each produced with 9 to 13 moles of ethylene oxide. The ratio of compound (i) to compound (ii) is 3 to 2.

(34) An aqueous solution of an equilibrium mixture of oxychloro species (predominantly chlorite, chlorate, and chlorine dioxide) generated either (i) by directly metering a concentrated chlorine dioxide solution, prepared just prior to use, into potable water to provide the concentration of available chlorine dioxide stated in paragraph (c)(29) of this section, or (ii) by acidification of an aqueous alkaline solution of oxychloro species (predominantly chlorite and chlorate) followed by dilution with potable water to provide the concentration of available chlorine dioxide described in paragraph (c)(29) of this section.

(35) An aqueous solution containing decanoic acid (CAS Reg. No. 334-48-5), octanoic acid (CAS Reg. No. 124-07-2), lactic acid (CAS Reg. No. 050-21-5), phosphoric acid (CAS Reg. No. 7664-38-2) and a mixture of the sodium salt of naphthalenesulfonic acid (CAS Reg. No. 1321-69-3); the methyl, dimethyl, and trimethyl dervatives of the sodium salt of naphthalenesulfonic acid; and a mixture of the sodium salt of naphthalenesulfonic acid, and the methyl, dimethyl, and trimethyl derivatives of the sodium salt of naphthalenesulfonic acid alkylated at 3 percent by weight with C-Clinear olefins, as components of a sanitizing solution to be used on food-processing equipment and utensils. The methyl and dimethyl substituted derivatives (described within this paragraph (b)(35)) constitute no less than 70 percent by weight of the mixture of naphthalenesulfonates.

(36) The sanitizing solution contains decanoic acid (CAS Reg. No. 334-48-5); octanoic acid (CAS Reg. No. 124-07-2); lactic acid (CAS Reg. No. 050-21-5); phosphoric acid (CAS Reg. No. 7664-38-2); a mixture of 1-octanesulfonic acid (CAS Reg. No. 3944-72-7), and 1-octanesulfonic-2-sulfinic acid (CAS Reg. No. 113652-56-5) or 1,2-octanedisulfonic acid (CAS Reg. No. 113669-58-2); the condensate of four moles of poly(oxyethylene)poly(oxypropylene) block copolymers with one mole of ethylenediamine (CAS Reg. No. 11111-34-5); and the optional ingredient FD&C Yellow No. 5 (CAS Reg. No. 001934210). In addition to use on food-processing equipment and utensils, this solution may be used on dairy-processing equipment.

(37) The sanitizing solution contains sodium hypochlorite (CAS Reg. No. 7681-52-9), trisodium phosphate (CAS Reg. No. 7601-54-9), sodium lauryl sulfate (CAS Reg. No. 151-21-3), and potassium permanganate (CAS Reg. No. 7722-64-7). Magnesium oxide (CAS Reg. No. 1309-48-4) and potassium bromide (CAS Reg. No. 7758-02-3) may be added as optional ingredients to this sanitizing solution. In addition to use on food-processing equipment and utensils, this solution may be used on food-contact surfaces in public eating places.

(38) An aqueous solution containing hydrogen peroxide (CAS Reg. No. 7722-84-1); peroxyacetic acid (CAS Reg. No. 79-21-0); acetic acid (CAS Reg. No. 64-19-7); sulfuric acid (CAS Reg. No. 7664-93-9); and 2,6-pyridinedicarboxylic acid (CAS Reg. No. 499-83-2). In addition to use on food-processing equipment and utensils, this solution may be used on dairy-processing equipment.
