
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 178 - INDIRECT FOOD ADDITIVES: ADJUVANTS, PRODUCTION AIDS, AND SANITIZERS
##### Subpart B - Substances Utilized To Control the Growth of Microorganisms
###### ยง 178.1010 Sanitizing solutions.
####### n

(41) An aqueous solution containing-alkyl(C-C)benzyldimethylammonium chloride, having average molecular weights ranging from 351 to 380 wherein the alkyl groups contain principally 12 to 16 carbons and not more than 1 percent each of the groups with 8 and 10 carbon atoms; ammonium chloride (CAS Reg. No. 12125-02-9); calcium stearate (CAS Reg. No. 1592-23-0); sodium bicarbonate (CAS Reg. No. 144-55-8); starch or dextrin, or both starch and dextrin (CAS Reg. No. 9004-53-9); and the optional ingredient methylene blue (CAS Reg. No. 61-73-4). In addition to use on food-processing equipment and utensils, this solution may be used on food-contact surfaces in public eating places.

(42) An aqueous solution containing decanoic acid (CAS Reg. No. 334-48-5), nonanoic acid (CAS Reg. No. 112-05-0), phosphoric acid (CAS Reg. No. 7664-38-2), propionic acid (CAS Reg No. 79-09-04), and sodium 1-octanesulfonate (CAS Reg. No. 5324-84-5). Sulfuric acid (CAS Reg. No. 7664-93-9) may be added as an optional ingredient. In addition to use on food-processing equipment and utensils, this solution may be used on dairy-processing equipment.

(43) An aqueous solution of iodine and hypochlorous acid generated by the dilution of an aqueous acidic (21.5 percent nitric acid) solution of iodine monochloride. In addition to use on food-processing equipment and utensils, this solution may be used on dairy-processing equipment.

(44) An aqueous solution of citric acid, disodium ethylenediaminetetraacetate, sodium lauryl sulfate, and monosodium phosphate. In addition to use on food-processing equipment and utensils, this solution may be used on dairy-processing equipment.

(45) An aqueous solution of hydrogen peroxide, acetic acid, peroxyacetic acid, octanoic acid, peroxyoctanoic acid, sodium 1-octanesulfonate, and 1-hydroxyethylidene-1,1-diphosphonic acid. In addition to use on food-processing equipment and utensils, this solution may be used on food-contact surfaces in public eating places, subject to the limitations in paragraph (c)(39) of this section.

(46) An aqueous solution of chlorine dioxide and related oxychloro species generated by acidification of an aqueous solution of sodium chlorite with a solution of sodium gluconate, citric acid, phosphoric acid, and sodium mono- and didodecylphenoxybenzenedisulfonate. In addition to use on food-processing equipment and utensils, this solution may be used on dairy-processing equipment.

(c) The solutions identified in paragraph (b) of this section will not exceed the following concentrations:

(1) Solutions identified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section will provide not more than 200 parts per million of available halogen determined as available chlorine.

(2) Solutions identified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section will provide not more than 100 parts per million of available halogen determined as available chlorine.
