
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 178 - INDIRECT FOOD ADDITIVES: ADJUVANTS, PRODUCTION AIDS, AND SANITIZERS
##### Subpart B - Substances Utilized To Control the Growth of Microorganisms
###### ยง 178.1010 Sanitizing solutions.
####### p-

(3) Solution identified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section will provide not more than 25 parts per million of titratable iodine. The solutions will contain the components potassium iodide, sodiumtoluenesulfonchloramide and sodium lauryl sulfate at a level not in excess of the minimum required to produce their intended functional effect.

(4) Solutions identified in paragraph (b)(4), (5), (6), (8), (13), and (14) of this section will contain iodine to provide not more than 25 parts per million of titratable iodine. The adjuvants used with the iodine will not be in excess of the minimum amounts required to accomplish the intended technical effect.

(5) Solutions identified in paragraph (b)(7) of this section will provide not more than 400 parts per million dodecylbenzenesulfonic acid and not more than 80 parts per million of polyoxyethylene-polyoxypropylene block polymers (having a minimum average molecular weight of 2,800) or not more than 40 parts per million of isopropyl alcohol.

(6) Solutions identified in paragraph (b)(9) of this section shall provide when ready to use no more than 200 parts per million of the active quaternary compound.

(7) Solutions identified in paragraph (b)(10) of this section shall provide not more than sufficient trichloromelamine to produce 200 parts per million of available chlorine and either sodium lauryl sulfate at a level not in excess of the minimum required to produce its intended functional effect or not more than 400 parts per million of dodecylbenzenesulfonic acid.

(8) Solutions identified in paragraph (b)(11) of this section shall provide, when ready to use, not more than 200 parts per million of active quaternary compound.

(9) The solution identified in paragraph (b)(12) of this section shall provide not more than 200 parts per million of sulfonated oleic acid, sodium salt.

(10) Solutions identified in paragraph (b)(15) of this section will provide not more than 200 parts per million of available chlorine and not more than 30 ppm lithium.

(11) Solutions identified in paragraph (b)(16) of this section shall provide not more than 200 parts per million of active quaternary compound.

(12) Solutions identified in paragraph (b)(17) of this section shall provide, when ready to use, a level of 150 parts per million of the active quaternary compound.
