
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 178 - INDIRECT FOOD ADDITIVES: ADJUVANTS, PRODUCTION AIDS, AND SANITIZERS
##### Subpart B - Substances Utilized To Control the Growth of Microorganisms
###### ยง 178.1010 Sanitizing solutions.
####### ortho-,ortho-,-para-,para-

(15) Solutions identified in paragraph (b)(20) of this section are for single use applications only and shall provide, when ready to use, a level of 800 parts per million of total active phenols consisting of 400 parts per millionphenylphenol, 320 parts per millionbenzylchlorophenol and 80 parts per milliontertiaryamylphenol.

(16) Solution identified in paragraph (b)(21) of this section shall provide not more than 430 parts per million and not less than 25 parts per million of sodium dodecylbenzenesulfonate.

(17) Solutions identified in paragraph (b)(22) of this section shall provide, when ready to use, at least 150 parts per million and not more than 400 parts per million of active quaternary compound.

(18) Solutions identified in paragraph (b)(23) of this section shall provide at least 150 parts per million and not more than 200 parts per million of the active quaternary compound.

(19) Solutions identified in paragraphs (b)(24), (b)(25), and (b)(43) of this section shall provide at least 12.5 parts per million and not more than 25 parts per million of titratable iodine. The adjuvants used with the iodine shall not be in excess of the minimum amounts required to accomplish the intended technical effect.

(20)-(21) [Reserved]

(22) Solutions identified in paragraph (b)(27) of this section shall provide, when ready to use, at least 109 parts per million and not more than 218 parts per million of total active fatty acids and at least 156 parts per million and not more than 312 parts per million of the sodium 1-octanesulfonate.

(23) Solutions identified in paragraph (b)(28) of this section shall provide, when ready to use, at least 156 parts per million and not more than 312 parts per million of sulfonated 9-octadecenoic acid, at least 31 parts per million and not more then 62 parts per million of sodium xylenesulfonate.

(24) Solutions identified in paragraph (b)(29) of this section will provide at least 237 parts per million and not more than 474 parts per million dodecyldiphenyloxidedisulfonic acid, at least 33 parts per million and not more than 66 parts per million sulfonated tall oil fatty acid, and at least 87 parts per million and not more than 174 parts per million neo-decanoic acid.

(25) Solutions identified in paragraph (b)(30) of this section shall provide, when ready to use, not less than 550 parts per million and not more than 1,100 parts per million hydrogen peroxide, not less than 100 parts per million and not more than 200 parts per million peracetic acid, not less than 150 parts per million and not more than 300 parts per million acetic acid, and not less than 15 parts per million and not more than 30 parts per million 1-hydroxyethylidene-1,1-diphosphonic acid.

(26) The solution identified in paragraph (b)(31) of this section shall provide, when ready to use, at least 12.5 parts per million and not more than 25 parts per million of titratable iodine. The adjuvants used with the iodine will not be in excess of the minimum amounts required to accomplish the intended technical effect.

(27) Solutions identified in paragraph (b)(32) of this section shall provide, when ready to use, at least 150 parts per million and no more than 400 parts per million of active quarternary compounds in solutions containing no more than 600 parts per million water hardness. The adjuvants used with the quarternary compounds will not exceed the amounts required to accomplish the intended technical effect.

(28) Solutions identified in paragraph (b)(33) of this section shall provide, when ready to use, at least 150 parts per million and not more than 400 parts per million of active quaternary compounds. The adjuvants used with the quaternary compounds shall not exceed the amounts required to accomplish the intended technical effect. Tetrasodium ethylenediamine tetraacetate shall be added at a minimum level of 60 parts per million. Use of these sanitizing solutions shall be limited to conditions of water hardness not in excess of 300 parts per million.
