
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 178 - INDIRECT FOOD ADDITIVES: ADJUVANTS, PRODUCTION AIDS, AND SANITIZERS
##### Subpart C - Antioxidants and Stabilizers
###### ยง 178.2650 Organotin stabilizers in vinyl chloride plastics.
####### n,n

(7) The dodecyltin stabilizer is a mixture of 50 to 60 percent by weight of-dodecyltin S,S&#x2032;,S&#x2033;-tris(isooctylmercaptoacetate) (CAS Reg. No. 67649-65-4) and 40 to 50 percent by weight of di(-dodecyl)tin S,S&#x2032;-di(isooctylmercaptoacetate) (CAS Reg. No. 84030-61-5) having 13 to 14 percent by weight of tin (Sn) and having 8 to 9 percent by weight of mercapto sulfur. It is made from a mixture of dodecyltin trichloride and di(dodecyl)tin dichloride which has not more than 0.2 percent by weight of dodecyltin trichloride, not more than 2 percent by weight of dodecylbutyltin dichloride and not more than 3 percent by weight of tri(dodecyl)tin chloride. The isooctyl radical in the mercaptoacetate is derived from oxo process primary octyl alcohols.

(b) The vinyl chloride plastic containers, film or panels in the finished form in which they are to contact food, shall meet the following limitations:

(1) The finished plastics intended for contact with foods of the types listed in this section shall be extracted with the solvent or solvents characterizing those types of foods as determined from table 2 of ยง 176.170(c) of this chapter at the temperature reflecting the conditions of intended use as determined therein. Additionally, extraction tests for acidic foods shall be included and simulated by 3-percent acetic acid at temperatures specified for water in table 2 of ยง 176.170(c) of this chapter. The extraction tests shall cover at least three equilibrium periodic determinations, as follows:

(i) The exposure time for the first determination shall be at least 72 hours for aqueous solvents, and at least 6 hours for heptane.
