
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 178 - INDIRECT FOOD ADDITIVES: ADJUVANTS, PRODUCTION AIDS, AND SANITIZERS
##### Subpart D - Certain Adjuvants and Production Aids
###### § 178.3620 Mineral oil.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(i) Saybolt color 20 minimum as determined by ASTM method D156-82, "Standard Test Method for Saybolt Color of Petroleum Products (Saybolt Chromometer Method)," which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the American Society for Testing Materials, 100 Barr Harbor Dr., West Conshohocken, Philadelphia, PA 19428-2959, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(ii) Ultraviolet absorbance limits as follows:

(2) Technical white mineral oil may be used wherever mineral oil is permitted for use as a component of nonfood articles complying with §§ 175.105, 176.200, 176.210, 177.2260, 177.2600, and 177.2800 of this chapter and §§ 178.3570 and 178.3910.

(3) Technical white mineral oil may contain any antioxidant permitted in food by regulations issued in accordance with section 409 of the Act, in an amount not greater than that required to produce its intended effect.

(c) Mineral oil identified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section may be used as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(1) The mineral oil consists of virgin petroleum distillates refined to meet the following specifications:

(i) Initial boiling point of 450 &#xB0;F minimum.

(ii) Color 5.5 maximum as determined by ASTM method D1500-82, "Standard Test Method for ASTM Color of Petroleum Products (ASTM Color Scale)," which is incorporated by reference. The availability of this incorporation by reference is given in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.

(iii) Ultraviolet absorbance limits as follows as determined by the analytical method described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section:

(2) The mineral oil may be used wherever mineral oil is permitted for use as a component of nonfood articles complying with §§ 175.105 and 176.210 of this chapter and § 178.3910 (for use only in rolling of metallic foil and sheet stock), §§ 176.200, 177.2260, 177.2600, and 177.2800 of this chapter.

(3) The analytical method for determining ultraviolet absorbance limit is as follows:

(d) Mineral oil identified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section may be used as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

(1) The mineral oil consists of virgin petroleum distillates refined to meet the following specifications:

(i) Distillation endpoint at 760 millimeters pressure not to exceed 371 &#xB0;C, with a maximum residue not to exceed 2 percent, as determined by ASTM method D86-82, "Standard Method for Distillation of Petroleum Products," which is incorporated by reference. The availability of this incorporation by reference is given in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.

(ii) Ultraviolet absorbance limits as follows as determined by the method described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.

(iii) Pyrene content not to exceed a maximum of 25 parts per million as determined by the method described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.

(2) The mineral oil may be used only in the processing of jute fiber employed in the production of textile bags intended for use in contact with the following types of food: Dry grains and dry seeds (for example, beans, peas, rice, and lentils); whole root crop vegetables of the types identified in 40 CFR 180.34(f); unshelled and shelled nuts (including peanuts); and dry animal feed. The finished processed jute fiber shall contain no more than 6 percent by weight of residual mineral oil.

(3) The analytical method for determining ultraviolet absorbance limits and pyrene content is as follows:
