
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 178 - INDIRECT FOOD ADDITIVES: ADJUVANTS, PRODUCTION AIDS, AND SANITIZERS
##### Subpart D - Certain Adjuvants and Production Aids
###### ยง 178.3870 Rosins and rosin derivatives.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(1) Color: Color shall be as determined by ASTM method D509-70 (Reapproved 1981), "Standard Methods of Sampling and Grading Rosin," which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the American Society for Testing Materials, 100 Barr Harbor Dr., West Conshohocken, Philadelphia, PA 19428-2959, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(2) Refractive index: Refractive index shall be as determined by ASTM method D1747-62 (Reapproved 1978), "Standard Test Method for Refractive Index of Viscous Materials," which is incorporated by reference. The availability of this incorporation by reference is given in paragraph (f)(1) of this section.

(3) Acid number: Acid number shall be as determined by ASTM method D465-82, "Standard Test Methods for Acid Number of Rosin," which is incorporated by reference. The availability of this incorporation by reference is given in paragraph (f)(1) of this section.

(4) Viscosity: Viscosity in poises shall be as determined by ASTM method D1824-66 (Reapproved 1980), "Standard Test Method for Apparent Viscosity of Plastisols and Organosols at Low Shear Rates by Brookfield Viscometer," and in Saybolt seconds by ASTM method D88-81, "Standard Test Method for Saybolt Viscosity," which are incorporated by reference. The availability of this incorporation by reference is given in paragraph (f)(1) of this section.
