
# Title 21 - Food and Drugs
## Chapter I - Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
### Subchapter B - Food for Human Consumption
#### PART 178 - INDIRECT FOOD ADDITIVES: ADJUVANTS, PRODUCTION AIDS, AND SANITIZERS
##### Subpart D - Certain Adjuvants and Production Aids
###### ยง 178.3910 Surface lubricants used in the manufacture of metallic articles.
####### e

() Conforms with ultraviolet absorbance limits prescribed in ยง 178.3620(c) as determined by the analytical method described therein.

(ii) Ultraviolet absorbance limits on residual lubricants are as follows:

(iii) The analytical method for determining ultraviolet absorbance limits on residual lubricants is as follows:

(b) The following substances may be used in surface lubricants used to facilitate the drawing, stamping, or forming of metallic articles from rolled foil or sheet stock by further processing provided that the total residual lubricant remaining on the metallic article in the form in which it contacts food does not exceed 0.2 milligram per square inch of food-contact surface:

(1) Antioxidants used in compliance with regulations in parts 170 through 189 of this chapter.

(2) Substances identified in this subparagraph.

(c) The substances identified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section may be used in surface lubricants used to facilitate the drawing, stamping, and forming of metallic articles from rolled foil and sheet stock provided that total residual lubricant remaining on the metallic article in the form in which it contacts food does not exceed 0.015 milligram per square inch of food-contact surface.

(d) Subject to any prescribed limitations, the quantity of surface lubricant used in the manufacture of metallic articles shall not exceed the least amount reasonably required to accomplish the intended technical effect and shall not be intended to nor, in fact, accomplish any technical effect in the food itself.

(e) The use of the surface lubricants in the manufacture of any article that is the subject of a regulation in parts 174, 175, 176, 177, 178 and ยง 179.45 of this chapter must comply with any specifications prescribed by such regulation for the finished form of the article.

(f) Any substance that is listed in this section and the subject of a regulation in parts 174, 175, 176, 177, 178 and ยง 179.45 of this chapter shall comply with any applicable specifications prescribed by such regulation.
